A robotic lead trimmer employing a sensor probe guided over a printed wiring board by a robot to determine the contour of a printed wiring board and a lead trimming element guided by the robot to automatically follow the determined contour of the board during lead trimming to achieve tight trimming tolerances. The sensor probe in conjunction with a fixed sensor is employed to determine an offset factor related to dimensional variations in the lead trimming element in order to impart additional accuracy to the lead trimming operation. An air ionizer and blower are utilized to neutralize static charge and remove debris. The robotic lead trimmer may be enclosed and utilized in conjunction with a tooling shuttle which receives a printed wiring board and transfers it to within the working envelope of the robot.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for trimming leads extending through a surface comprising: first sensor means for contacting said surface and generating signals indicative of the contour of said surface; trimmer means for trimming said leads; and means for mounting said first sensor means and said trimmer means and for receiving said signals, and for causing said first sensor means to contact said surface and generate said signals, and further responsive to said signals to cause said trimmer means to simultaneously track said contour and trim said leads; wherein said means mounting said trimmer means and first sensor means includes means for compensating for variations in the height of said trimmer means, said means for compensating including second sensor means responsive to said first sensor means and said lead trimmer means to determine an offset between said first sensor means and said lead trimmer means. 2. The lead trimming apparatus of claim 1 wherein said first sensor means comprises: a probe; and a force sensing means for sensing the force applied to said probe and producing an output signal at a selected force value. 3. The lead trimming apparatus of claim 2 wherein said trimmer means comprises: a cutter element; and means for driving said cutter element in a cutting motion. 4. The lead trimming apparatus of claim 1 wherein said means mounting said trimmer means and first sensor means comprises: robot means for moving and positioning said first sensor means and trimmer means. 5. The lead trimming apparatus of claim 4 wherein said trimmer means and first sensor means are mounted on an extended arm attached to said robot means. 6. The lead trimming apparatus of claim 5 wherein said robot means causes said first sensor means to contact a selected number of contact points on said surface and computes a path for said trimmer means to follow based on signals related to each of said contact points. 7. The lead trimming apparatus of claim 1 wherein said first sensor means comprises a probe means extendable to a probe position and wherein said second sensor means comprises: a force control switch; and a sensor element mounted on said force control switch. 8. The lead trimming apparatus of claim 6 wherein said first sensor means comprises probe means extendable to a probe position and wherein said second sensor means comprises: a force control switch; and a sensor element mounted on said force control switch. 9. The lead trimming apparatus of claim 8 wherein said robot means further includes an air ionizer means for neutralizing static charge created during a lead trimming operation. 10. The lead trimming apparatus of claim 9 wherein said robot means further includes an air blower means for removing lead debris during a cutting operation. 11. The lead trimming apparatus of claim 10 wherein said robot means operates in a work envelope and further including: means for enclosing said robot means and having an access port therein; and tooling shuttle means within said enclosing means for receiving an apparatus having leads to be trimmed from an operator and transferring it to within the work envelope of said robot means. 12. The lead trimming apparatus of claim 8 wherein said robot means is a Seiko RT 3000. 13. Apparatus for trimming leads extending through a surface comprising: an arm; a lead trimmer having a cutting end; a probe; a force control switch mounting said probe; a motor means mounted on said arm for disposing said lead trimmer below said arm and for driving said lead trimmer in a trimming motion; means mounted on said arm for mounting said force control switch so as to position said probe above the cutting end of said lead trimmer, said mounting means including a pneumatic cylinder for extending said force control switch and probe such that said probe extends below the cutting end of said lead trimmer and for thereafter retracting said force control switch and probe; and robot means for mounting said arm and positioning said arm and lead trimmer to cut leads and for operating said pneumatic cylinder to extend and retract said force control switch and probe. 14. The apparatus for claim 13 wherein said mounting means is removable for allowing easy replacement of said pneumatic cylinder, force control switch, and probe. 