An arm structure for use in an articulated mechanism such as an industrial robot comprises a plurality of links operatively interconnected by articulations having respective actuators and actuatable by the actuators under a fluid pressure. Each of the links comprises a hollow cylindrical casing and an accumulator comprising a pipe extending axially through the casing and a rubber tube disposed around the pipe. The tube is radially inflatable by the pressure of the fluid supplied into the space between the pipe and the tube through small holes defined in the wall of the pipe and the cylindrical casing is pressurized.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An arm structure for an articulated mechanism, comprising a plurality of links operatively interconnected by articulations actuatable under a fluid pressure, each of said links comprising an accumulator for the fluid pressure. 2. An arm structure according to claim 1, wherein each of said links is of a hermetically sealed hollow structure filled with a gas under pressure, said accumulator including a fluid passage disposed in said each link for transferring said fluid under pressure, said fluid passage being expandable and contractable dependent on the pressure of said fluid supplied thereto. 3. An arm structure according to claim 2, wherein said fluid passage comprises a pipe extending through said links for transferring said fluid under pressure therethrough, and an expandable and contractable tube surrounding said pipe, said pipe having a plurality of holes defined therein for allowing said fluid under pressure to enter from said pipe into a space defined between said pipe and said tube. 4. An arm structure according to claim 3, wherein each of said links comprises a hollow cylindrical casing filled with said gas under pressure and at least one yoke on one end thereof, said expandable and contractable tube being made of rubber and having a radially outwardly thickened end retained in a pocket defined in said yoke. 5. An arm structure according to claim 4, wherein said expandable and contractable tube extends axially through said cylindrical casing. 6. An articulated robotic arm comprising a first accumulator comprising a first hollow cylindrical casing fillable with a gas under pressure and also comprising a first pipe extending through said first hollow cylindrical casing, said first pipe having a first aperture, said first accumulator further comprising a first tube which is expandable and contractable and surrounds said first pipe, said first aperture allowing a pressurized fluid in said first pipe to enter from said first pipe into a first space defined between said first pipe and said first tube; a first link comprising said first accumulator; a second accumulator comprising a second hollow cylindrical casing fillable with a gas under pressure and also comprising a second pipe extending through said second hollow cylindrical casing, said second pipe having a second aperture, said second accumulator further comprising a second tube which is expandable and contractible and surrounds said second pipe, said second aperture allowing a pressurized fluid in said second pipe to enter from said second pipe into a second space defined between said second pipe and said second tube; and a second link comprising said second accumulator, said second link being operatively coupled to said first link. 7. The robotic arm of claim 6 further comprising actuating means for effecting relative angular displacement of said first and second links independent of each other. 8. The robotic arm of claim 7 wherein said actuating means comprises a first control means for controlling fluid pressure in said first pipe; and a second control means for controlling fluid pressure in said second pipe, wherein said first and second control means are capable of operation independent of each other. 9. The robotic arm of claim 8 wherein said first control means comprises a first angular displacement fluid motor; and said second control means comprises a second angular displacement fluid motor. 10. The robotic arm of claim 9 wherein said first control means further comprises a first directional control valve connected to said first angular displacement fluid motor in a fluid transmitting relationship; and said second control means further comprises a second directional control valve connected to said second angular displacement fluid motor in a fluid transmitting relationship. 11. The robotic arm of claim 6 wherein a pressure energy in one of said first and second accumulators can be accumulated independently of the other of said first and second accumulators. 12. The robotic arm of claim 6 wherein a pressure energy in one of said first and second accumulators can be supplied to the other of said first and second accumulators. 13. The robotic arm of claim 12 further comprising a fluid supply passage extending between said first and second accumulators. 14. The robotic arm of claim 13 further comprising a valve in said fluid supply passage, whereby a pressure energy in one of said first and second accumulators can be optionally accumulated separately from a pressure energy in the other of said first and second accumulators and alternatively supplied to the other of said first and second accumulators. 15. The robotic arm of claim 6 wherein said second link is arranged to receive all of its pressurized fluid through said first pipe. 16. The robotic arm of claim 6 wherein said first accumulator is integrally disposed within said first link, and said second accumulator is integrally disposed within said second link. 17. A method of controlling an articulated robotic arm comprising the steps of independently accumulating and applying pressure energy in separate links between articulations, whereby said links are angularly displaced relatively to each other. 