The determination of total suspended solids (non-filterable residue) in water and waste water is automated to operate without operator intervention. Volatile total suspended solids can also be determined.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automated robotic method for determining total suspended solids in liquid samples wherein the liquid samples are contained in individual sample vessels, and the following steps are all executed by means of an automated robotic manipulator, comprising: (a) weighing a fresh, dry, filter-containing vessel to determine its initial weight; (b) inverting a sample-containing sample vessel over the filter-containing vessel to pour the sample into the filter-containing vessel; (c) detecting conclusion of the filtration of the liquid sample through the filter-containing vessel; (d) adding clean rinse liquid to the sample vessel; (e) again inverting the sample vessel over the filter-containing vessel to pour residual sample solids and rinse liquid from the sample vessel into the filter-containing vessel; (f) again detecting conclusion of the filtration of the liquid through the filter-containing vessel; (g) heating the filter-containing vessel until it is dry; (h) cooling the filter-containing vessel; (i) re-weighing the filter-containing vessel; and (j) calculating the difference between the initial and final weights to determine the weight of the suspended solids removed by the filter from the liquid sample. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising storing the fresh, dry, filter-containing vessel in a desiccator prior to weighing the dry vessel to determine its initial weight. 3. The method of claim 1 further comprising moistening the filter in the filter-containing vessel prior to inverting the sample-containing vessel over the filter-containing vessel. 4. The method of claim 1 further comprising: (a) fetching the sample-containing sample vessel from a storage rack prior to weighing the sample-containing vessel; and (b) returning the empty sample vessel to the storage rack. 5. The method of claim 1 further comprising repeating the rinse steps (d), (e), and (f) at least one more time. 6. The method of claim 1 further comprising expediting filtration of the liquid sample through the filter-containing vessel by applying a vacuum thereto. 7. The method of claim 6 further comprising briefly re-applying the vacuum to the filter-containing vessel just prior to heating the filter-containing vessel in step (g). 8. The method of claim 1 further comprising, after said re-weighing step, again heating, cooling, and re-weighing the filter-containing vessel to verify the final weight. 9. The method of claim 1 further comprising: (a) determining volatile suspended solids by, prior to said calculating step, heating the filter-containing vessel in a furnace to vaporize the volatile suspended solids in the filtrate, cooling the filter-containing vessel, and again weighing the filter-containing vessel, substantially as before; and (b) based upon the weights determined in said several weighing and re-weighing steps, calculating volatile total suspended solids as well as the total of all suspended solids removed by the filter from the liquid sample. 10. An automated robotic method for determining total suspended solids in liquid samples contained in sample flasks, using a robotic system having at least a water dispensing station, a heating means, a desiccator, a storage rack for the sample-containing flasks and a filter station, said system also utilizing filter-containing crucibles, wherein the following steps except the first preconditioning step (a) are all executed by means of an automated robotic manipulator, comprising: (a) preconditioning the robotic system by loading clean water into the system's water dispenser, heating the filter-containing crucibles to drive off substantially all organic material, placing the filter-containing crucibles in the system's desiccator, and placing the sample-containing flasks in the storage rack; (b) removing a fresh, dry, filter-containing crucible from the system's desiccator; (c) weighing the dry crucible to determine its initial weight; (d) at the system's water dispensing station, moistening the filter in the crucible; (e) placing the crucible in the system's filtration station; (f) fetching a sample-containing flask from the storage rack; (g) inverting the sample-containing flask over the filter-containing crucible to pour the sample into the filter-containing vessel; (h) expediting filtration of the liquid sample through the crucible by applying a vacuum thereto; (i) detecting conclusion of the filtration of the liquid sample through the crucible; (j) filling the flask with clean rinse water at the system's water dispenser; (k) again inverting the flask over the crucible to pour residual sample solids and rinse water from the flask into the crucible; (l) again detecting conclusion of the filtration of the liquid through the crucible; (m) repeating the preceding three steps at least one more time; (n) returning the empty sample flask to the storage rack; (o) briefly re-applying the vacuum to the crucible just prior to heating the crucible; (p) heating the filter-containing crucible in an oven until the crucible and filter are dry; (q) cooling the crucible in the desiccator; (r) re-weighing the crucible; (s) again heating, cooling, and re-weighing the filter-containing crucible to verify the final weight; and (t) calculating the difference between the initial and final weights, to determine the weight of the suspended solids removed by the filter from the liquid sample. 11. The method of claim 10 further comprising: (a) determining volatile suspended solids by, prior to said calculating step, heating the filter-containing crucible to vaporize the volatile suspended solids in the filtrate, cooling the crucible, and again weighing the crucible, substantially as before; and (b) based upon the weights determined in said several weighing and re-weighing steps, calculating volatile total suspended solids as well as the total of all suspended solids removed by the filter from the liquid sample. 12. Apparatus for automated robotic determination of total suspended solids in liquid samples contained in sample vessels and using filter-containing vessels by means of an automated robotic manipulator, comprising: (a) means for weighing a fresh, dry, filter-containing vessel to determine its initial weight; (b) a filtration station; (c) means for placing the vessel in said filtration station; (d) means for inverting a sample-containing sample vessel over the filter-containing vessel to pour the sample into the filter-containing vessel; (e) means for detecting conclusion of the filtration of the liquid sample through the filter-containing vessel; (f) means for adding clean rinse liquid to the sample vessel; (g) means for again inverting the sample vessel over the filter-containing vessel to pour residual sample solids and rinse liquid from the sample vessel into the filter-containing vessel; (h) means for again detecting conclusion of the filtration of the liquid through the filter-containing vessel; (i) means for heating the filter-containing vessel until it is dry; (j) means for cooling the filter-containing vessel; (k) means for re-weighing the filter-containing vessel; and (l) means for calculating the difference between the initial and final weights to determine the weight of the suspended solids removed by the filter from the liquid sample. 13. The apparatus of claim 12 further comprising desiccator means for storing the fresh, dry, filter-containing vessels prior to weighing the dry vessels to determine their initial weight. 14. The apparatus of claim 12 further comprising means for moistening the filter in the filter-containing vessel prior to inverting the sample-containing vessel over the filter-containing vessel. 15. The apparatus of claim 12 further comprising a storage rack for the sample-containing vessels. 16. The apparatus of claim 12 further comprising means for applying a vacuum to the filter-containing vessel in the filtration station to expedite filtration of the liquid sample therethrough. 17. The apparatus of claim 16 further comprising means for briefly re-applying the vacuum to the filter-containing vessel just prior to removing the filter-containing vessel from the filtration station and heating it. 18. Apparatus for automated robotic determination of total suspended solids in liquid samples contained in storage vessels and using filter-containing crucibles by means of an automated robotic manipulator, comprising: (a) a water dispenser; (b) a desiccator; (c) a storage rack; (d) a filtration station; (e) means for removing a fresh, dry, filter-containing crucible from said desiccator; (f) means for weighing the dry crucible to determine its initial weight; (g) means for moistening the filter in the crucible at said water dispenser; (h) means for placing the crucible in said filtration station; (i) means for fetching a sample-containing flask from said storage rack; (j) means for inverting the sample-containing flask over the filter-containing crucible to pour the sample into the filter-containing crucible; (k) means for applying a vacuum to the crucible to expedite filtration of the liquid sample therethrough; (l) means for detecting conclusion of the filtration of the liquid sample through the crucible; (m) means for filling the flask with clean rinse water at said water dispenser; (n) means for again inverting the flask over the crucible to pour residual sample solids and clean rinse water from the flask into the crucible; (o) means for again detecting conclusion of the filtration of the liquid through the crucible; (p) means for returning the empty sample flask to said storage rack; (q) means for briefly re-applying the vacuum to the crucible just prior to heating the crucible; (r) means for heating the filter-containing crucible until the crucible and filter are dry; (s) means for cooling the crucible in said desiccator; (t) means for re-weighing the crucible; (u) means for again heating, cooling, and re-weighing the filter-containing crucible to verify the final weight; and (v) means for calculating the difference between the initial and final weights, to determine the weight of the suspended solids removed by the filter from the liquid sample. 