A multisection flexible multidigit arm contains hands at each end, each of which hands contains a set of fingers, suitably three, which are similarly formed flexible multidigit arms constructed to a smaller scale. Each hand contains connectors for coupling the hand to a mating connector mounted on an associated structure to provide appropriate power and control signals to the arm. One hand may grip the connector and the other hand is free to move to various positions and perform various tasks. In an additional aspect the arm may move to different locations by somersaulting between spaced connectors in the system. In an assembly system the robotic arms are used to construct frames or other assemblies. A completely self contained arm includes a self contained source of power. Radio communication means are provided to allow electronic interaction with the arm from a remote location. In an additional aspect the self contained circuitry includes processor means programmed to control the arm to perform a certain task, relieving the operator at the remote location from specifying the details. Control signals to the sections of the arm in an additional aspect to the disclosed invention are provided by an electrical system that uses only a few wires by multiplexing the signals and the actuators, effectively "time sharing" the electrical leads between the large number of actuators.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A manipulator comprising: a robotic arm, said arm comprising: (a) at least two ends; and (b) an arm actuator means for positioning the ends in a plurality of positions relative to each other; each end comprising a plurality of fingers forming a hand; each finger comprising: (a) a base end; (b) a free end; and (c) a finger actuator means for positioning the free end relative to the base end. 2. The invention as defined in claim 1 wherein each of said arm and said fingers include control means coupled in circuit with each of said actuator means for selectively positioning said arm and fingers responsive to position information supplied to said control means. 3. The invention as defined in claim 2, wherein each of said two arm ends each includes: coupling means for coupling control signals from an external source to said control means, said coupling means being adapted to mate with mating coupling means associated with said external source. 4. The invention as defined in claim 2 wherein each of said two arms ends each includes: coupling means for coupling position information signals from an external source to said control means, said coupling means being adapted to mate with a coupling means external of said arm. 5. The invention as defined in claim 4 wherein said coupling means includes at least one of the following types of energy connecting devices: an electrical energy connector, light energy connector and thermal energy connector. 6. The invention as defined in claim 4 wherein said coupling means includes: split transformer means, said split transformer means being capable of inductively coupling alternating current power responsive to mating engagement with a mating split portion of a transformer, having a transformer winding coupled in circuit with a source of ac current. 7. The invention as defined in claim 4 wherein said coupling means is located central of said arm end and wherein said plurality of fingers are spaced about a peripheral wall thereof; said fingers being adapted to grip the peripheral wall of an external mating coupling means. 8. The invention as defined in claim 2 further comprising: RF receiver means, said receiver means being coupled in circuit with said control means, for receiving position information signals transmitted as an RF signal from a remote source and coupling said signals to said control means. 9. The invention as defined in claim 8 further comprising: power supply means located within said arm for supplying power to said control means and to said RF receiver means, said power supply means being a dc type power supply. 10. The invention as defined in claim 2 wherein said control means contains microprocessor means; said microprocessor means including: program means for selectively energizing said actuators to cause said arm end to attain a predetermined position relative to the other end. 11. The invention as defined in claim 2 wherein each of said control means includes microprocessor means; each of said microprocessor means being capable of supplying control signals to each of said actuator means; protocol means for establishing a priority protocol amongst said microprocessor means for permitting only one of said microprocessor means to supply control signals to said actuator means; said protocol means responsive to the disablement of said microprocessor means for enabling another of said microprocessor means to supply control signals to said actuator means. 12. The invention as defined in claim 11 further comprising: RF receiver means, said receiver means being coupled in circuit with said control means, for receiving position information signals transmitted as an RF signal from a remote source and coupling said signals to said control means. 13. The invention as defined in claim 1 further comprising: power supply means located within said arm for supplying power to said arm actuator means and said finger actuator means. 14. The invention as defined in claim 1 further comprising: programmed microprocessor means carried within said arm for selectively controlling said arm actuator means and said finger actuator means. 15. The invention as defined in claim 1, further comprising: control circuit means for controlling said arm and finger actuator means; said control circuit means being located externally of said arm; connector means; support conduit means for coupling electrical control circuit signals between said connector means and said control circuit means; each of said two arms ends including coupling means for coupling control signals into said arm; said connector means being adapted to mate with said coupling means for coupling control signals therebetween; said connector means having a gripable surface to permit said fingers to hold the associated coupling means in mating engagement with said connector means. 16. A system for assembling a two or three dimensional structure comprising in combination: a plurality of structural members; at least one of said structural members containing: support mounted connector means; and electrical lead means located internally of said structural member for coupling control signals and a source of electrical power to said support mounted connector means; at least one manipulator with said manipulator comprising: a robotic arm, said arm comprising: (a) at least two ends; and (b) an arm actuator means for positioning the ends in a plurality of positions relative to each other; each end comprising a plurality of fingers forming a hand; each finger comprising: (a) a base end; (b) a free end; and (c) a finger actuator means for positioning the free end relative to the base end; electrical control circuit means coupled in circuit with each of said arm actuator means and finger actuator means for selectively positioning said arm and fingers responsive to position information supplied to said control circuit means; each of said formed hands further including: coupling means for coupling position information signals from an external source to said electrical control circuit means, said coupling means being adapted to mate with said support mounted connector means; and said support mounted connector means including a grip surface, whereby said plurality of fingers in a respective one of said formed hands is positionable to grip and hold said grip surface to form a coupling therebetween and mate said coupling means to said support mounted connector means. 17. The invention as defined in claim 16 wherein said coupling means includes: electrical, thermal and optical connectors. 18. The invention as defined in claim 16 wherein said coupling means includes: split transformer means, said split transformer means being capable of inductively coupling alternating current power responsive to mating engagement with a mating split portion of a transformer having a transformer winding coupled in circuit with a source of ac current. 19. The invention as defined in claim 16 further comprising: RF receiver means, said receiver means being located within said robotic arm and being coupled in circuit with said control circuit means, for receiving temporal position information signals transmitted as an RF signal from a remote source and coupling said signals to said control circuit means. 20. The invention as defined in claim 16, further comprising: main computer means for supplying information signals to said electrical control circuit means; and wherein each said robotic arm and fingers comprise a plurality of sections and wherein said electrical control circuit means includes a plurality of portions with a respective portion thereof located in a corresponding one of said sections of said robotic arm and fingers; and wherein each said portion includes: microprocessor means having at least one input; said microprocessor means for interpreting information signals sent by said main computer means and providing output signals representative of orientation and position for the respective section; actuator controller means; said actuator controller means for translating said output signals of said microprocessor means to a form for energizing the respective arm and finger actuator means associated with said respective section; sensor means; said sensor means for providing an output representative of the position and orientation of said respective associated arm and finger sections; interface means; said interface means coupled to said sensor means for providing position information to an input of said microprocessor means responsive to signals supplied by said sensor means; and wherein said associated microprocessor means is responsive to information supplied by said interface means for providing signals representative of deenergization of the associated actuator means responsive to said sensor means detecting attainment of the desired relative position of said section. 21. The invention as defined in claim 20 further comprising: RF communications system means for wireless transmission and reception of information signals between said main computer means and said electrical circuit means. 22. The invention as defined in claim 21 wherein said RF communication system means includes: RF transmitter means and RF receiver means located in said robotic arm for transmitting and receiving, respectively control information. 