A three dimensional electrical component having a first side and a second side formed from an electrically insulating polymer matrix capable of heat conversion to an electrically conducting polymer matrix has at least one passageway from the first side to the second side having a tapered wall slope configuration from the first side to the second side with constantly changing cross section of the passageway from the first side through the passageway to the second side, an electrically conducting path between the first side and the second side formed by the in situ heat conversion of the walls of the passageway in the electrically insulating polymer matrix. In a preferred embodiment the electrically conducting path is formed by directing a laser beam to the walls of the passageway to heat the insulating polymer matrix to a temperature sufficient to convert it to an electrically conducting polymer matrix.
Claims We claim: 1. A three dimensional electrical component having a first side and a second side comprising an electrically insulating polymer matrix capable of heat conversion to an electrically conducting polymer matrix, at least one passageway from said first side to said second side having a tapered wall configuration from said first side to said second side with constantly changing cross section of the passageway from said first side through the passageway to said second side, an electrically conducting path between said first side and said second side formed by the in situ heat conversion of the walls of said passageway in said electrically insulating polymer matrix. 2. The electrical component of claim 1 wherein said electrically insulating polymer matrix comprises an electrically insulating polymeric material capable of heat conversion to an electrically conducting material. 3. The electrical component of claim 1 wherein said electrically insulating polymer matrix is filled with an electrically insulating fibrous filler capable of heat conversion to an electrically conducting fibrous filler. 4. The electrical component of claim 1 wherein the walls of said passageway have an adherent continuous coating of a conductive metal plated thereon. 5. The electrical component of claim 1 wherein said at least one passageway comprises a plurality of said passageways providing a plurality of electrically conducting paths between said first side and said second side. 6. The electrical component of claim 3 wherein said electrically insulating fibrous filler is heat convertible carbonaceous fibers and said electrically conducting path comprises in situ heat converted carbonaceous carbonized fibers. 7. The electrical component of claim 6 wherein said heat convertible carbonaceous fibers are thermally stabilized polyacrylonitrile fibers and said in situ heat converted conductive path comprises thermally stabilized polyacrylonitrile fibers. 8. The electrical component of claim 3 wherein said polymer matrix is from about 5 to about 70% by weight fibrous filler. 9. The electrical component of claim 8 wherein said polymer matrix is from about 10 to about 30% by weight fibrous filler. 10. The electrical component of claim 1 wherein said insulating polymer matrix has a resistivity greater than about 10.sup.14 ohm cm and said electrically conducting path has a resistivity less than about 10.sup.9 ohm cm. 11. The electrical component of claim 10 wherein said electrically conducting path has a resistivity less than about 10.sup.3 ohm cm. 12. The electrical component of claim 7 wherein said heat converted fibers are from about 1 to about 12 mm in length and from about 5.times.10.sup.-3 to about 5.times.10.sup.-2 mm in diameter. 13. The electrical component of claim 1 wherein the walls of said passageway taper down from a maximum cross section on said first side to a minimum cross section on said second side. 14. The electrical component of claim 1 wherein the walls of said passageway taper down from maximum cross sections at said first and second sides to a minimum cross section between said first and second sides. 15. The electrical component of claim 1 wherein said first side and said second side meet to form an angled corner and wherein said at least one passageway provides an electrically conducting path through the interior of said corner from said first side to said second side. 16. The electrical component of claim 5 including at least one electrical circuit on each of said first side and said second side connected by said at least one electrically conducting path. 17. The electrical component of claim 1 including at least one other electrical component mounted and/or connected thereto. 18. The method of forming at least one electrically conductive path in a three dimensional electrical component having a first side and a second side comprising an electrically insulating polymer matrix capable of heat conversion to an electrically conducting polymer matrix comprising providing a passageway in said polymer matrix connecting said first and second sides, said passageway having a tapered wall configuration through said matrix from said first side to said second side with constantly changing cross section of the passageway from said first side through the passageway to said second side, directing a laser beam to the walls of said passageway in said polymer matrix to heat said polymer matrix to a temperature sufficient to convert the electrically insulating polymer matrix to an electrically conductive polymer matrix thereby providing said at least one electrically conductive path. 19. The method of claim 18 wherein said electrically insulating polymer matrix comprises an electrically insulating polymeric material capable of heat conversion to an electrically conducting material. 20. The method of claim 18 wherein said electrically insulating polymer matrix is filled with an electrically insulating fibrous filler capable of heat conversion to an electrically conducting fibrous filler. 21. The method of claim 18 including the step of applying an adherent continuous coating of a conductive metal to said passageway. 22. The method of claim 18 including the step of providing a plurality of said at least one passageway providing a plurality of electrically conducting paths between said first side and said second side. 23. The method of claim 20 wherein said electrically insulating fibrous filler is heat convertible carbonaceous fibers and said electrically conducting path comprises in situ heat converted carbonaceous carbonized fibers. 24. The method of claim 23 wherein said heat convertible carbonaceous fibers are thermally stabilized polyacrylonitrile fibers and said in situ heat converted conductive path comprises thermally stabilized polyacrylonitrile fibers. 25. The method of claim 20 wherein said polymer matrix is from about 5 to about 70% by weight fibrous filler. 26. The method of claim 25 wherein said polymer matrix is from about 10 to about 30% by weight fibrous filler. 27. The method of claim 18 wherein said insulating polymer matrix has a resistivity greater than about 10.sup.14 ohm cm and said electrically conductive path has a resistivity less than about 10.sup.9 ohm cm. 28. The method of claim 27 wherein said electrically conductive path has a resistivity less than about 10.sup.3 ohm cm. 29. The method of claim 18 including the step of tapering the walls of said passageway down from a maximum cross section on said first side to a minimum cross section on said second side. 30. The method of claim 18 including the step of tapering the walls of said passageway down from maximum cross sections at said first and second sides to a minimum cross section between said first and second sides and the steps of directing said laser beam to the walls of said passageway from said first side and from said second side to form the conducting path. 31. The method of claim 18 including the step of mounting and connecting at least one other electrical component to said three dimensional electrical component. 32. A machine including a plurality of electrical components each requiring the supply of electrical current for proper functioning, said machine including at least one three dimensional electrical component having a first side and a second side comprising an electrically insulating polymer matrix capable of heat conversion to an electrically conducting polymer matrix, at least one passageway from said first side to said second side having a tapered wall configuration from said first side to said second side with constantly changing cross section of the passageway from said first side through the passageway to said second side, an electrically conducting path between said first side and said second side formed by the in situ heat conversion of the walls of said passageway in said electrically insulating polymer matrix. 33. The machine of claim 32 wherein said electrically insulating polymer matrix comprises an electrically insulating polymeric material capable of heat conversion to an electrically conducting material. 34. The machine of claim 32 wherein said electrically insulating polymer matrix is filled with an electrically insulating fibrous filler capable of heat conversion to an electrically conducting fibrous filler. 35. The machine of claim 32 wherein the walls of said passageway have an adherent continuous coating of a conductive metal plated thereon. 36. The machine of claim 32 wherein said at least one passageway comprises a plurality of said passageways providing a plurality of electrically conducting paths between said first side and said second side. 37. The machine of claim 34 wherein said electrically insulating fibrous fillers are heat convertible carbonaceous fibers and said electrically conducting path comprises in situ heat converted carbonaceous carbonized fibers. 38. The machine of claim 37 wherein said heat convertible carbonaceous fibers are thermally stabilized polyacrylonitrile fibers and said in situ heat converted conductive path comprises thermally stabilized polyacrylonitrile fibers. 39. The machine of claim 32 wherein said insulating polymer matrix has a resistivity greater than about 10.sup.14 ohm cm and said electrically conductive path has a resistivity less than about 10.sup.9 ohm cm. 40. The machine of claim wherein said electrically conductive path has a resistivity less than about 10.sup.3 ohm cm. 41. The machine of claim 32 wherein the walls of said passageway taper down from a maximum cross section on said first side to a minimum cross section on said second side. 42. The machine of claim 32 wherein the walls of said passageway taper down from maximums at said first and second sides to a minimum between said first and second sides. 43. The machine of claim 32 wherein said first side and said second side meet to form an angled corner and wherein said at least one passageway provides an electrically conducting path across the interior of said corner. 44. The machine of claim 32 wherein said component is a structural machine member. 45. The machine of claim 32 wherein said component is a circuit board having at least one electrical circuit on each of said first side and second side connected by said at least one electrically conducting path. 46. The machine of claim 32 wherein said component is a circuit board including at least one other electrical component mounted and/or connected thereto. 