A digital servo system for causing a mechanical element (48) to track a desired path and hold various positions along the path and employing a lead/lag integrator (18) in parallel with a feedback control loop. The input to the integrator (18) is switched between velocity (V.sub.EK) error during pathtracking and position error (E.sub.K) during holding to increase the resistance of the mechanical element (48) to position changes caused by outside forces during both pathtracking and holding. The integrator function employed uses a term (U.sub.integrator(k-1)) representing a previous integrator output value to assist in smoothing perturbations caused by switching between position and velocity error.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Servo positioning apparatus for use in moving and holding a mechanical element comprising: means for outputting a desired position signal representative of a desired position of said element; means for generating a velocity error signal representing departure of the velocity of said element during movement from a desired velocity; a feedback loop including means for generating a position error signal related to the difference between the actual position of said element and the desired position of said element represented by said desired position signal, said feedback loop further including means for applying a transfer function to said error signal to generate a feedback control signal; and means receiving said position error signal as an input for generating an integrator error signal, said integrator error signal being determined in accordance with said velocity error signal during movement of said element and said position error signal during holding of said element, and for integrating said integrator error signal to generate an integrator control signal for combination with said feedback control signal. 2. The improvement of claim 1 wherein said means for generating and integrating comprises: an integrator means having an input for receiving an input signal to be integrated; and a switch means for switching said input between said position error signal and said velocity error signal. 3. The improvement of claim 2 wherein said switch means includes means for switching the input of said integrator means to receive the position error signal when the velocity of said element is zero, and for switching the input of said integrator means to receive said velocity error signal when the velocity of said element is nonzero. 4. The improvement of claim 1 wherein a series of position error signals, velocity error signals and integrator control signals are successively updated to new values by the respective position error signal generating means, velocity error signal generating means, and said means for generating and integrating, and wherein said means for generating and integrating employs a previous integrator control signal in generating an updated integrator control signal. 5. The improvement of claim 1 wherein said means for generating a position error signal includes means for generating a signal representing the actual position of said element and wherein said means for generating a velocity error signal further includes: reference velocity translator means for translating said desired position signal into a desired velocity signal; actual velocity translator means for translating said actual position signal into an actual velocity signal; and summer means for determining said velocity error signal by combining said desired velocity signal and said actual velocity signal. 6. The improvement of claim 1 wherein said means for generating a velocity error signal comprises differentiator means for differentiating said position error signal to determine said velocity error signal. 7. The improvement of claim 1 further including means for combining said integrator control signal with said feedback control signal to generate a control signal for controlling moving and holding of said element. 8. The improvement of claim 1 further including means for generating an open loop control signal and combining said open loop control signal with said feedback control signal and said integrator control signal for controlling moving and holding of said element. 9. A method of generating a control signal for controlling moving and holding of a mechanical element comprising the steps of: generating path data representing a desired path of travel of said mechanical element, said path data comprising a series of successive desired path position signals; generating successive actual path position signals representing the actual position of said element; generating a succession of position error signals representative of the difference between successive pairs of the actual position signals and the desired position signals; generating a succession of feedback control signals from said error signals; generating a succession of velocity error signals; generating a succession of integrator control signals, said integrator control signals being generated utilizing an integrator error signal comprising a velocity error signal when the velocity of said element is nonzero and a position error signal when the velocity of said element is zero; and combining said feedback control signals and integrator control signals to generate an output control signal for controlling movement of said element. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein said velocity error signals are generated from said actual path and desired path position signals. 11. The method of claim 9 wherein said velocity error signals are generated by differentiating said position error signal. 12. The method of claim 9 wherein said step of generating an integrator control signal further includes the step of adding an integrator error signal to a previously generated integrator control signal to generate the next successive integrator control signal. 13. The method of claim 9 further including the step of generating a succession of open loop control signals and wherein said step of combining further includes combining said open loop control signals together with said feedback control signals and integrator control signals. 14. The method of claim 9 wherein a digital processor means is employed, the operation of said processor means being timed in accordance with a series of sample periods, and wherein said digital processor performs an interative process during iterations . . . k-1, k, k+1 . . . , the steps of each iteration comprising: computing a said position error signal by determining the difference between one of said actual path position signals and one of said desired path position signals; computing a said velocity error signal; computing a said feedback control signal utilizing the computed position error signal; performing a test to determine whether said integrator control signal should be computed using the computed velocity error signal or the computed position error signal; computing a said integrator control signal in accordance with the result of said test; and computing a said total control signal utilizing the computed feedback control signal and the computed integrator control signal. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein said digital processor performs said iterative process each sample period utilizing updated values of said actual position signal, desired position signal and velocity error signal. 16. The method of claim 14 wherein said digital processor computes said integrator control signal according to the expression: where U.sub.integrator(k) represents the integrator control signal during the iteration k, C.sub.1 I.sub.e(k) represents a constant C.sub.1 times the integrator error signal computed during iteration k, C.sub.2 I.sub.e(k-1) represents a second constant C.sub.2 times the integrator error control signal computed during the iteration k-1 prior to iteration k, and U.sub.integrator(k-1) represents the integrator control signal from the previous iteration (k-1). 17. The method of claim 16 wherein, in said iterative process, said digital processor means tests the velocity of said mechanical element and selects the value of I.sub.e(k) to be the position error signal when velocity equals zero and the velocity error signal when velocity is unequal to zero. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein, in said iterative process, said digital processor means tests the value of U.sub.integrator(k) against maximum and minimum limit values. 19. The method of claim 18 wherein, in said iterative process, said digital processor means computes an actual velocity quantity by subtracting the derivative of an actual position signal for iteration k-1 from an actual position error signal for iteration k and further calculates velocity error by subtracting the derivative of the actual position signal for iteration k from the derivative of the desired position signal for iteration k. 20. The method of claim 19 wherein, in said iterative process, said digital processor means computes the feedback control signal by combining a quantity consisting of a constant times the position error signal for iteration k with a quantity comprising a second constant times the position error signal for the iteration k-1 plus a third constant times the value of iteration k-1. 21. The method of claim 20 wherein, in said iterative process, said digital processor means calculates an open loop control signal and adds it to the feedback control signal and integrator control signal to determine a said total control signal. 22. The method of claim 19 wherein, in said iterative process, said digital processor means saves the values determined in iteration k for the feedback control signal, the integrator control signal, the actual position signal, the desired position signal, and the velocity error signal for use in the next iteration k+1. 23. The method of claim 22 wherein, in said iterative process, during iteration k, said digital processor means precalculates a selected quantity for use in determining the feedback control signal in interval k+1. 24. The method of claim 21 wherein, in said iterative process, said digital processor means precalculates a first quantity and a second quantity, the first quantity to be used in calculating said feedback control signal in iteration k+1, the second quantity to be used to calculate said open loop control signal in the interval k+1. 25. The method of claim 23 wherein said digital processor means performs said iterative process each sample period. 26. The method of claim 24 wherein said digital processor means performs said iterative process each sample period. 