An image processing system provides the capability of extracting three dimensional motion information from two dimensional images. The image processing system achieves such extraction by analyzing selected image points. The selected image points correspond to the projection of points on a three dimensional object. The object is moving over time (i.e. translating and rotating with respect to the imaging device). The selected image points are processed in parallel by a plurality of processors to first determine the translational velocity. Next, the rotational velocity of the patch is determined. Lastly, the relative depth of each image point is determined in light of the previously determined translational and rotational velocity. The image processing system accomplishes this task by using an imager and a processing means. The system has potential applications in filming and in robotics.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of determining a correct direction of three dimensional translational velocity of an object from a sequence over time of two object, comprising the steps of: (a) selecting a plurality of image points from the sequence of images; (b) performing a transformation on image intensities of the selected plurality of image points to yield transformation vectors; and (c) finding a correct direction of translational velocity such that the transformation vectors are in a range of a coefficient matrix, where the coefficient matrix is a set of column vectors that span a space of all possible transformation vectors corresponding to rigid objects with the correct direction of translational velocity and any arbitrary rotational velocity. 2. A method as recited in claim 1 wherein the selected image points are selected so that it is certain that the columns of the coefficient matrix are linearly independent. 3. A method as recited in claim 1 wherein the performing a transformation step comprises determing image velocity vectors at the selected points. 4. A method as recited in claim 1 wherein the step of finding a correct direction of translational velocity comprises trying various values for the direction of translational velocity to determine whether the transformation vectors are in a range of the coefficient matrix. 5. A method as recited in claim 1 wherein the finding of a correct direction of translational velocity comprises employing a search strategy to locate the correct direction of translation velocity. 6. A method as recited in claim 1 wherein the object is a three dimensional object. 7. A method as recited in claim 1 wherein the step of finding a correct direction of translational velocity further comprises finding a direction of translational velocity so that an orthogonal complement of the coefficient matrix is orthogonal to the transformation vectors. 8. A method as recited in claim 1 wherein positions of the selected image points and the direction of translational velocity determine the coefficient matrix. 9. A method as recited in claim 8 wherein different choices of the direction of translational velocity produce different coefficient matrices. 10. A method of determining a correct direction of three dimensional translational velocity T of an object from a sequence of two dimensional images taken over time that are projections of the object, comprising the steps of: (a) selecting a plurality of image points in each image of the sequence of two dimensional images that correspond to projections of points on the objects; (b) performing a transformation on image intensities of the selected plurality of image points to yield vectors .theta. which are velocities of the image points in two dimensions; and (c) finding a correct direction of T such that .theta. is in a range of C(T), where C(T) is a set of column vectors that span a space of all possible .theta. for rigid objects with translational velocity in the correct direction of T and any arbitrary rotational velocity. 11. A method as recited in claim 10 wherein the selected image points are selected so that it is certain that the columns of C(T) are linearly independent. 12. A method as recited in claim 10 wherein the step of finding a correct direction of T comprises employing a trial and error technique of trying various directions of T to determine whether .theta. is in a range of C(T). 13. A method as recited in claim 10 wherein the step of finding a correct direction of T comprises employing a search strategy that searches selected values in a solution space to locate a proper direction of T. 14. A method of determining a correct direction of three dimensional translational velocity T of three dimensional object images taken from consecutive time frames wherein the images are projections of an object, comprising the steps of: (a) selecting a plurality of image points in each image of the sequence of two dimensional images that correspond to projections of points on the objects such that the image points selected for all the correspond to object points that share a same direction of three dimensional translational velocity T; (b) calculating vectors .theta. that characterize two dimensional image velocity at the selected image points; (c) finding a correct direction of T such that .theta. is in a range of C(T), where C(T) is a set of column vectors that span a space of all possible .theta. for rigid objects with translational velocity in the correct direction of T and any arbitrary rotational velocity, and C(T) is determined by positions of the selected image image points and by the correct direction of T. 15. A method of determining a correct direction of three dimensional translational velocity T of an object from a sequence of two dimensional images over time that are projections of the object, comprising the steps: (a) selecting a plurality of image points from the sequence of images; (b) performing a transformation on image intensities of the selected plurality of image points to yield vectors .theta.; and (c) defining C(T) as a set of vectors that span the orthogonal complement of C(T) where C(T) is a set of column vectors that span a space of all possible .theta. for rigid objects with a translational velocity in the correct direction of T and any arbitrary rotational velocity; and (d) selecting a correct direction of T that provides a zero value for a norm of a product of C(T) and .theta.. 16. A method as recited in claim 15 wherein the step of selecting a correct direction of T comprises determining the product of C(T) and .theta. for various directions of T. 17. A method as recited in claim 15 wherein the step of selecting a direction of T comprises applying a systematic search strategy to locate a correct direction of T. 18. A method as recited in claim 15 further comprising precomputing all possible values of C(T) for a discrete range of directions of T so that selection of a correct direction of T can be performed easily. 19. A method as recited in claim 15 wherein the selected image points are selected so it is assured that the columns of C(T) are linearly independent. 20. A method as recited in claim 15 wherein the step of performing a transformation comprises determining image velocity vectors of the selected image points. 21. A method as recited in claim 15 where C(T) depends on positions of the selected image points and on T. 22. A method of determining three dimensional motion and depth of an object from a sequence of two dimensional images over time that are projections of the object, comprising the steps of: (a) selecting a plurality of image points from the sequence of images; (b) performing a transformation on image intensities of the selected plurality of image points to yield vectors .theta.; (c) finding a unit vector of translation velocity of the three dimensional motion denoted as T such that .theta. is in a range of C(T) where C(T) is a set of column vectors that span a space of all possible .theta. for rigid objects with translational velocity in a direction of T and any arbitrary rotational velocity; and (d) determining rotational velocity of the three dimensional motion and three dimensional depth in light of the determined value of T. 23. An image processing system comprising: (a) an imager for receiving two dimensional projections of three dimensional motion and depth of an object; (b) a processing means for processing a series of images of the object to determine actual corresponding three dimensional motion and depth of points on the object from image data provided by the imager. 24. An image processing system as recited in claim 23 wherein the imager is a video camera. 25. An image processing system as recited in claim 23 wherein the processing means determines rotational velocity, relative depth and direction of translational velocity for the points on the object. 26. An image processing system as recited in claim 23 wherein the imager is an array of imaging elements. 27. An image processing system as recited in claim 26 wherein the imager is comprised of an array of charge coupled devices. 28. An image processing system as recited in claim 23 wherein the processing means comprises a plurality of processing elements. 29. An image processing system as recited in claim 28 wherein the plurality of processing elements process in parallel. 30. An image processing system as recited in claim 29 wherein each processing element acts on a selected region of the images. 31. A method of combining film sequences using an image processing system, comprising the steps of: (a) filming three dimensional motion in a first setting; (b) extracting the three dimensional motion from the two dimensional images; and (c) repeating the three dimensional motion when filming in a second setting so that film from the first setting may be readily combined with film from the first setting. 32. An image processing system comprising: (a) a camera means for filming in a first setting and a second setting; and (b) a processing means for extracting three dimensional motion experienced in the first setting from the film in the first setting so that such motion can be repeated when filming in the second setting to allow film from both settings to be readily combined. 33. A robotic system comprising; (a) a robot that is capable of motion in a three dimensional space, wherein the robot has an imager for viewing the three dimensional space as the robot moves; (b) an image processing system coupled to the robot for extracting three dimensional motion information for the robot from two dimensional images from the imager so that the robot can track its motion in the three dimensional space. 34. An intelligent camera that records two dimensional images of three dimensional objects and is able to process the two dimensional images to determine the corresponding translational velocity and rotational velocity of the objects as well as to determine relative depth maps of the objects, comprising: (a) a visual receiver for receiving the two dimensional images; (b) a recorder for recording the two dimensional images of objects received by the visual receiver; and (c) a processor programmed to process the two dimensional images recorded by the recorder to determine the corresponding translational velocity and rotational velocity of the objects as well as to determine the relative depth maps of the objects. 35. An intelligent camera as recited in claim 34 wherein the camera determines and records three dimensional motion information for each of the objects moving rigidly with respect to the camera. 36. An intelligent camera as recited in claim 34 wherein the camera determines and records separate relative depth maps for each object moving rigidly with respect to the camera. 37. A method of tracking three dimensional motion over time for an object using an image processing system, comprising the steps of: (a) taking a first sequence of two dimensional images of the object; (b) processing the first sequence of images so as to be able to extract the translational and rotational velocity of the object for the sequence; (c) taking a second sequence of two dimensional images of the object at a subsequent time; (d) updating the translational and rotational velocity of the object by processing the second sequence of images in view of the previous translational and rotational velocity. 38. A method as recited in claim 37 wherein the step of updating comprises employing standard sequential estimation techniques. 39. A method as recited in claim 38 wherein the standard sequential estimation technique employed is a Kalman filter. 