A cable-compliant robotic joint includes two "U" configuration cross-section brackets with their "U" cross-sections lying in different planes, one of the brackets being connected to a robot arm and the other to a tool. Additional angle brackets are displaced from the other brackets at corners of the robotic joint. All the brackets are connected by cable segments which lie in one or more planes which are perpendicular to the direction of tool travel as it approaches a work object. The compliance of the joint is determined by the cable segment characteristics, such as their length, material, angle, stranding, pre-twisting and pre-stressing.
Claims I claim: 1. A cable-compliant robotic joint including: a plurality of brackets, two of said brackets having an essentially "U" configuration cross-section, the other of said brackets being angle brackets, said two U-shaped brackets having their said "U" configuration cross-sections in substantially different, orthogonal planes; first means for coupling one of said U-shaped brackets to a robotic arm; second means for coupling said other of said U-shaped brackets to an end-effect tool, said tool having a major axis being defined as the general translation direction that the tool must travel to approach a work object; a plurality of cable segments, said segments having longitudinal axes which lie substantially in at least two planes, all of said at least two planes being orthogonal to said planes of said "U" cross-sections of said two U-shaped brackets and generally perpendicular to said tool major axis, all of said plurality of said brackets having means to retain said cable segments, wherein one end of each of said cable segments is secured to one of said angle brackets and the other end of each of said cable segments is secured to one of said two U-brackets, wherein said angle brackets are circumferentially interposed between the adjacent legs of said U-shaped brackets, and wherein said cable segments permit compliant movement of said robotic joint. 2. The cable-compliant robotic joint of claim 1 wherein each of said planes in which said cable segments lie contain a plurality of segments, said plurality of cable segments in each of said planes in which said cable segments lie defining a cable segment set. 3. The cable-compliant robotic joint of claim 1 wherein said first means for coupling is connected to a robotic arm. 4. The cable-compliant robotic joint of claim 3 wherein one of said includes a means for coupling to another cable-compliant robotic joint to obtain a compound robotic joint. 5. The cable-compliant robotic joint of claim 1 wherein said cable segments are provided with a swage at each end to provide a more secure clamp when said cable segment ends are placed into cable end retainers. 6. The cable-compliant robotic joint of claim 5 wherein said swage is a copper swage. 7. The cable-compliant robotic joint of claim 1 wherein said second means for coupling is connected to a tool. 8. The cable-compliant robotic joint of claim 1 wherein said first and second means for coupling are connected to both a robotic arm and a tool, respectively 