A method for adhesively bonding a first body to a second body, the first body comprising a metallic substrate, such as a piece of steel, or comprising a metallic substrate and a filler therein, such as ceramic fiber reinforced aluminum, the second body comprising any type of substrate, such as a piece of glass, plastic or metal. The first body is pretreated by placing it in the path of an energy beam, such as a laser beam, to form projections on the metallic substrate by evaporation and/or melting of the metallic substrate of the first body, substantially all of the projections being less than 20 micrometers in height, or to expose filler by evaporation of the metallic substrate of the first body. The second body can be untreated, pretreated as above or pretreated another way, such as by solvent washing or sandblasting. An adhesive is then coated on the pretreated area of the first body and the first body adhered to the second body. The cured adhesive interlocks with the projections and/or the exposed filler to produce a stronger bond. Similarly, an object, such as a rubber gasket, can be molded to a so-pretreated body so that the cured molding compound interlocks with the projections and/or the exposed filler to produce a stronger bond between the molded object and the so-pretreated body. The invention is also an article made by the method.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for molding an object to a body having a metallic substrate, the method comprising the steps of pretreating an area of the metallic substrate of the body, contacting the body with a mold, the mold having a chamber at least partially defining the shape of the object to be molded to the body, at least a portion of the pretreated area of the metallic substrate of the body exposed to the chamber, filling the mold with a molding compound so that the molding compound contacts the walls of the mold and at least a portion of the pretreated area of the metallic substrate of the body, curing the molding compound in the chamber so that an object is molded to the body, the improvement which comprises as the step of pretreating an area of the metallic substrate of the body, the step of: placing the body in the path of an energy beam having a selected energy density of from 0.001 to 1,000 joules/cm.sup.2 for a duration of from 0.1 to 100 nanoseconds effective to form projections on the metallic substrate of the body, the projections formed by melting of the metallic substrate of the body, substantially all of the projections being less than 20 micrometers in height. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said energy beam is generated by a laser. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein the first body comprises an aluminum substrate. 4. The method of claim 2 wherein the first body comprises a titanium substrate. 5. The method of claim 2 wherein the first body comprises a copper substrate. 6. The method of claim 2 wherein the first body comprises a steel substrate. 7. The method of claim 2 wherein the first body comprises a magnesium substrate. 8. A method for molding an object to a body having a metallic substrate and a filler therein, the method comprising the steps of pretreating an area of the metallic substrate of the body, contacting the body with a mold, the mold having a chamber at least partially defining the shape of the object to be molded to the body, at least a portion of the pretreated area of the metallic substrate of the body exposed to the chamber, filling the mold with molding compound so that the uncured molding compound contacts the walls of the mold and at least a portion of the pretreated area of the metallic substrate of the body, curing the molding compound in the chamber so that an object is molded to the body, the improvement which comprises as the step of pretreating an area of the metallic substrate of the body, the step of: placing the body in the path of an energy beam having a selected energy density of from 0.001 to 1,000 joules/cm.sup.2 for a duration of from 0.1 to 100 nanoseconds effective to expose a portion of the filler of the body by evaporation of the metallic substrate of the body. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein said energy beam is generated by a laser. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein the first body comprises an aluminum substrate. 11. The method of claim 9 wherein the first body comprises a titanium substrate. 12. The method of claim 9 wherein the first body comprises a copper substrate. 13. The method of claim 9 wherein the first body comprises a steel substrate. 14. The method of claim 9 wherein the first body comprises a magnesium substrate. 