The present invention is an improved method for replacing worn electrode welding tips on welding robots. The method provides a way in which to apply the sub-freezing temperatures of liquid nitrogen to the welding tip while heating a shank on the robot which holds the tip. This results in a temperature gradient between the contacting surfaces of the tip and the shank which will result in an expansion of the shank and a shrinkage of the tip so that the tip can be easily separated from the shank. The process may be fully automated.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for removing an electrode welding tip from a shank wherein said tip is compressively held, said method comprising: cooling said tip while heating said shank thereby causing said shank to expand slightly and causing said tip to shrink slightly so that said tip may be easily separated from said shank. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein cooling said tip is accomplished by the process of cryogenics using liquid nitrogen. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein cooling said tip with liquid nitrogen is accomplished by gripping said tip with a clamp, said clamp having a conduit therein for carrying said liquid nitrogen, said clamp made of a material capable of conduction of sub-freezing temperatures to said tip. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein heating said shank is accomplished by positioning said shank inside a heating coil. 5. An automated method for separating an electrode welding tip from a shank wherein said tip is compressively held, said shank extending from an arm of a welding robot, said method comprising: chilling a clamp with liquid nitrogen; heating a coil; aligning said coil with said clamp; maneuvering said robot arm until said shank is positioned within said coil and at the same time said tip is positioned within said clamp; gripping said tip with said clamp thereby lowering the temperature of said tip resulting in slight shrinkage of said tip; heating said shank with said coil thereby increasing the temperature of said shank resulting in slight expansion of said shank; and maneuvering said robot arm while gripping said tip with said clamp to pull apart said tip from said shank. 