A robotic hand having a plurality of fingers, each having a plurality of joints pivotally connected one to the other, with actuators connected at one end to an actuating and control mechanism mounted remotely from the hand and at the other end to the joints of the fingers for manipulating the fingers and passing externally of the robot manipulating arm in between the hand and the actuating and control mechanism. The fingers include pulleys to route the actuators within the fingers. Cable tension sensing structure mounted on a portion of the hand are disclosed, as is the covering of the tip of each finger with a resilient and pliable friction enhancing surface.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus adapted for use in a mechanical hand comprising: a first finger joint pivotally connected to said hand; a second finger joint pivotally connected to said first finger joint; a third finger joint pivotally connected to said second finger joint; first, second, third and fourth control cables; and means for guiding and attaching said first, second, third and fourth control cables with respect to said first, second and third finger joints such that pulling the second and third cables in opposite directions while holding the first and fourth cables fixed rotates the third joint, such that holding said second and third cables fixed while pulling the first and fourth cables oppositely to one another rotates the second joint, and such that pulling the second and third cables in the same direction, while permitting the first and fourth cables to move, rotates the first joint in a first direction and pulling the first and fourth cables, while permitting the second and third cables to move, rotates the first joint in a direction opposite to said first direction. 2. In a mechanical hand having an articulated finger with a first joint positioned along a first axis and a second joint positioned along a second axis with the second joint positioned outboard of the first joint, the improvement comprising: a first idler pulley positioned along said first axis; a first drive pulley positioned along said second axis with rotational movement of the first drive pulley causing articulation of the finger at said second joint; a first cable drive engaging said first idler pulley and said first drive pulley; said first cable drive producing rotation of said first idler pulley and said first drive pulley, and means to fix the position of said first idler pulley such that movement of the first cable drive produces articulation of the finger at said first joint. 3. The mechanical hand of claim 2 including: a second idler pulley positioned along said first axis; a second cable drive engaging said second idler pulley, and means to fix the position of said second idler pulley, whereby movement of the second cable drive with the position of the second idler pulley fixed produces articulation of the finger at said first joint in a direction opposite to the articulation of the finger at said first joint which is provided by fixing the position of said first idler pulley and applying movement of the first cable drive to the first idler pulley. 4. The mechanical hand of claim 3 wherein, said first cable drive drivingly engages said first idler pulley at a first position; said second cable drive drivingly engages said second idler pulley at a second position, and said first and second positions are on opposite sides of said first axis. 5. The mechanical hand of claim 3 including: a third joint positioned along a third axis; said third joint positioned outboard of said second joint; a second drive pulley positioned along said third axis with rotation of said second drive pulley producing articulation of the finger at said third joint, and said second cable drive engaging said second drive pulley. 6. The mechanical hand of claim 2 wherein said second axis is perpendicular to said first axis. 7. The mechanical hand of claim 5 wherein said second and third axes are each perpendicular to said first axis. 8. The mechanical hand of claim 2 wherein said first cable drive has two ends, and pulling on both of the ends of said first cable drive fixes the position of said first idler pulley. 9. The mechanical hand of claim 3 wherein said second cable drive has two ends, and pulling on both of the ends of said second cable drive fixes the position of said second idler pulley. 