A robotic assembly apparatus includes a robot (2), a component supply station (6) and at least one placement station (7, 8). Components are correctly orientated by means of feeder bowls (11, 12) and are serially presented to the supply station along tracks (9 and 10). A multi-head tool (5) simultaneously picks up a plurality of correctly orientated components and places them in their correct positions in or on the workpiece. Before or during their travel to the workpiece, the plurality of components are placed in their correct positions relative to one another. Preferably two placement stations are used per robot so that one can be used for removing an assembled workpiece and supplying a new workpiece while the other is having components inserted. The multi-head tool (5) consists of individually-pneumatically-operable actuators (27) carrying individual-operable component grippers which may be mechanical, vacuum or electromagnetic.
Claims We claim: 1. A robotic assembly apparatus having a robot tool for placing components in or on a workpiece comprising means (17, 18) for presenting workpieces serially to a placement station (7, 8), means (9, 10) for presenting components to be placed in or on said workpieces to a supply station (6) and means for picking up components from said supply station (6) and placing them into or onto a workpiece at said placement station Ser. No. 07/040,005 and including a plurality of individual grippers (26) each carried by an actuator (27) wherein each gripper is independently operable for the selective pick-up and/or release of components and each actuator is independently movable to a retracted position or an extended position and the actuators are angled with respect to one another whereby their respective gripper may be spaced from one another in a plane orthogonal to the direction of movement of the actuators by an amount dependent upon the angle and the amount of movement of the gripper relative to the tool thereby to position the components relative to one another, means (11, 12, 20, 21) for placing a plurality of components in a predetermined pattern and orientation relative to one another at said supply station, means for placing said components into their correct positions relative to one another, and means for simultaneously placing the plurality of correctly positioned components into or onto said workpiece at said placement station. 2. A robotic assembly apparatus as claimed in claim 1, in which said means for presenting workpieces serially comprises two placement station (7, 8), and means (15, 17; 16, 18) for removing a completed workpiece and supplying a new workpiece to one placement station while components are placed on a workpiece at the other placement station. 3. A robotic assembly apparatus according to claim 1, in which each actuator is pneumatically operable. 4. A robotic assembly apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said means for placing a plurality of components in a predetermined pattern and orientation comprises a plurality of tracks (9, 10), at least one for each type of component to be placed on a workpiece, and means (11 to 14) for ensuring that each component arrives at the supply station in its correct orientation with respect to the other components of the same type, said means for picking up components (5) being adapted to pick up a plurality of components of at least one type each time it removes components from said supply station. 5. A robotic assembly apparatus according to claim 1, in which said grippers (26) comprises vacuum pick-up means. 6. A robotic assembly apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said means for placing a plurality of components in a predetermined pattern and orientation relative to one another at said supply station comprises at least one track section for presenting components serially in abutting relationship along said at least one track section, and said means for placing said components into their correct positions comprises a spreader mechanism including a sliding table having slots which fan out, said slots being disposed for engaging the abutting components for causing while said table is undergoing motion in a direction substantially orthogonal to the track section the components to increasingly spread apart along the track section to their correct non-abutting positions relative to one another during the motion of said table. 