A visual navigation system provides absolute position information to multiple automatically guided vehicles (AGVs) such as mobile robots. The beacon-equipped AGVs emit light visible to overhead television cameras. The beacons are arranged and controlled so that the vision systems can acquire, measure, and report the locations of multiple AGVs. The system controller incorporates a programmable "factory map", or knowledge base, of allowable paths of travel for the AGVs, which navigate by dead reckoning with periodic position updates from the visual navigation system. The visual navigation system notifies the autonomous AGVs and the system controller when an AGV strays from its command path. The combination of computer controls in the elements of the system provides the means to stop and to recover straying AGVs. The navigation system visually monitors normal AGV travel, off-course corrections, "lost" AGV searches, and recovery. Thus, it provides closed-loop, servo-like operation.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A visual navigation system, comprising: at least one AGV; a plurality of nodes; a camera associated with each node for viewing said AGV; and a navigation system for generating the position of said AGV from an image formed by one of said cameras; wherein said navigation system has knowledge of an AGV route map and a schedule of planned movements for said AGV, and uses such information to predict and select the camera in whose field of view said AGV can be found. 2. The visual navigation system of claim 1, further comprising: a uniquely identifiable visual pattern associated with each AGV for unique identification of each AGV by said navigation system. 3. The visual navigation system of claim 2, wherein said visual pattern comprises: a plurality of lights mounted on each AGV. 4. The navigation system of claim 1, wherein: said navigation system tracks AGV motion near a given node always using the same camera which is associated with that node. 5. A method of navigating AGVs, comprising: (a) assigning a plurality of nodes to locations along a route for an AGV such that each node is assigned to a unique location; (b) positioning a camera near each node for viewing an AGV at or near that node; (c) using an AGV route map and a schedule of planned movements for said AGV to predict and select the camera in whose field of view said AGV can be found; (d) using said selected camera to form an image of an identifiable portion of said AGV; and (e) determining the X-Y position of said AGV from said image. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein: steps (c) and (e) are carried out by a computer. 7. The method of claim 6, further comprising: storing said route map and said schedule in computer memory. 8. The method of claim 5, further comprising: associating a unique camera with a node; and always using that unique camera when viewing said AGV at or near that node. 9. The method of claim 6, further comprising: storing a digitized representation of the field of view of said selected camera in random access memory. 10. The method of claim 9, further comprising: forming a window about said AGV; and searching only the data within said window for said image. 