In a system for welding thin section aluminum castings to elongated sections of thin walled hollow aluminum extrusion, an expandable mandrel specific to the weldment to be assembled serves also as a holder and positioner while welding is in progress. A powered carriage rotatably supports the normally cantilevered mandrel and advances it into position in the bore of the extrusion. Sets of hydraulically powered expansion shoes of the mandrel are spaced along its length so as to register internally with the location of external weld joints between casting and extrusion. Selective independent actuation of shoes or sets of shoes applies outward pressure locally to remove distortions in the "as received" extrusion, so as to maintain consistent fit up between extrusion and casting, facilitating consistently good welded joints. This mechanical positioning and form control system lends itself readily to integration with robot welders for fully automated operation.
Claims We claim: 1. A system for facilitating the welding of a thin walled attachment to outside surfaces of a thin walled hollow member at a plurality of welded joints, said member having an elongated cavity defined by a plurality of elongated internal wall surfaces and having at least one open end, comprising: (a) a mandrel carrier for receiving and supporting an end of a mandrel, the carrier being supported for movement in a longitudinal direction; (b) means for supporting the hollow member so that its elongated cavity extends in the longitudinal direction; (c) an elongated expandable mandrel supported at one end by the carrier in substantially cantilever fashion and extending in the longitudinal direction and having a free end opposite from the supported end: and (d) means for advancing the carrier with the mandrel in the longitudinal direction so that the free end of the mandrel passes through the at least one open end and enters the cavity of the thin walled hollow member. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein the mandrel carrier includes means for rotating the mandrel about a longitudinal axis. 3. The system of claim 2 and further including control means for controlling the rotation of the mandrel so that all joints between the attachment and the thin walled hollow member may be welded with the joints extending substantially parallel to a predetermined plane. 4. The system of claim 3 wherein the control means includes automatic means for completing a first weld at a first joint, and for rotationally manipulating the mandrel so that, in preparation for a second weld at a second joint, the mandrel is rotationally positioned with the second joint extending approximately parallel to the predetermined plane. 5. The system of claim 1 and including guide means longitudinally spaced from the carrier for maintaining the alignment of the free end of the mandrel as the carrier advances. 6. The system of claim 5 wherein the guide means includes resilient members for accommodating minor deflections of the mandrel from the longitudinal direction. 7. The system of claim 1 wherein the cavity has opposite open ends and, in operation, the free end of the mandrel passes through the cavity and including an end support for engaging the free end of the mandrel and providing additional support for the mandrel so as to support its extension in the longitudinal direction. 8. The system of claim 7 wherein the engagement of the free end of the mandrel with the end support permits rotation of the mandrel about its longitudinal axis. 9. The system of claim 1 wherein the mandrel carries a plurality of shoes and including means for biasing the shoes away from the longitudinal axis of the mandrel, for engaging the internal wall surfaces of the cavity and biasing the hollow member so that a predetermined cross sectional shape of said member is attained. 10. The system of claim 9 wherein at least one of the plurality of mandrel shoes is disposed adjacent a specific welded joint so that the biasing of said at least one shoe may modify the cross sectional shape of the hollow member adjacent said specific joint. 11. The system of claim 10 wherein the at least one shoe overlaps the specific welded joint and including an external groove in said shoe so that the shoe makes contact with the internal wall surfaces only on opposite sides of the joint. 12. The system of claim 9 wherein the means for biasing includes means for biasing at least one of the shoes independently of the other shoes. 13. A method for facilitating the welding of an attachment to an external wall surface of a thin walled tubular member, said member having a plurality of longitudinally extending walls including at least one planar wall, said walls defining a bore having a first cross sectional shape, and the attachment having an internal profile for at least partially surrounding the tubular member and including faying surfaces disposed to register with and closely approach corresponding faying surfaces of the tubular member when said member is in a second cross sectional shape, said registering faying surfaces having a boundary defining a generally circumferentially extending joint line, said method comprising the steps of: (a) positioning the attachment on the tubular member so as to establish the joint line; (b) inserting a mandrel having an expandable shoe into the bore of the tubular member; (c) positioning the mandrel so that the expandable shoe approximately registers with the joint line; and (d) actuating the expandable shoe so that it applies internal pressure to the tubular member adjacent the joint line, and biases the tubular member into the second cross sectional shape, so that the respective faying surfaces are brought into close proximity in preparation for welding. 14. An expandable mandrel for insertion in an elongated thin walled hollow member for maintaining a predetermined cross sectional shape at selected axially spaced stations of the member during external operations on the member at those stations, the member having a longitudinally extending bore defined by a plurality of longitudinally extending internal wall surfaces, and internal corners intermediate said wall surfaces, comprising: (a) a frame having a longitudinal mandrel axis; (b) a plurality of shoe assemblies carried by the frame and axially spaced so that after insertion of the mandrel in the bore of a tubular member, at least some of the shoe assemblies register with corresponding stations of the tubular member, each shoe assembly including a shoe shaped to conform to a portion of the inside surface of the bore of the tubular member, and having a contacting surface for engaging said portion; and (c) actuating means for each shoe assembly operable to bias each shoe outwards independently with respect to the mandrel axis, so as to contact an inner surface of the bore and maintain the predetermined cross sectional shape of the tubular member, at the corresponding station. 15. The mandrel of claim 14 wherein the actuating means for at least one of the shoes includes a linear actuator having a line of action approximately parallel to the longitudinal axis of the mandrel and disposed closely adjacent said one of the shoes. 16. The mandrel of claim 15 wherein the linear actuator comprises a double acting hydraulic cylinder. 17. The mandrel of claim 15 wherein the means for biasing the shoe includes a wedge member operably associated with the linear actuator for biasing the shoe outwards responsive to axial movement of the wedge member. 18. The mandrel of claim 15 and including resilient means in the shoe assembly effective between the shoe and the mandrel frame to urge the shoe inwards towards the mandrel axis. 19. The mandrel of claim 15 and including, at a given axial position of the mandrel, a plurality of shoe assemblies wherein in each shoe assembly a linear actuator extends axially away from the shoe, and wherein at least a pair of such linear actuators extend in mutually opposing axial directions. 20. The mandrel of claim 14 wherein at a given station the shoes are disposed and shaped to engage the internal corners of the bore of the tubular member. 21. The mandrel of claim 14 wherein at a given station the shoes are disposed and shaped to engage internal surfaces of the bore intermediate the corners. 22. The mandrel of claim 14 wherein the contacting surface of each shoe includes a broad groove extending generally transverse the longitudinal axis of the mandrel. 23. A weldment holder and manipulator for facilitating the welding of attachments externally on an elongated tubular member comprising: (a) a carriage supported for horizontal movement in a longitudinal direction and supported at least partially by a first upright fixed support; (b) mandrel holding means included in the carriage for supporting a mandrel cantilever fashion and extending in the longitudinal direction so that the mandrel has a free end and is adapted to support a weldment threaded over it for at least partial rotation about a longitudinal axis, so as to selectively position the weldment for welding; and (c) power means for propelling the carriage in the longitudinal direction selectively away from and towards the first support. 24. The weldment holder and manipulator of claim 23 and including guide means carried by a second upright fixed support longitudinally spaced from the first support for providing additional support for the free end of the mandrel, and wherein the mandrel is extendable through the guide as the carrier is propelled away from the first support. 25. The weldment holder and manipulator of claim 24 wherein the guide means is resiliently carried by the second support. 26. The weldment holder and manipulator of claim 24 and including at least one rail extending between the first and second supports for guiding the carriage in its horizontal movement in the longitudinal direction. 27. The weldment holder and manipulator of claim 24 wherein the means for propelling the carriage includes a lead screw extending generally between the first and second supports, and the carriage includes a nut member engageable with the lead screw, and the power means includes means for establishing relative rotation between the lead screw and the nut member so that the carriage is propelled in the longitudinal direction. 28. The weldment holder and manipulator of claim 24 and including a third support longitudinally spaced from the second support, and including a mandrel receiving means facing towards the first support and freely rotatably about the longitudinal axis and engageable by the free end of the mandrel when the carriage holding the mandrel is propelled towards the third support so as to provide additional support for the mandrel. 29. A system for facilitating the welding of a thin walled attachment to outside surfaces of a thin walled hollow member at a plurality of welded joints, said member having an elongated cavity defined by a plurality of elongated internal wall surfaces and having at least one open end, comprising: (a) a mandrel carrier for receiving and supporting an end of a mandrel, the carrier being supported for movement in a longitudinal direction; (b) means for supporting the hollow member so that its elongated cavity extends in the longitudinal direction; (c) an elongated expandable mandrel supported at one end by the carrier in substantially cantilever fashion and extending in the longitudinal direction and having a free end opposite from the supported end; and (d) means for advancing the carrier with the mandrel in the longitudinal direction so that the free end of the mandrel passes through the at least one open end and enters the cavity of the thin walled hollow member; (e) means for welding, disposed adjacent the means for supporting the hollow member, for making welded joints between the thin walled attachment and the hollow member. 30. The system of claim 29 wherein the welding means includes means for welding using the gas metal arc process. 31. The system of claim 29 wherein the welding means includes means for welding using the gas tungsten arc process. 32. The system of claim 29 wherein the welding means includes a welding gun and robotic means for controlling said gun. 