An improved process for the high speed production of structural preforms and molding the preform to produce a product having desired and predetermined fiber directionality and distribution. Continuous strand glass fiber is directly applied to a preform screen along with a resinous binder material. The fiber/binder composite preform is cured. The cured composite preform is transferred to a mold where the composite is injected with a resin and thereafter cured in the mold.
Claims I claim: 1. A process for the manufacture of a three-dimensional fiber preform having predetermined areas of enhanced structural integrity comprising the steps of: providing an air permeable screen having a three-dimensional preshaped surface defining such preform; dividing such screen into noded sections as if on a flat map wherein the three-dimensional plane at each such noded section is defined by the unit vector .lambda. in cartesian coordinate system as .lambda.=Cos .theta..sub.x i+Cos .theta..sub.y j+Cos .theta..sub.z k and i, j and k are unit vectors along the axes, .theta. is the maximum angle between the horizontal flat map and the plane of each noded section on such screen, and the areal density of glass to be deposited at each such noded section is controlled by the equation .theta.=.theta..sub.y ; calculating the areal density of glass to be applied at each such noded section and programming at least one glass fiber pullwheel to deposit glass in predetermined patterns and amounts in accordance with said calculations; applying continuous glass fiber from at least one pullwheel of a glass fiber manufacturing apparatus to each such noded section of such screen in such calculated patterns and amounts; drawing air through such screen; and passing such screen past such pullwheel at a predetermined rate of travel calculated to coordinate with said rate of application from such pullwheel and achieve said desired glass fiber densities over such screen. 2. The process of claim 1, further including the step of programming such pullwheel to apply such glass fiber in at least four distinct patterns. 3. The process of claim 1, further including the step of varying said rate of travel of such screen in coordination with variations in said rate of application for such pullwheel to maintain said desired glass fiber densities over such screen. 4. The process of claim 1, further including the step of programming each of such individual pullwheels to vary its respective application pattern to compensate for any loss of application pattern from any of such remaining pullwheels. 5. The process of claim 1, further including the step of applying a resinous binder to such glass fiber during distribution of such fiber onto such screen. 6. A process for the manufacture of a three-dimensional fiber preform comprising the steps of: providing an air permeable screen having a three-dimensional preshaped surface defining such preform; dividing such screen into noded sections as if on a flat map wherein the three-dimensional plane at each such noded section is defined by the unit vector .lambda. in a cartesian coordinate system as .lambda.=Cos .theta..sub.x i+Cos .theta..sub.y j+Cos .theta..sub.z k and i, j and k are unit vectors along the axes, .theta. is the maximum angle between the horizontal flat map and the plane of each noded section on such screen, and the areal density of glass to be deposited at each such noded section is controlled by the equation .theta.=.theta..sub.y ; calculating the areal density of glass to be applied at each such noded section; programming a plurality of glass fiber pullwheels to distribute continuous glass fiber strands in at least four distinct patterns, in accordance with said calculations, such patterns being created by programmed control over the sweep, yaw and oscillation of each pullwheel; drawing air through such screen; and passing such screen past such pullwheels at a predetermined rate of travel calculated to coordinate with such programmed pullwheels to supply said calculated glass fiber densities over each of such sections of such screen. 7. The process of claim 6, further including the step of programming the rate of travel of such screen and the distribution pattern of such pullwheels to vary and maintain the application of desired glass fiber densities regardless of the performance characteristics of any given pullwheel. 8. The process of claim 6, further including the step of applying a resinous binder to such glass fiber during distribution of such film onto such screen. 9. A process for the manufacture of a three-dimensional fiber reinforced article comprising the steps of: providing an air permeable screen having a three-dimensional preshaped surface defining such article; dividing such screen into noded sections as if on a flat map wherein the three-dimensional plane at each such noded section is defined by the unit vector .lambda. in a cartesian coordinate system as .lambda.=Cos .theta..sub.x i+Cos .theta..sub.y j+Cos .theta..sub.z k and i, j and k are unit vectors along the axes, .theta. is the maximum angle between the horizontal flat map and the plane of each noded section on such screen, and the areal density of glass to be deposited at each such node is controlled by the equation .theta.=.theta..sub.y ; calculating the areal density of glass to be applied at each such noded section; programming a plurality of glass fiber pullwheels to distribute continuous glass fiber strands in accordance with said calculations in predetermined patterns and amounts, such patterns and amounts being created by said programmed control over the sweep, yaw and oscillation of each pullwheel; drawing air through such screens; passing such screen past such pullwheels at a predetermined rate of travel calculated to coordinate with such programmed pullwheels to supply said calculated glass fiber densities over each of such sections of such screen; removing such glass fiber preform from such screen and placing such preform into a mold having an upper and lower member; closing such upper and lower members around the glass fiber preform; and injecting a resin material into the closed upper and lower mold members to permeate the glass fiber preform and, thereafter such curing resin injected fiber reinforced preform. 