A modular digital robot control includes an electronic arm interface board provided with circuitry for performing robot arm dependent functions. Included are circuitry for generating power amplifier control signals in response to input voltage command signals and circuitry for processing and manipulating position, velocity and motor current feedback signals. An electronic torque processor board is provided with paired torque microprocessors for operating each of respective torque control loops for respective robot joint motors. The torque microprocessors generate the voltage commands in response to input torque commands and feedback motor current signals. An electronic servo control board is provided with paired position/velocity microprocessors for operating position and velocity control loops for the respective joint motors. The position/velocity microprocessors generate the torque commands in response to input position commands and feedback position and velocity signals. The servo control board further includes system resource facilities providing general support for the operation of the microprocessors and includes a DMC controller and two asynchronous controllers for communications interfacing with local input/output devices and other systems and devices. When executed in one of the position/velocity microprocessors, a stored motion program uses trajectory planning and interpolation to generate position commands in accordance with predefined moves set forth in a robot program. The servo control, torque processor and arm interface boards are interconnected to provide a complete basic control for the robot joint motors. An optional fourth electronic board can be connected to the basic control. It is called a system board and it includes paired system microprocessors that execute the motion program enabling the expanded control to provide extended robot control performance.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A modular digital control for a robot having an arm with each of a plurality of joints driven by an electric motor in turn supplied with drive current by a power amplifier, said modular robot control comprising: an arm interface module having circuitry for performing robot arm dependent functions including circuit means for generating power amplifier control signals in response to input voltage command signals; said arm interface module circuitry further including circuit means for processing and manipulating position, velocity and motor current feedback signals; a torque processor module having torque microprocessor servo means for operating each of respective torque control loops for the respective joint motors; said torque microprocessor servo means generating said input voltage command signals in response to input torque commands and feedback motor current signals; a servo control module having position/velocity microprocessor servo means having digital signal processing capability for operating position and velocity control loops for the respective joint motors; said position/velocity microprocessor servo means generating said input torque commands in response to input position commands and said position and velocity feedback signals; said servo control module further including system resource means providing a hierarchical general support for the operation of said servo means and including data communicating control means for communications interfacing with local input/output devices and other systems and devices; program storage means for storing program means operative when executed to provide trajectory planning and interpolation and generate said input position commands in accordance with predefined moves set forth in a robot program; means for coupling said program storage means to said position/velocity microprocessor servo means to enable execution of said program means therein; and means for interconnecting said servo control, torque processor and arm interface modules to provide a complete basic control for said robot joint motors. 2. A modular robot control as set forth in claim 1 wherein said program storage means includes memory means included in said system resource means. 3. A modular robot control as set forth in claim 2 wherein there is provided at least one system level module having system microprocessor means operative to execute said program means; and means for interconnecting said system level module with said position/velocity microprocessor servo module so as to couple said system resource means thereto and so as to enable said up position commands to be applied to said position/velocity microprocessor servo means. 4. A modular robot control as set forth in claim 3 wherein said arm interface module is embodied on a first electronc board; said torque processor module is embodied on a second electronic board; and said servo control module is embodied on a third electronic board and said system level module is embodied on a fourth electronic board. 5. A modular robot control as set forth in claim 3 wherein: each of said microprocessor servo means includes first and second microprocessors; said first microprocessor having relatively high data processing capability and said second microprocessor having relatively high computational capability; and means for coupling said first and second microprocessors in each microprocessor series means so as to enable said first microprocessor to manage the flow of input/output data to and from said second microprocessor. 6. A modular robot control as set forth in claim 1 wherein said generating circuit means in said arm interface module generates said power amplifier control signals for said power amplifiers supplying brushless DC joint motors or for said power amplifiers supplying brush type DC motors according to the type of motors provided on the robot; and said processing and manipulating circuit means in said arm interface module includes means for generating position and velocity feedback signals from incremental motor position sensors or for processing position and velocity feedback signals respectively from absolute motor position sensors and motor tachometers. 7. A modular robot control as set forth in claim 1 wherein said arm interface module is embodied on a first electronic board; said torque processor module is embodied on a second electronic board; and said position/velocity servo module is embodied on a third electronic board. 8. A modular robot control as set forth in claim 5 wherein: said generating circuit means in said arm interface module generates said power amplifier control signals for said power amplifiers supplying brushless DC joint motors or for said power amplifiers supplying brush type DC motors according to the type of motors provided on the robot; and said processing and manipulating circuit means in said arm interface module includes means for generating position and velocity feedback signals from incremental motor position sensors or for processing position and velocity feedback signals respectively from absolute motor position sensors and motor tachometers. 9. A modular robot control as set forth in claim 8 wherein said generating circuit means on said arm interface board includes a pulse width generator circuit. 10. A modular robot control as set forth in claim 8 wherein said arm interface module further includes circuit means for processing feedback current signals. 11. A module digital control for a robot having an arm with each of a plurality of joints driven by an electric motor in turn supplied with drive current by a power amplifier, said modular robot control being implemented by a hierarchical set of functionally integrated modules, comprising: an arm interface module having circuitry for performing robot arm dependent functions including circuit means for generating power amplifier control signals in response to input voltage command signals; said arm interface module circuitry further including circuit means for processing and manipulating position, velocity and motor current feedback signals; a torque processor module having torque microprocessor servo means for operating each of respective torque control loops for the respective joint motors; said torque microprocessor servo means generating said input voltage command signals in response to input torque commands and feedback motor current signals; a servo control module having position/velocity microprocessor servo means having digital signal processing capability for operating position and velocity control loops for the respective joint motors; said position/velocity microprocessor servo means generating said input torque commands in response to input position commands and said position and velocity feedback signals; said servo control module further including system resource means providing a hierarchical general support for the operation of said servo means providing enhancement in performance and functionality, and including data communicating control means for communications interfacing with local input/output devices and other systems and devices; program storage means for storing program means operative when executed to provide trajectory planning and interpolation and generate said input position commands in accordance with predefined moves set forth in a robot program; means for coupling said program storage means to said position/velocity microprocessor servo means to enable execution of said program means therein; and means for interconnecting said servo control, torque processor and arm interface modules to provide a complete basic control for said robot joint motors. 