A multisection flexible multidigit arm contains hands at each end, each of which hands contains a set of fingers, suitably three, which are similarly formed flexible multidigit arms constructed to a smaller scale. Each hand contains connectors for coupling the hand to a mating connector mounted on an associated structure to provide appropriate power and control signals to the arm. One hand may grip the connector and the other hand is free to move to various positions and perform various tasks. In an additional aspect the arm may move to different locations by somersaulting between spaced connectors in the system. In an assembly system the robotic arms are used to construct frames or other assemblies. A completely self contained arm includes a self contained source of power. Radio communication means are provided to allow electronic interaction with the arm from a remote location. In an additional aspect the self contained circuitry includes processor means programmed to control the arm to perform a certain task, relieving the operator at the remote location from specifying the details. Control signals to the sections of the arm in an additional aspect to the disclosed invention are provided by an electrical system that uses only a few wires by multiplexing the signals and the actuators, effectively "time sharing" the electrical leads between the large number of actuators.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. In a robotic arm system containing at least one multisection robotic arm each of which arms contain a plurality of spaced platforms and in which at least three actuators are carried between each pair of platforms for positioning one platform relative to the paired platform, whereby the positioning of arm section is selectively changed through energization of the actuators, and control means for selectively energizing said actuators, the improvement comprising in combination therewith: programmed processor means; input means for inputting information into said processor means; said processor means for receiving position information from said input means, calculating actuator displacements to achieve a position for said arm represented by said input information and generating a control signal for causing the actuator to attain the calculated position. 2. In a robotic arm system containing at least one multisection robotic arm each of which arms contain a plurality of spaced platforms and in which at least three actuators are carried between each pair of platforms for positioning one platform relative to the paired platform, whereby the positioning of arm section is selectively changed through energization of the actuators, and control means for selectively energizing of the actuators, and control means for selectively energizing said actuators, the improvement comprising in combination therewith: programmed processor means; input means for inputting information into said processor means; said processor means for receiving position information from said input means, calculating actuator displacements to achieve a position for said arm represented by said input information, receiving information on the actual position of each of the actuator means, comparing the actual position and calculated position for each actuator and generating a control signal for causing the actuator to attain the calculated position. 3. The invention as defined in claim 2, wherein said control means further comprises: actuator controller means for providing control signals for each of said actuators associated with each platform to initiate operation of said actuators, whereby said actuators may orient associated platforms with respect to adjacent platforms; interface means for coupling the output of said processor means to said actuator controller means, said interface means including means for translating the output of said processor means to a signal information form of signal interpretable by said actuator controller means; and said actuator controller means being responsive to the output of said interface means. 4. The invention as defined in claim 2 wherein said input means comprises: joystick means for providing output signals responsive to manual positioning of said joystick means. 5. The invention as defined in claim 4 wherein said joystick means comprises Robotic arm replication means; said arm being manually positionable by a user and containing sensor means for providing position information at an output representative of the position of each arm section. 