An apparatus is provided for determining the angular deviation of a randomly angular oriented article from a desired angular orientation in preparation for its engagement by a robotic part handling device. The apparatus projects a rotating image of the article onto a mask which is representative of the article in a desired orientation and provides an angular deviation signal indicative of the cummulative angular displacement of the image from an initial reference position at which the image matches the mask.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for determining the angular deviation with respect to a reference axis of a randomly angularly oriented article in a given plane from a desired angular orientation, said apparatus comprising: means for supporting such a randomly angularly oriented article in the given plane; optical means for forming an image of the supported article at an image plane, said optical means having an optical axis and being mounted for rotation thereabout through a given angular displacement from a given reference location to effect a 360.degree. rotation of said image from an initial position; means for rotatably driving said optical means through said given angular displacement; means responsive to rotation of said optical means for providing displacement signals indicative of the progressive cummulative change in angular displacement of said image from its said initial position; means, including a reference pattern located in said image plane and onto which said rotating image is projected, for providing a signal indicative of when during the course of image rotation said rotating image is in the desired orientation, said pattern being representative of the article in its desired angular orientation; and means responsive to said displacement signals and said desired orientation signal for providing an angular deviation signal indicative of the cumulative angular displacement of said image from its said initial position at the occurrence of said desired orientation signal. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said optical means includes an image inverting prism. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said prism is a Pechan prism. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said pattern serves to modulate image bearing light projected thereonto by said optical means as a function of the angular orientation of said image with respect to said desired orientation. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said pattern is a negative image representation of the article in its said desired orientation. 6. Apparatus for viewing an article presented in a given plane such that it has a random angular orientation with respect to a reference axis, and for determining the angular deviation of the randomly angularly oriented article from a desired angular orientation, said apparatus comprising; means for supporting such a randomly angularly oriented article in the given plane; optical means for forming an image of the supported article at an image plane, said optical means having an optical axis and being mounted for rotation thereabout through a given angular displacement from a reference location to effect a 360.degree. rotation of said image from an initial position; means for rotatably driving said optical means through said given angular displacement; means responsive to rotation of said optical means for providing displacement signals indicative of the progressive cumulative change in angular displacement of said image from its said initial position; a reference pattern representative of the article in its desired angular orientation located at said image plane and onto which image bearing light is projected by said optical means for modulating the amount of light transmitted through said pattern in accordance with the angular orientation of said rotating image, said pattern being configured for transmitting a minimum amount of light therethrough when the angular orientation of said rotating image coincides with the desired angular orientation; means for detecting said light transmitted through said pattern during image rotation and for providing light level signals indicative of the amount of said transmitted light; and means for processing said displacement signals and said light level signals to provide an angular deviation signal indicative of the cumulative angular displacement of said image from its said initial position at the occurrence of a light level signal indicative of a minimum amount of light transmitted through said pattern. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein said optical means includes an image inverting prism. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein said prism is a Pechan prism. 9. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein said pattern is a mask including a negative image representative of the article supported in the desired angular orientation. 10. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein said negative image representation is a light transmissive aperture having the shape of the article. 11. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein said means for providing said displacement signals includes a rotatable signal generator that is coupled to and rotatably driven by said optical means. 12. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein said pattern is a mask formed by a negative image transparency photograph of the article supported on said support means in the desired orientation. 13. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein said photograph is made by utilizing said optical means to project an image of the supported article onto a negative transparency film unit located at said image plane. 14. The apparatus of claim 12 further including a variable magnification lens located between said optical means and said mask for varying the size of the image projected onto said mask. 15. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein said optical means is configured to be rotated through a give angular displacement of 180.degree. to effect a 360.degree. rotation of said image. 16. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein the article is of the type which may assume a plurality of different stabilized states on said supporting means and said apparatus includes a plurality of different reference patterns, each corresponding to one of said different states, means for simultaneously projecting said image onto each of said different patterns, means for detecting image bearing light transmitted through each of said patterns during image rotation and for providing light level signals indicative of the amount of said transmitted light, and means for processing said light level signals and determining which of said patterns transmits a minimum amount of light therethrough to identify the stabilized state of the article. 