A pretensioned cable transmits power along a first support member (link) from a rotary actuator to a rotating output joint, typically an output pulley fixed to a second link arm but rotatable in a coupling between the first and second links. A reducer, typically two sets of coupled idler pulleys of different diameter, is mounted at a point removed from the actuator, and preferably as close as possible to the output joint. An axially split spool mounted on the actuator output wraps the outgoing and returning cable sections on different halves of the spool in opposite directions to provide pretensioning of the cable in the entire cable circuit at one point. To form a differential, a pretensioned cable carried on paired pulleys having smooth outer surfaces parallel to the axis of rotation couples the pulleys. The pulleys have axes of rotation that can intersect and their cable carrying surfaces are closely spaced, preferably by less than half the width of the cable. The outer surfaces can be stepped to accommodate two or more cables for bi-directional operation, or to create a conventional differential with a spider. The links and pulleys of the transmission are long and narrow. This high aspect ratio provides a compact configuration that is conducive to whole arm manipulations where any exterior surface of the links can engage an object. A low inertia, low friction brushless D.C. motor operating under the control of a pulse width modulated controller responsive to the current drawn by the motor, in combination with the cable transmission of this invention, provide excellent force control.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A compact cable transmission comprising first and second pulleys that are mounted to rotate about transverse axes and said pulleys each having a generally smooth outer surface that is oriented parallel to the axis of rotation of the associated pulley, and cable that is carried on the outer surfaces of both pulleys to operatively couple them to transmit a torque between said first and second pulleys, said cable travelling in a first plane when carried on said first pulley and a second plane distinct from said first plane when carried on said second pulley, said first and second pulleys having their outer surfaces spaced from one another by a gap G, where 0.ltoreq.G.ltoreq.R and where R is the radius of said cable, at a transfer point where said cable transfers from being carried on said first pulley with a component of force transmitted by the cable is directed radially inward toward the axis of rotation of said first pulley to being carried on said second pulley with a component of the force transmitted by the cable is directed radially inward toward the axis of rotation of said second pulley, said cable undergoing a substantially instantaneous change in direction of travel at said transfer point. 2. The transmission of claim 1 wherein said axes of rotation intersect one another. 3. The transmission of claim 2 wherein the outer surfaces of said first and second pulleys are axially stepped to form at least two cables carrying smooth outer surfaces on each pulley, said cable comprises separate lengths of cable wherein each cable length is carried on one of said outer surfaces of each pulley, and said pulleys are dimensioned and positioned with respect to one another that each outer surface of said first pulley is separated from a corresponding outer surface of said first pulley is separated from a corresponding outer surface on said second pulley separated from one another at said cable transfer point by said gap G. 4. The transmission of claim 3 wherein said separate cable lengths are wrapped on said stepped outer surfaces in opposite direction to provide a bi-directional transmission with a cable mesh. 5. The transmission of claim 4 wherein said stepped pulley portions of at least one of said first and second pulleys are split to permit their independent rotation to provide an adjustable pretensioning of said separate cable lengths. 6. The transmission of claim 4 further comprising a third pulley rotating opposite said first pulley, said first and third pulleys each having two stepped outer cable-carrying surfaces, and said second pulley having four stepped, cable-carrying surfaces each of which is operatively coupled to one of said stepped outer surfaces of said first and third pulleys by a separate length of said cable. 7. The differential transmission of claim 6 wherein said first and third pulleys are driven in opposite directions to produce a resultant rotation of said second pulley. 