A multiple-task end effector attachment for the articulated head of a computer controlled robotic machining center capable of imparting multi-axis linear and rotational movements to the end effector which comprises opposingly aligned master and slave related tool heads that carry multiple tool drivers receptive of selectively changeable tooling. The tool heads are interjoined and rigidly supported in opposing alignment on opposite sides of fixture held stationary work pieces by means of an intervening generally U-shaped yoke or frame of selected configuration dedicated to the particular shape of the parts assembly. The master tool head of the end effector is connected directly to and carried by the mobile head of the robot which powers and controls the positioning and operation of both tool heads of the end effector. The tool heads operationally cooperate in slave relationship to clamp the parts therebetween and form and prepare holes through the work pieces at predetermined locations followed by the installation of selected fasteners such as rivets, bolts and the like. This arrangement enables a single robot to operate multiple tool heads on opposite sides of stationary work pieces.
Claims The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows: 1. An end effector attachable to the mobile head of a computer controlled robotic machining center operable to move the mobile head along multiple linear and about multiple rotational axes comprising: a master tool head, a slave tool head, attachment means for connecting said master head to the mobile head of said robotic machining center for multi axis movement with the latter, a substantially U-shaped hollow yoke rigidly fixed at one end to said master head and attached at its other end to said slave head such that the two heads are disposed in coaxial, opposing, spaced relationship; power console means on said attachment means for connecting said master head and slave head to common pneumatic, hydraulic and electrical power supply means carried by the machining center, and plural power driven tool drivers mounted on each said head and adapted to be selectively energized by said power supply means for driving selected tools mounted on said drivers. 2. The end effector of claim 1, wherein each tool head comprises a hollow nose piece having a hollow foot bush at its outer end which is coaxially receptive of tools driven by said tool drivers. 3. The end effector of claim 2, further comprising moveable shuttle means mounted on each said tool head for carrying a plurality of said tool drivers, and means for selectively moving each said shuttle means relative to its respective tool head whereby to selectively position tools carried thereby in coaxial alignment with said foot bush associated therewith; said tool drivers on each tool head passing through lateral openings in the respectively related said nose piece in response to movement of associated said shuttle means. 4. The end effector of claim 3, and power actuated means for axially advancing and retracting each said driver as selected whereby each tool positioned coaxially with a said foot bush may be advanced and retracted coaxially through the latter as selected. 5. The end effector of claim 2, further comprising power actuated means connected to each said nose piece, and means for selectively operating said power actuated means whereby to axially move said nose piece toward and away from the nose piece of the opposing said tool head. 6. The end effector of claim 2, wherein each said nose piece comprises a swivel mounted contact piece at its outer end. 7. The end effector of claim 1, wherein the extent and configuration of said yoke and the spacing of the master and slave heads is such as to accommodate the positioning of stationary work pieces to be assembled between said master and slave heads. 8. The end effector of claim 1, wherein said slave head is pivotally attached to said yoke, and power actuated means for pivotally moving said slave head between an operating position coaxially opposing said master head and a depending, non-operating position; said power actuated means serving to selectively maintain the slave head in such two positions. 9. A multi-task end effector for use with a computer controlled robotic machining center or robot operable to impart multi-axis linear and rotational movements to a mobile head thereof, comprising: a master tool head, a slave tool head, a hollow nose piece movably mounted on each said head, a generally U-shaped yoke means interjoining and rigidly supporting said master head and slave head in opposing, space relationship with the nose pieces thereof in coaxially opposed alignment, means for positively connecting said master tool head directly to the mobile head of the machining center for multi-axis movement of the end effector therewith including console means for commonly connecting the master and slave heads to pneumatic, hydraulic and electrical power sources supplied by the machining center; shuttle means mounted on each said tool head and having means for carrying a plurality of power operated tool drivers adapted to actuate selected tools; power actuator means for selectively moving each said shuttle means transversely of its respectively associated tool head whereby to position selected tool drivers and tools carried thereby in opposing cooperating position coaxially within said nose pieces; said drivers passing through lateral openings in said nose pieces during movement of said shuttle means; power actuated means on each tool head for axially advancing and retracting said nose pieces relative to one another, contact means mounted at the outer end of each said nose piece, said power actuated means serving to engage said contact means with stationary fixture held work pieces disposed between said master and slave heads and to tightly clamp said work pieces therebetween, and sensor means on said contact means for controlling clamping force exerted on said work pieces to predetermined values. 10. The end effector of claim 9, and computer means for controlling operation of said master and slave tool heads and said nose pieces and shuttle means thereof in accordance with a predetermined program and geometry whereby to cause said tool heads to clamp the work pieces together, 11. The end effector of claim 9, and power operated means for axially advancing and retracting each tool driver carried by said master and slave heads, whereby to selectively advance and retract tools carried thereby coaxially of an associated nose piece. 