A self contained printer produces rolls of wallpaper on demand. The unit is contained in a cabinet through which runs a media path. The path extends from a replaceable media cartridge a to a winding area which holds a customer tote. A full width digital color printhead is located internally and across the media path. The printer's processor accepts operator inputs which are used to configure the printer for producing a particular roll.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A self contained printer for producing rails of wallpaper, comprising: a cabinet in which is located a media path which extends from a media cartridge loading area to a winding area; a full width digital color printhead located in the media path; a processor which accepts operator inputs which are used to configure the printer for producing a particular roll; the winding area adapted to removably retain a core and wind onto it, wallpaper produced by the printer; an internal dryer, the dryer located between the printhead and the winding area and adapted to blow hot air onto a printed media web; and a door which covers an opening into a lower compartment of the dryer; the door being moveable from a closed position which covers the opening, to an open position in which the media passes throuh the opening into the lower compartment and out of the compartment also through the opening. 2. A self contained printer as claimed in claim 1, further comprising: a cutting mechanism located between the printhead and the winding area and adapted to divide with a transverse cut, a media web in accordance with instructions provided by the processor. 3. A self contained printer as claimed in claim 1, further comprising: a slitting mechanism located between the printhead and the winding area and adapted to longitudinally slit a media web in accordance with instructions provided by the processor. 4. A self contained printer as claimed in claim 3, wherein: the slitting mechanism farther comprises a pair of rotating end plates between which extend a number of transverse shafts, each shaft having one or more cutting disks, the end plates rotatable so that any shaft can be selected, or that no shaft be selected for cutting the media web. 5. A self contained printer as claimed in claim 1, further comprising: a bar code scanner which communicates with the processor and through which operator preferences are input. 6. A self contained printer as claimed in claim 1, further comprising: a well, external to the cabinet and adjacent to an exit slot; the well having at each end, spindles for aligning, retaining and removing a core, and for rotating the core according to instructions provided by the processor. 7. A self contained printer as claimed in claim 1, wherein: the media cartridge loading area further comprises a location for a media cartridge, in which a media cartridge dispensing slot is adjacent to the path. 8. A self contained printer as claimed in claim 7, wherein: the media cartridge loading area further comprises one or more locations where a media cartridge can he stored. 9. A self contained printer as claimed in claim 1, wherein: the path comprises a generally straight path. 10. A self contained printer as claimed in claim 1, further comprising: a pre-heater platen located under the path and before the printhead. 11. A self contained printer as claimed in claim 1 wherein the wallpaper is printed by the printhead at a rate exceeding 0.02 square meters per second (775 square feet per hour). 12. A self contained printer as claimed in claim 1 wherein the wallpaper is printed by the printhead at a rate exceeding 0.1 square meters per second (3875 square feet per hour). 13. A self contained printer as claimed in claim 1 wherein the wallpaper is printed by the printhead at a rate exceeding 0.2 square meters per second (7750 square feet per hour). 14. A self contained printer as claimed in claim 1 wherein the printhead has more than 7680 nozzles. 15. A self contained printer as claimed in claim 1 wherein the printhead has more than 20,000 nozzles. 16. A self contained printer as claimed in claim 1 wherein the printhead has more than 100,000 nozzles. 17. A self contained printer as claimed in claim 1 wherein the printhead has more than 250,000 nozzles. 18. A self contained printer as claimed in claim 1 wherein the printhead prints ink drops with a volume of less than 5 picoliters. 19. A self contained printer as claimed in claim 1 wherein the printhead prints ink drops with a volume of less than 3 picoliters. 20. A self contained printer as claimed in claim 1 wherein the printhead prints ink drops with a volume of less than 1.5 picoliters. 21. A self contained printer as claimed in claim 1 wherein the media cartridge, comprises: a case in which a roll of blank media may be deployed; the case having two halves, hinged together, an area between the two halves, when closed, defining a media supply slot; and the case having internally and adjacent to the media supply slot, a pair of rollers, at least one of the rollers being a driven roller which is supported at each end, by the case, for rotation by an external motor. 22. A self contained printer as claimed in claim 1 further including a transverse cutter comprising: a chassis having end plates; the end plates being separated to allow a web of media to pass between them; the end plates supporting between them a cutting blade; and the blade supported at each end to perform a cutting motion which begins on one side of the web and finishes on an opposite side of the web. 23. A self contained printer as claimed in claim 1 further including a slitting mechanism, the slitting mechanism comprising: a chassis having end plates; the end plates being separated by a transverse portion of the chassis to allow a web of media to pass between them; one or more rotating slitting shafts extending between the end plates, each shaft having one or more slitters arranged along its length, each slitter having a cutting edge; and the slitting mechanism selectively engageable to either enter or not enter a path followed by the web according to an input provided by an operator of the printer. 24. A self contained printer as claimed in claim 1 further including a dryer comprising: a compartment with a top opening for receiving a media web fed from the printer; a source of heated air located above the top opening for blowing heated air into the opening to dry printing on the media web. 25. A self contained printer as claimed in claim 1 wherein, the length and design of the roll are determined by the operator inputs. 26. A self contained printer as claimed in claim 1 further including: a frame in which is located a media path which extends from a media loading area to a winding area; a printhead located across the media path; one or more input devices for capturing operator instructions; a processor which accepts operator inputs which are used to configure the printer for producing a particular roll; and the winding area adapted to removably retain a core and wind onto it, wallpaper produced by the printer. 27. A self contained printer as claimed in claim 1 wherein the printhead is supplied with a number of different inks which are remote from the printhead and which supply the printhead through tubes. 28. A self contained printer as claimed in claim 1 further comprising: a housing in which is located a media path which extends from a blank media intake to a wallpaper exit slot; a multi-color roll width removable printhead located in the housing and across the media path; the printhead being supplied by separate ink reservoirs, the reservoirs connected to the printhead by an ink supply harness, there being a disconnect coupling between the reservoirs and the printhead; one or more input devices for capturing operator instructions; a processor which accepts operator inputs which are used to configure the printer for producing a particular roll. 29. A self contained printer as claimed in claim 1 wherein the printhead is a removable printhead assembly, comprising: a full width stationary printhead located on a rail along which it slides for service and removal; a number of replaceable ink reservoirs which supply the printhead with different inks; the printhead comprising a color printhead which is at least as wide as the web; and the printhead being supplied with the different inks through tubes which can be disconnected so the printhead may be removed. 30. A self contained printer as claimed in claim 1 wherein the printer is self threading and further comprises: a media loading area adapted to support a media cartridge in a position so that a media supply slot of the cartridge is closely adjacent to a pilot guide; a cabinet housing in which is located a media path which extends from the pilot guide to a printed media dispensing slot; a printhead located across the media path; a processor which accepts operator inputs which are used to configure the printer for producing a particular roll; a motor within the cabinet for advancing a media web out of the media cartridge; and one or more other motors adapted to urge the media along the path and out of the slot. 