A method for monitoring the quality of spot welding, in particular for robotic applications. Workpieces, such as metal sheets are welded together using spot welding tools. The sheets are placed between at least two electrodes, which are pressed against one another and supplied with energy. The spot weld is evaluated using an evaluation element, in particular an optical visualization. A tape is placed between the electrodes or electrode caps and the sheets. The tape is transported onwards after the welding process. The tape is configured in such a way that a mirror-image, in particular a proportional reproduction or impression of the spot weld that has been produced on the workpiece is created by the welding process on the tape. The reproduction or impression is detected and evaluated by the evaluation element and the size, shape and position of the spot weld are deduced.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for monitoring the quality of spot welds, for robotic applications comprising the following steps: inserting a strip between at least two electrodes and metal sheets; welding said metal sheets together via spot-welding tools by pressing said at least two electrodes opposite each other with said metal sheets being arranged therebetween to create a spot weld; conveying said strip past said at least two electrodes and said metal sheets after said step of welding metal sheets together, and wherein said strip is configured so that it forms an image representing the spot weld; detecting and evaluating said image formed on said strip; assessing said spot weld on said metal sheets via optical visualization of said image on said strip; and determining the size, shape and position of the spot weld on said metal sheets from said image on said strip. 2. The method as in claim 1, further comprising the step of matching the material of the strip to the materials of the metal sheets to be welded so that a temperature occurring during welding produces an image which is formed on account of a detectable change in a condition. 3. The method as in claim 1, wherein said step of welding said metal sheets comprises welding aluminum sheets using a strip having a tin coating. 4. The method as in claim 1, wherein said step of welding metal sheets comprises welding zinc coated sheets using a strip having a coating of copper. 5. The method as in claim 1, further comprising the step of applying a coat of lacquer on the strip wherein said lacquer evaporates at a temperature generated by a welding process forming a mirror inverted proportional image. 6. The method as in claim 1, wherein said step of evaluating said strip occurs at each spot weld. 7. The method as in claim 1, wherein said step of evaluating includes determining the size of the spot weld by taking an optical picture of said image on said strip using a camera and then measuring said image on said strip taken by the camera. 8. The method as in claim 1, wherein said step of evaluation comprises determining a size, shape and position of a spot weld using a digital signal that is emitted by said evaluation means, wherein said digital signal is then evaluated to determine the size, shape and position of the welding spot. 9. The method as in claim 1, further comprising the step of multiplying the dimensions of said image by a factor of a deposited weld to determine an actual set of dimensions of the spot weld. 10. The method as in claim 1, further comprising the step of comparing said image on said strip with a deposited reference weld to evaluate the welding point. 11. The method as in claim 1, further comprising the step of recording a set of determined dimensions of the spot weld in a database. 12. The method as in claim 1, further comprising the steps of removing the strip from said spot welding apparatus, and evaluating in a separate evaluation unit of said strip at an end of a welding process. 13. The process as in claim 2, wherein said step of matching the material of the strip includes tuning the material of the strip to create a detectable color change. 14. The process as in claim 2, wherein said step of matching the material of the strip includes tuning the material of the strip to create a detectable change in a reaction of an aggregation state of a strip. 15. The process as in claim 2, wherein said step of matching the material of the strip includes tuning the material of the strip to create a detectable change in the coating applied on the strip. 16. The method as in claim 1, wherein said step of evaluating includes determining the shape of the spot weld by taking an optical picture of said image on said strip using a camera and then measuring said image on said strip taken by the camera. 17. The method as in claim 1, wherein said step of evaluating includes determining the position of the spot weld by taking an optical picture of said image on said strip using a camera and then measuring said image on said strip taken by the camera. 18. The method as in claim 1, wherein said step of evaluating includes determining the size, shape and position of the spot weld by taking an optical picture of said image on said strip using a camera and then measuring said image on said strip taken by the camera. 19. The process as in claim 1, wherein said step of assessing said spot weld comprises assessing a mirror image of said spot weld formed on said strip. 