Stage devices are disclosed for holding an object such as a reticle for use in microlithography. An exemplary stage device includes a movable object-holder that holds the object. At least one actuator moves the object-holder. A position-detector determines a position of the object-holder, wherein the position-detector produces a first position signal whenever the object-holder is not holding the object and produces a second position signal whenever the object-holder is holding the object. A controller, connected to the position-detector and to the at least one actuator, produces a first control signal upon receiving the first position signal and a second control signal upon receiving the second position signal. These control signals cause the at least one actuator to place or hold the object-holder at a pre-determined position whether the object-holder is not holding or is holding the object. The controller also determines whether the object is not being held or is being held by the object-holder based on whether the controller is receiving the first position signal or the second position signal, respectively.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A stage device for holding an object, comprising: a movable object-holder configured to hold the object; at least one actuator situated and configured to move the object-holder; a position-detector situated and configured to determine a position of the object-holder, the position-detector producing a first position signal whenever the object-holder is not holding the object and producing a second position signal whenever the object-holder is holding the object; and a controller connected to the position-detector and to the at least one actuator, the controller being configured to produce a first control signal upon receiving the first position signal and to produce a second control signal upon receiving the second position signal, the first and second control signals causing the at least one actuator to place or hold the object-holder at a pre-determined position whether the object-holder is not holding or is holding the object, the controller being further configured to determine whether the object is not being held or is being held by the object-holder based on whether the controller is receiving the first position signal or the second position signal, respectively. 2. The stage device of claim 1, configured as a reticle stage, wherein: the object is a reticle; the object-holder comprises a reticle fine stage and a reticle chuck mounted on the reticle fine stage; the at least one actuator is configured to move the reticle fine stage and thus the reticle chuck; and the first and second control signals cause the at least one actuator to place or hold the reticle fine stage, and thus the reticle chuck, at the predetermined position. 3. The stage device of claim 2, wherein the reticle chuck holds the reticle face-down. 4. A microlithography system, comprising: an illumination-optical system; a projection-optical system; and the stage device of claim 1. 5. The microlithography system of claim 4, wherein the stage device is a reticle stage. 6. The microlithography system of claim 4, wherein: the illumination-optical system and projection-optical system are configured to perform lithographic exposures using EUV light; and the reticle stage is configured to hold the reticle face down. 7. A stage system for holding an object, comprising: a movable object-holder configured to hold the object; at least one actuator situated and configured to move the object-holder; a position-detector situated and configured to determine a position of the object-holder, the position-detector producing a first position signal whenever the object-holder is not holding the object and producing a second position signal whenever the object-holder is holding the object; an object robot situated relative to the object-holder and operable to deliver the object for holding by the object-holder and to receive the object released from the object-holder; and a controller connected to the position-detector and to the at least one actuator, the controller being configured to produce a first control signal upon receiving the first position signal and to produce a second control signal upon receiving the second position signal, the first and second control signals causing the at least one actuator to place or hold the object-holder at a pre-determined position whether the object-holder is not holding or is holding the object delivered by the object robot, the controller being further configured to determine whether the object is not being held or is being held by the object-holder based on whether the controller is receiving the first position signal or the second position signal, respectively. 8. A stage device, comprising: an object-holder configured to hold an object and that is movable at least in a movement direction having a vertical component; at least one actuator situated and configured to move the object-holder in the movement direction; at least one position-detector situated and configured to determine a position of the object-holder in the movement direction; and a controller connected to the at least one actuator and to the at least one position-detector in a feedback-controlled manner such that data from the at least one position-detector is fed-back to the controller to maintain the object-holder at a predetermined position in the movement direction, wherein the controller, based on the fed-back data, causes a respective energization, depending upon whether the object-holder is holding the object or not holding the object, of the at least one actuator as required to maintain the object-holder at the predetermined position, the fed-back data providing an indication of whether or not the object is being held by the object-holder. 9. The stage device of claim 8, configured as a reticle stage, wherein: the object is a reticle; the object-holder comprises a reticle fine stage and a reticle chuck mounted on the reticle fine stage; the at least one actuator is configured to move the reticle fine stage and thus the reticle chuck in the movement direction; and based on the fed-back data, the controller causes the at least one actuator to place or hold the reticle fine stage, and thus the reticle chuck, at the predetermined position. 10. The stage device of claim 9, wherein the reticle chuck holds the reticle face-down. 11. A microlithography system, comprising: an illumination-optical system; a projection-optical system; and the stage device of claim 8. 12. The microlithography system of claim 11, wherein the stage device is a reticle stage. 13. The microlithography system of claim 11, wherein: the illumination-optical system and projection-optical system are configured to perform lithographic exposures using EUV light; and the reticle stage is configured to hold the reticle face down. 14. A stage system for holding an object, comprising: an object-holder configured to hold an object and that is movable at least in a movement direction having a vertical component; at least one actuator situated and configured to move the object-holder in the movement direction; at least one position-detector situated and configured to determine a position of the object-holder in the movement direction; an object robot situated relative to the object-holder and operable to deliver the object for holding by the object-holder and to receive the object released from the object-holder; and a controller connected to the at least one actuator and to the at least one position-detector in a feedback-controlled manner such that data from the at least one position-detector is fed-back to the controller to maintain the object-holder at a predetermined position in the movement direction, wherein the controller, based on the fed-back data, causes a respective energization, depending upon whether the object-holder is holding or not holding the object delivered to the object-holder by the object robot, of the at least one actuator as required to maintain the object-holder at the predetermined position, the fed-back data providing an indication of whether or not the object delivered by the object robot is being held by the object-holder. 15. A stage device, comprising: object-holding means for holding an object and for moving the object at least in a movement direction having a vertical component; actuator means for moving the object-holding means in the movement direction; detection means for determining a position of the object-holding means in the movement direction; control means for actuating the actuator means based on a signal from the detection means; and feed-back means for feeding data from the detection means back to the control means, with which fed-back data the control means maintains the object-holding means at a predetermined position in the movement direction by causing a respective energization of the actuator means depending upon whether the object-holding means is holding the object or not holding the object, the fed-back data providing an indication of whether or not the object is being held by the object-holding means. 16. The stage device of claim 15, configured as a reticle stage, wherein: the object is a reticle; the object-holding means comprises a stage means and a reticle-chuck means mounted on the stage means; the actuator means is configured to move the stage means and thus the reticle-chuck means; and the control means, based on data fed back by the feed-back means, causes the actuator means to place the stage means, and thus the reticle-chuck means, at the predetermined position. 17. The stage device of claim 16, wherein the reticle-chuck means holds the reticle face-down. 18. A microlithography system, comprising: an illumination-optical system; a projection-optical system; and the stage device of claim 15. 19. The microlithography system of claim 18, wherein the stage device is a reticle stage. 20. The microlithography system of claim 18, wherein: the illumination-optical system and projection-optical system are configured to perform lithographic exposures using EUV light; and the reticle stage is configured to hold the reticle face down. 21. A stage system for holding an object, comprising: object-holding means for holding an object and for moving the object at least in a movement direction having a vertical component; actuator means for moving the object-holding means in the movement direction; detection means for determining a position of the object-holding means in the movement direction; object-delivery means for delivering the object for holding by the object-holding means and for receiving the object released from the object-holding means; and control means for actuating the actuator means based on a signal from the detection means; and feed-back means for feeding data from the detection means back to the control means, with which fed-back data the control means maintains the object-holding means at a predetermined position in the movement direction by causing a respective energization of the actuator means depending upon whether the object-holding means is holding the object or not holding the object delivered by the object-delivery means, the fed-back data providing an indication of whether or not the object is being held by the object-holding means. 22. A stage device for holding an object having a mass, comprising: a base; an object-holder that is movable relative to the base and configured to hold the object; at least one actuator situated relative to the base and the object-holder and configured to move the object-holder relative to the base; a position-detector situated relative to the object-holder and configured to determine a position of the object-holder relative to the base, the position-detector being operable to produce a first position signal whenever the position-detector detects a first displacement of the object-holder caused by a collective mass of the object-holder and to produce a second position signal whenever the position-detector detects a second displacement of the object-holder caused by a collective mass of the object-holder and object being held by the object-holder; and a controller connected to the position-detector and to the at least one actuator, the controller being configured to produce a first control signal upon receiving the first position signal and to produce a second control signal upon receiving the second position signal, the first control signal and second control signal causing the at least one actuator to place the object-holder at a desired position whenever the object-holder is not holding and whenever the object-holder is holding, respectively, the object, the controller being further configured to determine whether the object is not being held or is being held by the object-holder based on whether the controller is receiving the first position signal or the second position signal, respectively. 23. The stage device of claim 22, wherein a difference of the second displacement relative to the first displacement is correlated to the mass of the object times gravitational acceleration. 24. The stage device of claim 22, wherein the object-holder is movable with respect to the base without contacting the base. 25. The stage device of claim 22, wherein the object-holder is an object-chuck. 26. The stage device of claim 25, wherein: the object is a reticle; and the object-chuck is a reticle chuck. 27. The stage device of claim 22, wherein the object-holder holds the object face-down. 28. The stage device of claim 22, further comprising: a coarse stage that is movable relative to the base; and a fine stage to which the object-holder is mounted, the fine stage being movable relative to the coarse stage and hence to the base. 29. The stage device of claim 22, wherein the object-holder is movable in at least one degree of freedom of motion relative to the base. 30. The stage device of claim 29, wherein: the object-holder has a mounting surface extending in an xy plane to which a z-axis is perpendicular; and the at least one degree of freedom includes movement of the object-holder along the z-axis. 31. The stage device of claim 30, wherein the object-holder is movable in multiple degrees of freedom of motion relative to the base. 32. The stage device of claim 31, further comprising at least one respective actuator and at least one respective position-sensor for each degree of freedom of motion. 33. The stage device of claim 32, wherein: the controller is connected to each actuator and to each position-sensor; each position-sensor is configured to produce respective first and second position signals; the controller is configured to produce, for each actuator, respective first and second control signals; and the controller is further configured to determine whether the object is not being held or is being held by the object-holder based on the first position signals relative to the second position signals, respectively. 34. The stage device of claim 22, wherein the controller is further configured to initiate a first operational response whenever the object is detected as not being held by the object-holder and to initiate a second operational response whenever the object is detected as being held by the object-holder. 35. The stage device of claim 34, wherein: the first operational response is appropriate for a situation in which the object is not being held by the object-holder, so as to avoid damaging the object; and the second operational response is appropriate for a situation in which the object is being held by the object-holder. 36. A microlithography system, comprising: an illumination-optical system; a projection-optical system; and the stage device of claim 22. 37. The microlithography system of claim 36, wherein the stage device is a reticle stage. 38. The microlithography system of claim 36, wherein: the illumination-optical system and projection-optical system are configured to perform lithographic exposures using EUV light; and the reticle stage is configured to hold the reticle face down. 39. A stage system for holding an object having a mass, comprising: a base; an object-holder that is movable relative to the base and configured to hold the object; at least one actuator situated relative to the base and the object-holder and configured to move the object-holder relative to the base; a position-detector situated relative to the object-holder and configured to determine a position of the object-holder relative to the base, the position-detector being operable to produce a first position signal whenever the position-detector detects a first displacement of the object-holder caused by a collective mass of the object-holder and to produce a second position signal whenever the position-detector detects a second displacement of the object-holder caused by a collective mass of the object-holder and object being held by the object-holder; an object robot situated relative to the stage and operable to place the object for holding by the object-holder and to receive the object released from the object-holder; and a controller connected to the position-detector and to the at least one actuator, the controller being configured to produce a first control signal upon receiving the first position signal and a second control signal upon receiving the second position signal, the first control signal and second control signal causing the at least one actuator to place the object-holder at a desired position whenever the object-holder is not holding and whenever the object-holder is holding, respectively, the object delivered by the object robot, the controller being further configured to determine whether the object is not being held or is being held by the object-holder based on whether the controller is receiving the first position signal or the second position signal, respectively. 40. A stage system for holding an object having a mass, comprising: a movable stage; an object-holder mounted to the stage and configured to hold the object on the stage; at least one actuator situated and configured to move the stage at least in a gravity direction; a position-detector situated relative to the stage and configured to determine a position of the stage at least in the gravity direction, the position-detector being operable to produce a first position signal whenever the position-detector detects a first displacement of the stage in the gravity direction caused by a collective mass of the stage and object-holder and to produce a second position signal whenever the position-detector detects a second displacement of the stage in the gravity direction caused by a collective mass of the stage, object-holder, and object being held by the object-holder; an object robot situated relative to the stage and operable to deliver the object for holding by the object-holder and to receive the object released from the object-holder; and a controller connected to the position-detector and to the at least one actuator, the controller being configured to produce a first control signal upon receiving the first position signal and a second control signal upon receiving the second position signal, the first control signal and second control signal causing the at least one actuator to place the stage at a desired position in the gravity direction whenever the object-holder has not received and whenever the object-holder has received, respectively, the object from the object robot, the controller being further configured to determine whether the object has not been received or has been received by the object-holder from the object robot based on whether the controller is receiving the first position signal or the second position signal, respectively. 41. The stage system of claim 40, wherein the object-holder is an object-chuck. 42. The stage system of claim 41, wherein: the object is a reticle; the object-chuck is a reticle chuck; and the object robot includes an end effector configured to hold the reticle as the object robot positions the reticle adjacent the reticle chuck for holding by the reticle chuck. 43. The stage device of claim 42, wherein: the stage holds the reticle chuck face-down; and the reticle chuck holds the reticle face-down. 44. A method for detecting the holding status of an object, having a mass, delivered to an object-holder for holding by the object-holder, the object-holder including at least one actuator for moving the object-holder and at least one position sensor, the method comprising: in a situation in which the object-holder is not holding the object, sensing a first position of the object-holder to produce a first position signal; based on the first position signal, delivering a corresponding first force signal to the at least one actuator to hold the object-holder at a predetermined position; causing the object-holder to hold the object, wherein the mass of the object added to the object-holder urges the object-holder to move to a second position; sensing the second position to produce a second position signal; based on the second position signal, delivering a corresponding second force signal to the at least one actuator to hold the object-holder at the predetermined position; and comparing the first and second force signals to determine whether the object is or is not being held by the object-holder. 45. The method of claim 44, wherein, if the first and second force signals are similar, then the object is determined as not being held by the object-holder. 46. The method of claim 44, wherein: the object has a planar configuration having a face; and the object-holder is configured to hold the object face-down. 47. The method of claim 46, wherein the first and second positions of the object-holder are determined in a direction having a vertical component. 48. The method of claim 44, wherein: the object-holder includes multiple position sensors for determining position of the object-holder in multiple degrees of freedom including displacement in a vertical direction; the object-holder includes multiple actuators for moving the object-holder in multiple degrees of freedom including displacement in the vertical direction; and the predetermined position is a position in the vertical direction. 49. The method of claim 48, wherein the position sensors provide respective components of the first position signal and the second position signal in the vertical direction, the method further comprising: when the object-holder should be holding the object, sensing the respective first and second position signals produced by the position sensors; from the first and second position signals, delivering respective first and second force signals to the actuators to hold the object-holder at the predetermined position; and from the first and second force signals, determining whether the object-holder is completely or incompletely holding the object. 