The invention provides a method of supplying a media web to a wallpaper printer. The method involves opening a reusable case and placing into the case a core onto which has been located a supply roll of blank wallpaper media. The core is supported for rotation within the case before it is closed. A free edge of the roll is placed between a pair of rollers and past an edge of the open case, then with the rollers located within the case and on either side of the web the case is closed and loaded into a printer. In some embodiments, a pair of resilient bias devices hold the rollers in proximity.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of supplying a media web to a wallpaper printer, comprising the steps of: opening a reusable case; placing into the case a core onto which has been located a supply roil of blank wallpaper media web; supporting the core for rotation within the case; leading a free edge of the roll between a pair of rollers and past an edge of the open case; introducing the two rollers into a pair of resilient bias devices that hold the rollers in proximity; then with the rollers located within the case and on either side of the media web, closing the case and loading it into a printer. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of: locating an opening of each resilient bias device around the core before closing the case. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein: one roller is a driven roller having at one end a coupling, and locating the coupling in an opening of the case which allows an external spindle to access the coupling when the case is closed. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein: each roller has a circumferential slot at each end; each bias device having two extensions which engage the slots of both rollers at one end. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein: the two extensions of each bias device are joined to a flat clip body, the body having a central opening for receiving and locating the core. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein: each body has an anti-rotation feature which is adapted to engage with a cooperating feature located at each end of the core, so to prevent the core from rotating in the case; and further comprising the step of engaging the anti-rotation feature with the cooperating feature before the case is closed. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the case has at one or both ends, slots for receiving the bodies, and further comprising the step of: locating one or both bodies in a respective slot before the case is closed. 8. The method of claim 1, loading the printer further comprises: lifting the case by an integral handle formed at one end of the case. 9. The method of claim 8, further comprising the step of: using a folding handle located on a top surface of the case. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein: the case has two halves which are hinged together and define when closed, a slot which extends between the halves through which the free edge of the roll exits the case. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein closing the case further comprises: using resilient clips which engage the case halves and hold them in a closed position. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein: the rollers are brought into proximity and biased against one another before the case is closed. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein: both rollers are located with respect to the core before the case is closed. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein: the case is formed from two case halves manufactured from a single moulding with an integral hinge. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein: the rollers are both removable and one case half has formed in it a journal in which a roller is supported before the case is closed. 16. The method of claim 1, further comprising the steps of: re-using the case by opening it, removing the core and the rollers, introducing a new core with a new roll around it; and leading a free edge of the new roll between a pair of rollers and past an edge of the open case; then closing the case with the rollers located in it and loading it again into a printer. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein: the roll and the new roll are of different blank media types. 