Embodiments of the present invention provide an apparatus for constraining and supporting the lift pins to prevent or minimize lateral movement of the lift pins that causes substrate hand-off problems and associated degradation in substrate processing characteristics and results. In one embodiment, a lift pin assembly for manipulating a substrate above a support surface of a substrate support comprises a plurality of lift pins movable between an up position and a down position. The lift pins include top ends and bottom ends. The top ends are configured to be lifted above the support surface of the substrate support to contact a bottom surface of the substrate in the up position. The top ends are configured to be positioned at or below the support surface of the substrate support in the down position. A lift pin connecting member is attached to the plurality of lift pins at attachment locations at or near the bottom ends of the lift pins to maintain fixed relative distances between the lift pins at the attachment locations and to move with the lift pins between the up position and the down position.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A lift pin assembly for manipulating a substrate above a support surface of a substrate support, the lift pin assembly comprising: a plurality of lift pins movable between an up position and a down position, the lift pins including top ends and bottom ends, the top ends being configured to be lifted above the support surface of the substrate support to contact a bottom surface of the substrate in the up position, the top ends being configured to be positioned at or below the support surface of the substrate support in the down position; a lift pin connecting member attached to the plurality of lift pins at attachment locations at or near the bottom ends of the lift pins to maintain fixed relative distances between the lift pins at the attachment locations and to move with the lift pins between the up position and the down position; and a lift plate being driven to move between the down position and the up position, the lift plate contacting the lift pins to move the lift pins between the down position and the up position, the lift plate being spaced from the lift pin connecting member. 2. The lift pin assembly of claim 1 wherein the lift pin connecting member comprises a lift pin connecting ring. 3. The lift pin assembly of claim 1 wherein the lift pin connecting member is threadingly attached to the lift pins at the attachment locations at or near the bottom ends of the lift pins. 4. The lift pin assembly of claim 3 wherein the lift pin connecting member includes a plurality of threaded apertures and the lift pins include threaded portions at the attachment locations to be threadingly attached to the threaded apertures. 5. The lift pin assembly of claim 1 wherein the lift pins are configured to extend through lift pin bores in the substrate support. 6. The lift pin assembly of claim 1 wherein the lift pin connecting member is configured to be disposed generally below the substrate support. 7. The lift pin assembly of claim 1 comprising at least three lift pins. 8. The lift pin assembly of claim 1 further comprising a lift plate in contact with the bottom ends of the lift pins and being driven to move the lift pins between the up position and the down position. 9. The lift pin assembly of claim 1 wherein the lift plate is separated from the lift pins in the down position. 10. The lift pin assembly of claim 1 wherein the lift plate slideably contacts the lift pins at the bottom ends of the lift pins to move the lift pins between the down position and the up position. 11. A lift pin assembly for manipulating a substrate above a support surface of a substrate support, the lift pin assembly comprising: a plurality of lift pins configured to extend through lift pin bores of the substrate support and to be movable between an up position and a down position, the lift pins including top ends and bottom ends, the top ends being configured to be lifted above the support surface of the substrate support to contact a bottom surface of the substrate in the up position, the top ends being configured to be positioned at or below the support surface of the substrate support in the down position; a lift pin connecting member fixed to the plurality of lift pins at attachment locations at or near the bottom ends of the lift pins to maintain fixed relative distances between the lift pins at the attachment locations and to move with the lift pins between the up position and the down position; and a lift plate being driven to move between the down position and the up position, the lift plate contacting the lift pins to move the lift pins between the down position and the up position, the lift plate being spaced from the lift pin connecting member. 12. The lift pin assembly of claim 11 wherein the lift pin connecting member comprises a lift pin connecting ring. 13. The lift pin assembly of claim 11 wherein the lift pin connecting member is threadingly attached to the lift pins at the attachment locations at or near the bottom ends of the lift pins. 14. The lift pin assembly of claim 13 wherein the lift pin connecting member includes a plurality of threaded apertures and the lift pins include threaded portions at the attachment locations to be threadingly attached to the threaded apertures. 15. The lift pin assembly of claim 11 wherein the lift pin connecting member is configured to be disposed generally below the substrate support. 16. A lift pin assembly for manipulating a substrate above a support surface of a substrate support, the lift pin assembly comprising: a plurality of lift pins movable between an up position and a down position, the lift pins including top ends and bottom ends, the top ends being configured to be lifted above the support surface of the substrate support to contact a bottom surface of the substrate in the up position, the top ends being configured to be positioned at or below the support surface of the substrate support in the down position; a lift pin connecting member threadingly attached to the plurality of lift pins at fixed attachment locations at or near the bottom ends of the lift pins to maintain fixed relative distances between the lift pins at the attachment locations and to move with the lift pins between the up position and the down position; and a lift plate being driven to move between the down position and the up position, the lift plate contacting the lift pins to move the lift pins between the down position and the up position, the lift plate being spaced from the lift pin connecting member. 17. The lift pin assembly of claim 16 wherein the lift pin connecting member includes a plurality of threaded apertures and the lift pins include threaded portions at the attachment locations to be threadingly attached to the threaded apertures. 18. The lift pin assembly of claim 16 wherein the lift pin connecting member comprises a lift pin connecting ring. 19. The lift pin assembly of claim 16 wherein the lift pins are configured to extend through lift pin bores in the substrate support. 20. The lift pin assembly of claim 16 wherein the lift pin connecting member is configured to be disposed generally below the substrate support. 21. The lift pin assembly of claim 16 further comprising a lift plate in contact with the bottom ends of the lift pins and being driven to move the lift pins between the up position and the down position. 