A substrate processing apparatus has a process chamber and an effluent treatment reactor. The process chamber has a substrate support, a process gas supply, a gas energizer, and an exhaust conduit. The effluent treatment reactor has an effluent inlet to receive effluent from the exhaust conduit of the process chamber, a plasma cell having one or more electrodes electrically connected to a voltage source adapted to electrically bias the electrodes to couple energy to effluent received in the plasma cell, a scrubbing cell coaxially exterior to the plasma cell, the scrubbing cell having a scrubbing fluid inlet to introduce scrubbing fluid into effluent in the scrubbing cell and a scrubbing fluid outlet, and an effluent outlet to release the treated effluent.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An effluent treatment reactor to treat an effluent exhausted from a process chamber, the effluent treatment reactor comprising: (a) an effluent inlet to receive the effluent from the process chamber; (b) a plasma cell comprising tubular electrodes capable of being electrically biased to couple energy to effluent received in the plasma cell, at least one electrode embedded in a dielectric, and a fluid film inlet adapted to provide a fluid film over a surface of at least one electrode in the plasma cell while power is coupled between the electrodes through the fluid film and the dielectric; (c) a scrubbing cell coaxially exterior to the plasma cell, the scrubbing cell comprising a scrubbing fluid inlet to introduce scrubbing fluid into effluent received in the scrubbing cell and a scrubbing fluid outlet; and (d) an effluent outlet to release the treated effluent. 2. A reactor according to claim 1 wherein the plasma cell comprises a first cylinder enclosing a first volume, and the scrubbing cell is defined by a second volume between the first cylinder and a second cylinder coaxially exterior to the first cylinder, and wherein the first cylinder comprises a first electrode embedded in a dielectric material and a second electrode extends into the first volume enclosed by the first cylinder. 3. A reactor according to claim 1 further comprising a pre-scrubbing cell having the effluent inlet, the pre-scrubbing cell comprising one or more scrubbing fluid inlets. 4. A reactor according to claim 1 wherein the fluid film inlet is adapted to provide a fluid film that flows by gravity over a surface of at least one of the electrodes in the plasma cell. 5. An effluent treatment reactor to treat an effluent exhausted from a process chamber, the effluent treatment reactor comprising: (a) an effluent inlet to receive the effluent from the process chamber; (b) coaxial inner and outer tubes, the outer tube having capped ends and extending beyond the inner tube such that received effluent can flow from one tube to another, at least one tube comprising a dielectric having an embedded first electrode that may be electrically coupled to a second electrode about the tube, and at least one tube comprising a scrubbing fluid inlet to introduce a scrubbing fluid into the tube to form a fluid film over a surface of at least one electrode while power is coupled between the electrodes through the fluid film and the dielectric; (c) a voltage source to electrically bias the first and second electrodes to transfer power to the effluent to form a plasma therein to treat the effluent and (d) an effluent outlet to release the treated effluent. 6. A reactor according to claim 5 wherein the tubes are concentric cylinders. 7. A reactor according to claim 6 wherein the scrubbing fluid inlet at least partially surrounds the inner tube comprising the dielectric having the embedded first electrode. 8. A reactor according to claim 5 wherein the first electrode comprises a plurality of spaced apart rings. 9. A reactor according to claim 5 further comprising a fluid film inlet to provide a fluid film over an inner surface of the inner tube. 10. An effluent treatment reactor to treat an effluent from a process chamber, the effluent treatment reactor comprising: (a) a pre-scrubbing cell comprising: an effluent inlet to receive the effluent from the process chamber; and a pre-scrubbing fluid inlet to dispense a scrubbing fluid in the received effluent; (b) a plasma cell to receive effluent from the pre-scrubbing cell, the plasma cell comprising: a first cylinder having a first electrode; a second electrode embedded in a dielectric and extending into the first cylinder; a fluid source to maintain a fluid film over an interior surface of the first cylinder; and a voltage source to electrically power the first and second electrodes to form a plasma of the received effluent; (c) a post-scrubbing cell in the volume between the first cylinder and a second cylinder coaxially external to the first cylinder, the post-scrubbing cell comprising: post-scrubbing inlets to introduce scrubbing fluid into the post-scrubbing cell to treat the effluent passing therethrough; and a scrubbing fluid outlet; and (d) an effluent outlet to release the treated effluent. 11. A reactor according to claim 10 further comprising additive gas inlets adapted to introduce an additive gas into at least one of the pre-scrubbing cell and plasma cell. 12. A reactor according to claim 10 further comprising a fluid source to maintain a fluid film that flows by gravity over an interior surface of the first cylinder. 13. An effluent treatment reactor to treat an effluent from a process chamber, the effluent treatment reactor comprising: a pre-scrubbing cell to receive the effluent from the process chamber, the pre-scrubbing cell comprising effluent injector nozzles that are spaced apart from one another and capable of injecting effluent into the pre-scrubbing cell at directions that are tangential to a circle within the pre-scrubbing cell, a scrubbing fluid inlet to spray a scrubbing fluid across the path of the tangentially injected effluent to treat the effluent, and additive gas inlets adapted to introduce an additive gas into the effluent; a plasma cell to form a plasma of the pre-scrubbed effluent and additive gases, the plasma cell comprising first and second electrodes, at least one electrode embedded in a dielectric, and a fluid film inlet to maintain a fluid film over a surface of at least one electrode; and a post-scrubbing cell to scrub the effluent and additive gases. 