A vision system and method for calibrating motion of a robot disposed in a processing system is provided. In one embodiment, a vision system for a processing system includes a camera and a calibration wafer that are positioned in a processing system. The camera is positioned on the robot and is adapted to obtain image data of the calibration wafer disposed in a predefined location within the processing system. The image data is utilized to calibrate the robots motion.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for calibrating motion of a robot disposed in a semiconductor processing system, the method comprising: moving a calibration wafer supported by a robot to a reference position within the semiconductor processing system; viewing the calibration wafer to obtain wafer position data; and utilizing the wafer position data to correct the reference position. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of utilizing the wafer position data further comprises: displaying an image of the calibration wafer on a monitor; comparing the image of the calibration wafer to a reference image displayed on the monitor; and determining a correction distance. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of utilizing the wafer position data further comprises: comparing image data of the calibration wafer to reference data; and determining a correction distance. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of viewing the calibration wafer further comprises: passing a camera into the semiconductor processing system. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the step of viewing the calibration wafer to obtain wafer position data further comprises: viewing a surface supporting the calibration wafer through the calibration wafer. 6. The method of claim 4, wherein the step of viewing the calibration wafer to obtain wafer position data further comprises: viewing an indicator of position of the calibration wafer. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the step of viewing the indicator of position of the calibration wafer further comprises: identifying at least one of a geometric or visual feature of the calibration wafer. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of viewing the calibration wafer further comprises: moving a camera mounted on a plate supported on an end effector of a robot through the semiconductor processing system. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of moving further comprising: positioning the calibration wafer in the semiconductor processing system utilizing a stored robotic motion routine; wherein the viewing step further comprises: viewing the calibration wafer with a camera; and wherein the step of utilizing the wafer position data to correct the reference position further comprises: updating the stored robotic motion routine utilizing image data of the wafer. 10. The method of claim 9 further comprising: moving the camera within a vacuum environment of the semiconductor processing system. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the step of moving the camera further comprises: supporting the camera on an end effector of a robot. 12. The method of claim 9 further comprising: transmitting images captured by the camera; and remotely receiving the captured images. 13. The method of claim 9, wherein the step of viewing the calibration wafer with the camera further comprises: capturing one or more viewed images. 14. The method of claim 9, wherein the step of viewing the calibration wafer with the camera further comprises: capturing one or more images of an indicator of calibration wafer position. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the step of capturing one or more images of the indicator of calibration wafer position further comprises: identifying at least one of a geometric or visual feature of the calibration wafer. 