The present invention provides a tray for holding components having first and second sides, wherein the first side has at least one first component receptacle for engaging said component; and the second side has at least one component engaging member, and further wherein the first component receptacle and the component engaging member are aligned such that when multiples of the tray are stacked upon each other the first component receptacle and the component engaging member will cooperate to restrain the motion of the component relative to the tray. In such an embodiment the component will have first and second engagement surfaces and the first component receptacle will engage the first component engagement surface and the component engaging member will engage the second component engagement surface.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A tray system for holding and positioning head suspensions as components, the tray system comprising: a first tray comprising a first side having at least one component receptacle and an opposite second side having at least one component receptacle, wherein at least one of the component receptacles of the first side of the first tray comprises a base plate seat positioned adjacent a first load beam seat, and at least one of the component receptacles of the second side of the first tray comprises a base plate collar seat adjacent a second load beam seat; and a second tray engageable with the first tray, the second tray comprising a first side having at least one component receptacle and an opposite second side having at least one component receptacle, wherein at least one of the component receptacles of the first side of the second tray comprises a base plate seat positioned adjacent a first load beam seat, and at least one of the component receptacles of the second side of the second tray comprises a base plate collar seat adjacent a second load beam seat, wherein the second side of the first tray is adjacent the first side of the second tray so that the at least one component receptacle of the first side of the second tray is substantially aligned with the at least one component receptacle of the second side of the first tray for cooperatively restraining the motion of at least one component, of the components, positioned therein. 2. The tray system of claim 1, wherein at least one of the base plate seats of the second tray includes a component engaging protuberance, wherein the protuberance is engageable with the base plate collar seat of the adjacent first tray. 3. The tray system of claim 1, wherein at least one of the base plate collar seats of the first tray includes a component engaging recess, wherein the recess is engageable with the base plate seat of the adjacent second tray. 4. The tray system of claim 1, wherein the first load beam seat further comprises at least one upwardly extending portion for laterally restraining a component positioned thereon. 5. The tray system of claim 1, wherein the base plate collar seat further comprises a collar relief aperture for receiving a collar portion of a component. 6. The tray system of claim 1, wherein the second load beam seat further comprises at least one upwardly extending portion for laterally restraining a component positioned thereon. 7. The tray system of claim 1, wherein the first load beam seat further comprises at least one opening extending from the first side of the first tray to the second side of the first tray. 8. The tray system of claim 1 in combination with at least one component. 9. The tray system of claim 1, wherein the first tray and second tray are identical. 10. The tray system of claim 1, further comprising at least one opening extending from the component receptacle on the first side of the first tray to the component receptacle on the second side of the first tray. 11. presented)The tray system of claim 10, further comprising a vacuum chamber in fluid communication with the opening of the first tray. 