The present invention provides a magazine-based data cartridge library that, in one embodiment, comprises a plurality of shelves that are capable of holding a plurality of data cartridge magazines, one or more drives, a magazine transport for moving magazines within the cabinet, and a cartridge transport for moving data cartridges between a magazine and a drive.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A magazine-based data cartridge library comprising: a frame; a shelf system, operatively attached to said frame, for supporting at least two data cartridge magazines and comprising at least one shelf; a drive that is operatively attached to said frame; a cartridge transport device, operatively attached to said frame, for moving a data cartridge between a data cartridge magazine and said drive; a magazine transport device, operatively attached to said frame, for moving a data cartridge magazine; and an operator alterable space capable of accommodating at least a shelf module or a drive module interchangeably located within a space defined by said frame, said shelf module capable of supporting at least a third data cartridge magazine and said drive module capable of comprising at least a second drive; wherein said operator alterable space comprises a library mounting structure for receiving one of said modules, a first side that is exposed to said cartridge transport device and a second side that allows an operator to attach one of said modules to said mounting structure. 2. The magazine-based data cartridge library, of claim 1 wherein said shelf module, comprises: a housing that defines an interior space for accommodating at least said third data cartridge magazine and an opening for receiving said third data cartridge magazine; said housing structure comprising a shelf module mounting structure for interfacing with said library mounting structure such that when said shelf module is mounted within said space defined by said frame, said opening is exposed to said first side that is exposed to said cartridge transport device and magazine transport device. 3. The magazine-based data cartridge library, of claim 2 wherein said shelf module comprising a bay guide that is located within said housing and capable of cooperating with a magazine guide for orienting at least said third data cartridge magazine within said housing. 4. The magazine-based data cartridge library of claim 2 wherein said shelf module comprising a plurality of bays each capable of accommodating one of said data cartridge magazines. 5. The magazine-based data cartridge library of claim 1 wherein said drive module further comprises: a housing structure that defines a first open side, a second open side, and a passageway extending between said first and second open sides; said housing structure comprising a drive bay mounting structure for interfacing with said library mounting structure such that when said drive module is mounted within said space defined by said frame, said first open side is exposed to said cartridge transport device and said second open side is exposed to said space that is operator accessible; a housing plug that is attached to said housing and faces said second open side; and a sled for holding one of said drives that has a front side with a receptacle for receiving one of said data cartridges and a back side with a plug interface for receiving electrical signals; said sled comprising: a sled frame that extends from a first end to a second end and is capable of holding one of said drives such that the receptacle of one of said drives is adjacent to said first end and the plug interface of the drive is adjacent to said second end; and electrical connection means for establishing an electrical connection between the plug interface of one of said drives and a sled plug that faces toward said first end of said sled and is capable of mating with said housing plug; wherein when said sled is positioned in said passageway such that said first end of said frame is adjacent to said first open side and said second end of said frame is adjacent to said second open side, said housing plug faces said sled plug. 6. The magazine-based data cartridge library of claim 1 wherein said drive module further comprises: a housing structure that defines a first open side, a second open side, and a plurality of drive bays, each extending between said first and second open sides; said housing structure comprising a drive bay mounting structure for interfacing with said library mounting structure such that when said drive module is mounted within said space defined by said frame, said first open side is exposed to said cartridge transport device and said second open side is exposed to said space that is operator accessible; a plurality of housing plugs that are each attached to said housing and face said second open side, wherein one of said plurality of plugs is associated with each of said plurality of drive bays; a plurality of sleds, each capable of holding one of said drives that has a front side with a receptacle for receiving one of said data cartridges and a back side with a plug interface for receiving electrical signals; wherein each of said plurality of sleds comprising an electrical connection means for establishing an electrical connection between the plug interface of one of said drives and a sled plug that is capable of mating with one of said plurality of housing plugs. 7. The magazine-based data cartridge library, as claimed in claim 6, wherein: said drive module comprises a processor, attached to said housing, for distributing electrical signals to each of said plurality of housing plugs. 8. The magazine-based data cartridge library, as claimed in claim 7, wherein: said housing comprising a processor bay for holding said processor; wherein said processor bay defining an opening that is exposed to a space that is operator accessible. 9. The magazine-based data cartridge library, as claimed in claim 8, wherein: said processor comprising a handle for facilitating insertion/removal of a portion of said processor through said opening. 10. A magazine-based data cartridge library comprising: a shelf system adapted to support at least a first and second data cartridge magazine; at least a first drive adapted to read and right data on a data cartridge; a robotic magazine transport capable of transporting one of said magazines from said shelf system in position for a cartridge transport to move at least one data cartridge from said data cartridge magazine to a cooperating relationship with said first drive; an operator alterable space defined by a frame adapted to accommodate one of a plurality of interchangeable modules including a shelf module and a drive module wherein said shelf module is adapted to accommodate at least a third data cartridge magazine and said drive module is adapted to accommodate at least a second drive; said shelf module capable of replacing said drive module through an opening in said frame. 11. The magazine-based data cartridge library of claim 10 further comprising a second operator alterable space. 12. The magazine-based data cartridge library of claim 10 wherein said opening accessible from an exterior location of said library. 13. The magazine-based data cartridge library of claim 10 wherein said operator alterable space comprises a mounting structure adapted to fixedly mount one of said modules. 14. The magazine-based data cartridge library of claim 10 wherein said robotic magazine transport and said cartridge transport are combined in one transport unit. 15. The magazine-based data cartridge library of claim 10 wherein said robotic magazine transport and said cartridge transport are interposed in a transport space between said shelf system and said operator definable space. 16. The magazine-based data cartridge library of claim 10 wherein said drive module comprises a plurality of drive bays adapted to receive at least said second drive. 17. The magazine-based data cartridge library of claim 16 wherein said drive bays are adapted to receive at least said second drive through a drive bay opening accessible from an exterior location of said library. 18. The magazine-based data cartridge library of claim 10 wherein said shelf module is adapted to receive said third data cartridge magazine through a magazine opening facing said transport space. 