A programming system for a robot includes a portable programming terminal (6) having a series of jog keys (14) for controlling the motions of the robot, a key (18) for selecting one among a plurality of possible co-ordinate systems for the jog keys (14) and a key (21) for storing the position reached by a predefined point of a tool supported by the robot, as a result of a motion thereof. The terminal (6) includes additional control keys (40, 41), able to be operated manually instead of the jog keys (14), to cause, independently from the co-ordinate system selected with the selection key (18), a Cartesian and/or angular displacement of the predefined point of the tool relative to a reference point that may be varied at will, which corresponds to the position of the operator who uses the terminal (6).
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A programming system for an automatic apparatus, bearing a tool, the system comprising a control unit, operative to control movements of the apparatus according to multiple axes, and a portable programming terminal operatively connected to the control unit, where the terminal comprises selection means, able to be operated manually to select a desired co-ordinate system among a plurality of co-ordinate systems ("Base, "Tool","Joints") stored in the control; first motion control means whose operation depends on a selection made through the selection means, the first motion control means comprising a plurality of motion keys able to be operated manually to provide the control unit, with a respective command signal for the apparatus, the command signal being aimed at causing the tool to execute a rotation or a translation motion about or along an axis corresponding to the operated motion key, in the co-ordinate system ("Base, "Tool", "Joints") selected using the selection means, position teaching means, able to be operated manually to store a position reached by a predefined point (TCP) of the tool as a result of a motion of the apparatus, wherein the terminal further comprises additional motion control means able to be operated manually instead of the first motion control means, to provide the control unit with a respective signal for controlling the apparatus aimed at causing a displacement of the predefined point (TCP) of the tool relative to a previously set reference point, where the position of the reference point is capable of being modified, the terminal comprises means for modifying the position of the reference point, the signal for controlling the apparatus generated as a result of the operation of the additional motion control means, is independent from the co-ordinate system ("Base, "Tool", "Joints") selected through the selection means. 2. The system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the reference point is representative of a position of the terminal, and hence of a user who supports the terminal, relative to the apparatus. 3. The system as claimed in claim 2, wherein the additional motion control means can be operated to cause a displacement of the predefined point of the tool closer, farther away, to the right, to the left, upwards or downwards relative to the position of the terminal, and hence of the user who supports the terminal. 4. The system as claimed in claim 3, wherein the additional motion control means comprise a compass knob able to be selectively operated in four lateral areas thereof to cause, in an operating mode, a displacement of the predefined point of the tool closer, farther away, to the right or the left relative to the position of the terminal. 5. The system as claimed in claim 4, wherein the compass knob can be selectively operated in four lateral areas thereof to cause, in an additional operating mode, a displacement of the predefined point of the tool about a respective axis, counter-clockwise and clockwise to the right and counter-clockwise and clockwise towards the position of the terminal. 6. The system as claimed in claim 3, wherein the additional motion control means comprise a dual pressure key, able to be operated selectively at two end areas thereof to cause, in an operating mode, a displacement of the predefined point of the tool upwards or downwards relative to the position of the terminal. 7. The system as claimed in claim 6, wherein the dual pressure key can be selectively operated at two end areas thereof to cause, in an additional operating mode, a rotation of the predefined point of the tool about a respective axis, counter-clockwise or clockwise upwards. 8. The system as claimed in claim 2, wherein the additional motion control means, can be operated to cause a rotation of the predefined point of the tool about a respective axis, counter clockwise or clockwise to the right, counter-clockwise or clockwise towards the position of the terminal and counter-clockwise or clockwise upwards. 9. The system as claimed in claim 2, wherein the means for modifying the position of the reference point are part of a system for the automatic recognition of the angular position of the terminal relative to the robot. 10. The system as claimed in claim 9, wherein the automatic recognition system comprises signal emitter means and signal receiving means, the signal emitter means being operatively associated to one of the terminal and the apparatus and the signal receiver means being operatively associated to the other of the terminal and the apparatus. 11. The system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the additional motion control means are able to be operated to cause Cartesian displacement of the predefined point of the tools relative to the set reference point. 12. The system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the additional motion control means can be operated to cause angular or rotary displacement about a respective axis of the predefined point of the tools. 13. The system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the terminal comprises a display device and in that the means for modifying the position of the reference point comprises an information input page capable of being displayed on the display device. 14. The system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the means for modifying the position of the reference point comprise at least a first key of the terminal. 15. The system as claimed in claim 14, wherein the means for modifying the position of the reference point comprise a display device of the terminal and means for generating graphic information on the display device, the graphic information being representative of the position of the reference point relative to the apparatus. 16. The system as claimed in claim 15, wherein the means for generating graphic information comprise means for generating on the display a first symbol, representative of the reference point, means for generating on the display a second symbol, representative of the apparatus; means for moving the first symbol relative to the second symbol using the first key. 17. The system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the terminal comprises a longitudinally extended body defining a first portion and a second portion having an area of union to the first portion, the width of the second portion being progressively decreasing until reaching the union area. 18. The system as claimed in claim 17, wherein in correspondence with a front side of the first portion is provided a display device and in correspondence with a front side of the second portion is provided a multiplicity of keys. 19. The system as claimed in claim 18, wherein the additional motion control means are positioned in a central part of the second portion. 20. The system as claimed in claim 18, wherein the first motion control means comprise a first series of motion keys and a second series of motion keys, the two series being positioned in substantially symmetrical fashion, each along a respective longitudinal side of the second portion. 21. The system as claimed in claim 20, wherein the first series consists of keys for controlling translation movements and the second series consists of keys for controlling rotation movements. 22. The system as claimed in claim 20, wherein the additional motion control means are positioned between the first and the second series of motion keys. 23. The system as claimed in claim 18, wherein said multiplicity of keys comprises one or more keys selected in the group consisting of: at least a key for varying the translation velocity of the robot, positioned substantially in the right part of the second portion, towards the centre thereof; a key for starting a sequence of motions of the robot, positioned in the right part of the second portion, towards the centre thereof; a key for stopping a motion of the robot, positioned in the right part of the second portion, towards the centre thereof; a key for selecting a desired co-ordinate system among a plurality of co-ordinate systems, positioned in the left part of the second portion, towards the centre thereof; a repetition key, which, when pressed, causes the robot to trace back one or more previously executed motions, positioned in the right part of the second portion, towards the centre thereof; a key for commanding the execution of individual steps of a previously set sequence of motions of the robot, positioned in the right part of the second portion, towards the centre thereof; a plurality of programming keys positioned in the left part of the second portion and comprising at least multiple cursor keys, a data recording key, a data modification key; a plurality of keys of an alphanumeric keypad positioned in a central part of the second portion. 24. The system as claimed in claim 18, wherein in the first portion, laterally to the display device, are positioned one or more keys selected within the group consisting of: at least two keys for selecting or navigating among options of a menu able to be displayed on the display device, one of said keys being vertically offset relative to the other; a help key for obtaining help information on the display device; a plurality of function keys. 25. The system as claimed in claim 18, wherein in correspondence with an end area of the first portion are positioned a key selector and a mushroom head safety push-button. 26. The system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the terminal (6) comprises a safety device of the "dead man" type (13). 27. The system as claimed in claim 26, wherein the terminal comprises a body in whose rear part is defined a longitudinally extended recess, from each of the two opposite longitudinal sides of the recess projecting towards the interior of the recess an elongated button, each elongated button being part of the safety device. 28. The system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the automatic apparatus includes a robot. 