A semiconductor processing system is provided. The semiconductor processing system includes a first sensor configured to isolate and measure a film thickness signal portion for a wafer having a film disposed over a substrate. A second sensor is configured to detect a film thickness dependent signal in situ during processing, i.e. under real process conditions and in real time. A controller configured to receive a signal from the first sensor and a signal from the second sensor. The controller is capable of determining a calibration coefficient from data represented by the signal from the first sensor. The controller is capable of applying the calibration coefficient to the data associated with the second sensor, wherein the calibration coefficient substantially eliminates inaccuracies introduced to the film thickness dependent signal from the substrate. A method for calibrating an eddy current sensor is also provided.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A semiconductor processing system, comprising: a first sensor array configured to isolate and measure a film thickness signal portion for a wafer having a film disposed over a substrate, the first sensor array having top and bottom sensors wherein each of the top sensors share an axis with a corresponding bottom sensor; a second sensor configured to detect a film thickness dependent signal in situ during processing; and a controller configured to receive a signal from the first sensor and a signal from the second sensor, the controller capable of determining a calibration coefficient from data represented by the signal from the first sensor, the controller capable of applying the calibration coefficient to data associated with the second sensor, wherein the calibration coefficient substantially eliminates inaccuracies introduced to the film thickness dependent signal from the substrate. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the first sensor array and the second sensor are eddy current sensors. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein each of the top sensors are out of phase with the corresponding bottom sensor by about 180 degrees. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the second sensor is further configured to trigger an endpoint of a processing operation based upon obtaining a target processing film state. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the first sensor array is associated with a wafer aligner station and the second sensor is associated with a chemical mechanical planarization (CMP) module. 6. The system of claim 5, wherein the second sensor is embedded in a wafer carrier of the CMP module. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the controller is configured to average readings from corresponding top and bottom sensors in order to eliminate consideration of proximity of the top and bottom sensors to the wafer. 8. A metrological monitoring system configured to provide real-time thickness data with minimal inaccuracies, comprising: a first group of sensors configured to generate data representing a thickness map associated with a wafer located within a detection region of the first group of sensors, the thickness map generated prior to a processing operation, the first group of sensors including opposing top and bottom sensors wherein each of the top sensors share an axis with a corresponding bottom sensor; a second group of sensors configured to detect a thickness at a location on the wafer corresponding to one of the second group of sensors during a processing operation; and a computing device in communication with the first group of sensors and the second group of sensors, the computing device enabled to remove inaccuracies introduced into the thickness data at the location from a conductive body through the application of a calibration coefficient determined from the data representing the thickness map. 9. The system of claim 8, wherein the first group of sensors generate the data in conditions with negligible third body effects. 10. The system of claim 8, wherein the first group of sensors and the second group of sensors are eddy current sensors. 11. The system of claim 8, wherein each sensor of the second group of sensors is capable of providing a signal indicating an adjustment to a removal rate applied to a region of the wafer corresponding to the respective sensor. 12. The system of claim 8 wherein the first group of sensors are configured to scan across a surface of the wafer. 13. The system of claim 8, wherein the thickness map includes a substrate contribution and a film contribution. 14. The system of claim 13, wherein the computing device is further configured to isolate the film thickness component from a signal detected by the second group of sensors. 15. The system of claim 8, wherein each of the top sensors are out of phase with the corresponding bottom sensor by about 180 degrees. 16. The system of claim 8, wherein the computing device is configured to average readings from opposing sensors of the second group of sensors in order to eliminate consideration of proximity of the second group of sensors to the wafer. 