A method and robot-based automation system are provided for cryogenic crystal sample mounting, for example, for use for cryogenic crystal sample mounting in the x-ray crystallography station at an x-ray source. The system includes a robot arm carrying a handset. The handset includes a pair of elongated fingers for sample mounting, and each finger carrying a set of strain gauge arrays for providing force sensing. A slim finger design allows a sample mounting process with no interference with the beam stop, cryostreem and x-ray detectors. The handset can detect the contact force intensity and direction; provide a precise gripping action; and feel the results of the gripping. The finger design incorporates a mechanism to maintain the sample temperature well below the cryogenic safety margin for the crystal viability. A Dewar container is provided with an ice control system and liquid nitrogen flow control. A triangular sample magazine maximizes the Dewar space usage. A miniature kinematical mounting sample holder provides near micron positioning repeatability. These capabilities make the robot-arm more powerful, flexible, and reliable.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot-based automation system for cryogenic crystal sample mounting, for example, for use of cryogenic crystal sample mounting in the x-ray crystallography station at an x-ray source, said robot-based automation system comprising: a robot arm; a handset carried by said robot arm; said handset including a pair of elongated fingers for sample mounting, said handset including a liquid nitrogen reservoir; said reservoir carried by one of said elongated fingers; and each finger carrying a set of strain gauge arrays for providing force sensing. 2. A robot-based automation system as recited in claim 1 further includes a Dewar container; said Dewar container including an ice control system. 3. A robot-based automation system as recited in claim 2 wherein said Dewar container includes liquid nitrogen flow control. 4. A robot-based automation system as recited in claim 1 wherein said liquid nitrogen reservoir includes a check valve for filling said reservoir with liquid nitrogen and a pin hole for providing a nitrogen jet flow during the sample mounting and retrieval. 5. A robot-based automation system as recited in claim 1 further includes a miniature mounting sample holder; said miniature mounting sample holder includes a base member and a support member; said base member and said support member having cooperating features for precision positioning together. 6. A robot-based automation system as recited in claim 5 wherein said base member includes a plurality of enlarged recesses surrounding openings spaced apart around said base member. 7. A robot-based automation system as recited in claim 1 wherein said set of strain gauge arrays includes three strain gauge arrays bonded at a predefined area of each said finger. 8. A robot-based automation system as recited in claim 1 wherein each of said strain gauge arrays has a temperature compensating bridge sensing circuit configuration. 9. A robot-based automation system as recited in claim 1 wherein said set of strain gauge arrays is used for detecting contact force intensity and direction for each said finger. 10. A robot-based automation system as recited in claim 1 wherein said set of strain gauge arrays is used for providing a precise gripping action for each said finger. 11. A robot-based automation system as recited in claim 10 wherein said set of strain gauge arrays is used for providing feedback results of said precise gripping action for each said finger. 12. A robot-based automation system as recited in claim 1 wherein said robot arm has six-degree of freedom. 13. A robot-based automation system as recited in claim 1 includes a robot arm controller coupled to said robot arm. 14. A robot-based automation system as recited in claim 1 includes a triangular shaped sample magazine for containing a plurality of samples. 15. A robot-based automation system as recited in claim 14 includes a plurality of said triangular shaped sample magazine. 16. A robot-based automation system as recited in claim 1 includes a controller computer coupled to said robot arm and said set of strain gauge arrays. 17. A robot-based automation system as recited in claim 16 includes a video camera coupled to said controller computer. 18. A robot-based automation system as recited in claim 1 includes a Dewar container including an ice control system coupled to said controller computer. 19. A method for cryogenic crystal sample mounting in a robot-based automation system, said method comprising the steps of: providing a handset carried by a robot arm; mounting the sample with a pair of elongated fingers of said handset, including a liquid nitrogen reservoir with said handset; said reservoir carried by one of said elongated fingers; and sensing force of each finger with a set of strain gauge arrays carried by each of said elongated fingers for force sensing. 