Methods, systems, and computer program products for transmitting neural signal information. Methods, systems, and computer programs products are disclosed for neural channel selection in a multi-channel system. A method according to one embodiment can include a step for receiving a plurality of neural signals on a first plurality of channels. The method can also include a step for calculating criterion variable value for the neural signal on each of the channels. In addition, the method can include a step for ranking the channels by the criterion variable value. The method can also include a step for calculating mutual information between a measured output and a total population activity for the first plurality of channels. Further, the method can include a step for determining a second plurality of channels that encodes a predetermined amount of the mutual information.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for neural channel selection in a multi-channel system, the method comprising: (a) receiving a plurality of neural signals on a first plurality of channels; (b) calculating criterion variable value for the neural signal on each of the channels; (c) ranking the channels by the criterion variable value; (d) calculating mutual information between a measured output and a total population activity for the first plurality of channels; and (e) determining a second plurality of channels that encodes a predetermined amount of the mutual information, wherein the second plurality of channels is a subset of the first plurality of channels. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein receiving the plurality of neural signals comprises receiving the neural signals from a plurality of neural sensors for detecting the neural signals from neurons. 3. The method according to claim 1, wherein receiving the plurality of neural signals comprises conditioning the neural signals. 4. The method according to claim 1, wherein calculating criterion variable value comprises calculating criterion variable value for between about 2 minutes and 10 minutes. 5. The method according to claim 1, wherein calculating criterion variable value comprises determining principle components of neural signal activity of the first plurality of channels. 6. The method according to claim 5, wherein calculating criterion variable value comprises determining variance of the neural signal activity of each channel of the first plurality of channels. 7. The method according to claim 1, wherein calculating mutual information comprises determining Shannon mutual information. 8. The method according to claim 7, wherein the Shannon mutual information is defined by the following equation: .function..function..function..times..times..intg..times..intg..times..fu- nction..times..function..function..function..times..function..times..times- .d.times..times.d ##EQU00011## where M is the measured output, P is the control data, and H is the entropy of a stochastic signal. 9. The method according to claim 8, comprising determining maximum likelihood estimates of entropies, wherein a raw estimate of information is provided by the following equation: .function..times..times..function..times..function..function..function..t- imes. ##EQU00012## wherein p.sub.emp is the empirical measure of the probability, given by the following equation: .function..times..times..times..delta..function..tau. ##EQU00013## wherein .delta.(t) is the Kronecker delta function, and {.tau..sub.j} is the k occurrences of the variable X taking on the value x. 10. The method according to claim 1, wherein calculating mutual information comprises determining a best upper bounds estimate. 11. The method according to claim 1, wherein calculating mutual information comprises utilizing a Strong method. 12. The method according to claim 1, wherein the predetermined amount is greater than about 90%. 13. The method according to claim 1, wherein determining the second plurality of channels comprises searching the ranked channels for the channels that encode the predetermined amount of the mutual information. 14. The method according to claim 1, comprising determining whether the second plurality of channels are stable. 15. The method according to claim 1, comprising selectively enabling or disabling channels from among the first plurality of channels such that the first plurality of channels includes the same channels as the second plurality of channels. 16. The method according to claim 1, comprising selectively conditioning only the neural signals on the second plurality of channels from among the first plurality of channels. 17. The method according to claim 1, comprising selectively transmitting only the neural signals on the second plurality of channels from among the first plurality of channels. 18. The method according to claim 17, comprising providing a controller for receiving neural signals on the second plurality of channels. 19. The method according to claim 18, comprising operating the controller to transmit control signals for controlling the actuator, wherein the control signals are based on the received neural signals on the second plurality of channels. 20. A system for neural channel selection in a multi-channel system, the system comprising: (a) a signal receiver for receiving a plurality of neural signals on a first plurality of channels; and (b) a controller operable for the following operations: (i) calculate criterion variable value for the neural signal on each of the channels; (ii) rank the channels by the criterion variable value; (iii) calculate mutual information between a measured output and a total population activity for the first plurality of channels; and (iv) determining a second plurality of channels that encodes a predetermined amount of the mutual information, wherein the second plurality of channels is a subset of the first plurality of channels. 21. The system according to claim 20, wherein the signal receiver is operable to receive the neural signals from a plurality of neural sensors for detecting the neural signals from neurons. 22. The system according to claim 20, wherein the signal receiver is operable to condition the neural signals. 23. The system according to claim 20, wherein the controller is operable to calculate criterion variable value for between about 2 minutes and 10 minutes. 24. The system according to claim 20, wherein the controller is operable to determine principle components of neural signal activity of the first plurality of channels. 25. The system according to claim 24, wherein the controller is operable to determine the variance of the neural signal activity of each channel of the first plurality of channels. 26. The system according to claim 20, wherein the controller is operable to determine Shannon mutual information. 27. The system according to claim 26, wherein the Shannon mutual information is defined by the following equation: .function..function..function..times..times..intg..times..intg..times..fu- nction..times..function..function..function..times..function..times..times- .d.times..times.d ##EQU00014## where M is the measured output, P is the control data, and H is the entropy of a stochastic signal. 28. The system according to claim 27, wherein the controller is operable to maximum likelihood estimates of entropies, wherein a raw estimate of information is provided by the following equation: .function..times..times..function..times..function..function..function..t- imes. ##EQU00015## wherein p.sub.emp is the empirical measure of the probability, given by the following equation: .function..times..times..times..delta..function..tau. ##EQU00016## wherein .delta.(t) is the Kronecker delta function, and {.tau..sub.j} is the k occurrences of the variable X taking on the value x. 29. The system according to claim 20, wherein the controller is operable to determine a best upper bounds estimate to calculate mutual information. 30. The system according to claim 20, wherein the controller is operable to utilize a Strong method to calculate mutual information. 31. The system according to claim 20, wherein the predetermined amount is greater than about 90%. 32. The system according to claim 20, wherein the controller is operable to search the ranked channels for the channels that encode the predetermined amount of the mutual information. 33. The system according to claim 20, wherein the controller is operable to determine whether the second plurality of channels are stable. 34. The system according to claim 20, wherein the controller is operable to selectively enable or disable channels from among the first plurality of channels such that the first plurality of channels includes the same channels as the second plurality of channels. 35. The system according to claim 20, wherein the controller is operable to selectively condition only the neural signals on the second plurality of channels from among the first plurality of channels. 36. The system according to claim 20, wherein the controller is operable to selectively transmit only the neural signals on the second plurality of channels from among the first plurality of channels. 37. The system according to claim 36, comprising a controller for receiving neural signals on the second plurality of channels. 38. The system according to claim 37, wherein the controller is operable to transmit control signals for controlling the actuator, wherein the control signals are based on the received neural signals on the second plurality of channels. 39. A computer program product comprising computer-executable instructions embodied in a computer-readable medium for performing steps comprising: (a) receiving a plurality of neural signals on a first plurality of channels; (b) calculating criterion variable value for the neural signal on each of the channels; (c) ranking the channels by the criterion variable value; (d) calculating mutual information between a measured output and a total population activity for the first plurality of channels; and (e) determining a second plurality of channels that encodes a predetermined amount of the mutual information, wherein the second plurality of channels is a subset of the first plurality of channels. 40. The computer program product according to claim 39, wherein receiving the plurality of neural signals comprises receiving the neural signals from a plurality of neural sensors for detecting the neural signals from neurons. 41. The computer program product according to claim 39, wherein receiving the plurality of neural signals comprises conditioning the neural signals. 42. The computer program product according to claim 39, wherein calculating criterion variable value comprises calculating criterion variable value for between about 2 minutes and 10 minutes. 43. The computer program product according to claim 39, wherein calculating criterion variable value comprises determining principle components of neural signal activity of the first plurality of channels. 44. The computer program product according to claim 43, wherein calculating criterion variable value comprises determining variance of the neural signal activity of each channel of the first plurality of channels. 45. The computer program product according to claim 39, wherein calculating mutual information comprises determining Shannon mutual information. 46. The computer program product according to claim 45, wherein the Shannon mutual information is defined by the following equation: .function..function..function..times..times..intg..times..intg..times..fu- nction..times..function..function..function..times..function..times..times- .d.times..times.d ##EQU00017## where M is the measured output, P is the control data, and H is the entropy of a stochastic signal. 47. The computer program product according to claim 46, comprising determining maximum likelihood estimates of entropies, wherein a raw estimate of information is provided by the following equation: .function..times..times..function..times..function..function..function..t- imes. ##EQU00018## wherein p.sub.emp is the empirical measure of the probability, given by the following equation: .function..times..times..times..delta..function..tau. ##EQU00019## wherein .delta.(t) is the Kronecker delta function, and {.tau..sub.j} is the k occurrences of the variable X taking on the value x. 48. The computer program product according to claim 39, wherein calculating mutual information comprises determining a best upper bounds estimate. 49. The computer program product according to claim 39, wherein calculating mutual information comprises utilizing a Strong method. 50. The computer program product according to claim 39, wherein the predetermined amount is greater than about 90%. 51. The computer program product according to claim 39, wherein determining the second plurality of channels comprises searching the ranked channels for the channels that encode the predetermined amount of the mutual information. 52. The computer program product according to claim 39, comprising determining whether the second plurality of channels are stable. 53. The computer program product according to claim 39, comprising selectively enabling or disabling channels from among the first plurality of channels such that the first plurality of channels includes the same channels as the second plurality of channels. 54. The computer program product according to claim 39, comprising selectively conditioning only the neural signals on the second plurality of channels from among the first plurality of channels. 55. The computer program product according to claim 39, comprising selectively transmitting only the neural signals on the second plurality of channels from among the first plurality of channels. 56. The computer program product according to claim 55, comprising providing a controller for receiving neural signals on the second plurality of channels. 57. The computer program product according to claim 56, comprising operating the controller to transmit control signals for controlling the actuator, wherein the control signals are based on the received neural signals on the second plurality of channels. 