An apparatus and method for carrying out and monitoring the progress and properties of multiple reactions is disclosed. The method and apparatus are especially useful for synthesizing, screening, and characterizing combinatorial libraries, but also offer significant advantages over conventional experimental reactors as well. The apparatus generally includes multiple vessels for containing reaction mixtures, and systems for controlling the stirring rate and temperature of individual reaction mixtures or groups of reaction mixtures. In addition, the apparatus may include provisions for independently controlling pressure in each vessel, and a system for injecting liquids into the vessels at a pressure different than ambient pressure. In situ monitoring of individual reaction mixtures provides feedback for process controllers, and also provides data for determining reaction rates, product yields, and various properties of the reaction products, including viscosity and molecular weight.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for parallel processing of reaction mixtures, comprising: a plurality of vessels sealed against fluid communication with one another, adapted for holding reaction mixtures for processing, and adapted for pressurization of the vessels to pressures other than ambient pressure; a stirring system for stirring the reaction mixtures in the vessels, said stirring system comprising stirrers at least partially contained in said vessels; a drive mechanism positioned below the vessels and coupled to the stirrers for rotating the stirrers independently of one another within the vessels, said drive mechanism comprising a plurality of motors individually coupled to respective stirrers to rotate said stirrers; a temperature control system operable to maintain the vessels at selected temperatures independent of one another whereby different vessels may simultaneously be maintained at different temperatures during said parallel processing; and torque monitors for measuring torque exerted by the motors on the reaction mixtures, wherein the motors are rigidly attached to a motor support, and the torque monitors measure torque between the motor support and the motors. 2. Apparatus for parallel processing of reaction mixtures, comprising: a plurality of vessels sealed against fluid communication with one another, adapted for holding reaction mixtures for processing, and adapted for pressurization of the vessels to pressures other than ambient pressure; a stirring system for stirring the reaction mixtures in the vessels, said stirring system comprising stirrers at least partially contained in said vessels; a drive mechanism positioned below the vessels and coupled to the stirrers for rotating the stirrers independently of one another within the vessels, said drive mechanism comprising a plurality of motors individually coupled to respective stirrers to rotate said stirrers; a temperature control system operable to maintain the vessels at selected temperatures independent of one another whereby different vessels may simultaneously be maintained at different temperatures during said parallel processing; and speed sensors for monitoring rotational speed of the stirrers. 3. Apparatus as set forth in claim 2 further comprising a processor in communication with the speed sensors, wherein the processor adjusts power supplied to each of the motors in response to signals received from the speed sensors to control the rotational speeds of the respective stirrers. 4. Apparatus as set forth in claim 3 wherein said processor adjusts the power supplied to each of the motors to maintain the rotational speeds of the respective stirrers at selected levels. 5. A method of processing reaction mixtures in parallel, comprising: providing reaction mixtures in a plurality of vessels sealed against fluid communication with one another; stirring the reaction mixtures in the vessels by rotating stirrers at least partially contained in the vessels at selected speeds independent of one another during said parallel processing using a drive mechanism positioned below the vessels and coupled to the stirrers; maintaining the vessels at selected temperatures independent of one another during said parallel processing; and monitoring the stirring speed of each stirrer. 6. A method as set forth in claim 5 further comprising monitoring the torque needed to rotate the stirrers. 7. A method as set forth in claim 6 wherein the torque is monitored by measuring a phase lag between the application of a driving force to the stirrers and the speed of the stirrers. 8. A method as set forth in claim 6 further comprising independently varying the torque of the stirrers. 9. A method of processing reaction mixtures in parallel comprising: providing reaction mixtures in a plurality of vessels sealed against fluid communication with one another; stirring the reaction mixtures in the vessels by rotating stirrers at least partially contained in the vessels using a drive mechanism positioned below the vessels and coupled to the stirrers and independently varying the speed, or torque, or speed and torque of the stirrers; and maintaining the vessels at selected temperatures independent of one another during said parallel processing. 10. A method as set forth in claim 9 further comprising monitoring the power needed to rotate each of the stirrers. 11. A method as set forth in claim 10 further comprising adjusting the power supplied to each of the stirrers. 