An automated system of preparing food designed with the preparation of Chinese food in mind, the system can be adapted to whatever type of food is desired by the user. The system uses one or more robots as the "chefs". A heating element heats a cooking pan to a desired temperature. The cooking pan includes a temperature sensing element to monitor heating of the pan and cooking of the food. When the pan is fully heated, a delivery arm empties the contents of the bowl into the cooking pan to being the actual cooking. When the contents of the pan have reached the correct temperature to be "done", the robot empties the contents into a serving dish, and the food is ready to be eaten.
Claims I claim: 1. An apparatus for preparing food comprising: at least one robot with at least one means to move food containers between multiple positions and at least one means to stir food within a cooking pan, a food storage and selection area, a cooking area within a range of motion of said robot, at least one food container containing a food to be cooked, and a loading conveyor to move said food container to a cooking area; wherein controlling software of said robot is programmed by a user with cooking instructions for said food, said robot uses said means to move food containers to move said food from said loading conveyor into a cooking pan that is held by said robot, said robot further comprising a means to hold said cooking pan in a position over a cooking element in said cooking area and to hold said food while said food is cooked until a sensor detects a correct finished temperature, and said robot uses said means to move food containers to unload said food into a serving dish, said serving dish being moved by a conveyor to a serving area where said serving dish is picked up by a user; and wherein said robot and said cooking area are mounted on a means for transportation so that said apparatus is portable. 2. The cooking apparatus of claim 1 wherein: said food to be cooked is loaded into said food container by said robot. 3. The cooking apparatus of claim 1 wherein: said food to be cooked is chosen by a user from a menu on a display screen. 4. The cooking apparatus of claim 1 wherein: said cooking pan is automatically cleaned after said food is cooked and before said cooking pan is returned to a start position. 5. The cooking apparatus of claim 1 wherein: said robot is constructed with a human appearance. 6. The cooking apparatus of claim 5 wherein: said robot comprises a torso, arms, and a head topped with a facsimile of a chef's hat. 7. The cooking apparatus of claim 1 wherein: said robot and said cooking area are contained in a restaurant building. 