A short-time arc welding system and method for welding elements on parts includes: a robot having an arm moveable in at least one coordinate axis; a welding head mounted on the arm having a holding device to hold an element, and a lifting device for advancing and returning the holding device, and; a measuring system for determining a relative position between the part and the element. The measuring system includes: a foot mounted on the welding head which contacts the part during operation to determine the relative position; and a positioning device to position the foot relative to the element in at least two different operating positions. A storage device stores a plurality of welding positions. The measuring system positions the foot in an operating position for each stored welding position.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A short-time arc welding system, comprising: a robot having at least one arm; a welding head mounted on the arm, the welding head including a holding apparatus for holding an element to be welded; a measurement system operable to determine a relative position between a component and the element held by the holding apparatus, the measurement system including: a contact member mounted on the welding head and operable to contact the component during operation of the welding system, the contact member operably determining a relative spacing on a welding axis between the welding head and the component; and a positioning device operable to position the contact member between a rest position having the contact member retracted from the component and at least two different operating positions having the contact member in contact with the component; wherein the contact member is operable in at least two motions: a linear motion parallel to the welding axis relative to both the component and the welding head, and a rotating motion having the contact member rotatable with respect to the welding head through an angular displacement about the welding axis on which the element is welded to the component. 2. The welding system of claim 1, wherein the arm is moveable on at least one coordinate axis. 3. The welding system of claim 1, wherein the welding head further comprises a linear-movement apparatus for linearly moving the holding apparatus relative to the welding head. 4. The welding system of claim 1, wherein the measurement system further comprises a memory device having a plurality of welding positions stored therein, wherein the operating positions are selectable from the stored welding positions. 5. The welding system of claim 1, wherein the positioning device further includes a plurality of markings used to indicate a plurality of contact member positions relative to the element being held, the markings positionable approximately parallel to the welding axis along which the element is welded to the component. 6. The welding system of claim 1, wherein the positioning device is operable to position the contact member in at least two different positions relative to the element being held, each of the at least two different positions located about an axis which is parallel to a welding axis along which the elements are welded to the components. 7. The welding system of claim 1, wherein the positioning device further comprises a contact member movement sensor operable to detect a position of the contact member. 8. The welding system of claim 1, wherein the welding head further comprises a biasing element operable to elastically bias the holding apparatus in a feed direction of the element. 9. The welding system of claim 1, wherein the measurement system further comprises a welding head movement sensor operable to detect a movement of the holding apparatus relative to the welding head. 10. The welding system of claim 1, wherein the positioning device further comprises a motor operable to position the contact member relative to the welding head. 11. The welding system of claim 10, further comprising a rest state of the motor wherein the motor is operable to apply a resistance torque greater than approximately 150 N with respect to an axial motor movement. 12. The welding system of claim 11, wherein the positioning device further comprises a clamping device operable in the rest state to fix the contact member at least in an axial direction with respect to the element being held. 13. A short-time arc welding system, comprising: a robot having at least one arm moveable on a plurality of coordinate axes; a welding head mounted on the arm, the welding head including a holding apparatus for holding an element to be welded; a measurement system operable to determine a relative position between a component and the element held by the holding apparatus, the measurement system including: a foot movably mounted on the welding head and operable to contact the component during operation of the welding system, the foot operable to indicate a relative spacing between the welding head and the component; a positioning device operable to position the foot in at least two different operating positions relative to the element; and a memory device having a plurality of welding positions stored therein, wherein the operating positions are selectable from the stored welding positions; wherein the foot is movable in at least two motions with respect to the welding head including a linear motion toward and away from the component approximately parallel to a welding axis on which the element is welded to the component, and a rotating motion having the foot rotatable about the welding head through an angular displacement about the welding axis. 14. The welding system of claim 13, further comprising a pneumatic arrangement connecting the robotic arm to the welding head, operable to move the welding head in a reciprocating motion. 15. The welding system of claim 13, wherein the welding head further comprises a linear-movement apparatus for linearly moving the holding apparatus relative to the welding head, the linear-movement apparatus including a coil and a permanent magnet. 16. The welding system of claim 13, wherein the welding head further comprises a linear-movement apparatus for linearly moving the holding apparatus relative to the welding head, the linear movement apparatus including a linear motor. 17. The welding system of claim 13, further comprising a drive housing mountable to the welding head, the drive housing supporting the positioning device. 18. The welding system of claim 13, further comprising a crown rotatably positionable about the welding head, the crown rotatable with the drive housing. 19. The welding system of claim 18, further comprising a plurality of markings on the crown. 20. The welding system of claim 19, wherein the positioning device further comprises a foot movement sensor operable to detect a position of the foot, wherein the foot movement sensor using the plurality of markings on the crown operably identifies an angular position of the foot. 21. A method for short-time arc welding, in particular for bolt welding of an element to a component using a short-time arc welding system, the arc welding system including a robot having an arm and a welding head fixed to the arm, a foot separate from the welding head and a control device in which one of a plurality of operating positions for the foot is stored for a number of preselectable automatic welding processes, the method comprising the steps of: a) actuating the robot such that the welding head moves to a welding position for a chosen one of the preselectable welding processes; b) directing the foot to move to an operating position of the chosen welding process by at least two motions including a linear motion of the foot relative to both the component and the welding head and an angular rotation of the foot about the welding head about a welding axis of the welding head; c) moving the element towards the component until the foot contacts the component; and d) performing the chosen welding process. 22. The method according to claim 21, further comprising performing steps (a) and (b) as overlapping steps. 23. The method of claim 21, further comprising sensing a relative position between the element and the component. 24. The method of claim 21, further comprising sensing a relative position between the foot and the welding head. 25. The method of claim 21, further comprising sensing a rotational angle of the foot about the welding axis of the welding head. 26. The method of claim 21, further comprising rotating the foot about an axis of the foot. 27. The method of claim 21, further comprising linearly driving both the welding head and the foot on substantially parallel axes. 28. The method of claim 21, further comprising withdrawing the welding head from the component while maintaining the foot in contact with the component to initiate step (d). 