A module for manufacturing a cured tire from a plurality of tire components is disclosed. The module has a plurality of component appliers located at spaced locations along a predetermined path, and a mobile tire building trolley for movement along the predetermined path and two detachable tire building drums for mounting on the movable trolley. A tire curing station has one tire mold for curing the assembled tire components while mounted on one of the detachable tire building drums. The tire is cured as the other detachable tire building drum on the mobile tire building trolley is having tire components applied. One or more of the plurality of component appliers includes a means for forming the tire component at the location of the applier. The applied components include a liner, a pair of bead cores, a ply, a pair of sidewalls, a pair of chafers, and one or more belt layers and a tread. Optionally the applied components may also include an apex, wedges, overlays, underlays, gum strips, and elastomeric inserts. The module has a means for transferring the detachable tire building drums to the tire mold and further has a means for extracting the cured tire while mounted on a tire building drum from the mold. The tire curing station includes an induction curing means.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A module for manufacturing a plurality of cured tires from a plurality of tire components, the module comprising: a plurality of tire building drums; a plurality of first workstations each configured to apply at least one of the tire components on each of said tire building drums; a plurality of second workstations each configured to apply at least another of the tire components on each of said tire building drums; a cure station including a tire mold for curing the tire components applied on each of said tire building drums to form a corresponding one of the cured tires, said cure station, said first workstations, and said second workstations arranged along a path with said cure station centrally located between said first workstations and said second workstations, and at least one of said first workstations disposed on opposite side of said path from at least another of said first workstations; and a first mobile tire building trolley configured to support each of said tire building drums in a detachable manner, said first mobile tire building trolley transporting each of said tire building drums along said path in proximity to said first workstations. 2. The module of claim 1 wherein said second workstations are disposed on opposite sides of said path. 3. The module of claim 2 further comprising a second mobile tire building trolley configured to support each of said tire building drums in a detachable manner, said second mobile tire building trolley transporting each of said tire building drums along said path in proximity to said second workstations. 4. The module of claim 3 further comprising: means for transferring each of said tire building drums from said first mobile tire building trolley to said second mobile tire building trolley. 5. The module of claim 3 further comprising: a central transfer station located between said first workstations and second workstations, said central transfer station adapted to transfer each of said tire building drums from said second mobile tire building trolley to said cure station. 6. The module of claim 3 wherein said first mobile tire building trolley and said second mobile tire building trolley each simultaneously support a corresponding one of said tire building drums. 7. The module of claim 6 wherein said tire mold of said cure station supports a corresponding one of said tire building drums while said first mobile tire building trolley supports said corresponding one of said tire building drums and said second mobile tire building trolley supports said corresponding one of said tire building drums. 8. The module of claim 3 wherein said second mobile tire building trolley transports each of said tire building drums along said path in a first direction away from said cure station and in a second direction toward said curing station. 9. The module of claim 8 wherein at least one of said second workstations is configured to apply the corresponding at least another tire component when said second mobile tire building trolley transports each of said tire building drums along said path in said first direction. 10. The module of claim 9 wherein at least one of said second workstations is configured to apply the corresponding at least another tire component when said second mobile tire building trolley transports each of said tire building drums along said path in said second direction. 11. The module of claim 1 wherein said first mobile tire building trolley transports each of said tire building drums along said path in a first direction away from said cure station and in a second direction toward said curing station. 12. The module of claim 11 wherein at least one of said first workstations is configured to apply the corresponding at least one tire component to each of said tire building drums when said first mobile tire building trolley transports each of said tire building drums along said path in said first direction. 13. The module of claim 12 wherein at least another of said first workstations is configured to apply the corresponding at least one tire component to each of said tire building drums when said first mobile tire building trolley transports each of said tire building drums along said path in said second direction. 14. The module of claim 1 wherein said path is a linear path. 15. The module of claim 1 wherein said first mobile tire building trolley is configured to support each of said tire building drums while at least one of said first workstations applies a corresponding at least one of the tire components. 16. The module of claim 15 wherein said first mobile tire building trolley is configured to rotate each of said tire building drums, when supported, while the at least one of said first workstations applies the corresponding at least one of the tire components. 17. The module of claim 15 wherein said first mobile tire building trolley is configured to support each of said tire building drums while each of said first workstations applies the corresponding at least one of the tire components. 