A robotic turntable drive arrangement in a robotic roller hemming system includes a turntable having a top plate and a lower frame. The top plate is rotatable about the lower frame. The turntable further includes a plurality of lock positions. The arrangement also includes a robot having an arm adapted for engagement with the turntable top plate. Movement of the robot arm while the robot arm is engaged with the turntable top plate rotates the turntable top plate.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic turntable drive arrangement in a robotic roller hemming system comprising: a turntable having a top plate and a lower frame, said top plate being rotatable about said lower frame; said turntable further including a plurality of lock positions; and a robot having an arm adapted for engagement with said turntable top plate; wherein movement of said robot arm while said robot arm is engaged with said turntable top plate rotates said turntable top plate. 2. The robotic turntable drive arrangement of claim 1, further including a locking device for locking said turntable at one of said lock positions. 3. The robotic turntable drive arrangement of claim 1, wherein said turntable top plate includes a plurality of engagement members spacedly disposed along an outer edge of said top plate that allow for engagement of said robot arm with said top plate. 4. The robotic turntable drive arrangement of claim 1, wherein said robot includes a roller end effector engagable with said turntable top plate. 5. A robotic turntable drive arrangement in a robotic roller hemming system comprising: a robot including a base and a swingable, movable arm; said robot having a first axis of rotation extending through said base; a turntable including a lower frame, a top plate, and a rotatable bearing connecting said lower frame to said top plate; said top plate being rotatable on said frame via said bearing; said rotatable bearing including a round gear having a multiplicity of teeth defining lock positions around said round gear; said robot arm being engagable with said turntable top plate; and a locking device for locking said turntable at one of said lock positions; wherein said turntable top plate is rotatable by said robot arm via said bearing when said locking device is unlocked, whereby locking said locking device temporarily fixes said turntable at one of said lock positions. 6. The robotic turntable drive arrangement of claim 5, wherein said turntable top plate includes a plurality of engagement members spacedly disposed along an outer edge of said top plate that allow for engagement of said robot arm with said top plate. 7. The robotic turntable drive arrangement of claim 5, wherein the locking device is engagable with said teeth of the round gear for locking said turntable top plate at each of said lock positions. 8. The robotic turntable drive arrangement of claim 5, wherein said locking device is a lock clamp. 9. A method of driving a turntable in a robotic roller hemming system comprising the steps of: providing a robotic turntable drive including: a robot including a base and a swingable, movable arm; said robot having a first axis of rotation extending through said base; a turntable including a lower frame, a top plate, and a rotatable bearing connecting said lower frame to said top plate; said top plate being rotatable on said frame via said bearing; said rotatable bearing including a round gear having a multiplicity of teeth defining lock positions around said round gear; and a locking device for locking said turntable at one of said lock positions; engaging said robot arm with said turntable top plate; and rotating said turntable top plate by said robot arm via said bearing when said locking device is unlocked, whereby locking said locking device temporarily fixes said turntable at one of said lock positions. 10. The method of claim 9, further comprising the steps of: rotating said robot arm about said robot first axis to align said robot arm with a portion of said turntable; engaging said robot arm with said turntable top plate; unlocking said locking device; rotating said turntable top plate from one lock position to another of said lock positions by moving said engaged robot arm; locking said locking device; and releasing said robot arm from said turntable top plate. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the step of providing a robotic turntable drive includes providing a turntable top plate including a plurality of engagement members spacedly disposed along an outer edge of said top plate; and the step of engaging the robot arm with the turntable top plate includes engaging the robot arm with one of the engagement members of the top plate. 