A plastic product for particular use as grab handles, door closure handles, and other trim and component products. A foam core, either structural or non-structural, is over-molded with a hard or soft plastic shell or skin. Structural members for heat staking, mechanical fastenings, and the like, are integrally formed on the ends of the handles in order to affix the handles to a door pillar, door panel, or the like.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for manufacture of a plastic handle member for attachment to a vehicle panel member, said handle member having two ends, said method comprising the steps of: molding a foam core member, said core member having integrally formed attachment members protruding therefrom at each of said two ends, the attachment members adapted to be positioned in openings in a vehicle panel member and be secured thereto; forming orientation holes in each of said ends of said foam core member; positioned said core member on mating pin members in a second mold; and overmolding a plastic skin on said core member and covering the outer surface of said core member. 2. The method as described in claim 1 wherein said attachment members each have channel members therein for attaching said handle member to a vehicle panel member with mechanical fasteners. 3. The method as described in claim 1 wherein said attachment members are adapted to be attached to a vehicle panel member by heat staking. 4. The method as described in claim 1 wherein said plastic skin is made from a polypropylene material. 5. The method as described in claim 1 wherein said foam core member is made from a structural foam material. 6. The method as described in claim 1 wherein at least two attachment members are provided on at least one of said two ends. 7. A method for manufacture of a plastic handle member for attachment to a vehicle panel member, said handle member having two ends, said method comprising the steps of: molding a foam core in a first mold cavity, said core member having two ends; forming openings in said ends to assist in accurately positioning said molded foam core in a second mold cavity; positioning said core member in a second mold cavity; overmolding a plastic skin on said core member; and forming from said plastic skin material at least one protrusion on each of said two ends; wherein said protrusions are adapted to be positioned in openings in a vehicle panel member. 