The present invention provides methods for rapid detection of bioagents for environmental and product testing. The methods can be used for testing air, water, soil, surfaces of buildings, containers, towers and the like, as well as testing of foodstuff and cosmetics.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of identifying one or more bioagents in a sample comprising the steps of: selecting at least one pair of oligonucleotide primers, wherein one member of said pair of primers hybridizes to a first conserved region of nucleic acid encoding a ribosomal RNA and the other member of said pair of primers hybridizes to a second conserved region of nucleic acid encoding said ribosomal RNA wherein said first and second conserved regions flank a variable nucleic acid region that when amplified creates unique base composition signatures among at least eight bioagents; obtaining a sample suspected of comprising at least one bioagent; amplifying nucleic acid from one or more of said at least one bioagent with said pair of oligonucleotide primers to produce an amplification product; determining the molecular mass of said amplification product by mass spectrometry; calculating the base composition of said amplification product from said molecular mass; and identifying one or more of said at least one bioagent in said sample by comparing said calculated base composition to nineteen or more previously calculated or measured base compositions of amplification products from known bioagents, the amplification products being produced by using said at least one pair of primers. 2. A method of claim 1 wherein the sample is an environmental sample. 3. A method of claim 2 wherein the environmental sample is a water sample. 4. A method of claim 2 wherein the environmental sample is a soil sample. 5. A method of claim 2 wherein the environmental sample is a surface swab sample. 6. A method of claim 2 wherein the environmental sample is from a building or a container. 7. A method of claim 1 wherein the sample is a product sample. 8. A method of claim 7 wherein the product sample is a foodstuff. 9. A method of claim 7 wherein the product sample is a cosmetic. 10. A method of claim 1 wherein the molecular mass of the amplification product is determined by ESI-TOF mass spectrometry. 11. A method of claim 1 wherein said one or more bioagents is a bacterium, mold, fungus or parasite. 12. A method of claim 1 wherein said identifying step identifies said one or more bioagents at the genus level. 13. A method of claim 1 wherein said identifying step identifies said one or more bioagents at the species level. 14. A method of claim 1 wherein said identifying step identifies said one or more bioagents at the sub-species level. 15. A method of identifying one or more bioagents in a sample comprising the steps of: selecting at least one pair of oligonucleotide primers, wherein one member of said pair of primers hybridizes to a first conserved region of a nucleic acid encoding a protein that participates in translation, replication, recombination and repair, transcription, nucleotide metabolism, amino acid metabolism, lipid metabolism, uptake or secretion and the other member of said pair of primers hybridizes to a second conserved region of said nucleic acid encoding a protein that participates in translation, replication, recombination and repair, transcription, nucleotide metabolism, amino acid metabolism, lipid metabolism, uptake, secretion, antibiotic resistance, virulence, or pathogenicity wherein said first and second conserved regions flank a variable nucleic acid region which when amplified creates unique base composition signatures among at least eight bioagents; obtaining a sample suspected of comprising at least one bioagent; amplifying nucleic acid from one or more of said at least one bioagent with said pair of oligonucleotide primers to produce an amplification product; determining the molecular mass of said amplification product by mass spectrometry; calculating the base composition of said amplification product from said molecular mass; and identifying one or more of said at least one bioagent by comparing said base composition to nineteen or more previously calculated or measured base compositions from amplification products of known bioagents produced by using said at least one pair of oligonucleotide primers. 16. A method of claim 15 wherein the sample is an environmental sample. 17. A method of claim 16 wherein the environmental sample is a water sample. 18. A method of claim 16 wherein the environmental sample is a soil sample. 19. A method of claim 16 wherein the environmental sample is a surface swab sample. 20. A method of claim 16 wherein the environmental sample is from a building or a container. 21. A method of claim 15 wherein the sample is a product sample. 22. A method of claim 21 wherein the product sample is a foodstuff. 23. A method of claim 21 wherein the product sample is a cosmetic. 24. A method of claim 15 wherein the molecular mass of the amplification product is determined by ESI-TOF mass spectrometry. 25. A method of claim 15 wherein the bioagent is a bacterium, virus, mold, fungus or parasite. 26. The method of claim 15 wherein said identifying step identifies said one or more bioagents at the genus level. 27. The method of claim 15 wherein said identifying step identifies said one or more bioagents at the species level. 28. The method of claim 15 wherein said identifying step identifies said one or more bioagents at the sub-species level. 29. The method of claim 1 wherein said identifying identifies two or more of said at least one bioagent. 30. The method of claim 29 wherein said two or mote of said at least one bioagent are from two or more different genuses of organism. 31. The method of claim 29 wherein said two or more of said at least one bioagent are from two or more different species of organism. 32. The method of claim 15 wherein said identifying identities two or more of said at least one bioagent. 33. The method of claim 32 wherein said two or more of said at least one bioagent are from two or more different genuses of organism. 34. The method of claim 32 wherein said two or more of said at least one bioagent are from two or more different species of organism. 35. The method of claim 11 wherein the one or more bioagents are from a genus comprising Acinetobacter, Aeromonas, Bacillus, Bacteriodes, Bartonella, Bordetella, Borrelia, Brucella, Burkholderia, Campylobacter, Chlamydia, Chlamydophila, Clostridium, Coxiella, Enterococcus, Escherichia, Francisella, Fusobacterium, Haemophilus, Helicobacter, Klebsiella, Legionella, Leptospira, Listeria, Moraxella, Mycobacterium, Mycoplasma, Neisseria, Proteus, Pseudomonas, Rhodobacter, Rickettsia, Salmonella, Shigella, Staphylococcus, Streptobacillus, Streptomyces, Treponema, Ureaplasma, Vibrio, Yersinia or combinations thereof. 36. The method of claim 25 wherein the one or more bioagents are from a genus comprising Acinetobacter, Aeromonas, Bacillus, Bacteriodes, Bartonella, Bordetella, Borrella, Brucella, Burkholderia, Campytobacter, Chlamydia, Chlamydophila, Clostridium, Coxiella, Enterococcus, Escherichia, Francisella, Fusobacterium, Haemophilus, Helicobacter, Klebsiella, Legionella, Leptospira, listeria, Moraxella, Mycobacterium, Mycoplasma, Neisseria, Proteus, Pseudomonas, Rhodobacter, Rickettsia, Salmonella, Shigella, Staphylococcus, Streptobacillus, Streptomyces, Treponema, Ureaplasma, Vibrio, Yersinia or combinations thereof. 37. The method of claim 25 wherein the one or more virus bioagents are from a viral family comprising Filoviridae, Flaviviridae, Arenaviridae, Bunyaviridae, Adenoviridae, Picornaviridae, Togaviridae, Coronaviridae or combinations thereof. 