A printhead assembly is provided comprising at least one printhead module comprising at least two printhead integrated circuits, each of which has nozzles formed therein for delivering printing fluid onto the surface of print media, and a support member supporting and carrying the printing fluid for the at least two printhead integrated circuits, and a casing comprising a support frame for supporting the at least one printhead module and a cover portion which is removably attached to the support frame.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A printhead assembly, comprising: at least one printhead module comprising at least two printhead integrated circuits, each of which has nozzles formed therein for delivering printing fluid onto the surface of print media, and a support member supporting and carrying the printing fluid for the at least two printhead integrated circuits; and a controller for processing print data and controlling the at least two printhead integrated circuits to print to processed print data; and a casing comprising a support frame for supporting the at least one printhead module and the controller, and an elongate metallic cover portion which is removably attached to the support frame for covering the controller. 2. A printhead assembly according to claim 1, wherein: the at least one printhead module is formed as a unitary arrangement of the at least two printhead integrated circuits, the support member, at least two fluid distribution members each mounting one of the at least two printhead integrated circuits to the support member, and an electrical connector for connecting electrical signals to the at least two printhead integrated circuits from the controller; and the support member has at least one longitudinally extending channel for carrying the printing fluid for the printhead integrated circuits and includes a plurality of apertures extending through a wall of the support member arranged so as to direct the printing fluid from the at least one channel to associated nozzles in both, or if more than two, all of the printhead integrated circuits by way of respective ones of the fluid distribution members. 3. A printhead assembly according to claim 1, wherein: drive electronics are provided for driving the at least two printhead integrated circuits of the at least one printhead module via an electrical connector, the drive electronics incorporating the at least one controller; and the support frame further supports the drive electronics. 4. A printhead assembly according to claim 3, wherein the cover portion is arranged to shield the drive electronics and the printhead integrated circuits from electromagnetic interference by enclosing the drive electronics, the cover portion being formed of aluminium. 5. A printhead assembly according to claim 3, wherein the cover portion comprises fin portions arranged on an outer surface thereof with respect to the support frame so as to be adjacent the drive electronics. 6. A printhead assembly according to claim 5, wherein the cover portion further comprises a heat coupling material portion arranged on an inner surface thereof with respect to the support frame so as to lie between the fin portions and the drive electronics. 