Random samples without replacement are extracted from a distributed set of items by leveraging techniques for aggregating sampled subsets of the distributed set. This provides a uniform random sample without replacement representative of the distributed set, allowing statistical information to be gleaned from extremely large sets of distributed information. Subset random samples without replacement are extracted from independent subsets of the distributed set of items. The subset random samples are then aggregated to provide a uniform random sample without replacement of a fixed size that is representative of a distributed set of items of unknown size. In one instance, a multivariate hyper-geometric distribution is sampled by breaking up the multivariate hyper-geometric distribution into a set of univariate hyper-geometric distributions. Individual items of a uniform random sample without replacement are then determined utilizing a normal approximation of the univariate hyper-geometric distributions and a finite population correction factor.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system that facilitates data mining, comprising: a receiving component that obtains random sample without replacement sets, each random sample without replacement set is extracted from a different independent subset of a distributed set of items of unknown size; and an aggregating component that aggregates the random sample without replacement sets to provide a uniform random sample without replacement set of fixed size that is representative of the distributed set of items. 2. The system of claim 1, the receiving component obtains the random sample without replacement sets from a plurality of entities, each entity extracts a random sample without replacement set from a different independent subset of the distributed set of items. 3. The system of claim 2, the entities comprising Internet web servers. 4. The system of claim 3, the entities obtain random sample without replacement sets that relate to Internet web traffic information. 5. The system of claim 2, the entities comprising at least one robot sensor and/or at least one car sensor. 6. A system that employs the system of claim 1 to facilitate in determining Internet web traffic for at least one Internet web site. 7. The system of claim 1 employs a distributed reservoir sampling technique to facilitate in determining the uniform random sample without replacement set. 8. The system of claim 1, the distributed set of items comprising data relating to an Internet web site. 9. The system of claim 1 employs at least one multivariate hyper-geometric distribution to facilitate in determining the uniform random sample without replacement set. 10. The system of claim 9 transforms at least one multivariate hyper-geometric distribution into a set of univariate hyper-geometric distributions and utilizes a normal approximation to determine what fraction of a random sample without replacement set is employed in an aggregate sample. 11. The system of claim 1, at least one of the entities is physically remote from at least one other entity. 12. A data mining system that employs the system of claim 1 to mine data relating to cellular phone usage, online gaming usage, television usage, email usage, and/or voice over Internet Protocol (VOIP) usage. 13. A method for facilitating data mining, comprising: randomly sampling without replacement an independent subset of a distributed set of items of unknown size to obtain a random sample without replacement set for each independent subset; and aggregating the random sample without replacement sets to provide a uniform random sample without replacement set of fixed size that is representative of the distributed set of items. 14. The method of claim 13, the subset sampling performed by a plurality of entities that each independently extract a random sample without replacement set from different subsets. 15. The method of claim 14, the entities comprising servers that support an Internet web site. 16. The method of claim 13, the distributed set of items comprising data relating to an Internet web site. 17. The method of claim 13 further comprising: employing at least one multivariate hyper-geometric distribution to facilitate in determining the uniform random sample without replacement set. 18. The method of claim 17 further comprising: randomly choosing a number of items {k.sub.1, . . . , k.sub.s} from each entity by sampling from the multivariate hyper-geometric distribution utilizing: .function..times..times..times..times. ##EQU00024## where s is a number of entities, n is a uniform sample size, i is an entity, N.sub.i is a number of items from the distributed set encountered by entity i, n.sub.i=min(n,N.sub.i) is a size of a random sample without replacement set of entity i, n*=min(n,.SIGMA..sub.iN.sub.i) is a size of the uniform random sample without replacement set, k.sub.i.ltoreq.n.sub.i, and .SIGMA..sub.ik.sub.i=n*; and selecting k.sub.i items for each entity i by sampling uniformly without replacement from that entity's random sample without replacement set to construct the uniform random sample without replacement set. 19. The method of claim 17 further comprising: transforming at least one multivariate hyper-geometric distribution into a set of univariate hyper-geometric distributions utilizing: .function..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times. ##EQU00025## where i is an entity, k is a random sample without replacement set item from an entity, N.sub.i is a number of items from the distributed set encountered by entity i, n*=min(n,.SIGMA..sub.iN.sub.i) is a size of the uniform random sample without replacement set, n.sub.i=min(n,N.sub.i) is a size of a random sample without replacement set of entity i, n is a uniform sample size, and k.sub.i is restricted to the values .times. ##EQU00026## and determining at least one individual item of the uniform random sample without replacement set from p(k.sub.i|k.sub.1, . . . , k.sub.i-1) utilizing a normal approximation of the univariate hyper-geometric distributions and a finite population correction factor. 20. A system that facilitates data mining, comprising: means for obtaining a plurality of random sample without replacement sets, each random sample without replacement set is extracted from a different independent subset of a distributed set of items of unknown size; and means for aggregating the random sample without replacement sets to provide a uniform random sample without replacement set of fixed size that is representative of the distributed set of items. 