A reeving system for filming movies, sporting events, or any other activity that requires fluid movement of a camera or other object to any position within a defined volume of space. To accomplish positioning embodiments move an object throughout three-dimensional space by relocating one or more lines that are feed through a plurality of opposing sides of the object. These line(s) (e.g., a cable, rope, string, cord, wire, or any other flexible connective element) which support the object from above or below the object within a volume of space are arranged in way that allows the object to be rapidly moved to and from any location within the defined volume of space. For instance, the system may be arranged to perform dimensional movement using one line configured as an endless loop, one line configured as a half loop, two lines configured as endless loops or two lines configured as half loops. Other embodiments which split the two lines at the X and Y junctions may yield three and four rope embodiments which are in keeping with the spirit of the invention.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for facilitating three-dimensional movement of an object comprising: a non-empty set of line support elements coupled with an object having at least one element for applying a directional force; an X line and a Y line coupled with a plurality of sides of said object and wherein said X line and said Y line are configured to move via said non-empty set of line support elements wherein said X line and said Y line travel through redirection sheaves coupled with said object and wherein said X line and said Y line do not travel directly between supports; an X junction configured to relocate said X line to effectuate X movement of said object; a Y junction configured to relocate said Y line to effectuate Y movement of said object; and, a Z movement device configured to displace said X line and said Y line to effectuate Z movement of said object. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein said X line and said Y line are two line sides of a line. 3. The system of claim 1 further comprising: said X junction comprising an X movement motor having an X movement device coupled with said X line; said Y junction comprising a Y movement motor having a Y movement device coupled with said Y line; and, a Z movement motor coupled with said Z movement device. 4. A method for facilitating three-dimensional movement of an object comprising: relocating an X line associated with an object wherein said X line is reeved through a plurality of supports to effectuate X-movement of said object; relocating a Y line associated with said object wherein said Y line is reeved through said plurality of supports to effectuate Y-movement of said object wherein said X line and said Y line travel through redirection sheaves coupled with said object and wherein said X line and said Y line do not travel directly between supports; and, displacing said X line and Y line to effectuate Z-movement of said object. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein said X line and Y line are two line sides of a line. 6. A system for facilitating three-dimensional movement of an object comprising: means for relocating an X line associated with an object wherein said X line is reeved through a plurality of supports to effectuate X-movement of said object; means for relocating a Y line associated with said object wherein said Y line is reeved through said plurality of supports to effectuate Y-movement of said object wherein said X line and said Y line travel through redirection sheaves coupled with said object and wherein said X line and said Y line do not travel directly between supports; and, means for displacing said X line and Y line to effectuate Z-movement of said object. 7. The system of claim 6 wherein said X line and Y line are two line sides of a line. 