An apparatus for automatically displaying a grade of a liquid crystal display device and operating method thereof, includes a grade determining unit of a liquid crystal display panel; a grade inputting unit for inputting the grade of the liquid crystal display panel whose grade has been determined in the grade determining unit; a grade discriminating unit for transferring the grade of a corresponding liquid crystal display panel based upon receiving data input to the grade inputting unit; a storing unit having a grade displaying unit for classifying the graded liquid crystal display panels according to grades and storing the grades; and a robot driving unit for transferring the liquid crystal display panel to the storing unit according to instructions from the grade discriminating unit.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for automatically displaying a grade of a liquid crystal display panel comprising: displaying a predeterminded pattern on the liquid crystal display panel; a grade determining unit for determining the grade of the liquid crystal panel based on said displayed pattern and for displaying a predetermined pattern on the liquid crystal display panel; a grade inputting unit for inputting the grade of the liquid crystal display panel whose grade has been determined in the grade determining unit; a grade discriminating unit for comparing the input grade of the liquid crystal display device from the grade inputting unit with a value of an inspected liquid crystal display panel and for transferring the grade of a corresponding liquid crystal display panel based upon receiving data input to the grade inputting unit; a storing unit having a grade displaying unit for classifying the graded liquid crystal display panels according to grades and storing the grades; and a robot driving unit for transferring the liquid crystal display panel to the storing unit according to instructions from the grade discriminating unit. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the storing unit includes a plurality of storing devices for classifying the liquid crystal display panels based upon grades. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the storing devices include a grade displaying unit. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the grade displaying unit is an LED display device. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein grade information to be displayed on the grade displaying unit is input in the grade inputting unit. 6. A method of operating an apparatus for automatically displaying the grade of a liquid crystal display device comprising: displaying a grade indicator on grade displaying units installed in a plurality of storing devices of a storing unit where liquid crystal display devices are to be stored; displaying a predetermined pattern on the liquid crystal display device; determining the grade of the liquid crystal display device based on said displayed pattern using a grade determining unit; inputting the determined grade of the liquid crystal display device to a grade inputting unit; comparing the input grade of the liquid crystal display device from the grade inputting unit with a value of an inspected liquid crystal display panel and transmitting the comparison information to a robotic portion; and storing the graded liquid crystal display device in the storing device. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein storing the liquid crystal display device of which grade has been determined includes: transmitting the grade information to a robot driving unit to transfer the liquid crystal display panel which has been inspected from the grade discriminating unit; and transferring and storing the liquid crystal display device in the storing device using the robot driving unit. 