A robotic hand and arm where the fingers are driven by rotational motors with drums, and pulled with cables using rolling friction. The hand extends into a robotic arm through a wrist wherein the wrist is controlled by pneumatic cylinders. Each finger preferably is provided with four manufactured parts and a single pulley. The thumb is provided with three pulleys for independent distal movement. Cables wraps around or over pulleys, eliminating tight bends. A glove is provided about the robotic hand which provides a compressive, liquid resistant membrane.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic apparatus having a mechanical hand for manipulating objects comprising: a plurality of articulated and removable digits, each digit having a plurality of phalanges; wherein a plurality of shafts are provided, one shaft between each phalange, connecting each phalange; a single pulley residing in each digit; a set of cables within each digit, at least some cables of each set of cables engaged about its respective pulley and shafts; a cable housing provided about the cables and wherein each set of cables within each digit comprises at least seven cables including a ligament cable; and a power supply providing movement to the robotic apparatus; wherein the mechanical hand moves by the power supply engaging a pull upon or push upon one or more cables, exerting a force upon a pulley and/or one or more phalanges allowing for the mechanical hand to manipulate with dexterity, control and strength. 2. The robotic apparatus of claim 1, wherein each digit comprises a distal phalange, a middle phalange joined to the distal phalange, a proximal phalange joined to the middle phalange; a metacarpal phalange joined to the proximal phalange; and a palm section joined to each metacarpal phalange of each digit. 3. The robotic apparatus of claim 2, further comprising a plurality of bearings attached at the joining of each phalange and the metacarpal phalange to the palm section. 4. A robotic apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising a robotic arm wherein the power supply resides, the arm connected to the mechanical hand; and a wrist element pivotally connecting the mechanical hand to the robotic arm. 5. A robotic apparatus having a mechanical hand for manipulating objects comprising: a plurality of articulated and removable digits, each digit having a plurality of phalanges; wherein a plurality of shafts are provided, one shaft between each phalange, connecting each phalange; a single pulley residing in each digit; a set of cables within each digit, at least some cables of each set of cables engaged about its respective pulley and shafts; a power supply providing movement to the robotic apparatus; wherein the power supply has one or more rotational motors, and further comprising: a plurality of drums connected to the cables and rotated by the one or more motors for pushing or pulling on the cables; and a wrist pivotally connected to the mechanical hand through a plurality of wrist bearings and controlled by a plurality of pneumatic cylinders with encoders; wherein the mechanical hand moves by the power supply engaging a pull upon or push upon one or more cables, exerting a force upon a pulley and/or one or more phalanges allowing for the mechanical hand to manipulate with dexterity, control and strength. 6. A robotic apparatus having a mechanical hand for manipulating objects comprising: a plurality of articulated and removable digits, each digit having a plurality of phalanges comprising a distal phalange, a middle phalange joined to the distal phalange, a proximal phalange joined to the middle phalange; a metacarpal phalange joined to the proximal phalange; and a palm section joined to each metacarpal phalange of each digit; wherein a plurality of shafts are provided, one shaft between each phalange, connecting each phalange; a single pulley residing in each digit; a set of cables within each digit, at least some cables of each set of cables engaged about its respective pulley and shafts, wherein at least one of the cables is allowed to bend through two different radii, providing a bending ratio that is different between the middle phalange and distal phalange; and a power supply providing movement to the robotic apparatus; wherein the mechanical hand moves by the power supply engaging a pull upon or push upon one or more cables, exerting a force upon a pulley and/or one or more phalanges allowing for the mechanical hand to manipulate with dexterity, control and strength. 7. The robotic apparatus of claim 6, wherein the middle phalange may bend about 90 degrees and the distal phalange may bend about 60 degrees. 8. A robotic apparatus having a mechanical hand for manipulating objects comprising: a plurality of articulated and removable digits, each digit having a plurality of phalanges comprising a distal phalange, a middle phalange joined to the distal phalange, a proximal phalange joined to the middle phalange; a metacarpal phalange joined to the proximal phalange; and a palm section joined to each metacarpal phalange of each digit; including a thumb digit, the thumb digit comprising two or more pulleys wherein at least one pulley is located in between the middle phalange and proximal phalange and a second pulley is located between the proximal phalange and metacarpal phalange; wherein a plurality of shafts are provided, one shaft between each phalange, connecting each phalange; a single pulley residing in each digit; a set of cables within each digit, at least some cables of each set of cables engaged about its respective pulley and shafts; and a power supply providing movement to the robotic apparatus; wherein the mechanical hand moves by the power supply engaging a pull upon or push upon one or more cables, exerting a force upon a pulley and/or one or more phalanges allowing for the mechanical hand to manipulate with dexterity, control and strength. 9. The robotic apparatus of claim 8, wherein the thumb digit further comprises a third pulley located next to the second pulley between the proximal phalange and metacarpal phalange. 10. The robotic apparatus of claim 9, wherein the thumb digit further comprises eight separate cables. 11. A robotic apparatus having a mechanical hand and arm for manipulating objects comprising. a plurality of articulated and removable digits, each digit having a plurality of phalanges including a distal phalange, a middle phalange joined to the distal phalange, a proximal phalange joined to the middle phalange; a metacarpal phalange joined to the proximal phalange, each metacarpal phalange having a plurality of truncated shafts extending from an interior of each metacarpal phalange; and a palm section joined through the truncated shafts to each metacarpal phalange of each digit; wherein a plurality of shafts are provided, one shaft between each phalange, connecting each phalange; a wrist element pivotally connecting the mechanical hand to the arm, controlled by a plurality of pneumatic cylinders; a single pulley residing in each digit; a set of cables within each digit, at least some of each set of cables engaged about its respective pulley; a compressible cable housing provided about the cables running through the wrist element; a plurality of drums connected to the cables wherein the mechanical hand moves by rotating the drums which pull upon or push upon one or more cables attached to the drums, exerting a force upon a pulley and/or one or more phalanges; and a power supply of one or more rotational motors providing movement to the robotic apparatus; wherein the mechanical hand manipulates with dexterity, control and strength. 12. The robotic apparatus of claim 11, wherein the drums, one or more rotational motors and the pneumatic cylinders are housed within the arm wherein engaging the pneumatic cylinders provides a plurality of rotational movements for the hand through the wrist element. 13. The robotic apparatus of claim 11, further comprising a thumb digit having two or more pulleys wherein at least one pulley is located in between the distal phalange and middle phalange and one pulley is located between the proximal phalange and metacarpal phalange. 14. The robotic apparatus of claim 13, wherein the thumb digit further comprises a third pulley located next to the second pulley between the proximal phalange and metacarpal phalange. 15. The robotic apparatus of claim 11, further comprising a plurality of capacitive pressure sensors for measuring pressure on surfaces of the digits. 16. The robotic apparatus of claim 15, further comprising an outer layer around the robotic hand, the outer layer comprising a compressive, liquid resistant membrane. 17. The robotic apparatus of claim 16, wherein the phalanges comprise a metallic surface, and the outer layer comprises a metallic foil lining such that the pressure sensors measure the capacitance between the metallic surface on the phalanges and the metallic foil lining of the outer layer. 18. The robotic apparatus of claim 15, wherein the pressure sensors provide a non-linear voltage and the robotic hand further comprises a plurality of friction surfaces of the phalanges. 19. A robotic apparatus having a mechanical hand for manipulating objects comprising. a plurality of articulated and removable digits including a thumb digit, each digit having a plurality of phalanges comprising a distal, middle, proximal and metacarpal phalange; wherein between each phalange is provided a knuckle integral of each phalange including a distal, middle and proximal knuckle about which the phalange pivots; wherein a plurality of shafts are provided, one shaft between each phalange through each knuckle, and a plurality of bearings are provided about each shaft at each knuckle, the shafts and bearings connecting each phalange; a palm section attachable to each digit through a plurality of truncated shafts and bearings on an interior of each metacarpal phalange; a single pulley residing in each digit except for the thumb digit comprising three pulleys; a set of cables within each digit, wherein particular cables in each of the set of cables engaged about its respective pulley and knuckles encompassing the shafts; a compressible cable housing provided about the cables; a plurality of drums connected to the cable housing and cables; and a power supply of one or more rotational motors providing movement to the robotic apparatus; wherein the mechanical hand moves by rotating the drums which pull upon or push upon one or more cables attached to the drums, exerting a force upon a pulley and/or one or more phalanges allowing for the mechanical hand to manipulate with dexterity, control and strength. 