A carbon dioxide snow apparatus of the present invention includes a carbon dioxide snow generation system and a propellant generation system connected to a common carbon dioxide gas source. The carbon dioxide snow generation system includes a condenser having a at least two connected segments, wherein a first segment has a lesser diameter than the a second segment to provide a stepped expansion cavity for cooling and condensing liquid carbon dioxide into solid carbon dioxide snow. Several snow generation systems, each separately controllable with separate condensers, may be integrated with the propellant generation system and common carbon dioxide source to provide for a multiplicity of carbon dioxide snow applicators for integration into both manual and automated machining processes.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A carbon dioxide snow generation system comprising a condenser having a first flexible capillary segment connectable to a liquid carbon dioxide feed line and a second flexible capillary segment attached to the first capillary segment, the second capillary segment having a greater inner diameter than the first capillary segment, wherein liquid carbon dioxide enters the first capillary segment from the liquid carbon dioxide feed line and progresses toward the second segment, whereupon entering the second segment, at least a portion of the liquid carbon dioxide condenses into solid carbon dioxide particles. 2. The snow generation system of claim 1 and further comprising a third capillary segment attached to the second capillary segment, the third capillary segment having a greater inner diameter than the second capillary segment, whereupon the liquid carbon dioxide and solid carbon dioxide particles pass from the second capillary segment to the third capillary segment at least a portion of the liquid carbon dioxide further condenses. 3. The snow generation system of claim 1 and further comprising an insulator contacting an outer surface of each capillary segment. 4. The snow generation system of claim 1 and further comprising a conduit, the condenser positionable therein, wherein a gas or fluid is transportable through the conduit and about the condenser. 5. The snow generation system of claim 1 wherein each capillary segment includes an inner diameter ranging from about 0.12 millimeters to about 3.18 millimeters. 6. The snow generation system of claim 1 wherein at least one capillary segment is constructed from a polymer material to provide an insulating effect. 7. The snow generation of claim 1 wherein each segment includes a length ranging from about 0.3 meters to about 7.3 meters. 8. An apparatus for producing solid carbon dioxide particles from liquid carbon dioxide, the carbon dioxide particles deliverable to a nozzle, the nozzle independently positionable relative to the apparatus, the apparatus comprising: a first flexible tube; and a second flexible tube adjoined to the first tube, the second tube having a greater inner diameter than the first tube, whereupon introducing liquid carbon dioxide into the first tube, the liquid carbon dioxide progresses to the second tube, whereupon entering the second tube at least a portion of the liquid carbon dioxide condenses to form the solid carbon dioxide particles prior to entering the nozzle. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 and further comprising a third tube adjoined to the second tube, the third tube having a greater inner diameter than the second tube, whereupon the liquid carbon dioxide and solid carbon dioxide particles passing from the second tube to the third tube at least a portion of the liquid carbon dioxide further condenses onto to the solid carbon dioxide particles prior to entering the nozzle. 10. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein the third tube is flexible. 11. The apparatus of claim 8 and further comprising an insulator contacting an outer surface of each tube. 12. The apparatus of claim 8 and further comprising a conduit, the first and second tube positionable therein, wherein a gas or fluid is transportable through the conduit and about the first and second tubes. 13. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein the inner diameter of each tube ranges from about 0.12 millimeters to about 3.18 millimeters. 14. The snow generation system of claim 8 wherein each tube has a length ranging from about 0.3 meters to about 7.3 meters. 15. The snow generation system of claim 8 wherein at least one tube includes a polymeric construction to provide an insulating effect. 16. A carbon dioxide snow generation system comprising: a first tube; a second tube connected to the first tube, the second tube having a greater inner diameter than the first tube; and a third tube connected to the second tube, each tube constructed from a flexible material, the third tube having a greater inner diameter than the second tube, wherein liquid carbon dioxide enters the first tube and progresses toward the second tube, whereupon entering the second tube at least a portion of the liquid carbon dioxide condenses into solid carbon dioxide particles, whereupon passing from the second tube to the third tube at least a portion of the remaining liquid carbon dioxide further condenses onto to the solid carbon dioxide particles. 17. The snow generation system of claim 16 and further comprising an insulator contacting an outer surface of each capillary segment. 18. The snow generation system of claim 16 and further comprising a conduit, each tube positionable therein, wherein a gas or fluid is transportable through the conduit and about each tube. 19. The snow generation system of claim 16 wherein each tube has a length ranging from about 0.3 meters to about 7.3 meters. 20. The snow generation system of claim 19 wherein the inner diameter of each tube ranges from about 0.12 millimeters to about 3.18 millimeters. 21. The snow generation system of claim 16 wherein the system is coilable. 