A system and method for welding projection weld nuts to a work piece. The system and method of the present invention generally makes use of a fixtured work piece having one or more projection weld nuts associated therewith. A resistance welding robot is used to weld the projection weld nuts to the work piece. The welding robot typically has weld electrodes therewith, through which electric welding current is passed to the projection weld nut(s) and the work piece. A first and second contacting electrode is used to transfer electric current from the welding robot electrodes to the projection weld nut(s) and work piece.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for welding a projection weld nut to a work piece, comprising: a work piece fixture for supporting said work piece during welding; a first contacting electrode for transferring electric current to said work piece and said projection weld nut from a first side of said work piece; a second contacting electrode for transferring electric current to said work piece and said projection weld nut from a second side of said work piece; and a resistance welding robot having a pair of gun arms each possessing a weld electrode, said gun arms adapted to press each weld electrode against a corresponding one of said first and second contacting electrodes, thereby applying pressure to said projection weld nut and said work piece; wherein said welding robot weld electrodes thereafter transfer electric current to said projection weld nut and said work piece via said first and second contacting electrodes, thereby effecting welding of said projection weld nut to said work piece. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein said first contacting electrode is a part of said work piece fixture. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein said work piece fixture is moveable to a welding position after being loaded with a work piece. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein said second contacting electrode is supported by an electrode support member that locates said second contacting electrode in a proper welding position. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein said electrode support member is moveable. 6. The system of claim 1, further comprising a locating element for properly locating said projection weld nut and/or said work piece. 7. The system of claim 6, wherein said locating element is associated with said first contacting electrode. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein said second contacting electrode is adapted to be pressed against said projection weld nut or said work piece upon contact by a corresponding welding robot weld electrode. 9. The system of claim 8, wherein said second contacting electrode is spring loaded. 10. A system for welding one or more projection weld nuts to a work piece, comprising: a work piece fixture for supporting said work piece during welding; one or more first contacting electrodes affixed to said work piece fixture and provided to transfer electric current to said work piece and said one or more projection weld nuts from a first side of said work piece; one or more second contacting electrodes affixed to one or more electrode mounting members, said second contacting electrodes located separately from said work piece fixture and provided to transfer electric current to said work piece and said one or more projection weld nuts from a second side of said work piece; a resistance welding robot having a pair of gun arms each possessing a weld electrode, said gun arms adapted to simultaneously contact corresponding pairs of said first and second contacting electrodes with said weld electrodes and to apply pressure against said projection weld nut and said work piece; wherein said weld electrodes of said welding robot transfer electric current to said one or more projection weld nuts and said work piece via said first and second contacting electrodes, thereby effecting welding of said one or more projection weld nuts to said work piece. 11. The system of claim 10, wherein said work piece fixture is moveable to a welding position after being loaded with a work piece. 12. The system of claim 10, wherein said electrode support member is moveable. 13. The system of claim 10, further comprising one or more locating elements for properly locating said one or more projection weld nuts and/or said work piece. 14. The system of claim 13, wherein a locating element is associated with said one or more first contacting electrodes. 15. The system of claim 10, wherein said one or more second contacting electrodes is adapted to be movably pressed against said one or more projection weld nuts or said work piece upon contact by a corresponding welding robot weld electrode. 16. The system of claim 15, wherein said one or more second contacting electrodes is spring loaded. 17. A method of welding one or more projection weld nuts to a work piece, comprising: providing a work piece fixture for supporting said work piece during welding; affixing one or more first contacting electrodes to said work piece fixture, said first contacting electrodes provided to transfer electric current to said work piece and said one or more projection weld nuts from a first side of said work piece; affixing one or more second contacting electrodes to one or more electrode mounting members, said second contacting electrodes located separately from said work piece fixture and provided to transfer electric current to said work piece and said one or more projection weld nuts from a second side of said work piece; providing a resistance welding robot having a pair of gun arms each possessing a weld electrode, said gun arms adapted to simultaneously contact corresponding ones of said first and second contacting electrodes with said weld electrodes and to apply pressure against said projection weld nut and said work piece; loading said work piece to a work piece fixture; locating one or more projection weld nuts to said work piece; and transferring electric current from said welding robot weld electrodes to said one or more projection weld nuts and said work piece via contact between said welding robot weld electrodes and appropriate ones of said first and second contacting electrodes, thereby effecting welding of said one or more projection weld nuts to said work piece. 18. The method of claim 17, further comprising moving said work piece fixture into a welding position after being loaded with said work piece. 19. The method of claim 17, wherein said electrode support member is moveable. 20. The method of claim 17, further comprising providing one or more locating elements for properly locating said one or more projection weld nuts and/or said work piece. 21. The method of claim 17, wherein said one or more second contacting electrodes is adapted to be movably pressed against said one or more projection weld nuts or said work piece upon contact by a welding robot weld electrode. 