The present invention provides a system that enables the use of electrophoretic resists in the microfabrication industry for the production of microelectronic devices and is of sufficiently high quality to be used as a replacement for, or supplement to, current photoresist deposition technology. This system enables the application of electrophoretic resists in automated equipment that meets the standards for cleanliness and production throughput desired by the microelectronic fabrication industry. The system, apparatus and method, for providing electrophoretic resist ("EPR") layers on microelectronic workpieces for the microfabrication of microelectronic devices comprises a deposition station for receiving a microelectronic workpiece and depositing a layer of electrophoretic photoresist (EPR) thereon, a workpiece handling apparatus, and a control unit coupled to the workpiece handling apparatus and the deposition station for coordinating the processing of the workpiece in accordance with a predetermined sequence and set of processing parameters.
Claims We claim: 1. An integrated tool for processing a microelectronic workpiece, comprising: a cabinet; an electrophoretic emulsion (EPE) deposition station in the cabinet, the EPE deposition station having a reactor including a cup configured to contain an EPE and a workpiece holder configured to isolate at least one region of the workpiece from EPE in the cup, wherein the reactor further includes an annular electrode and a gas control system configured to prevent bubbles at the electrode from flowing to a processing zone in the cup, and wherein the gas control system comprises an annular bubble trap extending around an interior portion of the cup and projecting radially inwardly above the electrode; a first wet processing station in the cabinet, the first wet processing station being configured provide a fluid to the workpiece; and a workpiece handling apparatus in at least a portion of the cabinet, the workpiece handling apparatus being configured to contact the region of the workpiece isolated from the EPE to transport the workpiece relative to the EPE station and the first wet processing station. 2. The integrated tool of claim 1 wherein the workpiece holder further comprises a contact assembly having an outer member configured to engage a perimeter portion of the workpiece and isolate a backside region of the workpiece from EPE contained in the reactor. 3. The integrated tool of claim 1 wherein the workpiece holder is configured to hold the workpiece at least substantially horizontal over the cup, and the workpiece holder further comprises a contact assembly having an outer member configured to engage a perimeter portion of the workpiece and isolate a backside of the workpiece from EPE contained in the reactor. 4. The integrated tool of claim 1 wherein: the gas control system further comprises an annual ledge projecting radially inwardly above the electrode and a vent through the cup located under the ledge; and the workpiece holder is configured to hold the workpiece at least substantially horizontal over the cup, and the workpiece holder further comprises a contact assembly having an outer member configured to engage a perimeter portion of the workpiece and isolate a backside of the workpiece from EPE contained in the reactor. 5. The integrated tool of claim 1 wherein the reactor of the EPE deposition station further comprises a fluid control system including a ultrafilter configured to separate EPE flowing through the reactor into a permeate solution and a concentrated electrophoretic solution. 6. The integrated tool of claim 1 wherein the reactor of the EPE deposition station further comprises: a fluid control system including an ultrafilter configured to separate EPE flowing through the reactor into a permeate solution and a concentrated electrophoretic solution. 7. The integrated tool of claim 1 wherein the EPE station further comprises an in-situ rinse assembly having a nozzle for directing a rinse solution against the workpiece at an elevation above the cup and a catch system to collect spent rinse solution separate from EPE contained in the cup. 8. The integrated tool of claim 1 wherein the first wet processing station comprises a pre-cleaning processing station. 9. The integrated tool of claim 1 further comprising a second wet processing station in the cabinet including a capsule configured to develop electrophoretic resist, and wherein the workpiece handling apparatus is configured to transport the workpiece relative to the second wet processing station. 10. The integrated tool of claim 1 further comprising a thermal processing station in the cabinet configured to bake a layer of deposited electrophoretic resist, and wherein the workpiece handling apparatus is configured to transport the workpiece relative to the thermal processing station. 11. An integrated tool for processing a microelectronic workpiece, comprising: a cabinet; an electrophoretic emulsion (EPE) deposition station in the cabinet, the EPE deposition station having a reactor including a processing location configured to deposit electrophoretic material onto a processing side of only a single workpiece and a fluid flow system including a ultrafilter to separate electrophoretic micelles from a permeate solution, wherein the reactor further includes an annular electrode and a gas control system configured to prevent bubbles at the electrode from flowing to a processing zone in the cup, and wherein the gas control system comprises an annular bubble trap extending around an interior portion of the reactor and projecting radially inwardly above the electrode; a first wet processing station in the cabinet, the first wet processing station being configured provide a fluid to the workpiece; and a workpiece handling apparatus in at least a portion of the cabinet to transport the workpiece relative to the EPE station and the first wet processing station. 12. The integrated tool of claim 11 wherein the workpiece holder further comprises a contact assembly having an outer member configured to engage a perimeter portion of the workpiece and isolate a backside region of the workpiece from EPE contained in the reactor. 13. The integrated tool of claim 11 wherein the workpiece holder is configured to hold the workpiece at least substantially horizontal over the cup, and the workpiece holder further comprises a contact assembly having an outer member configured to engage a perimeter portion of the workpiece and isolate a backside region of the workpiece from EPE contained in the reactor. 14. The integrated tool of claim 1 wherein: the annular bubble trap comprises an annular ledge above the electrode and the gas control system further comprises a vent under the ledge configured to entrap gases in EPE contained in the reactor; and the reactor further comprises a workpiece holder configured to hold the workpiece at least substantially horizontal over the cup, and the workpiece holder further comprises a contact assembly having an outer member configured to engage a perimeter portion of the workpiece and isolate a backside region of the workpiece from EPE contained in the reactor. 15. The integrated tool of claim 11 wherein the EPE station further comprises an in-situ rinse assembly having a nozzle for directing a rinse solution against the workpiece at an elevation above the cup and a catch system to collect spent rinse solution separate from EPE contained in the cup. 16. The integrated tool of claim 11 further comprising a second wet processing station in the cabinet including a capsule configured to develop electrophoretic resist, and wherein the workpiece handling apparatus is configured to transport the workpiece relative to the second wet processing station. 17. The integrated tool of claim 11 further comprising a thermal processing station in the cabinet configured to bake a layer of deposited electrophoretic resist, and wherein the workpiece handling apparatus is configured to transport the workpiece relative to the thermal processing station. 18. An integrated tool for processing a microelectronic workpiece, comprising: means for depositing an electrophoretic material onto a microelectronic workpiece from an electrophoretic emulsion in a deposition chamber, wherein the depositing means include a cup for containing the electrophonetic emulsion, a processing zone at which a workpiece is held at least substantially horizontally during processing, an annular electrode in the cup, and a gas control system in the cup configured to prevent bubbles at the electrode from flowing to the processing zone, and wherein the gas control system comprises an annular bubble trap extending around an interior portion of the cup and projecting radially inwardly above the electrode; means for performing an ancillary process on the workpiece using a fluid different than the electrophoretic emulsion in the deposition chamber; means for performing a wet process on the workpiece in a wet processing chamber separate from the deposition chamber; and means for transporting the workpiece from the deposition chamber to the wet processing chamber, the transportation means having an end-effector configured to hold a single workpiece. 