A device (12) picks up at least one semi-conductor wafer (11) from a container (14) of wafers fitted on one side (15) of an aperture (13) in the transfer station (10) of a semi-conductor wafer processing plant. The device is on the opposite side (17) of the aperture and the pick-up is effected through it. The device incorporates a shutter (1) movable between open and closed positions. A wafer picking up means (2) is attached to the shutter and is designed to enter partially within the container below a wafer and seize the wafer by its edge. A pick up moving means (3) moves the picking up means (2) back and forth through the aperture (13).
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A device (12) to pick up at least one disc-shaped semi-conductor wafer (11) from a container (14) of such wafers on one side (15) of an aperture (13) in the transfer station (10) of a semi-conductor wafer processing plant, the device being situated in the space (16) on the opposite side (17) of the said aperture, the device incorporating a moving shutter (1) designed to move between a first, closed aperture, position and a second, open aperture, position allowing access to the interior of the container, a means of moving (18) this shutter between these first and second positions, the said movement taking place, at least in part, in a plane approximately parallel to the plane of the aperture, the said device is identifiable in that it incorporates: means of picking up (2) at least one semi-conductor wafer (11) by partially entering the container below a wafer and then picking up the wafer by its rim, means of moving (3) the said pick-ups (2) between the space on the second side of the aperture and the first side, and back again, means of linking (4) the said shutter with the said pick-up mechanism, the said pick-ups (2) incorporate first (6) and second (7) moving arms designed to adopt an initial position in which they lie approximately parallel and a second position in which they form a specific angle (.alpha.) to one another such that they form a flat, support structure for the semi-conductor wafer (11). 2. A device according to claim 1, identifiable in that the said wafer pick-ups (2) incorporate at least three rollers (21) attached to three extremities of the said first (6) and second (7) arms by means of a freely-rotating attachment such that the said three or more rollers are divided around the semi-conductor wafer (11) when the first and second arms are in their said second moving arm position. 3. A device according to claim 2, identifiable in that each of the said at least three rollers (21) has a lower portion, on which rests the wafer's lower rim surface, and an upper portion, engaging the wafer's rim. 4. A device according to claim 2, identifiable in that each of the said at least three rollers (21) has a tapered base, on which rests the wafer's lower rim surface, and an upper cylindrical section, acting as a rotary stop mechanism for the wafer inside the rollers (21). 5. A device according to claim 1, identifiable in that the said first (6) and second (7) moving arms lie in a region vertically above the moving shutter (1) when in their initial moving arm position and in a region laterally offset from the plane of the aperture when they are in their second moving arm position. 6. A device according to claim 1, identifiable in that it incorporates some means of arresting (35) the pick-ups' (2) mechanism (3) and the said pick-ups in the initial moving arm position. 7. A device according to claim 6, identifiable in that the said arresting means (35) for the pick-ups' (2) mechanism (3) and the pick-ups is coupled with the mechanism (31) of the drive roller (30) used to rotate the rim (19) of the semi-conductor wafer(s) such that the movement of the drive roller causes the movement of the arresting system. 