A method and system for monitoring the activity of a system of one or more electro-mechanical components that receive electrical current from a power supply. The method and system samples an actual current supplied to the electro-mechanical component from the power supply. Next, the method and system reads a theoretical current for the activity of the system. A statistical value is computed from comparing the actual current and the theoretical current. This statistical value is compared to upper and lower threshold values. Depending upon this comparison, the system issues various output messages. Further, if this comparison indicates that one of the electro-mechanical components is failing, the method and system will shut that component down.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for monitoring the activity of a system of one or more electro-mechanical components, said system having a memory and a microprocessor, said electro-mechanical components receive electrical current from a power supply, comprising the steps of: sampling an actual current supplied to said electro-mechanical component from said power supply during said activity; reading a theoretical current for said activity from said memory; and calculating a statistical value for said actual current and said theoretical current via said microprocessor; and outputting a diagnostic message based on said statistical value. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising the steps of: comparing said statistical value to a first threshold value; and outputting a diagnostic message that said activity occurred correctly when said statistical value passes said first threshold value. 3. The method of claim 2, further comprising the steps of: comparing said statistical value to a second threshold value; and outputting a diagnostic message that said activity is degraded when said statistical value fails said first threshold value but passes said second threshold value. 4. The method of claim 3, further comprising the steps of: shutting down said electro-mechanical component when said statistical value fails said second threshold value; and outputting a diagnostic message that said activity failed when said statistical value fails said second threshold value. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein said statistical value is a mean. 6. The method of claim 4, wherein said statistical value is a variance. 7. The method of claim 4, wherein said statistical value is a correlation. 8. The method of claim 4, further comprising the steps of: determining a time period of the duration of said sampling of said actual current; and storing said time period in said memory. 9. The method of claim 4, further comprising the step of storing said statistical value in said memory. 10. A system for monitoring the activity of a system of one or more electro-mechanical components, said electro-mechanical components receive electrical current from a power supply, comprising: means to sample an actual current supplied to said electro-mechanical component from said power supply during said activity; means to read a theoretical current for said activity; and means to calculate a statistical value for said actual current and said theoretical current; and means to output a diagnostic message based on said statistical value. 11. The system of claim 10, further comprising: means to compare said statistical value to a first threshold value; and means to send a diagnostic message that said activity occurred correctly when said statistical value passes said first threshold value. 12. The system of claim 11, further comprising: means to compare said statistical value to a second threshold value; and means to output a diagnostic message that said activity is degraded when said statistical value fails said first threshold value but passes said second threshold value. 13. The system of claim 12, further comprising: means for shutting down said eleotro-mechanical component when said statistical value fails said second threshold value; and means for outputting a diagnostic message that said activity failed when said statistical value fails said second threshold value. 14. The system of claim 13, wherein said statistical value is a mean. 15. The system of claim 13, wherein said statistical value is a variance. 16. The system of claim 13, wherein said statistical value is correlation. 17. The system of claim 13, further comprising: means to determine a time period of the duration of said sample of said actual current; and means to store said time period in a memory. 18. The system of claim 13, further comprising means to store said statistical value in a memory. 19. A logic array readable by a controller, tangibly embodying a program of instructions executable by said controller, to perform method steps for monitoring the activity of a system of one or more electro-mechanical components, said electro-mechanical components receive electrical current from a power supply, comprising the machine executed steps of: said controller sampling an actual current supplied to said electro-mechanical component from said power supply during said activity; said controller reading a theoretical current for said activity; and said controller calculating a statistical value for said actual current and said theoretical theoretical current; and said controller outputting a diagnostic message based on said statistical value. 20. The logic array readable by a controller of claim 19, further comprising the machine executed steps of: said controller comparing said statistical value to a first threshold value; and said controller outputting a diagnostic message that said activity occurred correctly when said statistical value passes said first threshold value. 21. The logic array readable by a controller of claim 20, further comprising: the machine executed step of comparing said statistical value to a second threshold value; and the machine executed step of outputting a diagnostic message that said activity is degraded when said statistical value fails said first threshold value but passes said second threshold value. 22. The logic array readable by a controller of claim 21, further comprising: the machine executed step of shutting down said electro-mechanical component when said statistical value fails said second threshold value; and the machine executed step for outputting a diagnostic message that a failed operation has occurred when said statistical value fails said second threshold value. 23. The logic array readable by a controller of claim 22, wherein said statistical value is a mean. 24. The logic array readable by a controller of claim 22, wherein said statistical value is a variance. 25. The logic array readable by a controller of claim 22, wherein said statistical value is correlation. 26. The logic array readable by a controller of claim 22, further comprising the machine executed steps of: said controller determining a time period of the duration of said sampling of said actual current; and said controller storing said time period in a memory. 27. The logic array readable by a controller of claim 22, further comprising the machine executed step of storing said statistical value in memory. 