An analyzer for moisture or ash testing where a robotic arm retrieves a crucible and sample from a conveyor, inserts it into a small opening in the upper surface of the furnace chamber and deposits it in an aperture on a carousel located within the furnace chamber. The carousel in the furnace chamber manipulates the crucibles within the furnace chamber. The opening in the upper surface of the furnace chamber is positioned such that when the carousel is ready for loading or unloading, an aperture in the carousel for holding the crucibles is aligned with the opening. At appropriate points during the testing cycle, individual crucibles are automatically deposited on a weighing platform connected to an internal balance through vertical motion of the carousel. Once final weighing in the test cycle is performed, the crucible is removed through the opening on the upper surface of the furnace chamber by the same robot arm which placed it in the chamber.
Claims I claim: 1. Apparatus for moisture or ash analysis comprising: a furnace comprising an enclosure with entrance means and a top surface, said top surface having a hole; a balance having a weighing platform positioned within said furnace enclosure; internal rotatable support means located within said furnace enclosure, at a level above said weighing platform, having a plurality of positions arranged in a generally horizontal circular configuration, each of said positions adapted to support a crucible, each of said crucibles holding a sample of the material to be analyzed, wherein one of said positions is aligned with said weighing platform and a different one of said positions is aligned with said hole; external means located outside said furnace enclosure for supporting one or more crucibles; automatic means for transporting crucibles between said external supporting means and said internal rotatable support means through said hole in said top surface of said furnace enclosure; means for rotating said internal rotatable support means; elevation means for vertically shifting said internal rotatable support means to deposit and remove the aligned crucibles on and off said weighing platform; and means for controlling said automatic means for transporting crucibles, said means for rotating said internal rotatable support means and said elevation means to transport crucibles into said furnace enclosure through said hole without having to open said furnace enclosure. 2. Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said controlling means controls said means for rotating said internal rotatable support means and said elevation means to allow weighing of crucibles on said weighing platform while crucibles are being transported through said hole. 3. Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said automatic means for transporting crucibles comprises robot means. 4. Apparatus according to claim 3 wherein said external means for supporting crucibles comprises external weighing means for sequential weighing of the crucibles with and without samples prior to being placed in the furnace enclosure. 5. Apparatus according to claim 4 wherein said robot means comprises a robot arm capable of taking samples from said external means for supporting crucibles after the crucibles and sample have been weighed. 6. Apparatus according to claim 4 wherein said robot means comprises a robot arm capable of lifting the crucible and sample from said external weighing means and placing it into the furnace enclosure. 7. Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said external means for supporting crucibles comprises conveyor means. 8. Apparatus according to claim 4 wherein said controlling means further comprises computer means connected to said external weighing means and said balance, said computer recording the weight of the crucibles weighed by said external weighing means and by said balance. 9. Apparatus according to claim 8 wherein said external means for supporting crucibles comprises conveyor means and further comprising means for moving said conveyor means, said computer means being connected to said conveyor moving means to control the movement of said conveyor means. 10. Apparatus according to claim 1 further comprising computer means operably connected to control said automatic means for transporting crucibles. 11. Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said external means for supporting crucibles comprises conveyor means and external weighing means and wherein said controlling means controls said automatic means for transporting crucibles to transfer crucibles between said external weighing means and said conveyor means. 