Automated apparatus and methods for testing surface finishes. In at least one preferred embodiment, automated apparatus capable of reliably, automatically testing surface finishes in industrial environments. In at least one further preferred embodiment, an automated, robotic surface finish tester programmable to measure surface finishes of a plurality of spatially separate surfaces and simultaneously and/or thereafter displaying, transmitting, processing, and/or storing data related thereto.
Claims I claim: 1. An automated surface finish tester apparatus comprising: a robotic arm having a surface tester probe located proximal a distal end thereof; at least one control means for controlling movement of said robotic arm; at least one control means for controlling said surface tester probe; a vibration dampening mechanism capable of minimizing vibration detected by said surface tester probe; and wherein said automated surface finish tester is capable of automatically testing a plurality of part surfaces against desired part surface specifications and thereby determining part a pass/fail status of the based on conformance or non-conformance of said part, within pre-selected tolerance levels, to said part specification. 2. The automated surface finish tester according to claim 1 wherein said robotic arm includes an engagement block located proximal one end of said robotic arm, said engagement block being designed to engage a part surface to minimize detected vibration transmitted to said surface tester probe. 3. The automated surface finish tester according to claim 2 wherein said engagement block comprises a block body having a plurality of engagement arms extending therefrom, said engagement arms being so constructed and located so that when said tester probe contacts a test surface said engagement arms contact said test surface thereby to stabilize said tester probe relative to said test surface during vibration of said test surface. 4. The automated surface finish tester according to claim 3 wherein said at least one control means for controlling movement of said robotic arm comprises a control module being capable of actuating said robotic arm to orient said surface tester probe at a surface to be tested. 5. The automated surface finish tester according to claim 4 further including a part holder, said part holder being capable of at least incrementally rotating the part to be tested thereby to permit testing of part surface finishes at a plurality of angles of rotation thereof. 6. The automated surface finish tester according to claim 5 wherein said surface finish tester is cable of testing surfaces oriented at angles substantially divergent from one another. 7. The automated surface finish tester according to claim 6 wherein said robotic apparatus is so constructed so as to have at least six axes of rotation. 8. The automated surface finish tester according to claim 6 further including a set of instructions stored as computer executable code in a computer readable storage media, said set of instructions being provided for controlling said robotic apparatus to: load the part to be surface tested onto the part holder; perform a sequence of movements to locate and contact at least one surface area for testing; causing said test probe to detect at least one surface characteristic and compare said surface characteristic to a part specification. 9. The automated surface finish tester according to claim 8 further including a set of instructions stored as computer executable code in a computer readable storage media, said set of instructions being provided for controlling said robotic apparatus to: automatically measure a part surface after self-calibrating said automated surface finish tester. 10. The automated surface finish tester according to claim 8 further including a set of instructions stored as computer executable code in a computer readable storage media, said set of instructions being provided for controlling said robotic apparatus to: automatically compare said measurement of said part surface to an expected measurement, within allowed tolerances, and thereafter determine a pass/fail status of said part. 11. The automated surface finish tester according to claim 5 wherein said automated surface finish tester is a robotic apparatus having the robotic arm extending therefrom, said robotic apparatus having at least six axes of rotation. 