In a holding arrangement (101) for a medical-optical instrument (103), an electric motor is provided in a rotational joint (111, 119) to compensate a load torque occurring in this rotational joint. This electric motor is supplied with current in correspondence to a detected position of the rotational joint (111, 119). A current control curve required for this purpose is stored in a memory. This current control curve can be determined in that the rotational joints are deflected with the electric motor into predetermined positions and the current demand needed therefor is detected. The holding arrangement (101) has a unit for actively damping vibration including a vibration damping control loop. This vibration damping control loop outputs a superposition motor current to the electric motor as an actuating quantity in order to move the rotational joint (111, 119) with the electric motor so that a detected vibration of the holding arrangement (101) is countered.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A holding arrangement for an instrument including a medical-optical instrument, the holding arrangement comprising: at least one rotational joint which is subjected to a load torque by said instrument; and, an apparatus for balancing said load torque applied to said rotational joint; said apparatus including: an electric motor; a detecting unit for detecting a position of said rotational joint and for providing a signal representing a position value for said position of said rotational joint; and, said electric motor being combined with said detecting unit; a control unit for receiving said signal and assigning a motor current to said position value; said control unit outputting said motor current to said electric motor so as to cause said electric motor to generate a counter torque to balance said load torque applied to said rotational joint; a device for actively damping vibrations and said device including: a sensor for detecting a vibration of said holding arrangement and for generating a control quantity; and, a vibration damping control loop connected to said sensor for receiving said control quantity to generate a superposition motor current as an actuating quantity and supplying said actuating quantity to said electric motor to move said rotational joint via said electric motor so as to counter said vibration. 2. The holding arrangement of claim 1, wherein said sensor is one of: an acceleration sensor, a motion sensor or a bending sensor. 3. The holding arrangement of claim 1, said apparatus further comprising a brake assigned to said rotational joint. 4. The holding arrangement of claim 3, said apparatus further comprising a gear assembly for coupling said electric motor to said rotational joint. 5. The holding arrangement of claim 4, said rotational joint defining a rotational axis and said electric motor defining a drive axis offset relative to said rotational axis. 6. The holding arrangement of claim 5, wherein said detecting unit includes an encoder of said electric motor or a position transducer. 7. The holding arrangement of claim 6, said apparatus further comprising an electronic memory assigned to said control unit; and, said electronic memory having a curve of current as a function of rotational joint position or a table of current/rotational joint stored therein. 8. The holding arrangement of claim 7, said apparatus further comprising means for detecting a time-dependent change of the position of said rotational joint. 9. The holding arrangement of claim 8, wherein said control unit includes a closed control loop for receiving said time-dependent change of the position of said rotational joint; and, said control loop outputs a motor current for said electric motor at said rotational joint which counters said change of the position of said rotational joint. 10. The holding arrangement of claim 9, wherein said control unit superposes said motor current outputted by said control loop onto said motor current outputted by said control unit to balance said load torque applied to said rotational joint. 11. The holding arrangement of claim 1, wherein said rotational joint is a first rotational joint and said apparatus is a first apparatus and wherein said holding arrangement further comprises a second rotational joint and a second apparatus for balancing a second load torque caused by said instrument and applied to said second rotational joint. 12. The holding arrangement of claim 11, wherein said electric motor of said first apparatus is a first electric motor and said second apparatus includes a second electric motor; said control unit includes two control loops; and, each of said apparatus further comprises means for detecting a time-dependent change of the position of the rotational joint corresponding thereto and for supplying said time-dependent change to said control loops; and, said control loops output two motor currents for corresponding ones of said electric motors which counter the change of position of said rotational joints. 13. The holding arrangement of claim 1, wherein said instrument is taken up with an articulated parallelogram on a carrier arm. 14. The holding arrangement of claim 1, wherein said holding arrangement is configured as a manipulator for moving an instrument. 15. The holding arrangement of claim 14, wherein a handle is provided for moving said manipulator. 16. A method for determining a current control curve for adjusting an equilibrium state in a holding arrangement which includes: at least one rotational joint which is subjected to a load torque by said instrument; and, an apparatus for balancing said load torque applied to said rotational joint; said apparatus including: an electric motor; a detecting unit for detecting a position of said rotational joint and for providing a signal representing a position value for said position of said rotational joint; said electric motor being combined with said detecting unit; a control unit for receiving said signal and assigning a motor current to said position value; said control unit outputting said motor current to said electric motor so as to cause said electric motor to generate a counter torque to balance said load torque applied to said rotational joint; a device for actively damping vibrations and said device including: a sensor for detecting a vibration of said holding arrangement and for generating a control quantity; and, a vibration damping control loop connected to said sensor for receiving said control quantity to generate a superposition motor current as an actuating quantity and supplying said actuating quantity to said electric motor to move said rotational joint via said electric motor so as to counter said vibration; the method comprising the steps of: rotating said rotational joint about said rotational axis thereof utilizing said electric motor; determining the current demand of said electric motor required to effect the movement of said rotational joint about said rotational axis; determining the instantaneous position of said rotational joint; and, storing said current demand as a current control curve in an electronic memory as a function of the position of said rotational joint. 17. The method of claim 16, comprising the further steps of: determining the current demand needed to move said rotational joint in a first direction utilizing said electric motor; moving said rotational joint in said first direction utilizing said electric motor; determining the current demand needed to move said rotational joint utilizing said electric motor in a second direction opposite to said first direction; and, moving said rotational joint utilizing said electric motor in said second direction opposite to said first direction. 18. The method of claim 17, comprising the further steps of: computing a first mean value for the current demand needed to move said rotational joint in said first direction; computing a second mean value for the current demand needed to move said rotational joint in said second direction; and, storing said first and second mean values in said electronic memory in dependence upon the position of said rotational joint. 19. The method of claim 18, comprising the further step of rotating said rotational joint by a rotational angle of |.phi.|.ltoreq..pi. or |.phi.|.ltoreq..pi./2 or |.phi.|.ltoreq..pi./4 utilizing said electric motor in order to determine said current control curve. 20. A method for adjusting an equilibrium state in a holding arrangement which includes: at least one rotational joint which is subjected to a load torque by said instrument; and, an apparatus for balancing said load torque applied to said rotational joint; said apparatus including: an electric motor; a detecting unit for detecting a position of said rotational joint and for providing a signal representing a position value for said position of said rotational joint; said electric motor being combined with said detecting unit; a control unit for receiving said signal and assigning a motor current to said position value; said control unit outputting said motor current to said electric motor so as to cause said electric motor to generate a counter torque to balance said load torque applied to said rotational joint; a device for actively damping vibrations and said device including: a sensor for detecting a vibration of said holding arrangement and for generating a control quantity; and, a vibration damping control loop connected to said sensor for receiving said control quantity to generate a superposition motor current as an actuating quantity and supplying said actuating quantity to said electric motor to move said rotational joint via said electric motor so as to counter said vibration; the method comprising the steps of: determining an instantaneous position of said rotational joint; and, supplying current to said electric motor in correspondence to a current control curve stored in a memory with said current control curve assigning a current value for torque compensation to said instantaneous position of said rotational joint. 21. The method of claim 20, the method comprising the further steps of: determining an instantaneous change of the position of said rotational joint; and, outputting a current to said electric motor which counters the change of the position of said rotational joint. 22. A method for determining a current control curve for adjusting a state of equilibrium in a holding arrangement which includes: at least one rotational joint which is subjected to a load torque by said instrument; and, an apparatus for balancing said load torque applied to said rotational joint; said apparatus including: an electric motor; a detecting unit for detecting a position of said rotational joint and for providing a signal representing a position value for said position of said rotational joint; and, said electric motor being combined with said detecting unit; a control unit for receiving said signal and assigning a motor current to said position value; said control unit outputting said motor current to said electric motor so as to cause said electric motor to generate a counter torque to balance said load torque applied to said rotational joint; a device for actively damping vibrations and said device including: a sensor for detecting a vibration of said holding arrangement and for generating a control quantity; and, a vibration damping control loop connected to said sensor for receiving said control quantity to generate a superposition motor current as an actuating quantity and supplying said actuating quantity to said electric motor to move said rotational joint via said electric motor so as to counter said vibration; said rotational joint being a first rotational joint and said apparatus being a first apparatus; a second rotational joint and a second apparatus for balancing a second load torque caused by said instrument and applied to said second rotational joint; said electric motor of said first apparatus being a first electric motor and said second apparatus including a second electric motor; the method comprising the steps of: detecting the position of said first rotational joint; with the position of said first rotational joint known, moving said second rotational joint about its axis utilizing said second electric motor; determining the current demand of said second electric motor needed to move said second rotational joint; determining the instantaneous position of said second rotational joint; storing the current demand in dependence upon the position of said second rotational joint as a first current control curve in an electronic memory; thereafter, and for the known position of said second rotational joint, moving said first rotational joint about its axis utilizing said first electric motor; determining the current demand of said first electric motor needed for the movement of said first rotational joint; determining the instantaneous position of said first rotational joint; and, storing the determined current demand in dependence upon the position of said first rotational joint in said electronic memory as a second current control curve. 23. The method of claim 22, comprising the further steps of: detecting the position of a third rotational joint; with the respective positions of said first and second rotational joints known, moving said third rotational joint about its axis utilizing a third electric motor assigned to said third rotational joint; determining the current demand of said third electric motor needed to move said third rotational joint; determining the instantaneous position of said third rotational joint; and, storing said current demand of said third rotational joint in dependence upon the position of said first rotational joint and upon the position of said second rotational joint in an electronic memory as a current control curve. 24. A method for adjusting a state of equilibrium in a holding arrangement which includes: at least one rotational joint which is subjected to a load torque by said instrument; and, an apparatus for balancing said load torque applied to said rotational joint; said apparatus including: an electric motor; a detecting unit for detecting a position of said rotational joint and for providing a signal representing a position value for said position of said rotational joint; and, said electric motor being combined with said detecting unit; a control unit for receiving said signal and assigning a motor current to said position value; said control unit outputting said motor current to said electric motor so as to cause said electric motor to generate a counter torque to balance said load torque applied to said rotational joint; a device for actively damping vibrations and said device including: a sensor for detecting a vibration of said holding arrangement and for generating a control quantity; and, a vibration damping control loop connected to said sensor for receiving said control quantity to generate a superposition motor current as an actuating quantity and supplying said actuating quantity to said electric motor to move said rotational joint via said electric motor so as to counter said vibration; said rotational joint being a first rotational joint and said apparatus being a first apparatus; a second rotational joint and a second apparatus for balancing a second load torque caused by said instrument and applied to said second rotational joint; said electric motor of said first apparatus being a first electric motor and said second apparatus including a second electric motor; the method comprising the steps of: determining an instantaneous position of said first rotational joint; determining an instantaneous position of said second rotational joint; supplying current to said first electric motor and said second electric motor in correspondence to a current control curve stored in a memory; and, wherein said current control curve assigns each of said first and second electric motors a current value for torque compensation in correspondence to the respective ones of said instantaneous positions. 25. The method of claim 24, wherein said holding arrangement further includes a third rotational joint and a third electric motor assigned to said third rotational joint, the method comprising the further steps of: determining an instantaneous position of said third rotational joint; supplying current to said third electric motor in correspondence to a current control curve stored in a memory; and, wherein said current control curve assigns each of said first, second and third electric motors a current value for torque compensation in correspondence to respective ones of said instantaneous positions. 