A system for processing a workpiece includes a process head assembly and a base assembly. The process head assembly has a process head and an upper rotor. The base assembly has a base and a lower rotor. The base and lower rotor have magnets wherein the upper rotor is engageable with the lower rotor via a magnetic force created by the magnets. The engaged upper and lower rotors form a process chamber where a semiconductor wafer is positioned for processing. Process fluids for treating the workpiece are introduced into the process chamber, optionally while the processing head spins the workpiece. Additionally, air flow around and through the process chamber is managed to reduce particle adders on the workpiece.
Claims I claim: 1. An apparatus for processing a workpiece, comprising: a process head assembly having a process head with an upper rotor; one or more process fluid supply sources connected to the process head assembly; a base assembly having a base and a lower rotor; the base having a first magnet and the lower rotor having a second magnet, and with the first magnet repelling the second magnet, wherein the upper rotor is engageable with the lower rotor to form a workpiece process chamber. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising an aspirator connected to an internal cavity formed in the process head for relieving gaseous fluids from the process head assembly. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a motor for rotating at least one of the upper and lower rotors. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising at least one vent aperture formed in the process head assembly. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a plurality of vent apertures formed in the process head assembly. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the lower rotor comprises a plurality of alignment pins for positioning the workpiece in an x-y plane. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the lower rotor has at least one pin extending from a surface thereof and the upper rotor has at least one bore, wherein the pin engages the bore when the upper and lower rotors are engaged. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the upper and lower rotors include a plurality of pins for containing the workpiece. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising one or more process fluid supply sources connected to the base assembly. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein an annular plenum is formed between an interface of the process head assembly and the base assembly. 11. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the lower rotor comprises an annular member that runs circumferentially about the periphery of the lower rotor that mates with the upper rotor to form a fluid seal. 12. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein at least one annular exhaust channel is formed in the base. 13. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the process head further comprises: a head ring connecting the process head and the upper rotor; a motor coupled to the upper rotor; and a vent for introducing air into the workpiece process chamber. 14. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the process head assembly includes a nozzle for introducing a process fluid into the apparatus. 15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the process fluid source supplies a fluid selected from the group consisting of nitrogen, isopropylalcohol, water, ozonated water, sulfuric acid, hydrofluoric acid, air, hydrogen peroxide, and ST-250. 16. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising at least one exhaust port formed in the base. 17. The apparatus of claim 16 further comprising a plurality of exhaust ports formed in the base. 18. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a process head assembly lifter for moving the process head assembly relative to the base assembly. 19. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the process head assembly lifter moves the process head assembly away from the base assembly to an open position. 20. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the process head assembly lifter moves the process head assembly toward the base assembly so that the upper rotor becomes engaged to the lower rotor. 21. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein the first magnet in the base repels the second magnet in the lower rotor and when the process head assembly lifter moves the process head assembly toward the base assembly, the upper rotor contacts the lower rotor forcing the lower rotor toward the base, forming a contact seal between the upper and lower rotors. 22. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein an annular plenum for collecting process fluids is formed in the base. 23. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein the annular plenum communicates with a drain port formed in the base to drain the process fluids from the process chamber. 24. The apparatus of claim 23 further comprising a valve actuator for opening and closing the drain port. 25. The apparatus of claim 24, wherein a plurality of air inlet holes is formed in the head ring. 26. The apparatus of claim 24, wherein a cavity is formed between the upper rotor and the head ring. 27. The apparatus of claim 26, wherein the cavity formed between the upper rotor and the head ring is connected to a vacuum exhaust. 28. A system for processing a workpiece, comprising: a plurality of workpiece stations, with at least one station having an apparatus comprising: a process head assembly having an upper rotor; a base assembly having a base and a lower rotor; the upper rotor engageable with the lower rotor to form a workpiece process chamber; first and second magnets, the first and second magnets creating a force which maintains contact between the upper and lower rotors when the upper and lower rotors are engaged; and a robot moveable between the workpiece stations for moving a workpiece from one station to another station. 29. The system of claim 28 further comprising a process head assembly lifter associated with the at least one station. 30. The system of claim 28, wherein the magnetic force is created by repulsion between the first and second magnets. 31. The system of claim 28, wherein the upper rotor has an opening through which process fluids are applied to a surface of the workpiece. 32. The system of claim 28, wherein the lower rotor has an opening through which process fluids are applied to a surface of the workpiece. 33. The system of claim 28, wherein the upper rotor and a first surface of the workpiece form an upper process chamber and the lower rotor and a second surface of the workpiece form a lower process chamber. 34. The system of claim 28 further comprising means for connecting the lower rotor to the base. 35. An apparatus for processing a workpiece, comprising: a process head assembly having a process head with an upper rotor; a base assembly having a base and a lower rotor, with the lower rotor comprising a plurality of alignment pins for positioning the workpiece in an x-y plane; and the base having a first magnet and the lower rotor having a second magnet, wherein the upper rotor is engageable with the lower rotor via a magnetic force created by the first and second magnets to form a workpiece process chamber. 36. An apparatus for processing a workpiece, comprising: a process head assembly having a process head with an upper rotor; a base assembly having a base and a lower rotor; one or more process fluid supply sources connected to the base assembly; and the base having a first magnet and the lower rotor having a second magnet, with the first magnet repelling the second magnet and wherein the upper rotor is engageable with the lower rotor to form a workpiece process chamber. 37. An apparatus for processing a workpiece, comprising: a process head assembly having a process head with an upper rotor; a base assembly having a base and a lower rotor; at least one exhaust port formed in the base; and the base having a first magnet and the lower rotor having a second magnet repelled by the first magnet, and wherein the upper rotor is engageable with the lower rotor to form a workpiece process chamber. 38. An apparatus for processing a workpiece, comprising: a process head assembly having a process head with an upper rotor; a base assembly having a base and a lower rotor; an annular plenum formed between an interface of the process head assembly and the base assembly; and the base having a first magnet and the lower rotor having a second magnet, with the first and second magnets acting to hold the lower rotor off of the base, and wherein the upper rotor is engageable with the lower rotor to form a workpiece process chamber. 39. An apparatus for processing a workpiece, comprising: a process head assembly having a process head with an upper rotor; a base assembly having a base and a lower rotor; a process head assembly lifter for moving the process head assembly relative to the base assembly; and the base having a first magnet having a first polarity and the lower rotor having a second magnet also having the first polarity, and with the upper rotor engageable with the lower rotor to form a workpiece process chamber. 