A printer assembly is provided having a printhead for printing on a media web conveyed along a path defined between a loading area and a winding area, a processor for configuring the printhead to print onto the media to produce wallpaper, and a consumer tote retained in the winding area. The has a disposable core located within a disposable container configured so that wallpaper produced by the printhead is wound onto the core and packaged in the container.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A printer assembly comprising: a printhead for printing on a media web conveyed along a path defined between a loading area and a winding area; a processor for configuring the printhead to print onto the media to produce wallpaper; and a consumer tote retained in the winding area, the tote comprising a disposable core located within a disposable container configured so that wallpaper produced by the printhead is wound onto the core and packaged in the container. 2. The printer assembly of claim 1, further comprising an internal dryer located between the printhead and the winding area so as to blow air onto the wallpaper. 3. The printer assembly of claim 1, further comprising a cutting mechanism located between the printhead and the winding area so as to divide the wallpaper from the media web. 4. The printer assembly of claim 1, wherein the cutting mechanism comprises a chassis having end plates separated to allow the media web to pass therebetween, the end plates supporting between them a cutting blade so that the blade performs a cutting motion which begins on one side of the web and finishes on an opposite side of the web. 5. The printer assembly of claim 1, further comprising a slitting mechanism located between the printhead and the winding area so as to longitudinally slit wallpaper prior to winding. 6. The printer assembly of claim 5, wherein the slitting mechanism comprises a pair of rotating brackets between which extend a number of transverse shafts having one or more cutters, the brackets being rotatable to allow for the selection of any or none of the shafts for cutting the media web. 7. The printer assembly of claim 1, further comprising a well defined in a cabinet of the assembly adjacent to an exit slot, the well having at each end spindles for aligning, retaining and removing the customer tote so that the core is rotatable. 8. The printer assembly of claim 7, wherein the container of the consumer tote has a main access flap and a pair of core access openings with which the core is aligned, the openings exposing a molded couplings attached to each end of the core, at least one of the couplings being a driven coupling which engages the spindle that rotates the core. 9. The printer assembly of claim 1, wherein the loading area arranged to accept a cartridge containing the media web so that a dispensing slot of the cartridge is adjacent the path. 10. The printer assembly of claim 9, wherein the cartridge has a case of two halves, hinged together, such that an area between the two halves, when closed, defines a the dispensing slot for the blank media web contained in the case in roll form. 11. The printer assembly of claim 10, wherein the case of the cartridge has internally a pair of rollers, at least one of the rollers being a driven roller which is supported at each end by the case for rotation by an external motor. 12. The printer assembly of claim 1, further comprising one or more micro-adjusters for accurately adjusting a gap between the printhead and the media web on the path. 13. The printer assembly of claim 1, further comprising a pre-heater platen located before the printhead. 14. The printer assembly of claim 1, wherein the printhead is at least as wide as the media web and is located across the path. 15. The printer assembly of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to accept operator inputs which are used to configure the printhead. 