A semiconductor substrate centering mechanism includes a plurality of substrate support pins, each pin having a top surface. The top surfaces of the pins define a plane in which the substrate is supported. Each pin has a tab mounted eccentrically at the top surface of the pin. The tabs extend upwardly relative to the top surfaces of the pins. The centering mechanism further includes a pin rotation mechanism adapted to rotate each pin. The pin rotation mechanism rotates the pins between a first position in which the tabs define an envelope that is larger than a circumference of the substrate and a second position in which the tabs define a centered position for the substrate. A telescoping arrangement of nesting shield segments may also be provided for each pin to prevent processing fluid from reaching a shaft of the pin. In one aspect the centering mechanism is coupled to a substrate support of a substrate processing location, and thus allows a substrate to be centered as it is lowered to the processing location.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An apparatus for supporting and centering a substrate, comprising: a substrate chuck having: a plurality of pins, each pin having a top surface and a longitudinal axis of rotation, the top surfaces of the pins defining a plane in which the substrate is supported, each pin having a tab mounted eccentrically with respect to the pin's longitudinal axis of rotation at the top surface of the pin and extending upwardly relative to the top surface of the pin; and a pin rotation mechanism adapted to rotate each pin about a longitudinal axis of the respective pin, the pin rotation mechanism rotating the pins between a first position in which the tabs define an envelope that is larger than a circumference of the substrate and a second position in which the tabs define a centered position for the substrate. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a fluid dispenser positioned relative to the substrate chuck so as to direct fluid to a substrate supported thereby; wherein the fluid dispenser is positioned relative to the substrate chuck so as to direct fluid toward an edge of a substrate supported thereon. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the pin rotation mechanism includes: a plurality of pin rotation mechanisms each mounted concentrically with respect to one of the pins, and a central transmission mechanism adapted to simultaneously transfer rotary motion to each of the plurality of pins. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein the substrate chuck has a central axis of rotation, and the central transmission mechanism is mounted on the substrate chuck's central axis of rotation. 5. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein the plurality of pin rotation mechanisms comprises a plurality of sprockets, and wherein the central transmission mechanism comprises a gear which meshes with each of the plurality of sprockets. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the gear has a hole formed therein concentric with an axis of rotation of the gear, the hole being sized to accommodate a spindle for a rotary chuck. 7. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein each lift pin further comprises a mechanism for preventing lift pin rotation relative to the respective pin rotation mechanism. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein the mechanism for preventing lift pin rotation comprises a spline and a guide through which the spline lifts and lowers. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: a pin lift/lower mechanism adapted to move the pins along the longitudinal axes of the pins; and a controller operatively coupled to the pin rotation mechanism and the pin lift/lower mechanism and adapted to control the pin rotation mechanism and the pin lift/lower mechanism such that the pin rotation mechanism rotates the pins from the first position to the second position while the pin lift/lower mechanism is lowering the pins. 10. An apparatus for supporting and centering a substrate, comprising: a substrate chuck having: a plurality of pins, each pin having a top surface and a longitudinal axis of rotation, the top surfaces of the pins defining a plane in which the substrate is supported, each pin having a tab mounted eccentrically with respect to the pin's longitudinal axis of rotation at the top surface of the pin and extending upwardly relative to the top surface of the pin; a pin rotation mechanism adapted to rotate each pin about a longitudinal axis of the respective pin, the pin rotation mechanism rotating the pins between a first position in which the tabs define an envelope that is larger than a circumference of the substrate and a second position in which the tabs define a centered position for the substrate; a pin lift/lower mechanism adapted to move the pins along the longitudinal axes of the pins; and a controller operatively coupled to the pin rotation mechanism and the pin lift/lower mechanism and adapted to control the pin rotation mechanism and the pin lift/lower mechanism such that the pin rotation mechanism rotates the pins from the first position to the second position while the pin lift/lower mechanism is lowering the pins. 11. An apparatus for supporting and centering a substrate, comprising: a plurality of pins, each pin having a top surface and a longitudinal axis of rotation, the top surfaces of the pins defining a plane in which the substrate is supported, each pin having a tab mounted eccentrically with respect to the pin's longitudinal axis of rotation at the top surface of the pin and extending upwardly relative to the top surface of the pin; and a pin rotation mechanism adapted to rotate each pin about a longitudinal axis of the respective pin, the pin rotation mechanism rotating the pins between a first position in which the tabs define an envelope that is larger than a circumference of the substrate and a second position in which the tabs define a centered position for the substrate. 12. The apparatus of claim 11, further comprising: a pin lift/lower mechanism adapted to move the pins along the longitudinal axes of the pins. 13. The apparatus of claim 12, further comprising: a controller operatively coupled to the pin rotation mechanism and the pin lift/lower mechanism and adapted to control the pin rotation mechanism and the pin lift/lower mechanism such that the pin rotation mechanism rotates the pins from the first position to the second position while the pin lift/lower mechanism is lowering the pins. 14. A method of centering a substrate, comprising: supporting the substrate on a plurality of pins; and rotating each pin about a longitudinal axis of the pin to bring a tab on each pin in contact with the substrate. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein each pin is rotated substantially 90.degree.. 16. The method of claim 14, further comprising: lowering the substrate, via the plurality of pins, onto a chuck after the rotating step. 17. The method of claim 16, further comprising: lowering the substrate during the rotating step. 18. The method of claim 14, further comprising: moving the substrate in a vertical direction during the rotating step. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein the moving step includes lowering the substrate. 20. The method of claim 18, wherein the moving step includes lifting the substrate. 21. A method of centering a substrate, comprising: supporting the substrate on a plurality of pins; and rotating each pin about a longitudinal axis of the pin to bring a tab on each pin into proximity with an edge of the substrate to thereby center the substrate. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein each pin is rotated substantially 90.degree.. 23. The method of claim 21, further comprising: lowering the substrate, via the plurality of pins, onto a vacuum chuck after the rotating step. 24. The method of claim 21, further comprising: moving the substrate in a vertical direction during the rotating step. 25. A method of centering a substrate, comprising: supporting the substrate on a plurality of pins; rotating each pin in a first direction about a longitudinal axis of the pin to bring a tab on each pin into contact with the substrate; and rotating each pin in a second direction that is opposite to the first direction to move the tabs out of contact with the substrate, leaving the substrate in a centered position. 26. The method of claim 25, further comprising: lowering the substrate, via the plurality of pins, onto a chuck after the second rotating step. 27. The method of claim 26, further comprising: lowering the substrate during at least one of the rotating steps. 28. The method of claim 27, wherein the substrate is lowered during both of the rotating steps. 29. The method of claim 25, wherein each pin is rotated less than 1.degree. during the second rotating step. 30. The method of claim 28, further comprising: lowering the substrate during at least one of the rotating steps. 