A Force/Torque (FT) sensor includes memory for storing calibration data associated with the FT sensor. Force and torque analog signals are output to a data acquisition (DAQ) system. The digital calibration data is output to the DAQ system as a digital bitstream comprising a series of predetermined voltage levels driven for predetermined durations. The DAQ system interprets the series of voltage levels on the calibration input as a digital bitstream, receives and quantizes the force/torque signals, and calibrates the force/torque signals using the calibration data. Alternatively, the calibration signals may be routed to a standard serial port on the DAQ system. For small form factor FT sensors, the calibration data may be stored in an associated power supply unit.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A force/torque (FT) sensor, comprising: a sensor housing containing at least one transducer operative to convert an applied force or torque to a transducer electrical signal; electronics operative to convert said transducer electrical signal to a force/torque signal suitable for reception by a data acquisition system; a power supply connected to said sensor housing in power and electrical signal flow relationship, the power supply operative to connect to a data acquisition system via a multi-conductor cable and further operative to transmit said force/torque signal in analog format on the multi-conductor cable; memory for storing digital calibration data associated with said sensor. 2. The FT sensor of claim 1 wherein said electronics and said memory reside within said sensor housing. 3. The FT sensor of claim 1 wherein said power supply is operative to transmit said force/torque signal in analog format on one channel of the multi-conductor cable, and to transmit said digital calibration data as a digital bitstream on another channel of the multi-conductor cable. 4. The FT sensor of claim 3 wherein said force/torque signal and said calibration data are transmitted as differential pairs. 5. The FT sensor of claim 1 wherein said electronics and said memory reside within said power supply. 6. The FT sensor of claim 1 further comprising a data acquisition system connected to said power supply via a multi-conductor cable and operative to receive said force/torque signal and said calibration data as analog inputs. 7. The FT sensor of claim 6 wherein said data acquisition system interprets said calibration data as a digital bitstream. 8. The FT sensor of claim 1 further comprising: a data acquisition system connected to said power supply via a multi-conductor cable to receive said force/torque signal; and a data communications port also connected to said power supply via a multi-conductor cable to receive said calibration data. 9. The FT sensor of claim 8 wherein said data communications port complies with the EIA RS-232 standard. 10. The FT sensor of claim 9 wherein the two differential lines of said multi-conductor cable carrying said calibration data are connected to the receive data and signal ground connectors of said data communications port. 