An abrasion-resistant jacket for a flexible cable with a cable core and a jacket made of an abrasion-resistant thermoplastic material surrounding the cable core, particularly for a drag chain cable or a robot cable. The jacket includes an inner extruded plastic layer (2) and an outer jacket layer (4). Between the inner plastic layer (2) and the outer jacket layer (4) is a layer (3) of monofilaments made of a chemically and thermally stable material with a visual coverage of 40 to 70%. The outer jacket layer (4) is applied by pressure extrusion, such that the spaces in the layer (3) are almost filled by the material of the outer jacket layer, and the layer (3) adheres to the inner sheath layer (2).
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A flexible cable with an abrasion resistant sheath made of thermoplastic material, particularly a drag chain cable or a robot cable, wherein the sheath comprises: an inner extruded plastic layer (2); a metal braided shield (5); a separation layer of a non-woven material or a plastic foil (6) surrounding said metal braided shield; a braiding (3) surrounding said separation layer with a visual coverage of 40% to 70% , the braiding (3) consisting of monofilaments, said monofilaments comprising a plurality of filaments of a material which is chemically and thermally stable; and an outer plastic layer (4) over said braiding and applied by pressure extrusion, such that the spaces in the braiding (3) are nearly filled by the material of the outer plastic layer (4), wherein the diameter of said monofilaments is between 0.15 and 0.25 mm, and the monofilaments contain a flame-proofing agent. 2. A flexible cable as claimed in claim 1, wherein said monofilaments are made of polyamide, preferably polyamide 6. 3. A flexible cable as claimed in claim 1, wherein the monofilaments made of polyethersulfone. 4. A flexible cable as claimed in claim 1, wherein the non-woven material or the plastic foil (6) is coated with a powder that swells in the presence of moisture. 5. A flexible cable as claimed in claim 1, said cable including a plurality of wires embedded in an inner sheath. 6. A flexible cable as claimed claim 1, wherein said visual coverage is between 50% and 65%. 7. A flexible cable as claimed in claim 1, wherein the jacket is made of at least one material selected from the group consisting of polyurethane, polyvinylchloride or a thermoplastic elastomer. 