A robot that includes an arm coupled to a platform. The arm includes an actuator that moves a second arm linkage relative to a first arm linkage. In a first mode of operation the actuator moves the second linkage in a first degree of freedom. In a second mode of operation the actuator moves the second linkage in a second degree of freedom. The use of a single actuator to provide two degrees of freedom reduces the number parts and associated cost of the arm. The arm further includes a grasper that can grab an object such as a wheelchair. The robot can be used to push the wheelchair. Commands to operate the robot can be generated at a remote input station and transmitted through a broadband network.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot, comprising: a mobile holonomic platform; a camera coupled to said mobile holonomic platform; an arm that has a first linkage and a second linkage that are coupled to said mobile holonomic platform, said arm having a single actuator that moves said second linkage relative to said first linkage in a first degree of freedom in a first mode, and in a second degree of freedom in a second mode; and, a first grasper coupled to said arm. 2. The robot of claim 1, further comprising a monitor coupled to said mobile holonomic platform. 3. The robot of claim 1, wherein further comprising a shoulder actuator coupled to said arm. 4. The robot of claim 1, wherein said arm has an elbow actuator. 5. The robot of claim 1, wherein said first grasper is coupled to a wrist joint of said arm. 6. The robot of claim 1, further comprising a second grasper coupled to said arm. 7. The robot of claim 1, wherein said first degree of freedom pivots about an elbow axis and said second degree of freedom slides relative to the elbow axis. 8. A robot system, comprising: a broadband network; a remote station coupled to said broadband network, said remote station having a handle that can be manipulated to generate movement signals that are transmitted through said broadband network; a robot that is coupled to said broadband network and receives said movement signals from said handle of said remote station, said robot including; a mobile holonomic platform; a camera coupled to said mobile holonomic platform; an arm coupled to said mobile holonomic platform, said arm includes a first linkage, and a second linkage coupled to said first linkage, said arm further having a single actuator that moves said second linkage relative to said first linkage in a first degree of freedom in a first mode, and in a second degree of freedom in a second mode in response to said movement signals; and, a first grasper coupled to said arm. 9. The robot system of claim 8, further comprising a monitor coupled to said mobile holonomic platform. 10. The robot system of claim 8, wherein further comprising a shoulder actuator coupled to said arm. 11. The robot system of claim 8, wherein said arm has an elbow actuator. 12. The robot system of claim 8, wherein said first grasper is coupled to a wrist joint of said arm. 13. The robot system of claim 8, further comprising a second grasper coupled to said arm. 14. The robot system of claim 8, wherein said first degree of freedom pivots about an elbow axis and said second degree of freedom slides relative to the elbow axis. 