A method and system is provided for detecting, commanding and controlling diverse home devices currently connected to a home network. An interface is provided for accessing the home devices that are currently connected to a home network. According to the method, a device link file is generated, wherein the device link file identifies home devices that are currently connected to the home network. A device link page is created, wherein the device link page contains a device button that is associated with each home device that is identified in the device link file. A hyper-text link is associated with each device button, wherein the hyper-text link provides a link to an HTML page that is contained on the home device that is associated with the device button, and the device link page is displayed on a browser based home device.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for providing a user interface for controlling devices that are currently connected to a network, the method comprising the steps of, for one or more of said devices: (a) obtaining information from devices currently connected to the network, said information including device information; (b) generating a user interface description in one or more devices based at least on the obtained information, the user interface description in each device including at least one reference associated with the device information of each of said devices currently connected to the network, the device information including a user control interface description in each corresponding device; and (c) displaying one or more user interfaces each based on one of said one or more user interface descriptions, on one or more devices connected to the network capable of displaying a user interface, and based on user selection of each reference in a user interface, displaying a corresponding device user interface, for user control of said devices that are currently connected to the network. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of displaying each user interface further includes the steps of: using each reference in the corresponding user interface description to access the associated information in each device; generating the user interface including device data corresponding to each device using the accessed information in each device; and displaying the user interface on said device capable of displaying a user interface. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein: generating each user interface description further includes the steps of generating each user interface description such that each reference in that user interface description is to at least the user control interface description in each corresponding device; and displaying a corresponding device user interface based on user selection of a reference further includes the steps of: using the selected reference to access the associated user control interface description contained in the corresponding device; generating a device user interface for said corresponding device using the accessed user control interface description in that device; and displaying the device user interface on a device capable of displaying a user interface, for user control of said device via the displayed device user interface. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of generating a user interface description further comprises the steps of: associating a hyper-text link with the device information of each of said devices currently connected to the network. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said information in each device comprises an HTML page contained in that device. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of displaying the user interface further comprises the steps of: displaying the user interface on a browser on said device capable of displaying a user interface. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising the steps of: connecting at least one client device to the network capable of displaying a user interface; and displaying a user interface on the client device using the references in a user interface description, for controlling devices that are currently connected to the network. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein said at least one device is capable of displaying a user interface, and further comprising the steps of: displaying a user interface on said at least one device using the references in the user interface description, for controlling devices that are currently connected to the network. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the step (b) further includes the steps of generating each user interface description such that the reference in that user interface description provides access to at least the information in each corresponding device. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the step (b) further includes the steps of generating each user interface description such that the user interface description further includes device data corresponding to each device based on the information obtained from each device. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the device information in each device includes device identification information. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the device information in each device includes a user control interface description for user interaction with the device. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the step (b) further includes the steps of generating each user interface description wherein that user interface description further includes device data corresponding to each device based on the information obtained from each device, the device data providing reference to the user control interface description in each device. 