An assembly for promoting the growth of plant tissues that includes a plurality of plates each defining an array of wells wherein each of the wells contains a tissue sample. Support for the plates is provided by a rack having a plurality of vertically stacked shelves that may include one or more register depressions that urge the plates into predetermined positions. Light for the tissue samples is provided by a plurality of light-emitting diode arrays each mounted on a circuit board. Each circuit board is supported by a respective card edge connector of the rack so that the light-emitting diodes are in proximity to the plates supported on one of the shelves therebelow. Preferably, the light-emitting diode array corresponds to the well array supported in the registered position on the shelf therebelow so that each light-emitting diode is centered above a respective one of the wells.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An assembly for promoting growth of tissue samples requiring light to support proliferation, said assembly comprising: a plurality of plates, each of the plates defining therein a plurality of wells arranged in a well array, each of the plurality of wells configured to support and isolate one of the tissue samples; a rack including a plurality of supports spaced from each other and configured to support at least one of the plates; a plurality of light-emitting diode arrays supported by the rack and cooperating respectively with the supports so that light from the light-emitting diode array shines into the wells of the plate and promotes growth of the tissue samples contained therein; and a robotic system configured to automatically load the tissue samples into each of the plurality of wells in the plurality of plates and to position each of the plurality of plates on one of the plurality of supports opposite one of the plurality of light-emitting diode arrays and to remove each of the plurality of well plates from one of the plurality of supports for additional downstream processing. 2. An assembly of claim 1, wherein each of the supports include a register device which urges the plate supported thereon into a register position such that each of the light emitting diodes is centered opposite its respective one of the wells. 3. An assembly of claim 2, wherein the support comprises a shelf and the register device is a register depression defined in the shelf. 4. An assembly of claim 2, wherein the register device is selected from the group consisting of: photo-optic sensors; mechanical stops; or magnetic registers. 5. An assembly of claim 1, wherein the rack further comprises a volume, measured in cubic feet defined by a length, a width, and a height of the rack such that the rack supports the plurality of plates in a high-density arrangement such that the rack contains at least about 288 wells per cubic foot. 6. An assembly of claim 1, wherein each of the plurality of light-emitting diode arrays emits a full spectrum of light frequencies. 7. An assembly for promoting growth of tissue samples requiring light to support proliferation, said assembly comprising: a plurality of plates, each of the plates defining therein a plurality of wells arranged in a well array, each of the plurality of wells configured to support and isolate one of the tissue samples; a rack including a plurality of supports spaced from each other and configured to support at least one of the plates; a plurality of light-emitting diode arrays supported by the rack and cooperating respectively with the supports so that light from the light-emitting diode array shines into the wells of the plate and promotes growth of the tissue samples contained therein, wherein each of the light-emitting diode arrays comprises a plurality of light-emitting diodes arranged in an array corresponding to the well array of the plate such that each of the light emitting diodes is positioned opposite a respective one of the wells; and a robotic system configured to automatically load the tissue samples into each of the plurality of wells in the plurality of plates and to position each of the plurality of plates on one of the plurality of supports opposite one of the plurality of light-emitting diode arrays and to remove each of the plurality of well plates from one of the plurality of supports for additional downstream processing. 8. An assembly of claim 7, wherein each of the supports include a register device which urges the plate supported thereon into a register position such that each of the light emitting diodes is centered opposite its respective one of the wells. 9. An assembly of claim 8, wherein the support comprises a shelf and the register device is a register depression defined in the shelf. 10. An assembly of claim 8, wherein the register device is selected from the group consisting of: photo-optic sensors; mechanical stops; or magnetic registers. 11. An assembly of claim 7, wherein the rack further comprises a volume, measured in cubic feet defined by a length, a width, and a height of the rack such that the rack supports the plurality of plates in a high-density arrangement such that the rack contains at least about 288 wells per cubic foot. 12. An assembly of claim 7, wherein each of the plurality of light-emitting diodes emits a full spectrum of light frequencies. 13. An assembly for housing a plurality of plates and supplying light to a plurality of tissue samples, each of the plates defining therein a plurality of wells arranged in a well array, each of the plurality of wells supporting one of the tissue samples, said assembly comprising: a rack including a plurality of supports spaced from each other; a plurality of light-emitting diode arrays each including a plurality of light-emitting diodes arranged in an array corresponding to the well array wherein each of the light-emitting diode arrays is supported by the rack opposite a respective one of the shelves so that light from each of the light-emitting diodes shines into a respective one of the wells of the plate supported on the shelf; and a robotic system configured to load each of the plurality of wells with one of the plurality of tissue samples, and to position each of the plurality of plates in one of the plurality of supports, and to remove each of the plurality of plates from one of the plurality of supports for additional downstream processing. 14. An assembly of claim 13, wherein each of the shelves is configured to urge at least one of the plurality of plates into a register position. 15. An assembly of claim 13, wherein each of the shelves defines a register depression shaped to urge the plate into a register position. 16. An assembly of claim 13, wherein the rack further comprises a volume, measured in cubic feet defined by a length, a width, and a height of the rack such that the rack supports the plurality of plates in a high-density arrangement such that the rack contains at least about 288 wells per cubic foot. 17. An assembly of claim 13, wherein each of the plurality of light-emitting diodes emits a full spectrum of light frequencies. 18. An assembly for promoting growth of tissue samples requiring light to support proliferation, said assembly comprising: a plurality of plates, each of the plates defining therein a plurality of wells arranged in a well array, each of the plurality of wells configured to support and isolate one of the tissue samples; a rack including a plurality of supports spaced from each other and configured to support at least one of the plates; a plurality of light-emitting diode arrays supported by the rack and cooperating respectively with the supports so that light from the light-emitting diode array shines into the wells of the plate and promotes growth of the tissue samples contained therein, wherein each of the light-emitting diode arrays includes a circuit board and a plurality of light-emitting diodes carried by the circuit board and wherein the rack further includes a plurality of card edge connectors each configured to receive the circuit board of one of the light-emitting diode arrays and support the circuit board and light-emitting diodes above the respective one of the shelves; and a robotic system configured to load each of the plurality of wells with one of the plurality of tissue samples, and to position each of the plurality of plates in one of the plurality of supports, and to remove each of the plurality of plates from one of the plurality of supports for additional downstream processing. 19. An assembly of claim 18, wherein the rack further comprises a volume, measured in cubic feet defined by a length, a width, and a height of the rack such that the rack supports the plurality of plates in a high-density arrangement such that the rack contains at least about 288 wells per cubic foot. 20. An assembly of claim 18, wherein each of the plurality of light-emitting diodes emits a full spectrum of light frequencies. 