Methods and apparatus are provided for the chemical mechanical planarization (CMP) of a surface of a work piece. In accordance with one embodiment of the invention the apparatus comprises a plurality of CMP systems, a plurality of load cups for loading unprocessed work pieces into and unloading processed work pieces from the plurality of CMP systems, a plurality of cleaning stations for cleaning processed work pieces unloaded from the CMP systems, and a single robot configured to transfer unprocessed work pieces to the plurality of load cups and to transfer processed work pieces from the load cups to the plurality of cleaning stations.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A chemical mechanical planarization (CMP) apparatus comprising: a plurality of CMP stations, each of the plurality of CMP stations comprising a polish platen configured to support a polish pad and wherein at least two of the plurality of CMP stations have polish platens vertically offset from each other; a plurality of load cups for loading unprocessed work pieces into and unloading processed work pieces from the plurality of CMP stations, each of the plurality of load cups configured to pivot between a load position and an off-load position and wherein at least one of the plurality of load cups overlies another of the plurality of load cups in the off-load position; a plurality of cleaning stations for cleaning processed work pieces unloaded from the plurality of CMP stations; and a single robot configured to transfer unprocessed work pieces to the plurality of load cups and to transfer processed work pieces from the load cups to the plurality of cleaning stations. 2. The chemical mechanical planarization (CMP) apparatus of claim 1 wherein at least two of the plurality of load cups are vertically offset from each other in the off-load position. 3. The chemical mechanical planarization (CMP) apparatus of claim 1 wherein the plurality of CMP stations are arrayed in two spaced apart rows and the single robot is positioned between the two spaced apart rows. 4. The chemical mechanical planarization (CMP) apparatus of claim 3 wherein the single robot is configured to pivot about an axis to a raised position to allow access to the plurality of CMP stations. 5. The chemical mechanical planarization (CMP) apparatus of claim 3 further comprising a raised floor positioned between the two spaced apart rows and affording access to the plurality of CMP stations. 6. The chemical mechanical planarization (CMP) apparatus of claim 5 wherein the raised floor covers a chemical distribution system module for conveying chemicals to the plurality of CMP stations, the raised floor having a plurality of removable access covers. 7. The chemical mechanical planarization (CMP) apparatus of claim 3 further comprising an electrical cabinet positioned at an end of one of the two spaced apart rows, the electrical cabinet configured to have access doors on three sides. 8. The chemical mechanical planarization (CMP) apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a chemical drain coupled to at least one of the plurality of CMP stations to collect chemical effluent from the at least one of the plurality of CMP stations, the chemical drain coupled to an effluent separator. 9. The chemical mechanical planarization (CMP) apparatus of claim 8 wherein the effluent separator comprises a vertical chimney configured to separates liquids from gases in the chemical effluent. 10. The chemical mechanical planarization (CMP) apparatus of claim 9 wherein the vertical chimney comprises a divided vertical chimney having a liquid drain at a lower extremity of a first portion of the divided vertical chimney and a vapor exhaust at a lower extremity of a second portion of the divided vertical chimney. 11. A chemical mechanical planarization (CMP) apparatus comprising: a plurality of CMP stations, each of the plurality of CMP stations comprising: a wafer carrier head; and a polish platen wherein at least two of the plurality of CMP stations have polish platens vertically offset from each other; and a plurality of load cups for loading unprocessed work pieces into and unloading processed work pieces from the plurality of CMP stations, wherein each of the plurality of load cups is configured to pivot between a load position and an off-load position and wherein at least one of the plurality of load cups overlies another of the plurality of load cups in the off-load position. 