Methods, systems, and apparatuses are described for expanding an area of a semiconductor wafer, an enhancing die transfer capability. A wafer is attached to a support structure. The wafer is separated on the support structure into a plurality of dies. An area of the support structure is increased to increase a space between adjacent dies of the plurality of dies. Dies may be transferred from the expanded support structure.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for enhancing die transfer capability, compnsing: (A) receiving a plurality of dies of a separated wafer on a support structure; (B) increasing an area of the support structure to increase a space between adjacent dies of the plurality of dies; (C) inserting a solidifiable material into the increased space between adjacent dies; (D) causing the solidifiable material to harden into a solid grid that removably holds the plurality of dies; (E) removing the support structure from the solid grid that removably holds the plurality of dies; and (F) transferring at least one die of the plurality of dies from the solid grid while the solid grid remains substantially intact. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein step (F) comprises: (1) transferring at least one die of the plurality of dies from the solid grid to a surface. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the surface is a surface of a substrate, wherein step (1) comprises: transferring at least one die of the plurality of dies from the solid grid to the substrate. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein step (F) comprises: transferring the plurality of dies from the solid grid to a plurality of substrates having a spacing that corresponds to the increased space between adjacent dies of the plurality of dies. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein step (F) comprises: transferring the plurality of dies from the solid grid to a structure having a plurality of receptacles that are spaced according to the increased space between adjacent dies of the plurality of dies. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein step (F) comprises: (1) transferring the plurality of dies from the solid grid to a die plate having a plurality of die attach positions that are spaced according to the increased space between adjacent dies of the plurality of dies. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein step (1) comprises: punching through holes in the die plate to transfer dies from the die plate to a subsequent surface. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein step (B) comprises: stretching the support structure along at least one axis in a plane of the support structure. 9. The method of claim 1, further comprising: (F) attaching a die plate to the solid grid. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein step (A) comprises: attaching a wafer to a support structure; and separating the wafer on the support structure into the plurality of dies. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein step (B) comprises: stretching the support structure along a first axis. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein step (B) comprises: stretching the support structure along a first axis and along a second axis that is orthogonal to the first axis. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein step (C) comprises: inserting a liquid solidifiable material into the increased space between adjacent dies. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein step (C) comprises: inserting an epoxy into the increased space between adjacent dies. 