A multi-axis, computerized numerically-controlled (CNC) toolhead positioning device with six degrees of freedom of movement while utilizing only five axes of movement, comprising a rotating workpiece mount assembly (28) and a rotating gantry (64) with a mounted toolhead assembly base (80). Perpendicular rotational axes about a mounted workpiece (26) provide the capability to perform specific toolhead operations on the arcuate surface of the workpiece (26), subject to the type of mounted toolhead assembly. The computer (120) uses CNC software to integrate operator instructions, machining operations, and the sequence of operations into an automatic and coherent machining package.
Claims We claim: 1. A multi-axis, processor-controlled, toolhead positioning device comprising: (a) a base plate; (b) a first rotary table mounted on said base plate; (c) a first rotary motor attached to said first rotary table for rotation of said first rotary table in a rotational C-axis; (d) a workpiece mount assembly rotatably supported on said first rotary table for rotation in the rotational C-axis; (e) means for elevating said workpiece mount assembly so that it moves up and down along a vertical Z-axis normal to said base plate; (f) means for securing a workpiece to said workpiece mount assembly; (g) at least one vertical support arm attached to said base plate; (h) a gantry pivotably supported on said vertical support arm for rotation about the workpiece in a rotational A-axis; (i) means for rotating said gantry so that it rotates about the workpiece in the rotational A-axis; (j) a toolhead assembly base slidably mounted on said gantry; (k) means for moving said toolhead assembly base so that it travels along linear X and Y-axes; and (l) a computer for generating and coordinating control signals sent to said multi-axis, processor-controlled, toolhead positioning device. 2. The device of claim 1, wherein said workpiece mount assembly comprises: (a) a support tube, mounted to said first rotary table, positioned above and normal to said base plate; and (b) a translating tube, situated inside and extending above said support tube. 3. The device of claim 2, wherein said means for elevating said workpiece mount assembly comprises: (a) a first linear motor mounted to the bottom of said support tube; and (b) a translating screw connecting said first linear motor to the bottom of said translating tube. 4. The device of claim 3, wherein said means for securing comprises: (a) a support mount attached to the top of said translating tube; (b) an elastic grommet attached to the top of said support mount; (c) a vacuum chamber located within said translating tube; and (d) a vacuum line connected to said vacuum chamber for applying a vacuum from a source of negative pressure. 5. The device of claim 4, wherein said vertical support arm comprises: (a) a first vertical support arm mounted to said base plate; and (b) a second vertical support arm mounted to said base plate, positioned opposite and parallel to said first vertical support arm. 6. The device of claim 5, wherein said gantry comprises: (a) a gantry bridge assembly; (b) a first gantry arm attached at one end to said gantry bridge assembly, with the other end attached to said first vertical support arm; and (c) a second gantry arm attached at one end to said gantry bridge assembly, with the other end attached to said second vertical support arm. 7. The device of claim 6, wherein said means for rotating comprises: (a) a second rotary table mounted between said second vertical support arm and said second gantry arm; and (b) a second rotary motor attached to said second rotary table. 8. The device of claim 7, wherein said means for moving comprises: (a) an X-axis carriage slidably mounted on top of said gantry bridge assembly; (b) a second linear motor mounted on top of said gantry bridge assembly; (c) an X-axis leadscrew connecting said second linear motor to said X-axis carriage for movement of said X-axis carriage in linear direction along the X-axis of said gantry bridge assembly; (d) a carriage mounting bracket mounted to the top of said X-axis carriage and to the bottom of said toolhead assembly base; (e) a third linear motor mounted to the back of said carriage mounting bracket; and (f) a Y-axis leadscrew connecting said third linear motor to said toolhead assembly base for movement of said toolhead assembly base in a linear direction along the Y-axis of said gantry bridge assembly. 9. The device of claim 8, further comprising a plurality of mounting bolts attached to both ends of said gantry bridge assembly, said mounting bolts fitted onto and through the ends of said first and second gantry arms, for aligning a toolhead to a reference point relative to the workpiece. 10. The device of claim 8, further comprising: (a) a third rotary table mounted onto the end of said first gantry arm, side opposite said gantry bridge assembly; (b) a plurality of mounting bolts attached to both ends of said gantry bridge assembly; (c) said third rotary table connected to said gantry bridge assembly by said mounting bolts protruding through said first gantry arm, said mounting bolts attached to said third rotary table; and (d) a third rotary motor attached to said third rotary table, for rotation of said third rotary table in the A-axis, whereby a toolhead can be aligned to a reference point relative to the workpiece. 11. The device of claim 3, wherein said means for securing comprises a clamping device mounted to the top of said translating tube. 12. The device of claim 11, wherein said vertical support arm comprises: (a) a first vertical support arm mounted to said base plate; and (b) a second vertical support arm mounted to said base plate, positioned opposite and parallel to said first vertical support arm. 13. The device of claim 12, wherein said gantry comprises: (a) a gantry bridge assembly; (b) a first gantry arm attached at one end to said gantry bridge assembly, with the other end attached to said first vertical support arm; and (c) a second gantry arm attached at one end to said gantry bridge assembly, with the other end attached to said second vertical support arm. 14. The device of claim 13, wherein said means for rotating comprises: (a) a second rotary table mounted between said second vertical support arm and said second gantry arm; and (b) a second rotary motor attached to said second rotary table. 15. The device of claim 14, wherein said means for moving comprises: (a) an X-axis carriage slidably mounted on top of said gantry bridge assembly; (b) a second linear motor mounted on top of said gantry bridge assembly; (c) an X-axis leadscrew connecting said second linear motor to said X-axis carriage for movement of said X-axis carriage in linear direction along the X-axis of said gantry bridge assembly; (d) a carriage mounting bracket mounted to the top of said X-axis carriage and to the bottom of said toolhead assembly base; (e) a third linear motor mounted to the back of said carriage mounting bracket; and (f) a Y-axis leadscrew connecting said third linear motor to said toolhead assembly base for movement of said toolhead assembly base in a linear direction along the Y-axis of said gantry bridge assembly. 16. The device of claim 15, further comprising a plurality of mounting bolts attached to both ends of said gantry bridge assembly, said mounting bolts fitted onto and through the ends of said first and second gantry arms, for aligning a toolhead to a reference point relative to the workpiece. 17. The device of claim 15, further comprising: (a) a third rotary table mounted onto the end of said first gantry arm, side opposite said gantry bridge assembly; (b) a plurality of mounting bolts attached to both ends of said gantry bridge assembly; (c) said third rotary table connected to said gantry bridge assembly by said mounting bolts protruding through said first gantry arm, said mounting bolts attached to said third rotary table; and (d) a third rotary motor attached to said third rotary table, for rotation of said third rotary table in the A-axis, whereby a toolhead can be aligned to a reference point relative to the workpiece. 18. The device of claim 1, wherein said gantry comprises: (a) a gantry bridge assembly; and (b) at least one gantry arm, with one end of said gantry arm attached to said gantry bridge assembly, and the other end of said gantry arm pivotably supported on said vertical support arm. 19. The device of claim 18, wherein said means for rotating comprises: (a) a second rotary table mounted between said vertical support arm and said gantry arm; and (b) a second rotary motor attached to said second rotary table. 20. The device of claim 19, further comprising a plurality of mounting bolts attached to the end of said gantry bridge assembly, said mounting bolts fitted onto and through the end of said gantry arm, for aligning a toolhead to a reference point relative to the workpiece. 21. The device of claim 1, wherein said means for securing comprises a mechanical clamping device mounted to the top of said workpiece mount assembly. 22. A method for precisely positioning a toolhead assembly, comprising the steps of: (a) Securing a workpiece to a workpiece support mount; (b) Elevating the secured workpiece vertically along a Z-axis; (c) Aligning a mounted toolhead to a reference point on the secured workpiece; and (d) Executing programmed machine operations, beginning upon alignment of the mounted toolhead to the workpiece reference point, for generating and coordinating control signals sent to said multi-axis, processor-controlled, toolhead positioning device, such that the mounted toolhead may be positioned and controlled in substantially a 180-degree A-axis arc, perpendicular to the movement of the workpiece rotating in a C-axis, for achieving six degrees of freedom of movement. 