An inkjet printhead assembly includes an elongate casing that defines a longitudinally extending printhead module channel. A printhead module is positioned in the channel and has a fluid channel member that defines a number of longitudinally extending channels. A plurality of printhead tiles is mounted on the fluid channel member. Each printhead tile is in fluid communication with the channels via outlet ports in fluid communication with said respective channels. A printhead integrated circuit is mounted on each printhead tile. The tiles are configured to nest with each other and the printhead integrated circuits are oriented to have adjacent overlapping end portions. Power and control circuitry is mounted on the casing. Flexible printed circuit boards interconnect the printhead integrated circuits and the power and control circuitry.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An inkjet printhead assembly which comprises an elongate casing that defines a longitudinally extending printhead module channel; a printhead module positioned in the channel and having a fluid channel member that defines a number of longitudinally extending channels; a plurality of printhead tiles mounted on the fluid channel member, each printhead tile being in fluid communication with the channels via outlet ports in fluid communication with said respective channels; a printhead integrated circuit mounted on each printhead tile, the tiles being configured to nest with each other and the printhead integrated circuits being oriented to have adjacent overlapping end portions; power and control circuitry mounted on the casing; and flexible printed circuit boards that interconnect the printhead integrated circuits and the power and control circuitry. 2. An inkjet printhead assembly as claimed in claim 1, in which the drive and control circuitry includes a printed circuit board mounted on the casing and a set of longitudinally extending busbars mounted on the casing. 3. An inkjet printhead assembly as claimed in claim 2, in which the elongate casing includes one or more extruded components that define a printed circuit board mounting formation in which the printed circuit board is mounted and a busbar mounting formation in which the busbars are mounted. 4. An inkjet printhead assembly as claimed in claim 3, in which the casing comprises a support frame that defines the mounting formations and a cover portion which is configured to cover the printed circuit board and the busbars. 5. An inkjet printhead assembly as claimed in claim 4, in which a pressure plate is interposed between the cover portion and the busbars to secure the busbars in position when the cover is in a closed condition. 6. An inkjet printhead assembly as claimed in claim 1, in which each fluid channel member is injection molded of a material having a coefficient of linear thermal expansion selected so that relative movement of the printhead tiles as a result of thermal expansion and contraction of the fluid channel members is minimized. 7. An inkjet printhead assembly as claimed in claim 6, in which each fluid channel member is composed of a base member that defines a number of channels and a lid member that encloses the channels. 