A robotic arm device capable of accessing machinery and equipment, which is otherwise difficult access for maintenance and repair is provided. An apparatus comprising a support arm with a plurality of longitudinal segments each capable of movement one with respect to the other to define a serpentine path or shape, work head carrier located at or near the distal end of the arm and adapted to carry a work and or examination tool and controller for controlling the movement of at least some of the segments such that the arm may be advanced longitudinally along an access path to present the tool at the work location. The arm is formed by a combination of segments, each comprising a plurality of links with and may include a separate controller for each segment.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A robot arm apparatus comprising: a plurality of longitudinal segments arranged sequentially along the arm, each segment movable with respect to the others to define a serpentine path or shape, in which; each segment comprises a plurality of links arranged sequentially by articulations between the links, each link movable in at least two dimensions with respect to adjacent links; a work head carrier located at a distal end of said arm adapted to carry a tool; a controller for controlling at least some of said segments to facilitate control of the shape of the associated segment such that differing segments constituting the arm may assume different shapes where the arm may advance longitudinally along a selected access path to present said tool at a location; wherein the spatial positioning of each segment is controlled with the arm following a path to guide a work tool into a desired work position; wherein articulation between individual links in a segment are subjected to a resistance to improve the load capacity and positional determinancy of each link in the segment; wherein the resistance to articulation is furnished by at least one spring; and wherein the at least one spring is provided such that a compressive force on the spring is less than the total control wire tension, and is selected to give one of a specific bending and a specific rocking stiffness to each joint. 2. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein each segment is separately controlled. 3. The apparatus according to claim 2 wherein the controller includes a computer for control of the segments, articulations between the links, and spatial disposition. 4. The apparatus according to claim 2 wherein said separate control comprises a servo motor for each segment. 5. The apparatus according to claim 4 wherein the servo motor is mounted within each segment. 6. The apparatus according to claim 4 wherein the servo motor for each segment is remotely located from each corresponding segment. 7. The apparatus according to claim 4 wherein the servo motors are selected from the group consisting of: hydraulic or pneumatic motors. 8. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the segments are controlled and driven by wires. 9. The apparatus according to claim 8 wherein at least two wires are provided for each link and wherein adjusting one wire with respect to another controls the attitude of one link with respect to an adjacent link to cause the segment to deform. 10. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the controller incorporates a datum for a particular workpiece and includes an algorithm to enable presentation of the tool to a particular position or location relative to that datum. 11. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the links within a single segment are articulated in a single plane to facilitate movement of the segment in two dimensions. 12. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the links within a single segment are articulated to facilitate movement in three dimensions. 13. The apparatus according to claim 12 wherein the articulation comprises a roller joint. 14. The apparatus according to claim 13 wherein the articulation means is a ball joint. 15. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the articulation of the links in a segment is maintained under load by at least one wire under tension. 16. The apparatus according to claim 15 wherein the load applied by the at least one wire under tension maintains stiffness of the joint such that the segment adopts a substantially rigid deformed configuration such that a working force may be applied by tool at the distill end of the arm. 17. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the controller includes a driver operating through a length of the arm. 18. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein at least one segment comprises a plurality of links facilitating bending of the segment in two dimensions only and wherein the movement of the links within the segment is controlled by one of flat ribbons and flat strips of material. 19. The apparatus according to claim 18 wherein said one of flat ribbons and flat strips are of spring steel strip having a thickness of typically one of 25 micron and 50 microns. 20. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein a rotational joint is provided between pairs of segments such that a portion of the arm is oriented and bends in a plane different from the remaining portion of the arm. 21. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein at least some of the link and segment articulations are offset from a center line of at least one of the segments and is inclined with respect to an adjacent segment to facilitate spiral articulation of the arm. 22. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the controller comprises a redundant robot controller. 23. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein an algorithm for said controller comprises at least one of trajectory planning techniques and a potential field algorithm based on an adaptation of a Laplace equation. 24. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein a workhead for the arm includes a clamp for securing the workhead to surrounding structure within the work environment to steady and locate the workhead relative to a work piece. 25. A robot arm apparatus comprising: a plurality of longitudinal segments arranged sequentially along the arm, each of which segments being movable with respect to each other to define at least one of a serpentine path and a serpentine shape, in which each segment comprises a plurality of links arranged sequentially by articulations between the links, each link being movable in at least two dimensions with respect to adjacent links, wherein all of the plurality of links that comprise each longitudinal segment are substantially identical to one another; a work head carrier disposed at a distal end of said arm and adapted to carry a tool which is one of a work tool, an examination tool and, combination thereof; a controller for at least some of said segments to facilitate control of the shape of the associated segment such that different segments constituting the arm assume different shapes wherein the arm may advance longitudinally along an access path to present the tool at a location; wherein the spatial positioning of each segment can be controlled to enable the arm to follow a path to guide a mounted tool into a desired work position. 26. A robot arm apparatus comprising: a plurality of longitudinal segments arranged sequentially along the arm, each segment movable with respect to the others to define a serpentine path or shape, in which; each segment comprises a plurality of links arranged sequentially by articulations between the links, each link movable in at least two dimensions with respect to adjacent links, wherein each of the plurality of links comprise a longitudinal axis, and wherein the longitudinal axes of all of the plurality of links comprising each longitudinal segment are coaxial when each segment is in a rest position; a work head carrier located at a distal end of said arm adapted to carry a tool; a controller for controlling at least some of said segments to facilitate control of the shape of the associated segment such that differing segments constituting the arm may assume different shapes where the arm may advance longitudinally along a selected access path to present said tool at a location; and wherein the spatial positioning of each segment is controlled with the arm following a path to guide a work tool into a desired work position. 27. A robot arm apparatus comprising: a plurality of longitudinal segments arranged sequentially along the arm, each segment movable with respect to the others to define a serpentine path or shape, in which; each segment comprises a plurality of links arranged sequentially by articulations between the links, each link movable in at least two dimensions with respect to adjacent links, wherein all of the plurality of links comprising each longitudinal segment are moved simultaneously and to the same extent in each direction with respect to each other when each segment is moved; a work head carrier located at a distal end of said arm adapted to carry a tool; a controller for controlling at least some of said segments to facilitate control of the shape of the associated segment such that differing segments constituting the arm may assume different shapes where the arm may advance longitudinally along a selected access path to present said tool at a location; and wherein the spatial positioning of each segment is controlled with the arm following a path to guide a work tool into a desired work position. 