The invention device measures the instantaneous rotation speed of a turbine (6) which is housed inside the body (3) of the paint sprayer (2) and which rotationally drives the rotating bowl (5) when the paint sprayer is mounted on the end of an arm (8) of a robot or an analogous multi-axis machine. A disk (10), which is disposed to the rear of the turbine (6) and which rotates therewith, cooperates with the front end (11a) of an optical-fiber-type light guide (11) which is interrupted (11b) at the rear (7) of the body (3) of the paint sprayer (2). Transmitting and receiving optoelectronic means are mounted on the end of the arm on the mounting plane (9) of the paint sprayer, opposite the rear end (11b) of the light guide (11). Said means convert a reflected optical signal which is carried by the optical guide (11) into an electronic signal which is carried by an electric cable (22) placed in the arm (8). The inventive device is suitable for use with machines on automatic painting lines for automotive vehicles.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A device for reading speed of rotation for a paint sprayer with rotating bowl, rotated by a turbine housed in a body of the sprayer, mounted at an end of a robot arm or on a multi-axis machine, the reading device using a disk situated at a rear of the turbine, and rotating with this turbine, which cooperates with a front end of at least one light guide of the optical fiber passing through the body of the sprayer, wherein said light guide is interrupted at a rear of the body of the sprayer, and wherein there are provided on a mounting plane are an optoelectronic emitter and receiver means, the mounting plane--being defined by the end of the robot or multi-axis machine arm and against which the sprayer is dismountably fixed, the optoelectronic emitter and receiver means situated facing a rear end of said light guide and including means for converting a reflected optical signal conveyed by the light guide of the sprayer into an electrical signal, while at least one electric cable provided for conveying the electrical signal resulting from said conversion is placed in the robot or similar multi-axis machine arm. 2. The device for reading speed of rotation as claimed in claim 1, wherein an optoelectronic means, provided on the mounting plane of the sprayer, at the end of the robot or similar multi-axis machine arm, comprise in a guise of the optoelectronic emitter means a light source and in a guise of the receiver means a phototransistor, which are placed respectively facing respective rear ends of an "emission" part and an "reception" part of the light guide of the sprayer. 3. The device for reading speed of rotation as claimed in claim 1, wherein the disk situated at the rear of the turbine of the sprayer, and cooperating with the front end of the light guide passing through the body of the sprayer, possesses an alternation of light sectors and dark sectors of different angular breadths, allowing discrimination of a direction of rotation of the turbine by analyzing an order of succession of corresponding signals, differentiated by their respective durations. 4. The device for reading speed of rotation as claimed in claim 3, wherein the direction of rotation is disregarded other than for a measured speed of rotation of the turbine less than a predetermined threshold, in particular during braking phases. 5. The device for reading speed of rotation as claimed in claim 2, wherein an electronic part of the device for reading speed comprises, at an output of the reception phototransistor, a converter measuring time taken by the turbine to perform a complete revolution or a fraction of a revolution. 6. The device for reading speed of rotation as claimed in claim 5, wherein output of the converter yields an electrical signal which is representative of the measured speed, and is linked to a line conveying the electrical signal to a module for monitoring the speed of the turbine, and wherein the electrical signal is an analog signal proportional to the measured speed. 