A printhead assembly is provided having at least two printhead modules and a casing in which printhead modules are removably and adjacently mounted to extend across a pagewidth. Each printhead module has at least two printhead integrated circuits, each of which has nozzles formed therein for delivering printing fluid onto a surface of print media, a support member supporting and carrying the printing fluid for the at least two printhead integrated circuits, and an electrical connector for connecting electrical power signals to the at least two printhead integrated circuits from both ends of the printhead assembly.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A printhead assembly, comprising: at least two printhead modules, each printhead module comprising at least two printhead integrated circuits, each of which has nozzles formed therein for delivering printing fluid onto a surface of print media, a support member supporting and carrying the printing fluid for the at least two printhead integrated circuits, and an electrical connector for connecting electrical power signals to the at least two printhead integrated circuits from both ends of the printhead assembly; and a casing in which the printhead modules are removably and adjacently mounted to extend across a pagewidth. 2. A printhead assembly according to claim 1, further comprising a plurality of longitudinally extending electrical conductors arranged within the casing to provide power from a power supply to the printhead integrated circuits via the electrical connector from both ends of the printhead assembly. 3. A printhead assembly according to claim 2, wherein the plurality of longitudinally extending electrical conductors are arranged as two groups of electrical conductors respectively connected to the power supply at respective ends of the printhead assembly, respective ones of electrical conductors of the two groups of electrical conductors being connected together at abutting regions intermediate the ends of the printhead assembly. 4. A printhead assembly according to claim 3, wherein the abutting regions of the individual electrical conductors are arranged in overlapping relationship. 5. A printhead assembly according to claim 1, further comprising drive electronics incorporating at least one controller for controlling the printing operation of at least one of the printhead integrated circuits. 6. A printhead assembly according to claim 5, further comprising a plurality of longitudinally extending electrical conductors arranged within the casing to provide power from a power supply to the printhead integrated circuits and the drive electronics via the electrical connector from both ends of the printhead assembly. 7. A printhead assembly according to claim 6, wherein the plurality of longitudinally extending electrical conductors are arranged as two groups of electrical conductors respectively connected to the power supply at respective ends of the printhead assembly, respective ones of electrical conductors of the two groups of electrical conductors being connected together at abutting regions intermediate the ends of the printhead assembly. 8. A printhead assembly according to claim 7, wherein the abutting regions of the individual electrical conductors are arranged in overlapping relationship. 9. A printhead assembly according to claim 1, wherein: each printhead module is formed as a unitary arrangement of the at least two printhead integrated circuits, the support member, the electrical connector, and at least one fluid distribution member mounting the at least two printhead integrated circuits to the support member; and the support member has at least one longitudinally extending channel for carrying the printing fluid for the printhead integrated circuits and includes a plurality of apertures extending through a wall of the support member arranged so as to direct the printing fluid from the at least one channel to associated nozzles the printhead integrated circuits by way of respective ones of the fluid distribution members. 