This invention is a method and supporting apparatus for autonomously capturing, servicing and de-orbiting a free-flying spacecraft, such as a satellite, using robotics. The capture of the spacecraft includes the steps of optically seeking and ranging the satellite using LIDAR; and matching tumble rates, rendezvousing and berthing with the satellite. Servicing of the spacecraft may be done using supervised autonomy, which is allowing a robot to execute a sequence of instructions without intervention from a remote human-occupied location. These instructions may be packaged at the remote station in a script and uplinked to the robot for execution upon remote command giving authority to proceed. Alternately, the instructions may be generated by Artificial Intelligence (AI) logic onboard the robot. In either case, the remote operator maintains the ability to abort an instruction or script at any time, as well as the ability to intervene using manual override to teleoperate the robot. In one embodiment, a vehicle used for carrying out the method of this invention comprises an ejection module, which includes the robot, and a de-orbit module. Once servicing is completed by the robot, the ejection module separates from the de-orbit module, leaving the de-orbit module attached to the satellite for de-orbiting the same at a future time. Upon separation, the ejection module can either de-orbit itself or rendezvous with another satellite for servicing. The ability to de-orbit a spacecraft further allows the opportunity to direct the landing of the spent satellite in a safe location away from population centers, such as the ocean.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of servicing a free-flying spacecraft using robotics, comprising the steps of: a) autonomously establishing a link between the spacecraft to be serviced and a servicing vehicle, which comprises a robot system including a grappling arm and a dexterous robot, and b) sending commands to the robot system that address the servicing needs of the spacecraft, wherein the servicing vehicle further comprises a de-orbit module and an ejection module, and wherein the de-orbit module and the ejection module separate after the servicing of the spacecraft is concluded, the de-orbit module remaining with the spacecraft to facilitate de-orbiting of the spacecraft. 2. A method of servicing a free-flying spacecraft using robotics according to the limitations of claim 1, wherein the commands to the robot system are pre-scripted. 3. A method of servicing a free-flying spacecraft using robotics according to the limitations of claim 2, wherein the pre-scripted commands to the robot system can be overridden by a remote operator, who is in telecommunication with the servicing vehicle. 4. A method of servicing a free-flying spacecraft using robotics according to the limitations of claim 2, wherein at least one pre-scripted command to the robot system requires validation by a remote operator prior to execution of that command. 5. A method of servicing a free-flying spacecraft using robotics according to the limitations of claim 1, wherein the servicing of the spacecraft is accomplished by a remote operator of the robot system, who is in telecommunication with the servicing vehicle. 6. A method of servicing a free-flying spacecraft using robotics according to the limitations of claim 1, wherein the servicing vehicle contains replacement parts for the spacecraft to be serviced. 7. A method of servicing a free-flying spacecraft using robotics according to the limitations of claim 6, wherein the replacement parts are upgrades to existing parts of the spacecraft to be serviced. 8. A method of servicing a free-flying spacecraft using robotics according to the limitations of claim 7, wherein the upgrades are scientific instruments. 9. A method of servicing a free-flying spacecraft using robotics according to the limitations of claim 6, wherein the replacement parts take the place of degraded existing parts. 10. A method of servicing a free-flying spacecraft using robotics according to the limitations of claim 9, wherein the degraded existing parts are batteries. 11. A method of servicing a free-flying spacecraft using robotics according to the limitations of claim 9, wherein the degraded existing parts are gyroscopes. 12. A method of servicing a free-flying spacecraft using robotics according to the limitations of claim 1, wherein the servicing includes refueling the spacecraft. 13. A method of servicing a free-flying spacecraft using robotics according to the limitations of claim 1, further comprising the step of executing the commands to the robot system, thereby servicing the spacecraft. 14. A method of servicing a free-flying spacecraft using robotics according to the limitations of claim 13, wherein one of the commands is to boost the altitude of the orbit of the spacecraft by firing thrusters on the servicing vehicle. 15. A method of servicing a free-flying spacecraft using robotics according to the limitations of claim 13, wherein one of the commands is to replace degraded batteries on the spacecraft with new batteries contained on the service vehicle. 16. A method of servicing a free-flying spacecraft using robotics according to the limitations of claim 13, wherein one of the commands is to upgrade scientific capabilities of the spacecraft by replacing existing scientific instruments with new scientific instruments contained on the service vehicle. 17. A method of servicing a free-flying spacecraft using robotics according to the limitations of claim 1, further comprising the step of shielding the serviced spacecraft from the effects of the sun by the servicing vehicle as the spacecraft is serviced. 18. A method of servicing a free-flying spacecraft using robotics according to the limitations of claim 1, further comprising the step of capturing the spacecraft to be serviced. 19. A method of servicing a free-flying spacecraft using robotics according to the limitations of claim 18, wherein the step of capturing the spacecraft to be serviced is accomplished autonomously. 20. A method of servicing a free-flying spacecraft using robotics according to the limitations of claim 18, wherein the step of capturing is accomplished with the aid of the robot system. 21. A method of servicing a free-flying spacecraft using robotics according to the limitations of claim 1, wherein the de-orbit module includes thrusters and a guidance, navigation and control system for directing the flight path of the spacecraft as it de-orbits. 22. A method of servicing a free-flying spacecraft using robotics according to the limitations of claim 1, wherein the ejection module contains parts for servicing the spacecraft. 23. A method of servicing a free-flying spacecraft using robotics according to the limitations of claim 1, wherein the de-orbit module contains parts for servicing the spacecraft. 24. A method of servicing a free-flying spacecraft using robotics according to the limitations of claim 1, wherein the ejection module de-orbits substantially immediately after separation from the de-orbit module. 25. A method of servicing a free-flying spacecraft using robotics according to the limitations of claim 1, wherein the ejection module captures a second spacecraft for servicing after separation from the de-orbit module. 26. A method of servicing a free-flying spacecraft using robotics according to the limitations of claim 1, wherein the ejection module is placed in a parking orbit to await further commands after separation from the de-orbit module. 27. A method of servicing a free-flying spacecraft using robotics according to the limitations of claim 1, wherein servicing includes providing a kick motor to facilitate boosting the spacecraft to a higher orbit. 