The invention is an automated multiple-purpose, integrated laboratory system comprising interchangeable modular elements for the construction and measurement of biological assays. The functions of the modular elements may include multiwell platform handling, chemical reagent or cell management, volumetric transfer of liquids for assay construction or for recovery of reaction products for analysis, incubation under controlled environmental conditions, measurement of spectrometric signals originating from the assays, processing and analysis of the resulting spectrometric data, and other functions. The modular elements are arranged around a number of robotic elements that deliver plates to different modular elements, transfer plates to groups of modules served by a different robotic element, or other actions necessary in plate handling. Liquid transfer to and from multiwell platforms, necessary for assay construction or for the initiation of physiological events in cells, is partitioned among different modules specialized for transferring nanoliter or smaller volume quantities of chemical concentrates, or microliter quantities of assay reagents, cells, media and other assay constituents. Applications of this invention include the quantitation and analysis of the expression of multiple genes in cells, measurement of multi-gene expression kinetics, analysis of activation or suppression of multiple signal transduction pathways, screening chemical compounds for modulatory effects on multi-gene expression or on signal transduction pathways or on other biochemical networks of cells, or other analytical biological or biochemical assays.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automated high-throughput biology laboratory, comprising: a plurality of removable modules having module controllers, the plurality of removable modules being arranged in a layout and each module capable of being added or removed from the layout, at least one module being a dispenser module capable of dispensing one or more liquids into one or more wells of a high-density microplate and at least one module being an assay signal detection module capable of detection and measurement of physical signals of an assay in the wells of the high-density microplate; one or more plate transports located near a center of the layout capable of transporting the high-density microplates between the plurality of removable modules within the layout; and a system controller in communication with the transports and the module controllers in the layout, the system controller having one or more stored codes configured to communicate with the module controllers to operate any of the plurality of removable modules in the layout and the system controller being capable of polling the status of the module controllers to determine when the removable modules are inserted into or removed from the layout and adjusting the stored codes needed in response to the insertion or removal of a removable module from the layout. 2. The biology laboratory of claim 1, wherein each of the modules includes a plate access port accessible by the plate transport. 3. The biology laboratory of claim 1, wherein the dispenser modules includes at least one microliter dispenser module and at least one nanoliter dispenser module. 4. The biology laboratory of claim 1, wherein the signal detection module is a spectrometric reader module capable of reading a fluorescence signal. 5. The biology laboratory of claim 1, wherein at least one module further comprises one or more plate carousel modules. 6. The biology laboratory of claim 1, wherein at least one module further comprises one or more incubator modules. 7. The biology laboratory of claim 1, wherein at least one module further comprises one or more centrifuge modules. 8. The biology laboratory of claim 1, wherein at least one module further comprises one or more kinetic assay modules. 9. The biology laboratory of claim 1, wherein the system controller is programmable. 10. The biology laboratory of claim 1, wherein the system controller is capable of controlling the movement of the high-density microplates. 11. The biology laboratory of claim 1, wherein the system controller is capable of topographical mapping the high-density microplates. 12. The biology laboratory of claim 1, wherein the dispenser module includes an acoustic dispenser. 13. The biology laboratory of claim 1, wherein the plate transport includes a plate gripper located at the end of an articulated arm. 14. The biology laboratory of claim 1, further comprising a mechanism in communication with the system controller for identifying the high-density microplates. 15. The biology laboratory of claim 14, wherein the mechanism is one or more barcode readers. 16. A method for screening a compound using an automated high-throughput biology laboratory, comprising: providing a biology laboratory comprising: a plurality of removable modules having module controllers, the plurality of removable modules being arranged in a layout and each module capable of being added or removed from the layout, at least one module being a dispenser module capable of dispensing one or more liquids into one or more wells of a high-density microplate and at least one module being an assay signal detection module capable of detection and measurement of physical signals of an assay in the wells of the high-density microplate; one or more plate transports located near a center of the layout capable of transporting the high-density microplates between the plurality of removable modules within the layout; and a system controller in communication with the transports and the module controllers in the layout, the system controller having one or more stored codes configured to communicate with the module controllers to operate any of the plurality of removable modules in the layout and the system controller being capable of polling the status of the module controllers to determine when the removable modules are inserted into or removed from the layout and adjusting the stored codes needed in response to the insertion or removal of a removable module from the layout; providing one or more high-density microplates having a plurality of wells; selectively dispensing one or more reagents into one or more wells of the high-density microplates with a microliter dispenser module; selectively dispensing droplets of the compound directly from a storage plate into one or more wells of the high-density microplates with a nanoliter dispenser module; and reading the physical signals of an assay in the wells of the high-density microplate with the signal detection module. 17. The method of claim 16, further comprising inserting or extracting one or more high-density microplates from an incubator module in the layout. 18. The method of claim 16, further comprising inserting or extracting one or more high-density microplates from a plate carousel module in the layout. 19. The method of claim 16, further comprising inserting or extracting one or more high-density microplates from a centrifuge module in the layout. 20. The method of claim 16, further comprising inserting or extracting one or more high-density microplates from a kinetic assay module in the layout. 21. The method of claim 16, further comprising determining when modules are inserted into or removed from the layout with the system controller. 22. The method of claim 16, further comprising programming the system controller to control the movement of the high-density microplates. 23. The method of claim 16, further comprising mapping the high-density microplates with the system controller to provide a topographical map. 24. The method of claim 16, further comprising tracking the high-density microplates using one or more barcode readers in communication with the system controller. 25. An automated high-throughput biology laboratory, comprising: a plurality of removable modules having module controllers, the plurality of removable modules being arranged in a layout and each removable modules capable of being added or removed from the layout, the plurality of removable modules including: at least one microliter dispenser capable of dispensing liquids into one or more wells of a high-density microplate; at least one nanoliter dispenser capable of dispensing liquids into one or more wells of a high-density microplate; and at least one plate reader capable of detection and measurement of physical signals of an assay in the wells of the high-density microplate; one or more plate transports capable of transporting high-density microplates between the plurality of removable modules; and a system controller in communication with the transports and the module controllers in the layout, the system controller having one or more stored codes configured to communicate with the module controllers to operate any of the plurality of removable modules in the layout and the system controller being capable of polling the status of the module controllers to determine when the removable modules are inserted into or removed from the layout and adjusting the stored codes needed in response to the insertion or removal of a removable module from the layout. 26. The biology laboratory of claim 25, wherein each of the modules includes a plate access port accessible by the plate transport. 27. The biology laboratory of claim 25, wherein the plurality of removable modules further includes one or more plate carousels. 28. The biology laboratory of claim 27, wherein one or more plate carousels stores library of compound microplates. 29. The biology laboratory of claim 27, wherein one or more plate carousels stores library of assay microplates. 30. The biology laboratory of claim 25, wherein the plurality of removable modules further includes one or more incubators. 31. The biology laboratory of claim 25, wherein the plurality of removable modules further includes one or more centrifuge modules. 32. The biology laboratory of claim 25, wherein the plurality of removable modules further includes one or more kinetic assay modules. 33. The biology laboratory of claim 25, wherein the plate reader is a spectrometric reader capable of reading a fluorescence signal. 34. The biology laboratory of claim 25, wherein the system controller is programmable. 35. The biology laboratory of claim 25, wherein the system controller is capable of controlling the movement of the high-density microplates. 36. The biology laboratory of claim 25, wherein the system controller is capable of topographical mapping the high-density microplates. 37. The biology laboratory of claim 25, wherein the plate transport includes a plate gripper located at the end of an articulated arm. 38. The biology laboratory of claim 25, further comprising a mechanism in communication with the system controller for identifying the high-density microplates. 39. The biology laboratory of claim 38, wherein the mechanism is one or more barcode readers. 