Multiphasic microfluidic apparatus for performing product fluid manipulation and separation in a single continuous unit are provided. Related methods, kits, and compositions are also provided.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of making a microfluidic substrate comprising a first electrophoretic phase in a selected region of a microfluidic channel in the microfluidic substrate, the method comprising: providing a microfluidic substrate comprising at least one microfluidic channel intersection; flowing a component of the first electrophoretic phase into multiple regions of one or more channels in the microfluidic substrate, including a selected region of at least one of the intersecting channels; and selectively fixing the first electrophoretic phase in only the selected region by flowing a solubilization compound into an unselected region of a channel, thereby dissolving the first electrophoretic phase in the unselected region. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the intersection is unvalved or electrically gated. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the electrophoretic phase is electrically loaded. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the electrophoretic phase is loaded under pressure. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the electrophoretic phase is a sieving matrix. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein fixing the electrophoretic phase in only the selected region comprises replacing a portion of the first electrophoretic phase disposed in the selected region with a second electrophoretic phase, the second electrophoretic phase comprising a selected fluid. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein replacing a portion of the first electrophoretic phase is performed by introducing the selected fluid into the selected region under pressure. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the solubilization compound comprises sodium periodiate. 9. The method of claim 1, the method comprising dispersing reactant components in the component of the first electrophoretic phase and electrophoresing the reactant components into the selected region, whereby the reactant components are concentrated in the selected region to provide concentrated reaction components. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the concentrated reaction components are reacted. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the reaction components are reacted by heating the components. 12. The method of claim 10, wherein the reaction components comprise PCR reagents and the method comprises cycled heating of the components. 