A statistical formulation estimates two-dimensional human pose from single images. This is based on a Markov network and on inferring pose parameters from cues such as appearance, shape, edge, and color. A data-driven belief propagation Monte Carlo algorithm performs efficient Bayesian inferencing within a rigorous statistical framework. Experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of the method in estimating human pose from single images.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for estimating a pose of a human subject within a digital image, the method comprising: receiving one or more training digital images representing a plurality of human subjects, each human subject having at least one training body part; labeling each of said training body parts with a quadrangle; automatically creating a two-dimensional (2-D) shape model of each of said training body parts based on said quadrangles, each shape model having at least one associated link point identifying a point of attachment with a paired link point associated with an adjacent shape model; receiving a target digital image representing a target human subject having at least one target body part; and estimating a pose parameter of said target body part using said 2-D shape models, data driven importance sampling, a Markov network and a belief propagation Monte Carlo algorithm. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising applying a principal component analysis to said 2-D shape models for dimensionality reduction. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising storing said 2-D shape models. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said belief propagation Monte Carlo algorithm is iterative and includes message passing based on importance samples. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said belief propagation Monte Carlo algorithm includes performing local inference tasks in parallel based on the data driven importance sampling. 6. A method for estimating a pose of a human subject within a digital image, the method comprising: receiving one or more training digital images representing a plurality of human subjects, each human subject having at least one training body part; labeling each of said training body parts with a quadrangle; automatically creating a two-dimensional (2-D) shape model of each of said training body parts based on said quadrangles, each shape model having at least one associated link point identifying a point of attachment with a paired link point associated with an adjacent shape model; receiving a target digital image representing a target human subject having at least one target body part; and estimating a pose parameter of said target body part using said 2-D shape models, data driven importance sampling, a Markov network and a belief propagation Monte Carlo algorithm, wherein said Markov network comprises: a first set of nodes, each representing a pose parameter of one of a set of target body parts; a second set of nodes, each representing an observation of one of the set of target body parts; a set of undirected links, each connecting two of said first set of nodes and modeling a constraint between two adjacent body parts of the set of target body parts according to a first function; and a set of directed links, each directed from one of said first set of nodes to one of said second set of nodes and describing a likelihood of a corresponding observation according to a second function, wherein the second function is different than the first function. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein said belief propagation Monte Carlo algorithm is iterative and comprises message passing based on importance samples. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein said first function is .psi..function..varies..function..times..times..sigma..times. ##EQU00008## x.sub.i and x.sub.j represent said two of said first set of nodes, .parallel..cndot..parallel. is a Euclidean distance function, exp is a natural exponential function, .sigma..sup.2.sub.ij is a variance learned from said labeled body parts, {tilde over (P)}t.sub.ij is a link point of an i.sup.th to a j.sup.th body part, and {tilde over (P)}t.sub.jt is a link point of a j.sup.th to an i.sup.th body part; and wherein said second function is .phi..sub.i(z.sub.i|x.sub.i)=max(.epsilon..sub..alpha..sup.(R)(x.sub.i), .epsilon..sub..alpha..sup.(G)(x.sub.i), .epsilon..sub..alpha..sup.(B)(x.sub.i)), wherein: x.sub.i represents said one of said first set of nodes, z.sub.i represents said one of said second set of nodes, max (.cndot.) represents a maximum value function, and .epsilon..sub..alpha..sup.(R)(x.sub.i), .epsilon..sub..alpha..sup.(G)(x.sub.i) and .epsilon..sub..alpha..sup.(B)(x.sub.i) represent a set of steered edge responses corresponding to a first, a second and a third color channel, respectively. 9. The method of claim 8, further comprising: detecting a face region of said target human subject; building a skin color model from said detected face region; building an edge map of a torso region of said target human subject; and extracting a set of substantially horizontal and substantially vertical line segments from said edge map. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein said importance samples are drawn from importance functions corresponding to a head pose, an arm pose, a leg pose and a torso pose, wherein: the head pose is derived using said face region; the arm and leg poses are derived using said skin color model; and the torso pose is derived using said line segments. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein a joint posterior distribution of said Markov network is .function..times..times..varies..di-elect cons..times..times..psi..function..times..di-elect cons..upsilon..times..times..PHI..function..times..times. ##EQU00009## wherein X represents the set of all x.sub.i and Z represents the set of all z.sub.i. 12. The method of claim 6, wherein said belief propagation Monte Carlo algorithm includes performing local inference tasks in parallel based on the data driven importance sampling. 13. An apparatus for estimating a pose of a human subject within a digital image, the apparatus comprising: an input module configured to: receive one or more training digital images representing a plurality of human subjects, each human subject having at least one training body part, and receive a target digital image representing a target human subject having at least one target body part; and a processor module configured to: label each of said training body parts with a quadrangle, automatically create a two-dimensional (2-D) shape model of each of said training body parts based on said quadrangles, each shape model having at least one associated link point identifying a point of attachment with a paired link point associated with an adjacent shape model, and estimate a pose parameter of said target body part using said 2-D shape models, data driven importance sampling, a Markov network and a belief propagation Monte Carlo algorithm. 14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein said belief propagation Monte Carlo algorithm is iterative and includes message passing based on importance samples. 15. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein said belief propagation Monte Carlo algorithm includes performing local inference tasks in parallel based on the data driven importance sampling. 16. An apparatus for estimating a pose of a human subject within a digital image, the apparatus comprising: means for receiving one or more training digital images representing a plurality of human subjects, each human subject having at least one training body part; means for labeling each of said training body parts with a quadrangle; means for automatically creating a two-dimensional (2-D) shape model of each of said training body parts based on said quadrangles, each shape model having at least one associated link point identifying a point of attachment with a paired link point associated with an adjacent shape model; means for receiving a target digital image representing a target human subject having at least one target body part; and means for estimating a pose parameter of said target body part using said 2-D shape models, data driven importance sampling, a Markov network and a belief propagation Monte Carlo algorithm. 17. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein said belief propagation Monte Carlo algorithm is iterative and includes message passing based on importance samples. 18. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein said belief propagation Monte Carlo algorithm includes performing local inference tasks in parallel based on the data driven importance sampling. 19. A computer program product, comprising a computer-readable medium having computer program instructions embodied thereon to cause a computer processor to implement a method for estimating a pose of a human subject within a digital image, the method comprising: receiving one or more training digital images representing a plurality of human subjects, each human subject having at least one training body part; labeling each of said training body parts with a quadrangle; automatically creating a two-dimensional (2-D) shape model of each of said training body parts based on said quadrangles, each shape model having at least one associated link point identifying a point of attachment with a paired link point associated with an adjacent shape model; receiving a target digital image representing a target human subject having at least one target body part; and estimating a pose parameter of said target body part using said 2-D shape models, data driven importance sampling, a Markov network and a belief propagation Monte Carlo algorithm. 20. The computer program product of claim 19, wherein said belief propagation Monte Carlo algorithm is iterative and includes message passing based on importance samples. 21. The computer program product of claim 19, wherein said belief propagation Monte Carlo algorithm includes performing local inference tasks in parallel based on the data driven importance sampling. 