A robotic apparatus of the kind having a sample manipulation head with associated positioning system mounted above the main bed of the apparatus, as used for picking of cells, in particular animal cells, or for other biological or chemical applications. An imaging station is arranged on the main bed where a sample container containing a sample can be placed in an object position. According to the invention, both excitation and collection optical sub-systems are mounted under the main bed of the apparatus for performing spectroscopic analysis on a sample at the imaging station. The integration is based on a reflection mode optical solution, which allows all the optical components to be mounted under the main bed of the apparatus. Consequently, ancillary software driven or manual processes can be carried on with whether or not spectroscopic measurements are being made.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic apparatus comprising: a main bed fitted with an imaging station where a sample container containing a plurality of cells or cell colonies can be placed in an object position; a cell picking head comprising a plurality of pins for performing cell picking, the cell picking head having an associated positioning system mounted above the main bed of the apparatus; and excitation and collection optical sub-systems mounted under the main bed of the apparatus and arranged to excite, and collect light from, the object position from below. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the excitation optical sub-system is controllable to provide excitation at any one of a plurality of different wavelengths for selectively exciting a plurality of different dyes of interest. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the excitation optical sub-system comprises a plurality of different bandpass filters for selecting light at different wavelengths for selectively exciting a plurality of different dyes of interest. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the excitation optical sub-system comprises a white light source. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the collection optical sub-system comprises a plurality of different filters for assisting collection of light at different emission wavelengths associated with fluorescence from a plurality of different dyes of interest. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, an optics positioning system for aligning the excitation and collection optical sub-systems relative to the object position so that any one of a plurality of desired locations of the sample container can be moved into the object position. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, comprising a sample container feeder/stacker operable to supply each of a plurality of sample containers from a feed and return them to a stack. 8. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the sample container is a well plate, and the desired locations are locations of wells in the well plate. 9. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the desired locations are locations of cells or cell colonies in the sample container. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the pins are hollow pins for aspirating the cells or cell colonies. 11. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the pins are solid or split pins for picking cells or cell colonies. 12. A robotic apparatus comprising: a main bed fitted with an imaging station where a sample container containing a sample can be placed in an object position; a head with associated positioning system mounted above the main bed of the apparatus; and excitation and collection optical sub-systems mounted under the main bed of the apparatus and arranged to excite, and collect light from, the object position from below, wherein the excitation optical sub-system comprises a plurality of different types of optical source of different emission wavelengths for selectively exciting a plurality of different dyes of interest. 13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the sample is a plurality of cells or cell colonies. 14. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the head is a cell picking head comprising a plurality of pins for performing cell picking. 15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the pins are hollow pins for aspirating the cells or cell colonies. 16. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the pins are solid or split pins for picking cells or cell colonies. 17. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the excitation optical sub-system is controllable to provide excitation at any one of a plurality of different wavelengths for selectively exciting a plurality of different dyes of interest. 18. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the excitation optical sub-system comprises a plurality of different bandpass filters for selecting light at different wavelengths for selectively exciting a plurality of different dyes of interest. 19. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the excitation optical sub-system comprises a white light source. 20. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the collection optical sub-system comprises a plurality of different filters for assisting collection of light at different emission wavelengths associated with fluorescence from a plurality of different dyes of interest. 21. The apparatus of claim 12, an optics positioning system for aligning the excitation and collection optical sub-systems relative to the object position so that any one of a plurality of desired locations of the sample container can be moved into the object position. 22. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein the sample container is a well plate, and the desired locations are locations of wells in the well plate. 23. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein the desired locations are locations of cells or cell colonies in the sample container. 24. A robotic apparatus comprising: a main bed fitted with an imaging station where a sample container containing a sample can be placed in an object position; a head with associated positioning system mounted above the main bed of the apparatus; and excitation and collection optical sub-systems mounted under the main bed of the apparatus and arranged to excite, and collect light from, the object position from below, wherein the excitation optical sub-system comprises at least one optical source arranged to illuminate the object position at an oblique angle. 25. The apparatus of claim 24, wherein the collection optical sub-system is arranged to collect light from the object position such that the light is collected in a dark field configuration where light from the at least one optical source, if not scattered, does not contribute to the collected signal. 26. The apparatus of claim 24, wherein the sample is a plurality of cells or cell colonies. 27. The apparatus of claim 24, wherein the head is a cell picking head comprising a plurality of pins for performing cell picking. 28. The apparatus of claim 27, wherein the pins are hollow pins for aspirating the cells or cell colonies. 29. The apparatus of claim 27, wherein the pins are solid or split pins for picking cells or cell colonies. 30. The apparatus of claim 24, wherein the excitation optical sub-system is controllable to provide excitation at any one of a plurality of different wavelengths for selectively exciting a plurality of different dyes of interest. 31. The apparatus of claim 24, wherein the excitation optical sub-system comprises a plurality of different bandpass filters for selecting light at different wavelengths for selectively exciting a plurality of different dyes of interest. 32. The apparatus of claim 24, wherein the excitation optical sub-system comprises a white light source. 33. The apparatus of claim 24, wherein the collection optical sub-system comprises a plurality of different filters for assisting collection of light at different emission wavelengths associated with fluorescence from a plurality of different dyes of interest. 34. The apparatus of claim 24, an optics positioning system for aligning the excitation and collection optical sub-systems relative to the object position so that any one of a plurality of desired locations of the sample container can be moved into the object position. 35. The apparatus of claim 34, wherein the sample container is a well plate, and the desired locations are locations of wells in the well plate. 36. The apparatus of claim 34, wherein the desired locations are locations of cells or cell colonies in the sample container. 37. A robotic apparatus comprising: a main bed fitted with an imaging station where a sample container containing a sample can be placed in an object position; a head with associated positioning system mounted above the main bed of the apparatus; and excitation and collection optical sub-systems mounted under the main bed of the apparatus and arranged to excite, and collect light from, the object position from below, wherein the excitation optical sub-system comprises a plurality of directional light emitting units arranged to emit beams having optical axes lying on the surface of a common cone, the point of which is coincident with the object position. 38. The apparatus of claim 37, wherein the sample is a plurality of cells or cell colonies. 39. The apparatus of claim 37, wherein the head is a cell picking head comprising a plurality of pins for performing cell picking. 40. The apparatus of 39, wherein the pins are hollow pins for aspirating the cells or cell colonies. 41. The apparatus of 39, wherein the pins are solid or split pins for picking cells or cell colonies. 42. The apparatus of claim 37, wherein the excitation optical sub-system is controllable to provide excitation at any one of a plurality of different wavelengths for selectively exciting a plurality of different dyes of interest. 43. The apparatus of claim 37, wherein the excitation optical sub-system comprises a plurality of different bandpass filters for selecting light at different wavelengths for selectively exciting a plurality of different dyes of interest. 44. The apparatus of claim 37, wherein the excitation optical sub-system comprises a white light source. 45. The apparatus of claim 37, wherein the collection optical sub-system comprises a plurality of different filters for assisting collection of light at different emission wavelengths associated with fluorescence from a plurality of different dyes of interest. 46. The apparatus of claim 37, an optics positioning system for aligning the excitation and collection optical sub-systems relative to the object position so that any one of a plurality of desired locations of the sample container can be moved into the object position. 47. The apparatus of claim 46, wherein the sample container is a well plate, and the desired locations are locations of wells in the well plate. 48. The apparatus of claim 46, wherein the desired locations are locations of cells or cell colonies in the sample container. 49. A robotic apparatus comprising: a main bed fitted with an imaging station where a sample container containing a sample can be placed in an object position; a head with associated positioning system mounted above the main bed of the apparatus; and excitation and collection optical sub-systems mounted under the main bed of the apparatus and arranged to excite, and collect light from, the object position from below, wherein the optical source comprises a plurality of directional light emitting units arranged to emit beams having optical axes lying on the surface of at least two cones whose points are coincident with each other and the object position. 50. Use of a robot equipped with a head for manipulating biological samples, the use comprising: providing a sample container containing at least one cell; arranging the sample container at an imaging station; making a spectroscopic measurement by illuminating the at least one cell from below and collecting light from the at least one cell also from below; and manipulating the at least one cell with the head based on the spectroscopic measurement. 51. The use of claim 50, wherein the spectroscopic measurement is based on a fluorescent agent. 52. The use of claim 51, wherein the fluorescent agent is a dye. 53. The use of claim 52, wherein the dye is contained in the at least one cell. 54. The use of claim 52, wherein the at least one cell is contained in a medium which is marked with the dye whose optical activity is modified by secretion from the at least one cell. 55. The use of claim 54, wherein the secretion is a protein, nucleic acid, lipid, sugar, metabolite or drug. 56. The use of claim 54, wherein the spectroscopic measurement detects fluorescence, white light, infra-red, by Raman spectroscopy, or auto-fluorescence. 57. The use of claim 51, wherein the fluorescent agent is an inherent part of the cell. 58. The use of claim 50, wherein the at least one cell is an animal cell. 59. The use of claim 58, wherein the at least one animal cell express a biological molecule of interest. 60. The use of claim 59, wherein the biological molecule of interest is selected from the group consisting of: a peptide, a polypeptide, a nucleic acid, a lipid, a metabolyte, a glycosylated or unglycosylated protein, and a biopharmaceutical protein. 61. The use of claim 51, wherein the fluorescent agent is selected from the group consisting of: a protein, a nucleic acid, a lipid, a sugar, a metabolite, and a drug. 62. The use of claim 51, wherein the fluorescent agent is detected by white light or infra-red. 63. The use of claim 50, wherein the spectroscopic measurement is based on a Raman agent. 64. The use of claim 51 wherein the at least one cell is a protein, nucleic acid, lipid, sugar or metabolite. 65. The use of claim 51, wherein the at least one cell secretes an agent which is detected by white light, infra-red, or Raman spectroscopy. 66. The use of claim 51, wherein the at least one cell secretes an agent which is detected by addition to the at least one cell of a compound that is detected by autofluorescence. 67. The use of claim 51, wherein the at least one cell contains an agent detected by addition to the at least one cell of a compound that is detected by fluorescence, white light, infra-red, Raman spectroscopy, or autofluorescence. 68. The use of claim 51, wherein the at least one cell secretes an agent detected by addition to the at least one cell of a compound that is detected by fluorescence, white light, infra-red, Raman spectroscopy, or autofluorescence. 69. The use of claim 51, wherein the at least one cell has a membrane which contains an agent which is detected by addition to the at least one cell of a compound that is detected by fluorescence, white light, infra-red, Raman spectroscopy, or autofluorescence. 