Magnetic alignment marks are recorded on a recording surface of a magnetic hard disk to mark the location where the disk is abutted against the hub of the spindle of a multiple-disk servo-writer. The alignment marks for each recording surface may be different so as to distinguish between top and bottom disk surfaces so that when the discs are assembled onto the spindle of a disk drive they may be assembled with the proper orientation, i.e., the top surface is mounted "up." The marks may be large, low frequency patterns that are both written and detected by non contact means other than the servo-track writer's or the disk drive's heads.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of recording alignment marks on a magnetic hard disk, comprising: using a permanent magnet to magnetically record an identifiable pattern on at least a first surface of a magnetic hard disk, the location of the pattern corresponding to the inner diameter location of the hard disk inner diameter which abuts against a servo-writer's spindle hub during servo-write of the surface. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein a pattern different from the pattern written on the first surface is written on the second surface of the magnetic hard disk, the location of the second pattern corresponding to the inner diameter location the hard disk inner diameter which abuts against a servo-writer's spindle hub during servo-write of the surface. 3. The method of claim 1, further including: mounting the magnetic hard disk on a spindle; and biasing the hard disk inner diameter against said spindle such that the inner diameter abuts the spindle at said inner diameter location. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein said spindle is a servo-writer spindle. 5. The method of claim 1, further including: mounting the magnetic hard disk on a hard disk drive spindle; and biasing the hard disk inner diameter against said hard disk drive spindle such that the inner diameter abuts the spindle at said inner diameter. 6. A method of assembling a hard disk drive, comprising: using a permanent magnet to magnetically record a magnetic alignment mark on a hard disk; mounting the magnetic hard disk having a magnetic alignment mark recorded thereon on a hard disk drive spindle; and biasing the hard disk inner diameter against said hard disk drive spindle such that the inner diameter abuts the spindle at an inner diameter location that has a predefined relationship with said magnetic alignment mark. 7. The method according-to claim 6, wherein said predefined relationship comprises the magnetic mark being on a radial connecting the inner diameter location of abutment with the magnetic mark. 8. A method of writing servo patterns on a magnetic hard disc, comprising: mounting one or more magnetic hard discs on a servo writer spindle hub; biasing said one or more magnetic hard disks such that their inner diameter abuts the hub at an inner diameter abutment location; using a permanent magnet to magnetically mark at least one surface of each of said magnetic hard disks with an identifiable pattern at a location on said surface that has a predetermined relationship with said abutment location. 9. The method of claim 8 further including marking the top and bottom surfaces with different magnetic marks. 10. The method of claim 8 further including writing servo patterns on at least one surface of said magnetic hard disk. 11. A method of recording alignment marks on a magnetic hard disk, comprising: using a stamper having a high frequency pattern modulated by a low frequency pattern to magnetically record an identifiable pattern on at least a first surface of a magnetic hard disk, the location of the pattern corresponding to the inner diameter location of the hard disk inner diameter which abuts against a servo-writer's spindle hub during servo-write of the surface. 12. The method of claim 11 wherein said stamper has a high permeability. 13. A magnetic hard disk, comprising: a magnetic hard disk having an inner diameter location that is the point on the inner diameter that was abutting a servo-writer spindle hub where a servo pattern was written on to the disk; and magnetically readable means for marking the location of said abutment location with a pattern having a high frequency pattern modulated by a low frequency pattern. 14. The magnetic hard disk of claim 13, wherein said magnetic hard disk has two recording surfaces, wherein said magnetically readable means comprises two different patterns, a first pattern on one recording surface and a second pattern on the other recording surface of said magnetic hard disk. 15. The magnetic hard disk of claim 14 wherein each pattern comprises a sequence of marks having a relatively low frequency when compared to a servo pattern. 16. The magnetic hard disk of claim 14 wherein each pattern comprises a pattern of marks substantially larger in size than servo data. 17. The magnetic hard disk of claim 14 wherein the pattern has a size and frequency such that it may be read by non contact magnetic sensors. 