A fluid transmission system adapted to provide a controlled force to a dynamic system includes a controller, a drive system coupled to the controller and to a path having a captured amount (mass) of fluid contained therein and an interface coupled to the captured fluid path.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A fluid transmission system adapted to provide a controlled force to a dynamic system, comprising: a controller; drive system coupled to receive a plurality of force feedback and/or motion feedback control values from the controller; a first actuator coupled to the drive system; an interface to the dynamic system; a second actuator coupled to said interface; and a fluid path coupled between the first and second actuator, said fluid path containing a captured volume of fluid for transmitting a force from the first actuator to the second actuator such that said second actuator provides a controlled force to the interface with the dynamic system; and one or more impedance shapers disposed in said fluid path. 2. The fluid transmission system of claim 1 wherein at least one of said one or more impedance shapers comprises a baffle. 3. The fluid transmission system of claim 1 wherein said fluid path comprises a tube and at least one of said one or more impedance shapers comprises: one or more apertures in said tube; and a flexible membrane disposed to define a space in fluid communication with said fluid path via the one or more apertures in said tube. 4. The fluid transmission system of claim 1 wherein at least one of said one or more impedance shapers comprises one or more variable inertia and damping passages. 5. The fluid transmission system of claim 1 wherein at least one of said one or more impedance shapers comprises a stiffness shaper. 6. The fluid transmission system of claim 1, wherein the force corresponds to pressure and said fluid path includes at least two separate captured volumes of fluid to transmit pressure from the first actuator to the second actuator and from the second actuator to the first actuator to provide bilateral transmission of pressure and force. 7. The fluid transmission of claim 6 wherein each of the at least two fluid paths comprises a flexible tube. 8. The fluid transmission system of claim 1, wherein the fluid-to-mechanical transformation ratio of the first actuator differs from the fluid-to-mechanical transformation ratio of the second actuator to provide at least one of: speed amplification; speed reduction; force amplification; and force reduction. 9. The fluid transmission system of claim 1, wherein the drive system comprises at least one of: a linear electromagnetic motor; a linear hydraulic motor; a rotary electric motor with rotary-to-linear transmission comprising at least one of: a lead screw; a ball screw; a rack and pinion; and a friction drive. 10. The fluid transmission system of claim 1, wherein the first actuator comprises at least one of: a slideable piston and an elongated chamber adapted to receive the slideable piston; a positive-displacement rotary actuator generating torque from a pressure difference across one or more vanes inside a cylinder; and a momentum-transfer rotary actuator generating torque from re-directing fluid flow. 11. The fluid transmission system of claim 1, wherein the second actuator comprises at least one of: a slideable piston and an elongated chamber adapted to receive the slideable piston; a positive-displacement rotary actuator generating torque from a pressure difference across one or more vanes inside a cylinder; and a momentum-transfer rotary actuator generating torque from re-directing fluid flow. 12. The fluid transmission system of claim 1, where the interface to a dynamic system is a human interface. 13. The fluid transmission system of claim 12, wherein the human interface includes a coupling mechanism adapted to securely hold a portion of a limb of a human patient during a rehabilitation process. 14. The fluid transmission of claim 1 wherein the fluid path comprises a flexible tube. 15. A fluid transmission system adapted to provide a controlled force to a dynamic system, comprising: a controller; a drive system coupled to receive a plurality of force feedback and motion feedback control values from the controller; a first actuator coupled to the drive system; a fluid path having a captured amount of fluid contained therein, the fluid path having a first port coupled to the first actuator and having a port end; at least one impedance shaper coupled to the fluid path to control at least one of: a compliance characteristic of the fluid within the fluid path; a damping characteristic of the fluid within the fluid path; and an inertia characteristic of fluid within the fluid path; a second actuator to provide the controlled force to the interface with the dynamic system, coupled to the second end of the captured fluid path; and an interface to the dynamic system. 16. The fluid transmission system of claim 15, wherein the force comprises pressure and the fluid path is provided having at least two enclosed volumes of fluid contained therein to transmit pressure from the first actuator to the second actuator and from the second actuator to the first actuator. 17. The fluid transmission system of claim 15, wherein the fluid-to-mechanical transformation ratio of the first actuator differs from the fluid-to-mechanical transformation ratio of the second actuator to provide at least one of: speed amplification; speed reduction; force amplification; and force reduction in the dynamic system. 18. The fluid transmission system of claim 15, wherein the drive system comprises at least one of: a linear electromagnetic motor; a linear hydraulic motor; a rotary electric motor with rotary-to-linear transmission comprising at least one of: a lead screw; a ball screw; a rack and pinion; and a friction drive. 19. The fluid transmission system of claim 15, wherein the first actuator comprises at least one of: a slideable piston and an elongated chamber adapted to receive the slideable piston; a positive-displacement rotary actuator generating torque from a pressure difference across one or more vanes inside a cylinder; and a momentum-transfer rotary actuator generating torque from re-directing fluid flow. 20. The fluid transmission system of claim 15, wherein the second actuator comprises at least one of: a slideable piston and an elongated chamber adapted to receive the slideable piston; a positive-displacement rotary actuator generating torque from a pressure difference across one or more vanes inside a cylinder; and a momentum-transfer rotary actuator generating torque from re-directing fluid flow. 21. The fluid transmission system of claim 15, where the interface to a dynamic system is a human interface. 22. The fluid transmission system of claim 21, wherein the human interface includes a coupling mechanism adapted to securely hold a portion of a limb of a human patient during a rehabilitation process. 23. The fluid transmission system of claim 15, wherein at least one of: a stiffness characteristic of at least one of the one or more impedance shapers is adjustable; a damping characteristic of at least one of the one or more impedance shapers is adjustable; and an inertia characteristic of at least one of the one or more impedance shapers is adjustable. 24. The fluid transmission system of claim 15, where a stiffness of at least one of the at least one impedance shapers is provided by at least one of: a bladder; a volume of pressurized gas; an open volume of water exposed to gravity; a bellows; and a mechanical spring. 25. The fluid transmission system of claim 15, wherein at least one of the one or more impedance shapers comprises: at least one passage coupled to the fluid path; and a valve disposed in at least one of the at least one passages. 26. The fluid transmission system of claim 15, wherein the fluid path is provided having at least one orifice through which the fluid path is coupled to the at least one impedance shaper. 27. The fluid transmission system of claim 26, wherein at least one of the at least one orifices are adjustable to provide an adjustable communication path between the fluid path and the impedance shaper. 28. A fluid transmission system adapted to provide a controlled force to a dynamic system, comprising: a controller; drive system coupled to receive a plurality of force feedback and motion feedback control values from the controller; a first actuator coupled to the drive system; an interface to the dynamic system; a second actuator coupled to said interface; a first fluid path coupled between the first and second actuator, said first fluid path containing a captured volume of fluid for transmitting pressure from the first actuator to the second actuator; and a second fluid path coupled between the first and second actuator, said second fluid path containing a captured volume of fluid for transmitting pressure from the first actuator to the second actuator. 29. A fluid transmission system adapted to provide a controlled force to a dynamic system, comprising: an interface; a first actuator coupled to the interface; a first pressure pre-load device coupled to said first actuator; a bi-directional drive system; a second actuator coupled to said drive system; a second pressure pre-load device coupled said second actuator; and a first fluid path coupled between the first and second actuator, said first fluid path containing a captured volume of fluid for transmitting pressure from the first actuator to the second actuator. 30. The fluid transmission system of claim 29, wherein the first actuator comprises at least one of: a slideable piston and an elongated chamber adapted to receive the slideable piston; a positive-displacement rotary actuator generating torque from a pressure difference across one or more vanes inside a cylinder; and a momentum-transfer rotary actuator generating torque from re-directing fluid flow. 31. The fluid transmission system of claim 29, wherein the second actuator comprises at least one of: a slideable piston and an elongated chamber adapted to receive the slideable piston; a positive-displacement rotary actuator generating torque from a pressure difference across one or more vanes inside a cylinder; and a momentum-transfer rotary actuator generating torque from re-directing fluid flow. 32. The fluid transmission system of claim 29 wherein a first one of the first and second pressure pre-load devices is provided as a constant force spring. 33. The fluid transmission system of claim 32 wherein the drive system is provided as linear motor. 34. A fluid transmission system adapted to provide a controlled force to a dynamic system, comprising: a controller; a backdrivable drive system coupled to receive a plurality of force feedback and/or motion feedback control values from the controller; a first backdrivable actuator coupled to the drive system; an interface to the dynamic system; a second backdrivable actuator coupled to said interface; and a fluid path coupled between the first and second actuator, said fluid path containing a captured volume of fluid for transmitting a force from the first actuator to the second actuator such that said second actuator provides a controlled force to the interface with the dynamic system. 