A printhead assembly is provided, comprising at least one printhead module comprising at least two printhead integrated circuits, each of which has nozzles formed therein for delivering printing fluid onto the surface of print media, and a support member supporting the at least two printhead integrated circuits, and a casing in which the at least one printhead module is removably mounted. The support member has at least one longitudinally extending channel for carrying the printing fluid for the printhead integrated circuits, and at least one fluid connector is provided to connect at least one printing fluid delivery hose from a printing fluid supply to the at least one channel at at least one longitudinal end of the at least one printhead module.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A printhead assembly, comprising: at least two printhead modules each comprising at least two printhead integrated circuits, each of which has nozzles formed therein for delivering printing fluid onto the surface of print media, and a one-piece support member commonly supporting the printhead integrated circuits of the respective printhead module; and a casing in which the at least two printhead modules are removably mounted through removable engagement of the support member of each printhead module with a support frame of the casing, wherein each support member has at least one longitudinally extending channel for carrying the printing fluid for the printhead integrated circuits which is configured to communicate said printing fluid with the channel of the adjacent support member, and at least one fluid connector is provided to connect at least one printing fluid delivery hose from a printing fluid supply to the at least one channel of the support member mounted at one longitudinal end of one of the printhead modules. 2. A printhead assembly according to claim 1, wherein: each support member has complementary female and male end portions; and the at least one fluid connector is arranged to interconnect with either the female or male end portion. 3. A printhead assembly according to claim 2, wherein a sealing adhesive is provided at the Interface of the interconnected at least one fluid connector and printhead module. 4. A printhead assembly according to claim 3, wherein the sealing adhesive is an epoxy. 5. A printhead assembly according to claim 2, wherein the at least one fluid connector has at least one tubular portion for connecting with the at least one fluid delivery hose and the at least one tubular portion is arranged to be in fluid connection with the at least one channel of the printhead module. 6. A printhead assembly according to claim 5, wherein the at least one tubular portion is arranged so as to form a linear fluid connection with the at least one first channel. 7. A printhead assembly according to claim 1, wherein two fluid connectors are provided, one connected at each longitudinal end of the mounted printhead modules, for providing fluid supply from both ends of each channel. 8. A printhead assembly according to claim 1, wherein: each printhead module is formed as a unitary arrangement of the respective at least two printhead integrated circuits, the support member, at least one fluid distribution member mounting the at least two printhead integrated circuits to the support member, and an electrical connector for connecting electrical signals to the at least two printhead integrated circuits; and each support member has a plurality of apertures extending through a wall of the support member arranged so as to direct the printing fluid from the respective channel to associated nozzles in both, or if more than two, all of the printhead integrated circuits by way of respective ones of the fluid distribution members. 