A system is provided to allow for automated planning and scheduling the work flow for reconfigurable production systems having a plurality of modules, with each module having alternative capabilities. The system includes a system controller, a planning function for planning the concurrent production of regular and diagnostic work units, and a scheduling function for scheduling the concurrent production of regular and diagnostic work units.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A computer controlled system for planning and scheduling the work flow for reconfigurable production systems having a plurality of modules with a plurality of alternative capabilities, the system comprising: a system controller for enabling continued use of all available system modules by scheduling around at least one off-line module while interleaving at least one diagnostic work unit, wherein said controller receives descriptions of at least one work unit with its desired attributes, capability models from each of the plurality of modules, and the current state of the system, including operations currently being performed by the modules and capabilities previously planned and scheduled, wherein said capability models include timing constraints, feature constraints, and commands, wherein said timing constraints include the duration of execution of a capability, the time during which a module is occupied, or the reservation of a module, wherein said feature constraints include limits on the size of the work units being processed and transformation of the work units, and wherein said commands include the names or identifications of the operations corresponding to the capabilities, together with timing information; at least one planning function for planning the concurrent production of regular and diagnostic work units, wherein said diagnostic work units comprise non-standard work units an operator wants the system to perform during servicing of said at least one off-line module, wherein said planning function uses said capability models to determine how to produce the said desired attributes of said regular and diagnostic work units; and at least one scheduling function for scheduling the concurrent production of regular and diagnostic work units, wherein said diagnostic work units are scheduled to be performed on said off-line module, wherein said scheduling function schedules selected capabilities and provides a set of scheduled capabilities in the form of commands to the plurality of modules and a separate set of commands to said off-line module. 2. The system for planning and scheduling the work flow for reconfigurable production systems according to claim 1, wherein said planning function comprises: means for selecting at least one work unit to be planned; means for determining if said work unit is a regular or diagnostic work unit; means for determining a plurality of capabilities to produce said work unit if it is a diagnostic work unit; means for determining capabilities to produce said work unit if it is a regular work unit, considering all reconfigurable production system module capabilities; means for determining whether said capabilities to produce said regular work unit are available without utilizing off-line modules; means for removing said regular work unit from consideration if said capabilities to produce said regular work unit are not available without utilizing off-line modules; means for modifying constraints using selection variables; means for posting constraints on selection variables and common modules to memory; means for posting timing and precedence constraints to memory; and means for reserving a selected resource if only part of a job is being scheduled. 3. The system for planning and scheduling reconfigurable production systems according to claim 2, wherein selecting a work unit to be planned is based on an input job description. 4. The system for planning and scheduling reconfigurable production systems according to claim 2, wherein determining capabilities to produce said diagnostic work unit further comprises specifying a desired exit port and itinerary. 5. The system for planning and scheduling reconfigurable production systems according to claim 2, wherein determining capabilities to produce said diagnostic work unit further comprises reducing said capabilities to a segment desired for said diagnostic work unit. 6. The system for planning and scheduling reconfigurable production systems according to claim 4, further comprising selecting alternative capabilities from the reconfigurable production system modules. 7. The system for planning and scheduling reconfigurable production systems according to claim 2, wherein said selection variables are created automatically for each capability. 8. The system for planning and scheduling reconfigurable production systems according to claim 2, wherein said selection variables comprise Boolean variables. 9. The system for planning and scheduling reconfigurable production systems according to claim 2, wherein said modified constraints comprise timing constraints. 10. The system for planning and scheduling reconfigurable production systems according to claim 2, wherein said modified constraints comprise the reservation of resources during intervals in which reconfigurable production system modules are occupied. 11. The system for planning and scheduling reconfigurable production systems according to claim 2, wherein posting timing and precedence constraints comprises connecting variables of all alternative capabilities to a single time variable. 12. The system for planning and scheduling reconfigurable production systems according to claim 1, wherein said scheduling function comprises: means for selecting capabilities to be scheduled; means for reserving exit resources for planned capabilities; and means for solving for timing and selection variables. 13. The system for planning and scheduling reconfigurable production systems according to claim 2, further comprising means for acquiring at least one capability model from at least one machine module. 14. The system for planning and scheduling reconfigurable production systems according to claim 1, wherein said machine module comprises a print engine module. 15. The system for planning and scheduling reconfigurable production systems according to claim 1, wherein said machine module comprises an analysis module. 16. The system for planning and scheduling reconfigurable production systems according to claim 1, wherein said machine module comprises a manufacturing line module. 17. The system for planning and scheduling reconfigurable production systems according to claim 1, wherein said machine module comprises a packaging line module. 18. A method for planning and scheduling the work flow for computer controlled reconfigurable production systems having a plurality of modules with a plurality of alternative capabilities, comprising: utilizing the system controller for enabling continued use of all available system modules by scheduling around at least one off-line module while interleaving at least one diagnostic work unit, wherein said system controller is utilized to receive descriptions of at least one work unit with its desired attributes, capability models from each of the plurality of modules, and the current state of the system, including operations currently being performed by the modules and capabilities previously planned and scheduled, wherein said capability models include timing constraints, feature constraints, and commands, wherein said timing constraints include the duration of execution of a capability, the time during which a module is occupied, or the reservation of a module, wherein said feature constraints include limits on the size of the work units being processed and transformation of the work units, and wherein said commands include the names or identifications of the operations corresponding to the capabilities, together with timing information; planning the work flow for concurrent production of regular and at least one diagnostic work unit, wherein said diagnostic work units comprise non-standard work units an operator wants the system to perform during servicing of at least one off-line module, wherein said concurrent production includes continued use of all available system modules while interleaving said at least one diagnostic work unit, wherein said planning utilizes said capability models to determine how to produce the said desired attributes of said regular and diagnostic work units; and scheduling the work flow for concurrent production of regular and diagnostic work units, wherein said diagnostic work units are scheduled to be performed on said off-line module, wherein said scheduling includes utilizing selected capabilities and providing a set of scheduled capabilities in the form of commands to the plurality of modules and a separate set of commands to said off-line module. 19. A method for planning and scheduling the work flow for computer controlled reconfigurable production systems according to claim 18, wherein planning said work flow comprises: acquiring a description of work units to be produced; selecting at least one of said work units to be planned; determining whether said work unit comprises a diagnostic work unit or a regular work unit; determining the capabilities needed to produce said diagnostic work unit; determining the capabilities needed to produce said regular work unit without utilizing off-line modules; modifying constraints using selection variables; posting constraints on selection variables and common modules to memory; and posting timing and precedence constraints to memory. 20. A method for planning and scheduling the work flow for computer controlled reconfigurable production systems having a plurality of modules according to claim 19, wherein determining the capabilities needed to produce said diagnostic work unit further comprises identifying a desired exit port and itinerary. 21. A method for planning and scheduling the work flow for computer controlled reconfigurable production systems having a plurality of modules according to claim 19, wherein determining the capabilities needed to produce said regular work unit comprises selecting alternative capabilities from the reconfigurable production system modules capabilities. 22. A method for planning and scheduling the work flow for computer controlled reconfigurable production systems having a plurality of modules according to claim 19, further comprising determining whether the capabilities needed to produce said diagnostic and said regular work units are available. 23. A method for planning and scheduling the work flow for computer controlled reconfigurable production systems according to claim 19, wherein said modified constraints comprise timing constraints. 24. A method for planning and scheduling the work flow for computer controlled reconfigurable production systems according to claim 19, wherein said modified constraints comprise the reservation of resources during the intervals in which reconfigurable production system modules are occupied. 25. A method for planning and scheduling the work flow for computer controlled reconfigurable production systems according to claim 19, wherein said selection variables are created automatically for each capability. 26. A method for planning and scheduling the work flow for computer controlled reconfigurable production systems according to claim 19, wherein said selection variables comprise Boolean variables. 27. A method for planning and scheduling the work flow for computer controlled reconfigurable production systems according to claim 19, wherein said precedence constraints comprise connecting the output variables of all alternative capabilities to a single time variable. 28. A method for planning and scheduling the work flow for computer controlled reconfigurable production systems according to claim 19, further comprising reserving a selected resource if only part of a job is being scheduled. 29. A method for planning and scheduling the work flow for computer controlled reconfigurable production systems according to claim 18, wherein scheduling the work flow for the plurality of modules in the reconfigurable production system comprises: selecting capabilities to be scheduled; reserving exit resources for planned capabilities within the same jobs; and solving for timing and selection variables of planned capabilities. 30. A method for planning and scheduling the work flow for computer controlled reconfigurable production systems according to claim 29, wherein said selected capabilities include a subset of capabilities needed to produce said work unit. 31. A method for planning and scheduling the work flow for computer controlled reconfigurable production systems according to claim 29, wherein said selected capabilities include all of the capabilities needed to produce said work unit. 32. A method for planning and scheduling the work flow for computer controlled reconfigurable production systems according to claim 19, wherein said capabilities comprise capability models for at least one machine module. 33. A method for planning and scheduling the work flow for computer controlled reconfigurable production systems according to claim 19, wherein said capabilities comprise feature constraints. 34. A method for planning and scheduling the work flow for computer controlled reconfigurable production systems according to claim 19, wherein said capabilities comprise timing constraints. 35. An article of manufacture comprising a computer usable medium having computer readable program code embodied in said medium which, when said program code is executed by said computer causes said computer to perform method steps for planning and scheduling computer controlled reconfigurable production systems, said method comprising: utilizing the system controller for enabling continued use of all available system modules by scheduling around at least one off-line module while interleaving at least one diagnostic work unit, wherein said system controller is utilized to receive descriptions of at least one work unit with its desired attributes, capability models from each of the plurality of modules, and the current state of the system, including operations currently being performed by the modules and capabilities previously planned and scheduled, wherein said capability models include timing constraints, feature constraints, and commands, wherein said timing constraints include the duration of execution of a capability, the time during which a module is occupied, or the reservation of a module, wherein said feature constraints include limits on the size of the work units being processed and transformation of the work units, and wherein said commands include the names or identifications of the operations corresponding to the capabilities, together with timing information; planning the work flow for concurrent production of regular and at least one diagnostic work unit, wherein said diagnostic work units comprise non-standard work units an operator wants the system to perform during servicing of at least one off-line module, wherein said concurrent production includes continued use of all available system modules while interleaving said at least one diagnostic work unit, wherein said planning utilizes said capability models to determine how to produce the said desired attributes of said regular and diagnostic work units; and scheduling the work flow for concurrent production of regular and diagnostic work units, wherein said diagnostic work units are scheduled to be performed on said off-line module, wherein said scheduling includes utilizing selected capabilities and providing a set of scheduled capabilities in the form of commands to the plurality of modules and a separate set of commands to said off-line module. 36. An article of manufacture comprising a computer usable medium having computer readable program code embodied in said medium which, when said program code is executed by said computer causes said computer to perform method steps for planning and scheduling computer controlled reconfigurable production systems according to claim 35, wherein planning said work flow comprises: acquiring a description of work units to be produced; selecting at least one of said work units to be planned; determining whether said work unit comprises a diagnostic work unit or a regular work unit; determining the capabilities needed to produce said diagnostic work unit; determining the capabilities needed to produce said regular work unit without utilizing off line modules; modifying constraints using selection variables; posting constraints on selection variables and common modules to memory; and posting timing and precedence constraints to memory. 37. An article of manufacture comprising a computer usable medium having computer readable program code embodied in said medium which, when said program code is executed by said computer causes said computer to perform method steps for planning and scheduling computer controlled reconfigurable production systems according to claim 35, wherein scheduling said work flow: selecting capabilities to be scheduled; reserving exit resources for planned capabilities within the same jobs; and solving for timing and selection variables of planned capabilities. 