A robot for marking an interface surface is provided. The interface surface has coded data identifying a plurality of locations on the interface surface printed thereon. The robot comprises: an image sensor for sensing at least some of the coded data; a processor for generating indicating data using the sensed coded data, the indicating data comprising data regarding a position of the robot on the interface surface; communication means for transmitting the indicating data to a computer system and receiving instructions from the computer system; a steerable drive system for moving the robot over the interface surface in response to movement instructions received from the computer system; and a marking device for selectively marking the interface surface in response to marking instructions received from the computer system.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A robot for marking an interface surface, the interface surface having coded data identifying a plurality of locations on the interface surface printed thereon, the robot comprising: an image sensor for sensing at least some of the coded data; a processor for generating indicating data using the sensed coded data, said indicating data comprising data regarding a position of the robot on the interface surface; communication means for transmitting the indicating data to a computer system and receiving instructions from the computer system; a steerable drive system for moving the robot over the interface surface in response to movement instructions received from the computer system; and a marking device for selectively marking the interface surface in response to marking instructions received from the computer system. 2. The robot as claimed in claim 1, wherein the marking device is at least one pen, or the like, attached to or held by the robot. 3. The robot as claimed in claim 1, wherein the marking device is at least one printhead attached to or held by the robot. 4. The robot as claimed in claim 1, wherein the marking device is selectively moveable into and out of a marking configuration. 5. The robot as claimed in claim 1, wherein a characteristic of the marking device is determined by the robot decoding a barcode on the marking device. 6. The robot as claimed in claim 1, wherein a characteristic of the marking device is determined by the robot reading a value from a solid-state memory associated with the marking device. 7. The robot as claimed in claim 1, wherein a characteristic of the marking device is determined by a user activating a hyperlink on the interface surface using the robot. 8. The robot as claimed in claim 7, wherein said characteristic of the marking device is the color of the ink in the marking device. 9. The robot as claimed in claim 1, wherein the robot is operable in a raster mode or a vector mode. 10. The robot as claimed in claim 1, wherein the robot is remotely controllable by a user. 11. The robot as claimed in claim 1, wherein the drive system comprises electronically driven wheels. 12. The robot as claimed in claim 1, wherein a computer application runs on said computer system, said computer application controlling the marking device and/or the drive system in response to the indicating data received by the computer system. 13. The robot as claimed in claim 1, wherein the robot has a unique robot identifier which for distinguishing the robot from other robots. 14. The robot as claimed in claim 1, wherein the indicating data is transmitted to the computer system by a wireless signal. 15. The robot as claimed in claim 14, wherein the computer system is configured for receiving the indicating data via a relay device in wireless communication with the robot. 16. The robot as claimed in claim 1, wherein the interface surface is a netpage. 17. The robot as claimed in claim 1, wherein the coded data also identifies the interface surface. 18. A system for marking an interface surface, said system comprising: an interface surface having coded data identifying a plurality of locations on the interface surface printed thereon; and a robot comprising: an image sensor for sensing at least some of the coded data; a processor for generating indicating data using the sensed coded data, said indicating data comprising data regarding a position of the robot on the interface surface; communication means for transmitting the indicating data to a computer system and receiving instructions from the computer system; a steerable drive system for moving the robot over the interface surface in response to movement instructions received from the computer system; and a marking device for selectively marking the interface surface in response to marking instructions received from the computer system. 19. A system for marking an interface surface using a robot, said interface surface having coded data identifying a plurality of locations on the interface surface printed thereon, said robot comprising: an image sensor for sensing at least some of the coded data; a processor for generating indicating data using the sensed coded data, said indicating data comprising data regarding a position of the robot on the interface surface; first communication means for transmitting the indicating data to a computer system and receiving instructions from the computer system; a steerable drive system for moving the robot over the interface surface in response to movement instructions received from the computer system; and a marking device for selectively marking the interface surface in response to marking instructions received from the computer system, wherein said system comprises: a computer system having a computer application running thereon, said computer application being configured to generate instructions for controlling the marking device and/or the drive system of the robot; and second communication means for transmitting said instructions generated by the computer application to the first communication means of the robot. 20. The system of claim 19, wherein the computer application is configured to generate said instructions in response to indicating data received by the computer system from the robot. 