Sample preparation device and method for desalting and concentrating samples prior to further analysis such as by MALDI TOF and/or electro-spray ionization (ESI) mass spectrometry. The device in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention contains a three dimensional structure preferably comprising a plurality of sorptive particles entrapped in a porous polymer matrix so as to form a device capable of carrying out solid phase extraction. The device is manufactured by introducing casting solution containing polymer and optionally particles into a housing, and subsequently exposing the device to a quench bath for a time sufficient to allow for solvent exchange and precipitation to form the composite structure in the housing. The present invention is also directed towards a method of sample preparation using the device of the present invention.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of forming a structure in a housing, comprising: providing said housing having at least first and second openings, said first opening being spaced from said second opening and being in fluid communication with each other; dispensing into said housing a predetermined amount of casting solution comprising a membrane-forming polymer; exposing said casting solution to a quenching bath in which said polymer is insoluble so as to cause said quenching bath to enter each of said openings simultaneously in order to precipitate said polymer in said housing; wherein said precipitated polymer has an aspect ratio of less than about 10. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising providing a plurality of sorptive particles in said porous polymer. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said quenching bath enters each of said openings isobarically. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said quenching bath comprises alcohol and water. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said quenching bath is a gas. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein said housing is a drain of a well of a multi-well plate. 7. A method of forming a structure in a housing, comprising: providing said housing having a plurality of wells, each of said wells having a drain having an inlet and an outlet; introducing into each said drain a predetermined amount of casting solution comprising a membrane-forming polymer; exposing said casting solution to a quenching bath in which said polymer is insoluble by causing said quenching bath to enter both said inlet and said outlet of each said drain isobarically and simultaneously in order to precipitate said polymer in each said drain; wherein said precipitated polymer has an aspect ratio of less than about 10. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein said casting solution comprises sorptive particles. 9. The method of claim 7, wherein said quenching bath enters said inlet and outlet isobarically. 10. The method of claim 7, wherein said quenching bath comprises alcohol and water. 11. The method of claim 7, wherein said quenching bath is a gas. 