A method is provided of application protocol monitoring for a manufacturing line including the steps of constructing a manufacturing line model for the manufacturing line, utilizing logic for a programmable logic controller (PLC), executing a control logic simulation of the PLC logic to validate the PLC logic against the manufacturing line model, creating a database containing validated I/O tag expected intents confirmed from the control logic simulation, and applying the application protocol monitoring device to a network for the manufacturing line to monitor traffic across the network and continuously compare the I/O tag status across the network to the database of validated I/O tag expected intents.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of application protocol monitoring for a manufacturing line, said method comprising the steps of: constructing a manufacturing line model for the manufacturing line; utilizing logic for a programmable logic controller (PLC); executing a control logic simulation of the PLC logic; validating the PLC logic against the manufacturing line model; creating a database containing validated I/O tag expected intents confirmed from the control logic simulation; and applying the application protocol monitoring device to a network for the manufacturing line to monitor traffic across the network and continuously compare the I/O tag status across the network to the database of validated I/O tag expected intents. 2. A method as set forth in claim 1 including the step of bringing a PLC on line before said step of validating. 3. A method as set forth in claim 2 including the step of bringing the manufacturing line model on line. 4. A method as set forth in claim 1 including the step of saving a control logic simulation model after said step of correcting. 5. A method as set forth in claim 4 including the step of saving the PLC logic. 6. A method as set forth in claim 5 including the step of wiring up input/output (I/O) tag definitions for the PLC logic. 7. A method as set forth in claim 6 including the step of dummying up interlock I/O tags for the PLC logic. 8. A method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the step of validating the PLC code includes testing an automatic mode of the PLC logic. 9. A method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the step of validating the PLC code includes testing a manual mode of the PLC logic. 10. A method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the step of validating the PLC code includes testing at least one hard wired device of the PLC logic. 11. A method of application protocol monitoring for a manufacturing line, said method comprising the steps of: constructing a manufacturing line model for the manufacturing line; utilizing logic for a programmable logic controller (PLC); bringing a PLC on line; bringing the manufacturing line model on line; executing a control logic simulation of the PLC logic; validating the PLC logic against the manufacturing line model; correcting the PLC logic as required; creating a database containing validated I/O tag expected intents confirmed from the control logic simulation if the PLC logic is valid; and applying the application protocol monitoring device to a network for the manufacturing line to monitor traffic across the network and continuously compare the I/O tag status across the network to the database of validated I/O tag expected intents. 12. A method as set forth in claim 11 including the step of wiring up input/output (I/O) tag definitions for the PLC logic. 13. A method as set forth in claim 11 including the step of dummying up interlock I/O tags for the PLC logic. 14. A method as set forth in claim 11 wherein the step of validating the PLC code includes testing an automatic mode of the PLC logic. 15. A method as set forth in claim 11 wherein the step of validating the PLC code includes testing a manual mode of the PLC logic. 16. A method as set forth in claim 11 wherein the step of validating the PLC code includes testing at least one hard wired device of the PLC logic. 17. A method of application protocol monitoring for a manufacturing line, said method comprising the steps of: utilizing logic for a programmable logic controller (PLC) from a single manufacturing system simulation; establishing a plurality of PLCs on a simulation environment network; linking interlock input/output (I/O) tags; starting the PLCs; starting the simulation models; executing simulation of the PLCs and simulation models; validating the PLC logic; determining whether the PLC logic is valid; correcting the PLC logic if the PLC logic is not valid; and creating a database containing validated I/O tag expected intents confirmed from the control logic simulation if the PLC logic is valid; and applying the application protocol monitoring device to a network for the manufacturing line to monitor traffic across the network and continuously compare the I/O tag status across the network to the database of validated I/O tag expected intents. 18. A method as set forth in claim 17 including the step of debugging an interlock logic portion of the PLC logic. 19. A method as set forth in claim 18 including the step of determining whether to modify the PLC logic. 20. A method as set forth in claim 19 including the step of determining whether to change interlock dependency of the interlock logic portion if the PLC logic does not need to be modified. 