A multi-paned fenestration unit in which the glass panes are manufactured directly into the support structure without first manufacturing an insulated glass unit. The support structure is designed to provide the structural support for the glass panes without a separate spacer.
Claims We claim: 1. A fenestration unit comprising: a first glass pane having an inside surface and an outside surface, the inside surface having a border portion and an inner portion and the outside surface having a border portion and an inner portion; a second glass pane having an inside surface and an outside surface, the inside surface having a border portion and an inner portion, and the outside surface having a border portion and an inner portion, the inside surface of the first glass pane facing the inside surface of the second glass pane; a support structure comprising: a first receiving surface for receiving the border portion of the inside surface of the first glass pane, wherein the first glass pane is structurally supported solely at the border portion of the inside surface by the first receiving surface; and a second receiving surface for receiving the border portion of the inside surface of the second glass pane; wherein the second glass pane is structurally supported solely at the border portion of the inside surface by the second receiving surface; and a vapor barrier extending between and contacting the first receiving surface and the second receiving surface; wherein the first receiving surface comprises a first raised portion that contacts the border portion of the inside surface of the first glass pane, and wherein the second receiving surface comprises a second raised portion that contacts the border portion of the inside surface of the second glass pane; wherein a first primary sealant is located between the vapor barrier and the inside surface of the first glass pane and wherein a second primary sealant is located between the vapor barrier and the second glass pane; wherein the first glass pane is attached to the first receiving surface by a first secondary sealant and the second glass pane is attached to the second receiving surface by a second secondary sealant; wherein the first raised portion separates the first primary sealant from the first secondary sealant, and the second raised portion separates the second primary sealant from the second secondary sealant. 2. The fenestration unit of claim 1 wherein the first primary sealant and the second primary sealant each comprise polyisobutylene. 3. The fenestration unit of claim 1 wherein the first and second secondary sealants comprise a silicone material. 4. The fenestration unit of claim 1 wherein the vapor barrier is attached to the support structure by an adhesive. 5. The fenestration unit of claim 1 wherein the vapor barrier comprises a metal. 6. The fenestration unit of claim 1 wherein the vapor barrier is stainless steel. 7. The fenestration unit of claim 1 wherein the vapor barrier is aluminum. 8. The fenestration unit of claim 1 wherein the vapor barrier is a coating applied to the support structure. 9. The fenestration unit of claim 1 wherein the vapor barrier comprises plastic. 10. The fenestration unit of claim 1 wherein the vapor barrier comprises a ceramic material. 11. The fenestration unit of claim 1 wherein the vapor barrier is attached to the first receiving surface and to the second receiving surface and extends therebetween. 12. A fenestration unit comprising: a first glass pane having an inside surface and an outside surface, the inside surface having a border portion and an inner portion and the outside surface having a border portion and an inner portion; a second glass pane having an inside surface and an outside surface, the inside surface having a border portion and an inner portion, and the outside surface having a border portion and an inner portion, the inside surface of the first glass pane facing the inside surface of the second glass pane; a first glazing bead having a flexible tip that presses against the outside surface of the first glass pane and a second glazing bead having a flexible tip that presses against the outside surface of the second glass pane; a support structure comprising: a first receiving surface for receiving the border portion of the inside surface of the first glass pane, wherein the first glass pane is structurally supported solely at the border portion of the inside surface by the first receiving surface; and a second receiving surface for receiving the border portion of the inside surface of the second glass pane; wherein the second glass pane is structurally supported solely at the border portion of the inside surface by the second receiving surface; and a vapor barrier extending between and contacting the first receiving surface and the second receiving surface; wherein the first receiving surface comprises a first raised portion that contacts the border portion of the inside surface of the first glass pane, and wherein the second receiving surface comprises a second raised portion that contacts the border portion of the inside surface of the second glass pane. 13. A fenestration unit comprising: a first glass pane having an inside surface and an outside surface, the inside surface having a border portion and an inner portion and the outside surface having a border portion and an inner portion; a second glass pane having an inside surface and an outside surface, the inside surface having a border portion and an inner portion, and the outside surface having a border portion and an inner portion, the inside surface of the first glass pane facing the inside surface of the second glass pane; a support structure comprising: a first receiving surface for receiving the border portion of the inside surface of the first glass pane, wherein the first glass pane is structurally supported solely at the border portion of the inside surface by the first receiving surface; and a second receiving surface for receiving the border portion of the inside surface of the second glass pane; wherein the second glass pane is structurally supported solely at the border portion of the inside surface by the second receiving surface; and a vapor barrier extending between and contacting the first receiving surface and the second receiving surface; wherein the first receiving surface comprises a first raised portion that contacts the border portion of the inside surface of the first glass pane, and wherein the second receiving surface comprises a second raised portion that contacts the border portion of the inside surface of the second glass pane; wherein a first primary sealant is located between the vapor barrier and the inside surface of the first glass pane and wherein a second primary sealant is located between the vapor barrier and the second glass pane; wherein the first glass pane is attached to the first receiving surface by a first secondary sealant and the second glass pane is attached to the second receiving surface by a second secondary sealant; wherein the fenestration unit further includes a first glazing bead that hides the first primary sealant and the first secondary sealant, and a second glazing bead that hides the second primary sealant and the second secondary sealant. 