The present invention extends to methods, systems, and computer program products for isolating the evaluation of actual test results against expected test results from the test module that generates the actual test results. A results evaluation sub-system receives actual test results resulting from the execution of a test in a test environment. A results retrieval sub-system receives environmental data indicating that a test was performed in the test environment. The results retrieval sub-system selects one or more expected results from a results database based on the received environmental data. The results retrieval sub-system sends the selected one or more expected results to the results evaluation sub-system. The results evaluation sub-system receives the one or more selected results. The results evaluation sub-system evaluates the actual test results against the one or more expected results to determine if the test was successful.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. In a computer system that includes a results evaluation sub-system for evaluating test results generated by a test of an object that typically produces different resulting output for different test environments, a method for creating consistent evaluation of the object across multiple testing environments without having to generate or maintain new or additional test instructions for varying environments, the method comprising the following: an act of receiving actual test results, the actual test results being generated as a result of performing a test in a test environment; an act of receiving environmental data that defines the test environment under which the actual test results are generated; in response to receiving environmental data when attempting to find a match therewith, an act of comparing the received environmental data with a set of test entry environments stored in a results retrieval sub-system, wherein each test entry environment of the set corresponds to a particular environment for which the test was previously executed; based on the comparing, an act of selecting a specific test entry environment from among the set of test entry environments stored in the results retrieval sub-system, wherein one or more environmental conditions for the selected specific test entry environment have increased commonality with one or more environmental conditions of the environmental data; based on the selection of the specific test entry environment, an act of identifying one or more expected test results from the results retrieval sub-system, the identified one or more expected test results being keyed to the selected specific test entry environment and resulting from one or more of previous executions of the test in the specific test entry environment; and an act of evaluating the actual test results against the identified one or more expected test results to determine if the test was successfully performed in the test environment. 2. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the act of receiving actual test results comprises an act of receiving actual test results that were collected at a results collection sub-system. 3. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the act of receiving actual test results comprises an act of receiving actual test results from a test module that generated the actual test results. 4. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the act of receiving actual test results comprises an act of receiving actual test results generated from testing a software object. 5. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein at least one of the one or more environmental conditions must-match at least one of the one or more environmental conditions of the selected specific test entry environment. 6. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the one or more expected test results are received from a results retrieval sub-system, and wherein the one or more expected test results indicate the test was successfully executed in the test environment defined by the environmental data. 7. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the one or more expected test results are received using a network message from a second computer system that includes the results retrieval sub-system, the second computer system being network connectable to the computer system. 8. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the act of evaluating the actual test results against the one or more expected test results comprises an act of comparing field values in the actual test results to field values in the expected test results. 9. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the act of evaluating the actual test results against the one or more expected test results comprises an act of determining if one or more actions were performed. 10. The method as recited in claim 9, wherein the act of determining if one or more actions were performed comprises an act of determining if one or more actions were performed in a specified order. 11. The method as recited in claim 1, further comprising: an act of sending the environmental data along with a test type indication to the results retrieval sub-system for determining if a match exists between the one or more environmental conditions of environmental data and the one or more environmental conditions of the selected specific test entry environment. 12. The method as recited in claim 11, wherein the act of receiving environmental data that defines the test environment under which actual test results are generated comprises an act of receiving environmental data from an environment discovery module. 13. The method as recited in claim 11, wherein the act of receiving environmental data that defines the test environment under which actual test results are generated comprises an act of receiving environmental data from a test module that executed the test. 14. The method as recited in claim 1, further comprising: an act of sending a results update to the results retrieval sub-system, the results update including at least the actual test results. 15. The method as recited in claim 1, fUrther comprising: an act of sending evaluation results to an analysis sub-system, the evaluation results including at least the actual test results and an indication of whether the test was successful. 16. In a computer system that includes a results retrieval sub-system for retrieving expected results of a test of an object that typically produces different resulting output for different test environments, a method for creating consistent evaluation of the object across multiple testing environments without having to generate or maintain new or additional test instructions for varying environments by retrieving expected results that are to be used to determine if a test was sucessful, the method comprising the following: receiving environmental data that defines a test environment under which actual test results are generated indicating that a test was performed in the test environment; in response to receiving environmental data when attempting to find a match therewith, comparing the received environmental data with a set of test entry environments stored in a database, wherein each test entry environment of the set corresponds to a particular environment for which the test was previously executed; based on the comparing, selecting a specific test entry environment from among the set of test entry environments stored in the database, wherein one or more environmental conditions for the selected specific test entry environment have increased commonality with one or more environmental conditions of the environmental data; based on the selection of the specific test entry environment, identifying one or more expected test results from a results database, the identified one or more expected test results being keyed to the selected specific test entry environment and resulting from one or more of previous executions of the test in the specific test entry environment; and sending the identified one or more expected test results to a results evaluation sub-system in response to receiving the environmental data to determine if the test was successfully performed in the test environment. 17. The method as recited in claim 16, wherein the act of receiving environmental data that defines a test environment comprises an act of receiving environmental data from a results collection sub-system. 18. The method as recited in claim 16, wherein the act of receiving environmental data that defines a test environment under which actual test results are generated comprises an act of receiving environmental data from a results evaluation sub-system. 19. The method as recited in claim 16, wherein the act of receiving environmental data that defines a test environment under which actual test results are generated comprises an act of receiving environmental data that represents the test environment. 20. The method as recited in claim 16, wherein the act of receiving environmental data that defines a test environment under which actual test results are generated comprises an act of receiving environmental data from a second computer system that includes the results evaluation sub-system, the second computer system being network connectable to the computer system. 21. The method as recited in claim 16, wherein the act of receiving environmental data that defines a test environment under which actual test results are generated comprises an act of receiving a test type along with the environmental data, the test type indicating a specified type of test was executed in an environment represented by the environmental data. 22. The method as recited in claim 21, wherein the act of receiving a test type along with the environmental data, the test type indicating a specified type of test was executed in an environment represented by the environmental data comprises receiving an indication that a software object was tested in an environment represented by the environmental data. 23. The method as recited in claim 16, wherein the database that stores the set of test entry environments is the same as the results database. 24. The method as recited in claim 16, wherein at least one of the one or more environmental conditions for the selected specific test entry environment must-match at least one of the one or more environmental conditions for the received environmental data. 25. The method as recited in claim 16, wherein the act of identifying one or more expected results from a results database based on the received environmental data comprises an act of selecting a plurality of expected results from the results database. 26. The method as recited in claim 16, farther comprising: an act of receiving a results update from the results evaluation sub-system, the results update included actual test results from a test executed in a new test environment; and an act of storing the actual results in the results database such that the actual results can be used to determine successfulness of subsequently executed tests. 27. A computer program product for use in a computer system that includes a results evaluation sub-system for evaluating test results generated by a test of an object that typically produces different resulting output for different test environments, the computer program product for implementing a method for creating consistent evaluation of the object across multiple testing environments without having to generate or maintain new or additional test instructions for varying environments, the computer program product comprising one or more computer-readable storage media having stored thereon computer executable instructions that, when executed by a processor, cause the computer system to perform the following: receive actual test results, the actual test results being generated as a result of performing a test in a test environment; receive environmental data that defines the test environment under which the actual test results are generated; in response to receiving environmental data when attempting to find a match therewith, compare the received environmental data with a set of test entry environments stored in a results retrieval sub-system, wherein each test entry environment of the set corresponds to a particular environment for which the test was previously executed; based on the comparing, select a specific test entry environment from among the set of test entry environments stored in the results retrieval sub-system, wherein one or more environmental conditions for the selected specific test entry environment have increased commonality with one or more environmental conditions of the environmental data; based on the selection of the specific test entry environment, identify one or more expected test results from the results retrieval sub-system the identified one or more expected results being keyed to the selected specific test entry environment and resulting from one or more of previous executions of the test in the specific test entry environment; and evaluate the actual test results against the one or more expected test results to determine if the test was successfully performed in the test environment. 28. The computer program product as recited in claim 27, wherein the one or more computer-readable storage media farther comprise computer-executable instructions that, when executed by a processor, cause the computer system to perform the following: send the environmental data along with a test type indication to the results retrieval sub-system for determining if a match exists between the one or more environmental conditions and the one or more expected test results. 29. The computer program product as recited in claim 27, wherein the one or more computer-readable storage media farther comprise computer-executable instructions that, when executed by a processor, cause the computer system to perform the following: send a results update to the results retrieval sub-system, the results update including at least the actual test results. 30. The computer program product as recited in claim 27, wherein the one or more computer-readable storage media farther comprise computer-executable instructions that, when executed by a processor, cause the computer system to perform the following: send evaluation results to an analysis sub-system, the evaluation results including at least the actual test results and indication of whether the test was successful. 31. The computer program product as recited in claim 27, wherein the one or more computer-readable storage media are physical media. 32. The computer program product as recited in claim 27, wherein the one or more computer-readable storage media include system memory. 33. A computer program product for use in a computer system that includes a results retrieval sub-system for retrieving expected results of a test of an object that typically produces different resulting output for different test environments, the computer program product for implementing a method for creating consistent evaluation of the object across multiple testing environments without having to generate or maintain new or additional test instructions for varying environments by retrieving expected results that are to be used to determine if a test was successful, the computer program product comprising one or more computer-readable storage media having stored thereon computer executable instructions that, when executed by a processor, cause the computer system to perform the following: receive environmental data that defines a test environment under which actual test results are generated indicating that a test was performed in the test environment; in response to receiving environmental data when attempting to find a match therewith, comparing the received environmental data with a set of test entry environments stored in a database, wherein each test entry environment of the set corresponds to a particular environment for which the test was previously executed; based on the comparing, select a specific test entry environment from among the set of test entry environments stored in the database, wherein on or more environmental conditions for the selected specific test entry environment have increased commonality with one or more environmental conditions of the environmental data; based on the selection of the specific test entry environment, identify one or more expected test results from a results database , the identified one or more expected test results being keyed to the selected specific test entry environment and resulting from one or more of previous executions of the test in the specific test environment; and send the identified one or more expected test results to a results evaluation sub-system in response to receiving the environmental data to determine if the test was successfully performed in the test environment. 34. The computer program product as recited in claim 33, wherein the one or more computer-readable storage media further comprise computer-executable instructions that, when executed by a processor, cause the computer system to perform the following: receive a results update from the results evaluation sub-system, the results update included actual test results from a test executed in a new test environment; and store the actual results in the results database such that the actual results can be used to determine successfulness of subsequently executed tests. 35. The computer program product as recited in claim 33, wherein the one or more computer-readable storage media are physical media. 36. The computer program product as recited in claim 33, wherein the one or more computer-readable storage media include system memory. 