In a conveyor work-piece processing system, transport carriages move along a work path, each carriage carrying a plurality of work-piece articles. In the disclosed embodiment, the path is folded back upon itself forming two parallel paths, one above the other, with transport carriages moved vertically from the lower path to the upper path, so that the entrance to the track and the exit from the track are positioned in close proximity to each other. Each transport carriage has a long dimension and a relatively shorter dimension, and each carriage can be reoriented selectively so that the long dimension or the short dimension can be aligned parallel to the work path. Changing the alignment of the two dimensions relative to the direction of the path permits a work piece to remain for a longer time within a given process stage or area along the work path while achieving a system flow-rate of one carriage-in-one carriage-out.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A balanced work transport system for moving articles in transport carriages through different processing stages, and having the capacity for providing for a dwell time in one processing stage different from the dwell time in another processing stage, said system comprising: an elongate article transport guide for guiding transport carriages, in a substantially linear direction along a given motion path, from a starting point to an ending point, said guide having at least a first portion and a second portion; a plurality of transport carriages, each carriage bearing a plurality of articles, and each being displaceably coupled for displacement along said transport guide, said transport carriages being characterized by a given X dimension and a given Y dimension, said X and Y dimensions extending at a non-linear angle to each other; coupling apparatus for displaceably coupling said transport carriages to said article transport guide, so that said transport carriages are reorientable from a first carriage position in which said X dimension is substantially parallel to an adjacent portion of said transport guide, to a second carriage position in which said Y dimension is substantially parallel to an adjacent portion of said transport guide; and orientation-changing apparatus positioned at a predetermined first orientation-changing position along said given motion path, to reorient said transport carriages from one of said first and second carriage positions to the other of said first and second carriage positions; said X and Y dimensions being significantly different from each other such that said transport carriages when disposed in side-by-side relationship along said transport guide occupy a significantly greater length of said guide when oriented in one of said first and second carriage positions than when oriented in the other of said first and second carriage positions. 2. A balanced work transport system in accordance with claim 1, wherein: said first portion of said elongate article transport guide is positioned directly above and substantially parallel to said second portion of said guide; and said orientation-changing apparatus further comprises a vertical transfer mechanism for elevating at least one of said transport carriages at a time from engagement with said first portion to engagement with said second portion. 3. A balanced work transport system in accordance with claim 1, wherein: said article transport guide comprises a parallel rail structure. 4. A balanced work transport system in accordance with claim 1, further comprising: at least one carriage-displacement mechanism associated with each of said first and second guide portions for driving said transport carriages along said motion path from said starting point toward said ending point. 5. A balanced work transport system in accordance with claim 4, wherein: said carriage displacement mechanism comprises a piston and cylinder apparatus having a ratchet pawl for engaging said carriages for displacement in one direction only. 6. A balanced work transport system in accordance with claim 1, wherein: said coupling apparatus coupling said transport carriages to said guide comprises at least a first pair and a second pair of wheels on each said carriage, the said wheels of each said pair being spaced from each other along said X and Y axes for coupling said carriages to said guide in, respectively, said first and said second carriage positions. 7. A balanced work transport system in accordance with claim 2, wherein: said motion path extends over a given total length, said first and said second portions of said guide each comprising substantially half of said total length; said orientation changing apparatus is positioned intermediate said first and said second guide portions; and said system further comprising a transfer mechanism for transferring said transport carriages from said first guide portion to said second guide portion. 8. A balanced work transport system in accordance with claim 7, wherein: said transfer mechanism comprises a rack for engaging said at least one of said carriages disposed in one of said first and second carriage positions, and a linear displacement device for displacing said rack with said engaged carriage into alignment for engagement of said at least one of said carriages with said second guide portion. 