A micro-radiation therapy apparatus includes an isotope-based micro-radiotherapy brachytherapy small animal irradiator useful for radiating a biological system, the irradiator having an external radiation source proximate the biological system comprising a collimated radiation beam. A method of effectively irradiating at least one cell in a biological system includes applying micro-radiation from an isotope-based micro-radiation small animal irradiator, the irradiator having an external radiation source proximate the biological system including a collimated radiation beam to a target cell of the biological system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A non-human mammal conformal radiation therapy system comprising an enclosure comprising a bore having a diameter less than about 30 centimeters, a radioactive radiation source, a retractable mechanical apparatus positioned and configured to position said source substantially within said enclosure and at a distance between 1 centimeter and 15 centimeters from a non-human mammal and to retract said source to a source storage unit, and a collimator positioned to collimate radiation emitted from said source. 2. A system in accordance with claim 1 wherein said retractable mechanical apparatus is further configured to position said source substantially centered in said bore using a linear motion, said collimator rotatably mounted to rotate around said source when said source is positioned and centered in said bore. 3. A system in accordance with claim 1 wherein said retractable mechanical apparatus is further configured to position said source proximate an inner circumference of said bore using at least partially a circular motion. 4. A system in accordance with claim 1 further comprising a couch translatable in at least two dimensions within said bore and configured to position the non-human mammal. 5. A non-human mammal conformal radiation therapy system comprising: an enclosure comprising a bore having a diameter less than about 30 centimeters; a radioactive radiation source; a retractable mechanical apparatus positioned and configured to position said source substantially within said enclosure and at a distance between 1 centimeter and 15 centimeters from a non-human mammal; and a collimator unit positioned to collimate radiation emitted from said source, wherein said retractable mechanical apparatus is further configured to move said source within said collimator unit such that substantially no un-collimated radiation is emitted. 6. A system in accordance with claim 5 wherein said retractable mechanical apparatus is further configured to position said source proximate an inner circumference of said bore using at least partially a circular motion. 7. A system in accordance with claim 6 further comprising a plurality of collimators positioned proximate the inner circumference, wherein said retractable mechanical apparatus is further configured to position said source proximate to any desired collimator. 8. A system in accordance with claim 5 further comprising a plurality of collimators positioned proximate an inner circumference of said bore, wherein said retractable mechanical apparatus is fiuther configured to position said source proximate to any desired collimator. 9. A system in accordance with claim 8 further comprising a couch translatable in at least two dimensions within said bore and configured to position the non-human mammal. 10. A system in accordance with claim 5 further comprising a couch translatable in at least two dimensions within said bore and configured to position the non-human mammal. 