Cartesian robots and methods for proper alignment are provided. More specifically, the invention uses reflective spheres and a laser to locate specific points that can then be used to determine correction factors.
Claims We claim: 1. An alignment correction system comprising (a) a base having a surface with one or more target locations, wherein each target location is fitted to receive a light-reflective object and all of the target locations lie substantially in a single base plane; (b) one or more light-reflective objects, each positioned at one of the target locations; and (c) a probe having a light source and a sensor to detect reflected light, the probe being positionable within a probe plane substantially parallel to the base plane and at a distance from the base plane such that the probe can illuminate each target location with a beam of light and the sensor can detect reflected light from any light-reflective object located at such target location. 2. The alignment correction system of claim 1, wherein the light source is a laser. 3. The alignment correction system of claim 1, wherein the light-reflective object is a light-reflective sphere. 4. The alignment correction system of claim 1 wherein the beam of light is substantially perpendicular to the base plane. 5. The alignment correction system of claim 1 wherein the surface of the base comprises a depression or hole for containing a light reflective object at each target location. 6. The alignment correction system of claim 1 wherein a light reflective object is positioned at each target location. 7. The alignment correction system of claim 1 wherein the target positions on the base surface are defined by an x-coordinate and a y-coordinate such that no two target locations have the same x-coordinate or the same y-coordinate. 8. The alignment correction system of claim 1 wherein the base surface comprises at least two pairs of corners, and the corners of each pair are diagonally positioned from each other. 9. The alignment correction system of claim 8 wherein at least two target locations are positioned along a first diagonal that extends between opposite corners of the base surface. 10. The alignment correction system of claim 9 wherein two or more target locations are positioned on a second diagonal extending between a second pair of opposite corners on the base surface and wherein the target locations are positioned in the center region of the base surface. 11. The alignment correction system of claim 10 wherein at least one target location on the second diagonal is positioned on the same side of the base surface as one of the target locations positioned on the first diagonal. 12. The alignment correction system of claim 1 wherein the base is adapted to hold containers for receiving liquids. 13. The alignment correction system of claim 12 wherein the containers for receiving liquids are selected from racks of test tubes or microtiter plates. 14. The alignment correction system of claim 1 wherein the alignment correction system is part of an X-Y plotter or a Cartesian robot, each having an X-Y actuator adapted to move to any X-Y coordinate above the base surface. 15. The alignment correction system of claim 14 wherein the Cartesian robot is a liquid handling robot. 16. The alignment correction system of claim 14 wherein the probe is mounted on the X-Y actuator. 17. The alignment correction system of claim 3 wherein the light reflective sphere is selected from a ball bearing, a metal coated sphere, a ceramic sphere, a reflective glass sphere, or a reflective plastic sphere. 18. The alignment correction system of claim 2 wherein the probe is a retro-reflective laser optic sensor. 19. A method of correcting alignment errors in a machine using the alignment correction system of claim 1 comprising: (a) illuminating the one or more light-reflective objects with the beam of light from the probe of the alignment correction system; and (b) detecting the light reflected from the one or more light-reflective objects with the probe sensor. 20. A method of correcting alignment errors in a machine comprising: (a) positioning the probe of the alignment correction system of claim 1 over one of the light-reflective objects at one of the target locations; (b) illuminating the light-reflective object with a beam of light from the probe light source; (c) detecting the light reflected from the light-reflective object with the probe sensor; (d) repositioning the probe relative to the light-reflective object until the reflected light is at a maximum and recording the position of the probe at the maximum; (e) repeating the above steps for each target location having a light-reflective object thereat; and (f) determining the alignment error from the data gathered in step (d). 21. The method of claim 20 wherein the alignment error is one or more of offset error, scale inaccuracy, or skew. 22. The method of claim 20 wherein the probe is positioned to scan a center line of each light reflective object. 23. The method of claim 21 wherein a center line along the x-axis and a center line along the y-axis are both scanned. 24. The method of claim 22 wherein a scan along the x-center line is performed; a y-center line is scanned from the x-center line; and from the y-center line the x-center line is again scanned. 25. The method of claim 22 wherein the center line along the x-axis and the center line along the y-axis provide a set of X and Y measurements for each target location. 26. The method of claim 24 wherein multiple linear regression is performed on the set of X and Y measurements for each target location. 27. An alignment correction system comprising (a) a Cartesian robotic arm further comprising a probe; (b) a base having a surface with one or more target locations, wherein each target location is fitted to receive a light-reflective sphere and all of the target locations lie substantially in a single base plane, and further wherein the robot arm and the base are vertically disposed from one another and occupy substantially parallel planes; (c) one or more light-reflective spheres, each positioned at one of the target locations; (d) wherein the probe further comprises a laser and a sensor to detect reflected laser light, the probe being positionable within a probe plane substantially parallel to the base plane and at a distance from the base plane such that the probe can illuminate each target location with a beam of laser light and the sensor can detect reflected light from any light-reflective sphere located at such target location. 