The present invention relates to transducers, their use and fabrication. The transducers convert between mechanical and electrical energy. Some transducers of the present invention include a pre-strained polymer. The pre-strain improves the conversion between electrical and mechanical energy. The present invention also relates to devices including an electroactive polymer to convert between electrical and mechanical energy. The present invention further relates to compliant electrodes that conform to the shape of a polymer included in a transducer. The present invention provides methods for fabricating electromechanical devices including one or more electroactive polymers.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An electrode for use with an electroactive polymer, the electrode comprising: a compliant portion in contact with the electroactive polymer, wherein the electrode comprises a conductive material having an aspect ratio greater than about 2 and an electrode thickness less than about 4 micrometers, wherein the compliant electrode is capable of a maximum linear strain of at least about 50 percent; and a binder that increases adhesion between the conductive material and the electroactive polymer. 2. The electrode of claim 1 wherein the electrode thickness is less than about 2 micrometers when applied to the electroactive polymer. 3. The electrode of claim 1 wherein the conductive material comprises carbon fibrils. 4. The electrode of claim 1 wherein the conductive material comprises carbon nanotubes. 5. The electrode of claim 1 wherein the aspect ratio of the conductive material is greater than about 4. 6. The electrode of claim 1 wherein the binder includes a polymer binder that increases adhesion between the conductive material and the electroactive polymer. 7. The electrode of claim 1 wherein the compliant electrode includes a solvent before application onto the polymer and permits spray coating onto the polymer. 8. The electrode of claim 7 wherein the compliant electrode permits spray coating onto a portion of the electroactive polymer to define an active area according to a geometry of the spray coated electrode. 9. An electrode for use with an electroactive polymer, the electrode comprising: a compliant portion in contact with the electroactive polymer, wherein the electrode comprises a conductive material comprising carbon fibrils or carbon nanotubes and wherein the compliant portion is capable of deflection with a maximum linear strain of at least about 40 percent; and a binder that increases adhesion between the conductive material and the electroactive polymer. 10. The electrode of claim 9 wherein the binder includes a polymer binder that increases adhesion between the conductive material and the electroactive polymer. 11. The electrode of claim 9 wherein the electroactive polymer is an acrylic polymer. 12. The electrode of claim 9 wherein the electroactive polymer has an elastic modulus at most about 100 MPa. 13. The electrode of claim 9 wherein the compliant electrode is capable of a maximum linear strain of at least about 50 percent. 