A method and system for cutting a wafer comprising a semiconductor substrate attached to an array of integrated devices includes placing the wafer on a stage such as a movable X-Y stage including a vacuum chuck having a porous mounting surface, and securing the wafer during and after cutting by vacuum pressure through the pores. The wafer is cut by directing UV pulses of laser energy at the substrate using a solid-state laser having controlled polarization. An adhesive membrane can be attached to the separated die to remove them from the mounting surface, or the die can otherwise be removed after cutting from the wafer.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for cutting a workpiece comprising a substrate formed with semiconductor material, comprising: placing the substrate on a porous member having a mounting surface; securing the sustrate on the mounting surface by applying suction to the substrate through pores in the porous member; cutting through the substrate using laser energy to form individual elements, the elements remaining secured to the mounting surface by the applied suction. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the laser energy has a wavelength that is absorbed to a greater degree by the workpiece than by the mounting surface. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: reducing the suction to release the elements from the mounting surface; and removing the elements from the mounting surface. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising; after said cutting the substrate, adhering the individual elements to a flexible sheet; and removing the elements adhered to the flexible sheet from the mounting surface. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: after said cutting the substrate, using a robotic device to remove the elements from the mounting surface. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the porous member comprises a rigid plate. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the porous member comprises a flexible sheet. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the porous member comprises paper. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the porous member comprises plastic. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the porous member comprises ceramic. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the porous member comprises metal. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the substrate comprises a semiconductor wafer having an active surface, and the active surface is mounted in contact with the mounting surface. 13. The method of claim 1, further comprising; generating said laser energy using a solid state laser. 14. The method of claim 1, further comprising; generating said laser energy using a solid state UV laser. 15. The method of claim 1, further comprising; generating said laser energy using a Q-switched solid state laser. 16. A method for manufacturing laser diodes, comprising: forming an array of laser diodes on a semiconductor substrate; placing the substrate on a mounting surface of a porous member; securing the semiconductor substrate on the mounting surface by applying suction through pores in the porous member; and cutting the semiconductor substrate into individual elements using laser energy, the elements remaining secured to the mounting surface by the applied suction. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein said forming includes forming a layer of GaN on a sapphire substrate, removing the layer of GaN from the sapphire substrate, and mounting the layer of GaN on the semiconductor substrate. 18. The method of claim 16, wherein the laser energy has a wavelength that is absorbed to a greater degree by the semiconductor substrate than by the mounting surface. 19. The method of claim 16, further comprising: reducing the suction to release the elements from the mounting surface; and removing the elements from the mounting surface. 20. The method of claim 16, further comprising; after said cutting the semiconductor substrate, adhering the elements to a flexible sheet; and removing the elements adhered to the flexible sheet from the mounting surface. 21. The method of claim 16, further comprising: after said cutting the semiconductor substrate, using a robotic device to remove the elements from the mounting surface. 22. The method of claim 16, wherein the porous member comprises a rigid plate. 23. The method of claim 16, wherein the porous member comprises a flexible sheet. 24. The method of claim 16, wherein the porous member comprises paper. 25. The method of claim 16, wherein the porous member comprises ceramic. 26. The method of claim 16, wherein the porous member comprises plastic. 27. The method of claim 16, wherein the array is placed in contact with the mounting surface. 28. The method of claim 16, further comprising; cutting the substrate using a solid state laser. 29. The method of claim 16, further comprising; cutting the substrate using a solid state UV laser. 30. The method of claim 16, further comprising; cutting the substrate using a Q-switched solid state laser. 