A workpiece presenter for fixturing a workpiece of a vehicle assembly is provided, including a platform 50, and a tooling plate 7 removably connected to the platform, the tooling plate including a planar body 10 for supporting fixture tools 32, 34 holding the workpiece and including a connector mechanism to allow the planar body 10 to be removably connected with the platform 50 and the tooling plate having a locater mechanism 70, 72, 74 to locate the planar body 10 with respect to the platform 50 in a repeatable manner.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A workpiece presenter for fixturing a workpiece, the workpiece presenter comprising: a platform having first and second heel blocks, each heel block having a mating surface and a locating portion extending from the mating surface, the locating portion extending along a side of the heel block; and a tooling plate removably connected to the platform, the tooling plate including a planar body for supporting a fixture tool adapted to hold the workpiece, a channel, a first block plate disposed proximate the channel, and a second block plate, wherein the first and second block plates each have a step that defines a groove that extends along a side; wherein the first and second heel blocks engage the first and second block plates, respectively, such that each step receives a locating portion to locate the planar body with respect to the platform in a repeatable manner. 2. A workpiece presenter as described in claim 1 further comprising a fastener for coupling the tooling plate to the platform. 3. A workpiece presenter as described in claim 1 wherein the first and second block plates each include a hole adapted to receive a fastener extending from the first and second heel blocks, respectively. 4. A workpiece presenter as described in claim 1 wherein the second heel block further comprises at least two locating portions extending from the second mating surface and the second block plate further comprises at least two adjacent steps that engage the at least two locating portions when the tooling plate is mounted to the platform. 5. A workpiece presenter as described in claim 1 wherein the first and second block plates are disposed on a side of the planar body generally opposite the fixture tool. 6. A workpiece presenter as described in claim 1 wherein the tooling plate further comprising a standoff disposed proximate the channel, wherein the standoff supports the tooling plate when the tooling plate is removed from the workpiece presenter and disposed on a support surface. 7. A workpiece presenter as described in claim 1 wherein the tooling plate has a plurality of holes formed therein adapted to receive a fastener for mounting the fixture tool to the planar body. 8. A workpiece presenter as described in claim 1 wherein said platform is movable. 9. A workpiece presenter as described in claim 8 wherein said platform is linearly movable. 10. A workpiece presenter as described in claim 8 wherein said platform rotates. 11. A workpiece presenter as described in claim 10 wherein said platform rotates about a vertical axis. 12. A workpiece presenter as described in claim 10 wherein said platform rotates about a horizontal axis. 13. A workpiece presenter as described in claim 1 wherein the platform can accommodate a plurality of tooling plates. 14. A workpiece presenter for fixturing at least first and second workpieces of respective first and second subassemblies that differ from one another, the workpiece presenter comprising: a movable platform having first and second heel blocks, each heel block having a mating surface and a locating portion extending from the mating surface and extending linearly along a side of the heel block; at least first and second tooling plates removably connected to the platform, the first and second tooling plates each including: a first surface for supporting a fixture tool for holding at least one of the first and second workpieces, a second surface having first and second block plates, each block plate having a step that defines a groove that extends linearly along a side of the block plate, and a channel disposed proximate the second surface and the first block plate; wherein the first and second heel blocks engage the first and second block plates, respectively, such that each step receives a locating portion to locate the first and second tooling plates with respect to the platform in a repeatable manner. 15. A workpiece presenter as described in claim 14 wherein the first and second block plates each include a hole adapted to receive a fastener extending from the first and second heel blocks, respectively. 16. A workpiece presenter as described in claim 14 wherein the tooling plate further comprises a plurality of holes, each hole being adapted to receive a fastener for mounting the fixture tool. 17. A workpiece presenter as described in claim 16 wherein said platform rotates about a vertical axis. 18. A workpiece presenter as described in claim 14 wherein said platform is linearly movable. 19. A workpiece presenter as described in claim 14 wherein said platform rotates. 20. A workpiece presenter as described in claim 19 wherein said platform rotates about a horizontal axis. 21. A workpiece presenter as described in claim 14 wherein said platform has multiple tooling plates for at least said first workpiece. 22. A workpiece presenter as described in claim 14 wherein the first and second subassemblies are portions of a vehicle body. 23. A workpiece presenter for fixturing first and second workpieces of respective first and second automotive vehicle body weld subassemblies, the workpiece presenter comprising: a platform rotatable about an axis, the platform including; a first heel block having a first mating surface and a first locating portion extending from the first mating surface, and a second heel block having a second mating surface and second and third locating portions extending from the second mating surface; and a tooling plate including: first and second surfaces, a channel disposed proximate the second surface, a first block plate disposed proximate the channel, the first block plate including a first step; and a second block plate disposed proximate the channel, the second block plate having adjacent second and third steps; wherein the first, second and third steps engage the first, second and third locating portions, respectively, to locate the tooling plate with respect to the platform in a repeatable manner. 