This invention relates to a method and apparatus for handling parts ejected from an injection molding machine (10). More particularly, in one aspect, the invention is directed to a system (20) whereby data molded into the ejected part is used to provide useful feedback for the molding process. In another aspect, molded parts formed in a multiple molding die (12) are ejected from the die in a manner to maintain the relative sequential or matrix organization so that useful feedback information can be generated. This system is particularly useful with subsequent machine vision and inspection applications.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for process control in a molding and inspection system, the molding and inspection system being operative to mold components using a die having mold cavities and inspect the components using an inspection unit, the method comprising: transporting the components ejected from the die to the inspection unit; determining if selected attributes are present in any of the components; determining from which mold cavity an inspected component has been ejected by recognizing by the inspection unit information molded into the component; and, selectively controlling the molding and inspection system based on the determining steps. 2. A system for process control the system being operative to mold components using a die having mold cavities the system comprising: means for transporting the components ejected from the die to the inspection unit; electro-optical means for determining if selected attributes are present in any of the components; means for determining from which mold cavity an inspected component has been ejected by recognizing by information molded into the component; and, means for selectively controlling the system based on results of the determining means. 3. The method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the components comprise preforms. 4. The method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the components comprise bottle preforms. 5. The method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the components are formed of PET material. 6. The method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the selected attributes determined by the system are one of defects and flaws. 7. The method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the molding and inspection system is an injection molding and inspection system. 8. The method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the molding and inspection system comprises a machine vision inspection system using electro-optical image means. 9. The method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the selectively controlling is based on statistics and process control information. 10. The method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the selectively controlling includes turning off selected valve cavities. 11. The method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the selectively controlling comprises correcting selected parameters of a molding process. 12. The system as set forth in claim 2 wherein the molded components comprise preforms. 13. The system as set forth in claim 2 wherein the molded components comprise bottle preforms. 14. The system as set forth in claim 2 wherein the molded components are formed of PET material. 15. The system as set forth in claim 2 wherein the system comprises an injection molding system. 16. The system as set forth in claim 2 wherein the selected attributes determined by the system are one of dimensional defects or flaws. 17. The system as set forth in claim 2 wherein the means for selectively controlling is operative based on statistics and process control information derived from the determining means. 18. The system as set forth in claim 2 wherein the means for selectively controlling is operative to selectively turn off valve cavities. 19. The system as set forth in claim 2 wherein the means for selectively controlling is operative to correct parameters of a molding process. 20. The system as set forth in claim 2 wherein the electro-optical means comprises a machine vision inspection system. 