This invention provides a signal processing and signal synthesis technique from a family of signal processing and signal synthesis techniques designed to readily interwork or be used individually in creating new forms of rich musical timbres. Synthetic hysteresis waveshaping is used to create naturally appealing dynamic spectral variations from an input signal of varying amplitude and waveshape. Waveshaping curves, waveshaping parameters, hysteresis characteristics and hysteresis parameters may be recalled from stored program control or modulated in real-time by arbitrary control signals, including those derived from the original input signal. The invention may be used individually or in conjunction with other signal processing and signal synthesis techniques in creating new forms of rich musical timbres. The invention may also be used in spatially-distributed timbre construction.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for enriching the timbre of audio signals, said system comprising: a processor adapted to process an incoming audio signal comprising a signal attribute that is measurable over time, wherein said incoming audio signal is processed by measuring said signal attribute to produce an internal hysteretic control signal, wherein said measuring of said signal attribute is performed according to one of a selectable plurality of control signal generation algorithms; a waveshaper adapted to generate an outgoing waveshaped audio signal by mapping said incoming audio signal to a particular outgoing waveshaped audio signal, wherein said mapping is controlled by said internal hysteretic control signal; and an interface providing said outgoing waveshaped audio signal to an external audio system. 2. The system according to claim 1, wherein said mapping of said incoming audio signal to said particular outgoing waveshaped audio signal is additionally controlled by an incoming mapping control signal. 3. The system according to claim 2, wherein said incoming mapping control signal comprises a signal of MIDI format. 4. The system according to claim 1, wherein said mapping is one of a plurality of mappings, wherein each mapping of said plurality of mappings provides for the generation of a corresponding plurality of different outgoing waveshaped audio signals. 5. The system according to claim 4, wherein at least one mapping of said plurality of mappings comprises a nonlinear characteristic. 6. The system according to claim 1, wherein an incoming hysteresis control signal is used to select a particular control signal generation algorithm from said plurality of control signal generation algorithms. 7. The system according to claim 6, wherein said incoming hysteresis control signal comprises a signal of MIDI format. 8. The system according to claim 1, wherein said system provides one signal processing layer of a multi-layered signal processing system. 9. The system according to claim 1, wherein said system is incorporated into a spatially-distributed timbral realization system. 10. A method for enriching the timbre of audio signals, said method comprising: receiving an incoming audio signal comprising a signal attribute, wherein said signal attribute is measurable over time; processing said incoming audio signal by measuring said signal attribute to produce an internal hysteretic control signal, wherein said measuring of said signal attribute is performed according to one of a selectable plurality of control signal generation algorithms; generating an outgoing waveshaped audio signal by mapping said incoming audio signal to a particular outgoing waveshaped audio signal, wherein said mapping is controlled by said internal hysteretic control signal; and providing said outgoing waveshaped audio signal to an external audio system. 11. The method according to claim 1, wherein said mapping of said incoming audio signal to said particular outgoing waveshaped audio signal is additionally controlled by an incoming mapping control signal. 12. The method according to claim 2, wherein said incoming mapping control signal comprises a signal of MIDI format. 13. The method according to claim 1, wherein said mapping is one of a plurality of mappings, wherein each mapping of said plurality of mappings provides for the generation of a corresponding plurality of different outgoing waveshaped audio signals. 14. The method according to claim 4, wherein at least one mapping of said plurality of mappings comprises a nonlinear characteristic. 15. The method according to claim 1, wherein an incoming hysteresis control signal is used to select a particular control signal generation algorithm from said plurality of control signal generation algorithms. 16. The method according to claim 15, wherein said incoming hysteresis control signal comprises a signal of MIDI format. 17. The method according to claim 1, wherein said method is implemented within one signal processing layer of a multi-layered signal processing system. 18. The method according to claim 1, wherein said method is implemented within a spatially-distributed timbral realization system. 