A robotic system that includes a remote controlled robot. The robot may include a camera, a monitor and a holonomic platform all attached to a robot housing. The robot may be controlled by a remote control station that also has a camera and a monitor. The remote control station may be linked to a base station that is wirelessly coupled to the robot. The cameras and monitors allow a care giver at the remote location to monitor and care for a patient through the robot. The holonomic platform allows the robot to move about a home or facility to locate and/or follow a patient.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A remote controlled robotic system that is coupled to a broadband network, comprising: a first remote control station coupled to the network; a base station coupled to said remote control station through the broadband network; and, a mobile robot wirelessly coupled to said base station and controlled through said first remote station, said mobile robot having a robot camera and a robot monitor that move together in at least one degree of freedom. 2. The system of claim 1, further comprising a second remote control station coupled to said base station, and said robot arbitrates control of said robot between said first and second control stations. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein said remote station includes a remote camera coupled to said robot monitor and a remote monitor coupled to said robot camera. 4. The system of claim 3, wherein said robot includes a holonomic platform attached to a housing. 5. The system of claim 4, further comprising an arm coupled to said housing. 6. The system of claim 5, wherein said arm includes a gripper. 7. The system of claim 4, further comprising a speaker coupled to said housing. 8. The system of claim 4, further comprising a microphone coupled to said housing. 9. The system of claim 4, further comprising a wireless transceiver coupled to said housing. 10. The system of claim 4, further comprising a battery recharger station, a battery that is coupled to said housing and can be coupled to said battery recharger station, and a power management software routine wherein said holonomic platform moves said housing so that said battery is coupled to said battery recharger station. 11. The system of claim 4, wherein said holonomic platform includes a plurality of roller assemblies. 12. The system of claim 4, further comprising a mass storage device that stores a video image. 13. The system of claim 4, wherein said housing includes a drawer that moves between an open position and a closed position. 14. A method for remotely operating a mobile robot to monitor a patient, comprising: transmitting a command to move a robot, through a broadband network from a remote control station to a base station; transmitting wirelessly the command from the base station to the robot; moving the robot in response to the command and, said mobile robot having a robot camera and a robot monitor that move together in at least one degree of freedom. 15. The method of claim 14, further comprising transmitting a video image from the robot to the remote control station. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein an existing video image and a pre-existing video image is transmitted to the remote control station from the robot. 17. The method of claim 14, further comprising transmitting a video image from the remote control station to the robot. 18. The method of claim 14, further comprising moving a drawer of the robot to an open position to dispense a drug. 19. The method of claim 14, wherein the robot autonomously moves to a battery recharger station. 20. A remote controlled robotic system, comprising: a first remote control station; a second remote control station; a robot that contains a controller that arbitrates access control of said robot between said first and second remote control stations and, said mobile robot having a robot camera and a robot monitor that move together in at least one degree of freedom. 21. The system of claim 20, wherein said robot includes a robot camera and a robot monitor, said remote station includes a remote camera coupled to said robot monitor and a remote monitor coupled to said robot camera. 22. The system of claim 21, wherein said robot includes a holonomic platform attached to a housing. 23. The system of claim 22, further comprising an arm coupled to said housing. 24. The system of claim 22, wherein said arm includes a gripper. 25. The system of claim 22, further comprising a speaker coupled to said housing. 26. The system of claim 22, further comprising a microphone coupled to said housing. 27. The system of claim 22, further comprising a wireless transceiver coupled to said housing. 28. The system of claim 22, further comprising a battery recharger station, a battery that is coupled to said housing and can be coupled to said battery recharger station, and a power management software routine wherein said holonomic platform moves said housing so that said battery is coupled to said battery recharger station. 29. The system of claim 22, wherein said holonomic platform includes a plurality of roller assemblies. 30. The system of claim 22, further comprising a mass storage device that stores a video image. 31. The system of claim 22, wherein said housing includes a drawer that moves between an open position and a closed position. 32. A method for remotely operating a robot to monitor a patient, comprising: transmitting a first command to move a mobile robot from a first remote control station; transmitting a second command to move the mobile robot from a second remote control station; determining which command has priority; and, moving the mobile robot in response to the transmitted command with priority. 33. The method of claim 32, further comprising transmitting a video image from the mobile robot to the remote control station. 34. The method of claim 33, wherein an existing video image and a pre-existing video image is transmitted to the remote control station from the mobile robot. 35. The method of claim 32, further comprising transmitting a video image from the remote control station to the mobile robot. 36. The method of claim 32, further comprising moving a drawer of the mobile robot to an open position to dispense a drug. 37. The method of claim 32, wherein the robot autonomously moves to a battery recharger station. 