A milking installation comprises a compressed air system with a compressed air line, a pneumatically controllable cylinder and a compressed air pump for supplying compressed air for the cylinder. The compressed air system comprises a dew point sensor for measuring the dew point of the compressed air and for emitting a dew point signal that is representative of the dew point. The milking installation may comprise or form part of a milking robot for automatically connecting teat cups to the teats of a dairy animal.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A milking installation comprising: a milking robot for automatically connecting teat cups to teats of a dairy animal, the milking robot being located at a first location; and a compressed air system comprising: a compressed air line; a pneumatically controllable cylinder operatively connected to a part of the milking robot for connection of the teat cups; a source of compressed air having an inlet located at a second location remote from the first location for supplying compressed air for the cylinder; a temperature sensor emitting a temperature signal that is representative of the temperature of ambient air wherein a dew point limit depends on said temperature signal; a dew point sensor measuring a dew point of the compressed air and a emitting a dew point signal that is representative of the dew point; a control unit for controlling the installation wherein the control unit actively reduces the dew point in response to a control signal emitted when the dew point is higher than the dew point limit wherein the dew point is reduced by increasing pressure of the compressed air or operating a dryer to dry the compressed air. 2. A milking installation as claimed in claim 1 wherein the control unit comprises a memory containing the dew point limit. 3. A milking installation as claimed in claim 1, wherein the installation comprises a counter to emit a time signal to the control unit, and in that the control signal is emittable if during a specific time period the dew point is higher than the dew point limit. 4. A milking installation as claimed in claim 1, wherein the control unit is suitable for emitting an alarm signal depending on the control signal. 5. A milking installation as claimed in claim 1, wherein, viewed in a direction of flow of the compressed air, the compressed air line comprises after the compressed air pump an after-cooling dryer for further drying the compressed air, the after-cooling dryer being controllable by the control signal. 6. A milking installation as claimed in claim 1, wherein the compressed air line comprises a buffer vessel having a condensation catching element. 7. A milking installation comprising: a milking robot for automatically connecting teat cups to teats of a dairy animal, the milking robot being located at a first location; and a compressed air system comprising: a compressed air line; a pneumatically controllable cylinder operatively connected to a part of the milking robot for connection of the teat cups; a source of compressed air having an inlet located at a second location remote from the first location for supplying compressed air for the cylinder; a temperature sensor emitting a temperature signal that is representative of the temperature of ambient air wherein a dew point limit depends on said temperature signal; a dew point sensor measuring a dew point of the compressed air and a emitting a dew point signal that is representative of the dew point; and a counter emitting a time signal to a control unit the control unit emitting a control signal during a specific time period when the dew point is higher than the dew point limit, the dew point limit being determined to be equal to or lower than the temperature of the ambient air said control unit controlling the milking installation by actively emitting an alarm signal to an alarm depending on said control signal. 8. A milking installation as claimed in claim 7 wherein the control unit comprises a memory containing the dew point limit. 9. A milking installation as claimed in claim 7, wherein the control unit controls the installation in response to the control signal to reduce the dew point. 10. A milking installation as claimed in claim 7, wherein, viewed in a direction of flow of the compressed air, the compressed air line comprises after the compressed air pump an after-cooling dryer for further drying the compressed air, the after-cooling dryer being controllable by the control signal. 11. A milking installation as claimed in claim 7, wherein the control unit controls the installation to reduce the dew point by increasing a pressure of the compressed air. 12. A milking installation as claimed in claim 7, wherein the compressed air line comprises a buffer vessel having a condensation catching element. 13. A method of reducing condensation in an automatic milking installation comprising: providing the milking installation according to claim 1; measuring a dew point of the compressed air; emitting a dew point signal that is representative of the dew point emitting a control signal on the basis of the dew point signal; and reducing the dew point. 14. The method according to claim 13, further comprising reducing the dew point in response to the control signal by increasing a pressure of the compressed air. 15. The method according to claim 13, further comprising reducing the dew point in response to the control signal by operating a dryer to dry the compressed air. 16. A method of reducing condensation in an automatic milking installation comprising: providing the milking installation according to claim 7; measuring a dew point of the compressed air; emitting a dew point signal that is representative of the dew point emitting a control signal on the basis of the dew point signal; and reducing the dew point. 17. The method according to claim 16, further comprising reducing the dew point in response to the control signal by increasing a pressure of the compressed air. 18. The method according to claim 16, further comprising reducing the dew point in response to the control signal by operating a dryer to dry the compressed air. 