This invention provides methods of screening for compounds that inhibit herpesviral transcription and replication. The methods comprise screening test compounds for ability to enhance the activity of homeodomain transcription factor PDX1 in repressing transcription of herpesviral genes (e.g., the IE gene of cytomegalovirus). Transcriptional repression by PDX1 can be monitored using an expression vector comprising a reporter gene operably linked to a PDX1-binding, upstream transcription regulatory sequence of the herpesvirus. The invention further provides methods and pharmaceutical compositions for stimulating PDX1-mediated transcriptional repression in a subject and for treating diseases and conditions associated with herpesviral infection.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of identifying a compound that inhibits replication of a herpesvirus that infects human cells, the method comprising (a) contacting a test compound, a pancreatic-duodenal homeobox factor-1 (PDX1 ) polypeptide, and a reporter gene operably linked to a PDX1 response element, and (b) comparing expression level of the reporter gene in the presence of the test compound to expression level of the reporter gene in the absence of the test compound, thereby identifying a compound that inhibits replication of the herpesvirus. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the PDX1 response element comprises a transcription regulatory sequence from the IE gene of the herpesvirus. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the herpesvirus is human CMV. 4. The method of 3, wherein the PDX1 response element comprises nucleotides -593 to -549 of the upstream regulatory region of human CMV IE gene (SEQ ID NO: 1). 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the reporter gene and the PDX1 response element are present in an expression vector. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the contacting is in a host cell expressing the PDX1 polypeptide. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the PDX1 polypeptide is expressed from a second expression construct that has been introduced into the host cell. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the reporter gene is a luciferase gene. 9. The method of claim 6, wherein the host cell is HEK 293 cell. 