An apparatus and method of transferring and loading a reticle onto a receiving station (for example, a reticle exposure stage). The reticle is first retrieved from a storage facility with an end effector having a reticle plate coupled to a mounting plate. The mounting plate connects the end effector to a robotic arm. The reticle is aligned in an out-of-plane position in an off-line alignment station. The alignment is in compliance with the alignment requirement at the receiving station. The reticle is mounted onto the reticle plate after undergoing the alignment at the off-line alignment station. The reticle is then transferred from the off-line alignment station to the receiving station while maintaining the previous alignment at the off-line alignment station. The apparatus further provides rigidity of the mounted reticle to ensure compliance with the alignment requirement at the receiving station.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method, comprising: coupling a reticle plate to a mounting plate, including the steps of: rigidly securing the reticle plate to the mounting plate in first through third degrees of freedom using a connection system; and compliantly securing the reticle plate to the mounting plate in fourth through sixth degrees of freedom using the connection system. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the coupling step further comprises: positioning flexures in connecting areas of the reticle plate; securing the flexures to the reticle plate; and securing the mounting plate to the reticle plate and the flexures. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the coupling step further comprises: releaseably securing the mounting plate to the reticle plate. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the releasably securing step comprises using a vacuum lock as the locking device. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: releaseably holding a reticle on the reticle plate. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the releasably holding step comprises using a vacuum system. 7. The method of claim 5, wherein the releasably holding step comprises using lands and seals in a vacuum system. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the first through third degrees of freedom substantially eliminate out-of-plane movement of the reticle plate with respect to the mounting plate. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the fourth through sixth degrees of freedom allow a predetermined amount of in-plane movement of the reticle plate with respect to the mounting plate. 10. The method of claim 1, further comprising: holding the reticle plate and mounting plate in a horizontal position during a first state and a vertical position during a second state. 11. A method, comprising: connecting a reticle plate to a mounting plate (a) to substantially eliminate out-of-plane movement of the reticle plate with respect to the mounting plate and (b) to allow a predetermined amount of in-plane movement of the reticle plate with respect to the mounting plate; and coupling the mounting plate to a robot. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the connecting step comprises: positioning flexures in connecting areas of the reticle plate; securing the flexures to the reticle plate; and securing the mounting plate to the reticle plate and the flexures. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the connecting step further comprises: releaseably securing the mounting plate to the reticle plate. 14. The method of claim 13, the releasably securing step comprises using a vacuum lock as the locking device. 15. The method of claim 11, releaseably holding a reticle on the reticle plate. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the releasably holding step comprises using a vacuum system. 17. The method of claim 15, wherein the releasably holding step comprises using lands and seals in a vacuum system. 18. The method of claim 11, further comprising: holding the reticle plate and mounting plate in a horizontal position during a first state and a vertical position during a second state. 