The present invention relates to a method and a milking machine comprising at least one teat cup for application to a teat of an animal to be milked, a teat cup liner, mounted in said teat cup, defining a teat receiving space inside said liner, and a pulsating chamber between said liner and said teat cup, said liner having a teat receiving end portion, a vacuum source for applying a vacuum level to the teat receiving space for drawing milk from said animal, a pulsator for application of a pulsating vacuum to the pulsating chamber for moving the teat cup liner between a closed position and an open position, thereby massaging said teat of said animal, and a vacuum sensor for sensing the vacuum level in said teat receiving end portion. The invention is further characterized in that said milking machine is arranged to initiated take off of said at least one teat cup, if a vacuum level sensed by said vacuum sensor indicates that the vacuum level in said teat receiving end portion is rapidly increasing.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A milking machine comprising at least one teat cup for application to a teat of an animal to be milked, a teat cup liner, mounted in said teat cup, defining a teat receiving space inside said liner, and a pulsating chamber between said liner and said teat cup, said liner having a teat receiving end portion, a vacuum source for applying a vacuum level to the teat receiving space for drawing milk from said animal, a pulsator for application of a pulsating vacuum to the pulsating chamber for moving the teat cup liner between a closed position and an open position, thereby massaging said teat of said animal, and a vacuum sensor for sensing the vacuum level in said teat receiving end portion, wherein said milking machine is arranged to initiated take off of said at least one teat cup, if a vacuum level sensed by said vacuum sensor indicates that the vacuum level in said teat receiving end portion is rapidly increasing during milking. 2. The milking machine according to claim 1, wherein said milking machine comprises four teat cups each having a teat receiving end portion and where said milking machine is arranged to individually initiated take off of each individual teat cup from said respective teat when the vacuum in a respective of said teat receiving end portions is rapidly increasing during milking. 3. The milking machine according to claim 1, wherein said milking machine comprises a robot for automatic application of teat cups to the teats of said animal. 4. The milking machine according to claim 1, wherein said milking machine comprises four teat cups connected to a milking claw. 5. The milking machine according to claim 1, wherein said initiation of take off comprises reducing the vacuum level in the teat receiving space. 6. The milking machine according to claims 1, wherein said initiation of take off comprises operating a valve to shut off vacuum supply to said teat receiving space. 7. The milking machine according to claim 1, further comprising a timer and said milking machine is arranged to initiate take off if said vacuum level in said teat receiving end portion increases after a first predetermined time has passed, since application of said at least one teat cup, according to said timer, and/or said milking machine is arranged to initiate take off if said vacuum level in said teat receiving end portion has not increased after a second predetermined time has passed, since application of said at least one teat cup, according to said timer. 8. Method for initiating take off in a milking machine comprising at least one teat cup for application to a teat of an animal to be milked, a teat cup liner, mounted in said teat cup, defining a teat receiving space inside said liner, and a pulsating chamber between said liner and said teat cup, said liner having a teat receiving end portion, a vacuum source for applying a vacuum level to the teat receiving space for drawing milk from said animal, a pulsator for application of a pulsating vacuum to the pulsating chamber for moving the teat cup liner between a closed position and an open position, thereby massaging said teat of said animal, and a vacuum sensor for sensing the vacuum level in said teat receiving end portion, wherein measuring the vacuum in said teat receiving end portion, initiating take off if said measured vacuum is rapidly increasing. 9. The method according to claim 8 wherein the milking machine comprises four teat cups each having a teat receiving end portion and comprising the further steps of individually measuring the vacuum level in each of said four teat receiving end portions, individually initiate take off of a teat cup from a respective teat if the vacuum level in a respective teat receiving end portion is rapidly increasing. 10. The method according to claim 8, wherein said milking machine comprises a robot for automatic application of said at least one teat cup to the teat of said animal. 11. The method according to claim 8, wherein said milking machine comprises four teat cups connected to a milking claw. 12. The method according to claim 8, wherein said initiation of take off comprises reducing the vacuum level in the teat receiving space. 13. The method according to claim 8, wherein said initiation of take off comprises operating a valve to shut off vacuum supply to said teat receiving space. 14. The method according to claim 8, wherein said milking machine further comprises a timer and further comprising the steps of: initiating take off if said vacuum level in said teat receiving end portion increases after a first predetermined time has passed, since application of said at least one teat cup, according to said timer, and/or initiating take off if said vacuum level in said teat receiving end portion has not increased after a second predetermined time has passed, since application of said at least one teat cup, according to said timer. 