Apparatus and methods that use a visual sensor and dead reckoning sensors to process Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM). These techniques can be used in robot navigation. Advantageously, such visual techniques can be used to autonomously generate and update a map. Unlike with laser rangefinders, the visual techniques are economically practical in a wide range of applications and can be used in relatively dynamic environments, such as environments in which people move. One embodiment further advantageously uses multiple particles to maintain multiple hypotheses with respect to localization and mapping. Further advantageously, one embodiment maintains the particles in a relatively computationally-efficient manner, thereby permitting the SLAM processes to be performed in software using relatively inexpensive microprocessor-based computer systems.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of identifying a potentially unreliable visual measurement for navigation, the method comprising: determining that one or more features in an image match with one or more features from at least one previously identified landmark, where the determination of the matching one or more features is performed by a visually-based automated process; analyzing one or more quality metrics associated with the match between the one or more features of the image and the at least one previously identified landmark; and automatically determining that the visual measurement is potentially unreliable at least partly based on the analysis of the one or more quality metrics. 2. The method as defined in claim 1, wherein automatically determining that the visual measurement is potentially unreliable further comprises determining whether to use the match at least partly based on the one or more quality metrics. 3. The method as defined in claim 1, wherein the method is used by a robot for robot navigation. 4. The method as defined in claim 1, wherein determining that one or more features in the image match further comprises receiving an indication from a visual front end that one or more features in the image match. 5. The method as defined in claim 1, wherein analyzing one or more quality metrics further comprises: receiving an indication related to a quality of the match; and comparing the indication to a predetermined threshold. 6. The method as defined in claim 5, wherein the indication relates to a count of a number of features that match between the image and the previously-identified landmark, and wherein automatically determining that the measurement is potentially unreliable further comprises determining that the measurement is potentially unreliable when the number of features that match does not exceed a predetermined number. 7. The method as defined in claim 5, wherein the indication relates to a root-mean-square (RMS) projection error between (i) a set of the 2-dimensional projected features of the previously-observed landmark as projected after a calculation of a hypothetical relative device pose and (ii) a set of the 2-dimensional features of the image, and wherein automatically determining that the measurement is potentially unreliable further comprises determining that the measurement is potentially unreliable when the RMS projection error exceeds a predetermined number. 8. The method as defined in claim 5, wherein the method is used by a mobile device for navigation, wherein: the mobile device is configured to travel along a surface; the indication relates to a computation of a slope of the surface; the slope corresponds to a measurement of vertical displacement per unit of measured horizontal translation; and wherein automatically determining that the measurement is potentially unreliable further comprises determining that the measurement is potentially unreliable when the slope of the surface exceeds a predetermined number. 9. The method as defined in claim 8, wherein the slope equals: .DELTA..times..times..DELTA..times..times..DELTA..times..times. ##EQU00016## 