A traction unit capable of traversing and turning on surfaces that include compound curves like the surface of a sphere or are inverted like a ceiling. The traction unit includes a plurality of trucks operable to propel the unit across a surface and a plurality of adherence members operable to releasably secure the unit to the surface. In operation, the adherence members cyclically attach to and release from the surface as the trucks propel the unit across the surface. Within each cycle, after the unit has traveled a predetermined distance relative to an attached member, the member releases the surface and reattaches to the surface at a different point.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of traversing a surface, comprising: attaching an adherence foot to the surface; pulling a frame having a translation zone and a drive wheel against the surface by pulling the adherence foot and frame toward one another; moving the frame relative to the attached adherence foot, whereby a body of an adherence member moves in more than two directions within the translation zone of the frame; releasing the adherence foot from the surface; and returning the released adherence foot to a return position. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein attaching an adherence foot includes generating a vacuum between the adherence foot and the surface. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein releasing the adherence foot from the surface includes generating air pressure greater than atmospheric pressure between the adherence foot and the surface to blow the adherence foot from the surface. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein releasing the adherence foot from the surface occurs before the body contacts a hard limit that prevents the frame from moving relative to the body. 5. The method of claim 1 further comprising stopping the frame from moving relative to the attached adherence foot when the body contacts a hard limit and the adherence foot remains attached to the surface. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein moving the frame relative to the attached adherence foot includes crossing with the body a soft limit that signals the location of the frame relative to the body before the body contacts a hard limit. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein releasing the adherence foot from the surface includes releasing the adherence foot after the body crosses a soft limit but before the adherence member contacts a hard limit. 