A robotic system that includes a remote controlled robot with at least five degrees of freedom and a teleconferencing function. The robot may include a camera, a monitor and a holonomic platform all attached to a robot housing. The robot may be controlled by a remote control station that also has a camera and a monitor. The remote control station may be linked to a base station that is wirelessly coupled to the robot. The cameras and monitors allow a care giver at the remote location to monitor and care for a patient through the robot. The holonomic platform provides three degrees of freedom to allow the robot to move about a home or facility to locate and/or follow a patient. The robot also has mechanisms to provide at least two degrees of freedom for the camera.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot, comprising: a housing; a mobile platform that is attached to said housing and has three degrees of freedom; a camera coupled to said housing; a monitor mechanically coupled to said camera to move with said camera; a first device that moves said camera and said monitor in a fourth degree of freedom; and, a second device that moves said camera and said monitor in a fifth degree of freedom. 2. The robot of claim 1, wherein said platform is a holonomic platform. 3. The robot of claim 1, wherein said camera and said monitor pivots about a pivot axis. 4. The robot of claim 1, wherein said camera and said monitor spins about a spin axis. 5. The robot of claim 1, wherein the pivot axis intersects the spin axis. 6. The robot of claim 1, further comprising a wireless transceiver coupled to said housing. 7. The robot of claim 1, wherein said first and second devices each include an electric motor. 8. A robot, comprising: a housing; a mobile platform that is attached to said housing and has three degrees of freedom; a camera coupled to said housing; a monitor mechanically coupled to said camera to move with said camera; first movement means for moving said camera and said monitor in a fourth degree of freedom; and, second movement means for moving said camera.and said monitor in a fifth degree of freedom. 9. The robot of claim 8, wherein said platform is a holonomic platform. 10. The robot of claim 8, wherein said camera and said monitor pivots about a pivot axis. 11. The robot of claim 8, wherein said camera and said monitor spins about a spin axis. 12. The robot of claim 8, wherein the pivot axis intersects the spin axis. 13. The robot of claim 8, further comprising a wireless transceiver coupled to said housing. 14. The robot of claim 8, wherein said first and second movement means each include an electric motor. 15. A robot, comprising: a housing; a mobile platform that is attached to said housing and has three degrees of freedom; a camera coupled to said housing so that said camera can pivot about a pivot axis and spin about a spin axis; a monitor mechanically coupled to said camera to move with said camera; a first actuator coupled to said housing, said camera and said monitor; and, a second actuator coupled to said housing, said camera and said monitor. 16. The robot of claim 15, wherein said first actuator is an electric motor. 17. The robot of claim 15, wherein said second actuator is an electric motor. 18. The robot of claim 15, wherein said platform is a holonomic platform. 19. The robot of claim 15, wherein the pivot axis intersects the spin axis. 20. The robot of claim 15, further comprising a wireless transceiver coupled to said housing. 21. The robot of claim 15, wherein said first and second actuators are coupled to said monitor. 22. A method for operating a robot, comprising: moving a robot along a surface in three degrees of freedom, the robot having a camera that is mechanically coupled to and moves with a monitor; moving the camera and the monitor of the robot in a fourth degree of freedom; and, moving the camera and the monitor in a fifth degree of freedom of the robot. 23. The method of claim 22, wherein the fourth degree of freedom is pivoting the camera and the monitor about a pivot axis and the fifth degree of freedom is spinning the camera and the monitor about a spin axis. 24. The method of claim 22, further comprising wirelessly transmitting instructions to the robot. 25. A robotic system, comprising: a remote station; and, a robot coupled to said remote station, said robot including a mobile platform that has three degrees of freedom and a camera, and a monitor mechanically coupled to said camera to move with said camera, said camera and said monitor can move in a fourth degree of freedom and a fifth degree of freedom. 26. The robot system of claim 25, wherein said remote station includes a computer. 27. The robot system of claim 26, wherein said remote station includes an input device. 28. The robot system of claim 25, wherein said robot includes a wireless transceiver. 29. The robot system of claim 28, further comprising a base station coupled to said wireless transceiver and said remote station. 30. A robot head, comprising: a housing; a camera coupled to said housing so that said camera can pivot about a pivot axis and spin about a spin axis; a monitor mechanically coupled to said camera to move with said camera; a first actuator coupled to said housing, said camera and said monitor; and, a second actuator coupled to said housing, said camera and said monitor. 31. The robot head of claim 30, wherein said first actuator is an electric motor. 32. The robot head of claim 30, wherein said second actuator is an electric motor. 33. The robot head of claim 30, wherein the pivot axis intersects the spin axis. 34. The robot head of claim 30, further comprising a wireless transceiver coupled to said housing. 35. A robot head, comprising: a housing; a camera coupled to said housing; a monitor mechanically coupled to said camera to move with said camera; first movement means for pivoting said camera and said monitor about a pivot axis; and, second movement means for spinning said camera and said monitor about a spin axis. 36. The robot head of claim 35, wherein the pivot axis intersects the spin axis. 37. The robot head of claim 35, further comprising a wireless transceiver coupled to said housing. 38. The robot head of claim 35, wherein said first and second movements means include an electric motor. 39. A method for operating a robot head, comprising: pivoting together a camera and a monitor of a robot head about a pivot axis, the monitor being mechanically coupled to the camera to move with the camera; and, spinning the camera and a monitor of the robot head about a spin axis. 40. The method of claim 39, further comprising pivoting and spinning the monitor. 41. The method of claim 39, further comprising wirelessly transmitting instructions to the robot. 42. A robotic system, comprising: a remote station; and, a robot head coupled to said remote station, said robot head including a camera and a monitor mechanically coupled to said camera to rotate with said camera, said camera and said monitor can pivot together about a pivot axis and spin about a spin axis. 43. The robot system of claim 42, wherein said remote station includes a computer. 44. The robot system of claim 43, wherein said remote station includes an input device. 45. The robot system of claim 42, wherein said robot head includes a wireless transceiver. 46. The robot system of claim 45, further comprising a base station coupled to said wireless transceiver and said remote station. 