This invention is a method and supporting apparatus for autonomously capturing, servicing and de-orbiting a free-flying spacecraft, such as a satellite, using robotics. The capture of the spacecraft includes the steps of optically seeking and ranging the satellite using LIDAR; and matching tumble rates, rendezvousing and berthing with the satellite. Servicing of the spacecraft may be done using supervised autonomy, which is allowing a robot to execute a sequence of instructions without intervention from a remote human-occupied location. These instructions may be packaged at the remote station in a script and uplinked to the robot for execution upon remote command giving authority to proceed. Alternately, the instructions may be generated by Artificial Intelligence (AI) logic onboard the robot. In either case, the remote operator maintains the ability to abort an instruction or script at any time, as well as the ability to intervene using manual override to teleoperate the robot. In one embodiment, a vehicle used for carrying out the method of this invention comprises an ejection module, which includes the robot, and a de-orbit module. Once servicing is completed by the robot, the ejection module separates from the de-orbit module, leaving the de-orbit module attached to the satellite for de-orbiting the same at a future time. Upon separation, the ejection module can either de-orbit itself or rendezvous with another satellite for servicing. The ability to de-orbit a spacecraft further allows the opportunity to direct the landing of the spent satellite in a safe location away from population centers, such as the ocean.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of de-orbiting a free-flying spacecraft, comprising the steps of: a) autonomously securing a de-orbit module to the spacecraft while the spacecraft is in free flight, the de-orbit module including thrusters for moving the spacecraft and a guidance, navigation and control system for directing the flight path of the spacecraft as it de-orbits, and the de-orbit module further including means for autonomously securing the de-orbit module to the spacecraft, and b) commanding the de-orbit module to de-orbit. 2. A method of de-orbiting a free-flying spacecraft, according to the limitations of claim 1, wherein the flight path of the spacecraft leads the spacecraft to impact in a remote location removed from population centers. 3. A method of de-orbiting a free-flying spacecraft, according to the limitations of claim 2, wherein the remote location is in an ocean. 4. A method of de-orbiting a free-flying spacecraft, according to the limitations of claim 2, wherein the remote location is outside a geosynchronous earth orbit. 5. A method of de-orbiting a free-flying spacecraft, according to the limitations of claim 1, further comprising the steps of securing a second de-orbit module to a second free-flying spacecraft while the second spacecraft is in free flight and commanding the second de-orbit module to de-orbit. 6. A method of de-orbiting a free-flying spacecraft, according to the limitations of claim 1, wherein the means for autonomously securing the de-orbit module to the spacecraft includes pre-scripted commands. 7. A method of de-orbiting a free-flying spacecraft, according to the limitations of claim 6, wherein the pre-scripted commands include computer executed code. 8. A method of de-orbiting a free-flying spacecraft, according to the limitations of claim 6, wherein the pre-scripted commands can be overridden by a remote operator, who is in telecommunication with the de-orbit module. 9. A method of de-orbiting a free-flying spacecraft, according to the limitations of claim 6, wherein at least one pre-scripted command requires validation by a remote operator, who is in telecommunication with the de-orbit module. 10. A method of de-orbiting a free-flying spacecraft, according to the limitations of claim 1, wherein the means for autonomously securing the de-orbit module to the spacecraft includes real time commands from a remote operator, who is in telecommunication with the de-orbit module. 11. A method of de-orbiting a free-flying spacecraft, comprising the steps of: a) securing a de-orbit module to the spacecraft while the spacecraft is in free flight, the de-orbit module including thrusters for moving the spacecraft and a guidance, navigation and control system for directing the flight path of the spacecraft as it de-orbits, and b) autonomously commanding the de-orbit module to de-orbit, the de-orbit module including means for autonomously commanding the de-orbit module to de-orbit. 12. A method of de-orbiting a free-flying spacecraft, according to the limitations of claim 11, wherein the flight path of the spacecraft leads the spacecraft to impact in a remote location removed from population centers. 13. A method of de-orbiting a free-flying spacecraft, according to the limitations of claim 12, wherein the remote location is in an ocean. 14. A method of de-orbiting a free-flying spacecraft, according to the limitations of claim 12, wherein the remote location is outside a geosynchronous earth orbit. 15. A method of de-orbiting a free-flying spacecraft, according to the limitations of claim 11, further comprising the steps of securing second de-orbit module to a second free-flying spacecraft while the second spacecraft is in free flight and commanding the second de-orbit module to de-orbit. 16. A method of de-orbiting a free-flying spacecraft, according to the limitations of claim 11, wherein the means for autonomously commanding the de-orbit module to de-orbit includes pre-scripted commands. 17. A method of de-orbiting a free-flying spacecraft, according to the limitations of claim 16, wherein the pre-scripted commands include computer executed code. 18. A method of de-orbiting a free-flying spacecraft, according to the limitations of claim 16, wherein the pre-scripted commands can be overridden by a remote operator, who is in telecommunication with the de-orbit module. 19. A method of de-orbiting a free-flying spacecraft, according to the limitations of claim 16, wherein at least one pre-scripted command requires validation by a remote operator, who is in telecommunication with the de-orbit module. 20. A method of de-orbiting a free-flying spacecraft, according to the limitations of claim 11, wherein the means for autonomously commanding the de-orbit module to de-orbit includes real time commands from a remote Operator, who is in telecommunication with the de-orbit module. 