A lift pin assembly for use in a reactor for processing a workpiece includes plural lift pins extending generally parallel with a lift direction, each of the plural lift pins having a top end for supporting a workpiece and a bottom end. A lift table faces the bottom ends of the pins and is translatable in a direction generally parallel with the lift direction. A small force detector senses a force exerted by the lift pins that is sufficiently large to indicate a chucked wafer and sufficiently small to avoid dechucking a wafer. A large force detector senses a force exerted by the lift pins in a range sufficient to de-chuck the wafer.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A lift pin assembly for use in a reactor for processing a workpiece, said lift pin assembly comprising: plural lift pins extending generally parallel with a lift direction, each of said plural lift pins having a top end for supporting a workpiece and a bottom end; a lift table translatable in a direction generally parallel with said lift direction; a first lift pin force detector for an individual first one of said lift pins, comprising: (a) an elastic plate having one end attached to said lift table and an opposite end, said elastic plate supporting the bottom end of said first one of said lift pins; (b) a small force detector responsive to a deflection of said elastic plate for sensing a force exerted by said first one lift pin that is sufficiently large to indicate a chucked wafer and sufficiently small to avoid dechucking a wafer; and (c) a large force detector responsive to a force exerted on said elastic plate by said first one lift pin in a range sufficient to de-chuck the wafer. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said small force detector comprises: a proximity detector. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a lift motor for raising and lowering said lift table along said lift direction. 4. The apparatus of claim 2 further comprising a data processor for converting outputs of said proximity detector and said large force detector into a position value and a force value, respectively. 5. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said opposite end of said elastic plate is unattached and said elastic plate extends from said one end to said unattached opposite end in a direction transverse to said lift direction, and wherein said proximity detector is aligned to detect the position of said unattached opposite end of said elastic plate. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein the bottom end of said one lift pin is aligned with an intermediate region of said elastic plate that is between said one end and said unattached opposite end of said elastic plate. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein said large force detector comprises a force sensor underlying said intermediate portion of said elastic plate and being in registration with said bottom end of said one lift pin. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a second lift pin force detector for a second one of said lift pins, comprising: (a) an elastic plate having one end attached to said lift table and an opposite end, said elastic plate supporting the bottom end of a second one of said lift pins; (b) a small force detector responsive to a position of said elastic plate for sensing a force exerted by said second lift pin that is sufficiently large to indicate a chucked wafer and sufficiently small to avoid dechucking a wafer; and (c) a large force detector responsive to a force exerted on said elastic plate by second lift pin in a range sufficient to dechuck the wafer. 9. A workpiece support in a plasma reactor, comprising: an insulating or semi-insulating layer having a wafer support surface defining a wafer support plane; a wafer chucking electrode inside said insulating or semi-insulating layer; plural lift pin holes extending through said insulating or semi-insulating layer in a lift direction transverse to said wafer support plane; plural lift pins extending through said plural lift pin holes, each of said plural lift pins having opposing top and bottom ends and being translatable along said lift direction, said top ends for supporting a workpiece above said wafer support plane; a lift table translatable in a direction generally parallel with said lift direction; respective lift pin force detectors for respective ones of said lift pins, each of said respective lift pin force detectors comprising: (a) an elastic plate having one end attached to said lift table and an opposite end, said elastic plate supporting the bottom end of a respective one of said lift pins; (b) a small force detector responsive to a position of said elastic plate for sensing a force exerted by said respective lift pin that is sufficiently large to indicate a chucked wafer and sufficiently small to avoid dechucking a wafer; and (c) a large force detector responsive to a force exerted on said elastic plate by said respective lift pin in a range sufficient to de-chuck the wafer. 10. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein said small force detector comprises: a proximity detector. 11. The apparatus of claim 9 further comprising a D.C. chucking voltage source coupled to said chucking electrode. 12. The apparatus of claim 9 further comprising a lift motor for raising and lowering said lift table along said lift direction. 13. The apparatus of claim 9 further comprising a data processor for converting outputs of said small force detector and said large force detector into respective force values. 14. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein said opposite end of said elastic plate is unattached, said elastic plate extending from said one end to said unattached opposite end in a direction transverse to said lift direction, and wherein said proximity detector is aligned to detect the position of said unattached opposite end of said elastic plate. 15. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein the bottom end of said one lift pin is aligned with an intermediate region of said elastic plate that is between said one end and said unattached opposite end of said elastic plate. 16. The apparatus of claim 9 further comprising a processor coupled separately to each of said respective lift pin force detectors. 17. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein said large force detector and said small force detector are responsive to an intermediate portion of said elastic plate and said opposite end of said elastic plate, respectively. 18. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein at least one of said lift pins is formed of a material that is either semiconductive or conductive. 19. The apparatus of claim 18 further comprising a contact switch coupled to the at least one of said lift pins and having at least two of the following contacts: (a) ground potential, (b) said wafer chucking electrode, (c) a floating potential or open state. 20. A method of operating a wafer support including a wafer chucking electrode and a set of lift pins supported by a lift table, said method comprising: after the wafer has been placed on the wafer support and prior to processing the wafer, ascertaining whether the wafer has been successfully chucked by contacting the wafer with the lift pins and then raising the lift pins by a sufficiently small distance so as to avoid dechucking the wafer if chucked while confirming the presence of a nominal electrostatic chucking force through a small force sensor coupled at a bottom end of one of said lift pins; and after the wafer has been processed, lifting the wafer from the wafer support with the lift pins while determining through a large force sensor whether the force exerted by the lift pins against the lift table falls to a minimum or zero before the lift pins have lifted the wafer by a predetermined distance that is sufficiently large to dechuck the wafer if the electrostatic chucking force has been removed but sufficiently small to avoid wafer breakage in the event the electrostatic chucking force has not been removed. 