An apparatus coupled with a mechanism and cooperating with the mechanism to locate an end-effector within a predetermined distance of a work site for situating the end-effector with respect to the work site includes: (a) a positioning unit coupled with the end-effector for moving the end-effector an adjustment distance with respect to the workpiece; (b) a sensing unit coupled with the apparatus for sensing extant locus of the end-effector with respect to at least one reference locus; and (c) an error determining device coupled with the sensing unit and the positioning unit; the error determining device determining a difference between the extant locus and the work locus. The positioning unit moves the end-effector in response to the difference indicating signal to reduce the difference.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus for situating an end-effector with respect to a work site on a workpiece; the apparatus being coupled with a mechanism and cooperating with said mechanism to locate said end-effector within a predetermined distance of said work site; the apparatus comprising: (a) a positioning unit coupled with said end-effector for moving said end-effector an adjustment distance with respect to said workpiece; (b) a sensing unit coupled with the apparatus for sensing extant locus of said end-effector with respect to at least one reference locus; and (c) an error determining device coupled with said sensing unit and said positioning unit; said error determining device determining a difference between said extant locus and said work locus; said positioning unit moving said end-effector in response to said difference indicating signal to reduce said difference. 2. An apparatus for situating an end-effector with respect to a work site on a workpiece as recited in claim 1 wherein said at least one reference locus is at least one feature of said workpiece. 3. An apparatus for situating an end-effector with respect to a work site on a workpiece as recited in claim 1 wherein the apparatus is in contact with said workpiece when said sensing is effected. 4. An apparatus for situating an end-effector with respect to a work site on a workpiece as recited in claim 3 wherein said apparatus remains in contact with said workpiece while said moving is effected. 5. An apparatus for situating an end-effector with respect to a work site on a workpiece as recited in claim 2 wherein the apparatus is in contact with said workpiece when said sensing is effected. 6. An apparatus for situating an end-effector with respect to a work site on a workpiece as recited in claim 5 wherein said apparatus remains in contact with said workpiece while said moving is effected. 7. An apparatus for situating an end-effector with respect to a work site on a workpiece as recited in claim 4 wherein said apparatus remains in contact with a substantially constant pressure to keep said end-effector substantially located at said worksite while said end-effector effects a working operation on said workpiece. 8. An apparatus for situating an end-effector with respect to a work site on a workpiece as recited in claim 6 wherein said apparatus remains in contact with a substantially constant pressure to keep said end-effector substantially located at said worksite while said end-effector effects a working operation on said workpiece. 9. An end-effector-holding apparatus for use with a positioning device for situating an end-effector with respect to a work site on a workpiece; said positioning device locating said end-effector within a predetermined distance of said work site; the apparatus comprising: (a) a motive unit coupled with said end-effector for moving said end-effector an adjustment distance with respect to said workpiece; (b) a sensing unit coupled with the apparatus for sensing extant locus of said end-effector with respect to at least one reference locus; (c) an error determining device coupled with said sensing unit and said positioning unit; said error determining device presenting a difference indicating signal representing a difference between said extant locus and said work locus; and (d) a control unit coupled with said error detecting device and with said motive unit; said control unit receiving said difference indicating signal from said error determining device; said control unit presenting a control signal to said motive unit; said control signal being related to said difference indicating signal; said motive unit moving said end-effector in response to said control signal to reduce said difference. 10. An end-effector-holding apparatus for use with a positioning device for situating an end-effector with respect to a work site on a workpiece as recited in claim 9 wherein said at least one reference locus is at least one feature of said workpiece. 11. An end-effector-holding apparatus for use with a positioning device for situating an end-effector with respect to a work site on a workpiece as recited in claim 9 wherein the apparatus is in contact with said workpiece when said sensing is effected. 12. An end-effector-holding apparatus for use with a positioning device for situating an end-effector with respect to a work site on a workpiece as recited in claim 11 wherein said apparatus remains in contact with said workpiece while said moving is effected. 13. An end-effector-holding apparatus for use with a positioning device for situating an end-effector with respect to a work site on a workpiece as recited in claim 10 wherein the apparatus is in contact with said workpiece when said sensing is effected. 14. An end-effector-holding apparatus for use with a positioning device for situating an end-effector with respect to a work site on a workpiece as recited in claim 13 wherein said apparatus remains in contact with said workpiece while said moving is effected. 15. An end-effector-holding apparatus for use with a positioning device for situating an end-effector with respect to a work site on a workpiece as recited in claim 12 wherein said apparatus remains in contact with a substantially constant pressure to keep said end-effector substantially located at said worksite while said end-effector effects a working operation on said workpiece. 16. An end-effector-holding apparatus for use with a positioning device for situating an end-effector with respect to a work site on a workpiece as recited in claim 14 wherein said apparatus remains in contact with a substantially constant pressure to keep said end-effector substantially located at said worksite while said end-effector effects a working operation on said workpiece. 17. A method for use with a positioning device for situating an end-effector with respect to a work site on a workpiece; said positioning device locates said end-effector within a predetermined distance of said work site; the method comprising the steps of: (a) in no particular order: (1) providing a motive unit coupled with said end-effector; (2) providing a sensing unit coupled with said motive unit; (3) providing an error determining device coupled with said sensing unit and coupled with said motive unit; and (4) providing a control unit coupled with said error determining device and with said motive unit; (b) operating said sensing unit to sense extant locus of said end-effector with respect to at least one reference locus; (c) operating said error determining device to present a difference indicating signal representing a difference between said extant locus and said work locus; (d) operating said control unit to receive said difference indicating signal and to present a control signal related to said difference indicating signal; and (e) operating said motive unit to move said end-effector in response to said control signal to reduce said difference. 18. A method for use with a positioning device for situating an end-effector with respect to a work site on a workpiece as recited in claim 17 wherein said at least one reference locus is at least one feature of said workpiece. 19. A method for use with a positioning device for situating an end-effector with respect to a work site on a workpiece as recited in claim 17 wherein the apparatus is in contact with said workpiece when said sensing is effected, and wherein said apparatus remains in contact with said workpiece while said moving is effected. 20. A method for use with a positioning device for situating an end-effector with respect to a work site on a workpiece as recited in claim 18 wherein the apparatus is in contact with said workpiece when said sensing is effected, and wherein said apparatus remains in contact with said workpiece while said moving is effected. 