A printhead assembly is provided having at least one printhead module of at least two printhead integrated circuits having nozzles for delivering printing fluid onto the surface of print media and a support member supporting and carrying the printing fluid to the printhead integrated circuits, a support frame supporting the printhead module, a controller for processing print data and controlling the printhead integrated circuits to print the processed print data, electrical conductors for providing power to the controller and the printhead integrated circuits, and a mounting element mounting the controller and the electrical conductors to the support frame. The mounting element has a clamping arrangement for clamping the support member to the support frame.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A printhead assembly, comprising: at least one printhead module comprising at least two printhead integrated circuits, each of which has nozzles formed therein for delivering printing fluid onto the surface of print media, and a support member supporting and carrying the printing fluid to the at least two printhead integrated circuits; a support frame supporting the printhead module; a controller for processing print data and controlling the printhead integrated circuits to print the processed print data; a plurality of electrical conductors for providing power to the controller and the printhead integrated circuits; and a mounting element mounting the controller and the electrical conductors to the support frame, the mounting element having a clamping arrangement for clamping the support member of the printhead module to the support frame. 2. A printhead assembly according to claim 1, wherein the clamping arrangement is arranged to clamp a first tab of the support member to a surface of the support frame. 3. A printhead assembly according to claim 2, wherein the first tab of the support member incorporates lugs and the clamping arrangement comprises locking members arranged to interlock with the lugs of the support member. 4. A printhead assembly according to claim 3, wherein a second tab of the support member on an opposite side of the support member from the first tab is configured to be received in a groove of the support frame. 5. A printhead assembly according to claim 4, wherein the locking members of the clamping arrangement each incorporate a resilient arm configured to urge the second tab into the groove of the support frame. 6. A printhead assembly according to claim 3, wherein the lugs are spaced along the first tab so as to correspond to the mounted positions of the printhead integrated circuits. 7. A printhead assembly according to claim 3, wherein the at least one printhead module further comprises electrical connectors for connecting control signals from the controller and power from the electrical conductors to the printhead integrated circuits. 8. A printhead assembly according to claim 7, wherein: the at least one printhead module is formed as a unitary arrangement of the printhead integrated circuits, the support member, the electrical connector, and fluid distribution members mounting the respective printhead integrated circuits to the support member; and the support member has at least one longitudinally extending channel for carrying the printing fluid for the printhead integrated circuits and includes a plurality of apertures extending through a wall of the support member arranged so as to direct the printing fluid from the channel to associated nozzles in the printhead integrated circuits by way of the respective fluid distribution member. 