A force feedback mouse interface device connected to a host computer and providing realistic force feedback to a user. The mouse interface device includes a mouse object and a linkage coupled to the mouse that includes a plurality of members rotatably coupled to each other in a planar closed-loop linkage and including two members coupled to ground and rotatable about the same axis. Two actuators, preferably electromagnetic voice coils, provide forces in the two degrees of freedom of the planar workspace of the mouse object. Each of the actuators includes a moveable coil portion integrated with one of the members of the linkage and a magnet portion coupled to the ground surface through which the coil portion moves. The grounded magnet portions of the actuators can be coupled together such that a common flux path between the magnet portions is shared by both magnets. At least one sensor is coupled to the ground surface that detects movement of the linkage and provides a sensor signal including information from which a position of the mouse object in the planar workspace can be determined.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A device, comprising: a manipulandum having a protrusion extending therefrom; a sensor having a stationary planar surface configured to measure at least one of a position or movement of the protrusion in contact therewith wherein the protrusion moves with respect to the stationary planar surface, the sensor configured to measure a force applied to the planar surface when the manipulandum is moved in a direction substantially perpendicular to the planar surface, wherein the sensor is configured to output a sensor signal associated with at least one of the sensed position or movement or force; and an actuator coupled to and spaced apart from the sensor, the actuator configured to receive a feedback signal associated with the sensor signal and generate haptic feedback based on the feedback signal. 2. The device of claim 1, wherein a magnitude of the haptic feedback is proportional to the measured force. 3. The device of claim 1, wherein the haptic feedback is a friction sensation. 4. The device of claim 1, wherein the sensor signal updates data values associated with a graphical object associated with the manipulandum in a graphical display. 5. The device of claim 1, wherein the sensor signal is associated with a velocity of the protrusion along the planar surface. 6. The device of claim 1, wherein the haptic feedback is a texture sensation. 7. The device of claim 6, wherein the texture sensation is modulated as a function of a detected degree of force. 8. The device of claim 1, wherein the actuator is configured to generate the haptic feedback when the measured force exceeds a desired threshold. 9. The device of claim 1, wherein the measured force is operative to control an indexing function of the device. 10. The device of claim 1, further comprising a base upon which the sensor is located, the manipulandum configured to move relative to the base. 11. The device of claim 10, further comprising a linkage coupled to manipulandum, wherein the linkage is configured to allow motion of the manipulandum relative to the base. 12. The device of claim 1, wherein the manipulandum is a computer mouse. 13. The device of claim 1, wherein the sensor is a planar photodiode. 14. The device of claim 11, wherein the protrusion extends from the linkage. 15. The device of claim 11, wherein the linkage is further coupled to the actuator. 16. A device, comprising: a manipulandum moveable in an x-y plane and having a protrusion extending from a portion thereof, the manipulandum configured to operate a graphical object in a graphical user interface; a sensor having a stationary planar surface configured to be in contact with the protrusion and measure at least one of a position or movement of the protrusion when the protrusion is moved along the stationary planar surface, the sensor configured to measure a force applied by the protrusion to the planar surface when the manipulandum is moved in a direction substantially perpendicular to the planar surface; and at least one actuator configured to provide haptic feedback based on the measured force applied to the sensor. 17. The device of claim 16, further comprising a control processor configured to send a control signal to the actuator to generate the haptic feedback, the control signal based on at least the measured force. 18. The device of claim 16, wherein the haptic feedback output by the actuator includes a damping sensation, wherein a magnitude of the damping sensation is based on at least the measured force. 19. The device of claim 18, wherein the damping sensation is proportional to the measured force. 20. The device of claim 16, wherein the haptic feedback output by the actuator includes a friction sensation, a magnitude of the friction sensation based on at least the measured force. 21. The device of claim 16, wherein the friction sensation is proportional to the measured force. 22. The device of claim 16, wherein the haptic feedback output by the actuator includes a texture sensation, a magnitude of the texture sensation based on at least the measured force. 23. The device of claim 22, wherein the texture sensation is proportional to the measured force. 24. The device of claim 16, further comprising a linkage coupled to manipulandum, wherein the linkage is configured to allow motion of the manipulandum relative to a base. 25. The device of claim 24, wherein the protrusion extends from the linkage. 26. The device of claim 24, wherein the linkage is further coupled to the actuator. 27. A method, comprising: measuring at least one of a position or a motion of a protrusion in contact with and moving with respect to a stationary planar surface of a sensor, wherein the protrusion is coupled to a manipulandum; measuring a force applied from the protrusion to the planar surface of the sensor when the manipulandum is moved in a direction substantially perpendicular to the planar surface; receiving a feedback signal associated with at least one of the detected position, motion, or force of the protrusion, the feedback signal based on data values associated with a graphical object in a graphical display, the graphical object controlled by the manipulandum; and outputting haptic feedback to the manipulandum via an actuator upon receiving the feedback signal. 28. The method of claim 27, wherein a magnitude of the haptic feedback is increased in response to an increase in the measured force. 29. The method of claim 27, wherein the outputting haptic feedback further includes simulating friction. 30. The method of claim 27, wherein the actuator outputs the haptic feedback upon the measured force being greater than a desired threshold. 31. The method of claim 27, further comprising controlling an indexing function of a user interface device based on the measured force. 