A flanging apparatus for use in roller hemming with a robotic hemming roller and a roller hemming anvil having a peripherally disposed hemming surface includes a tool insert having a flanging surface including a peripherally disposed flanging edge of a shape generally corresponding to a shape of the hemming surface of the hemming anvil. The flanging edge is set at an angle for flanging or pre-bending an outer metal panel used to form a closure panel. The insert is adapted to mount relative to the roller hemming anvil and the outer panel. The outer panel is flanged against the tool insert flanging surface using the hemming roller. Thereafter the tool insert is removable to allow the hemming roller to finish hem together an inner metal panel disposedly nested on the flanged outer panel.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A flanging apparatus for use in roller hemming with a robotic hemming roller and a roller hemming anvil having a peripherally disposed hemming surface, the flanging apparatus comprising: a tool insert having a flanging surface and a mounting surface; said flanging surface having a peripherally disposed flanging edge of a shape generally corresponding to a shape of said hemming surface of said hemming anvil; said flanging edge being set at an angle for flanging of an outer metal panel; said mounting surface being adapted to mount said tool insert relative to said roller hemming anvil; whereby said tool insert is mountable on an outer panel deposited on said hemming anvil for flanging the outer panel against the tool insert flanging surface using said hemming roller and thereafter said tool insert is removable to allow said hemming roller to finish hem an inner metal panel disposedly nested on the flanged outer panel. 2. The flanging apparatus of claim 1 wherein said tool insert includes a locator for locating said tool insert relative to said hemming anvil. 3. The flanging apparatus of claim 2 wherein said locator is one of a mechanical, electrical and optical locator means. 4. The flanging apparatus of claim 1 wherein said tool insert comprises a plurality of cooperable fittable insert sections. 5. The flanging apparatus of claim 1 including at least one crossmember assembly for containing tool insert sections in an operational disposition. 6. The flanging apparatus of claim 1 wherein said tool insert is constructed of metal material. 7. A method for flanging or pre-bending an outer metal panel of a closure panel, the method comprising the steps of: providing a hemming anvil; providing a flanging insert having a flanging surface; disposing the outer metal panel on said hemming anvil; sandwiching the outer metal panel between said hemming anvil and flanging insert; and roller hemming a peripheral edge of the outer metal panel against said flanging insert. 8. The method of claim 7 including the step of locating said flanging insert relative to said hemming anvil. 9. The method of claim 7 including the step of removing said flanging insert after flanging the metal panel. 