A shopping receptacle for receiving and retaining a product item having an interface surface associated therewith, the interface surface having disposed thereon or therein coded data including a plurality of coded data portions, each coded data portion being indicative of an identity of the product item, wherein the receptacle comprises: (a) a receptacle body adapted to receive and retain the product item and having an opening through which the product item may be placed within the receptacle body; (b) a sensing device adapted to sense at least some of the coded data on the interface surface of the product item as the product item is placed within the receptacle body, and generate indicating data indicative of the identity of the product item; and, (c) a weighing device for sensing the weight of the product item, and generating weight data indicative of the sensed weight, the weight data and the product item identity being provided to a computer system which: (i) determines, using the indicating data, an indicated weight of the product item in accordance with weight indications stored in a data store; (ii) compares the indicated weight to the sensed weight; and, (iii) is responsive to the comparison.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A shopping receptacle, having a shopping receptacle identity, for receiving and retaining a product item having an interface surface associated therewith, the interface surface having disposed thereon or therein first coded data including a plurality of coded data portions, each coded data portion being indicative of an identity of the product item and of a two-dimensional position on the interface surface, wherein the receptacle comprises: (a) a receptacle body adapted to receive and retain the product item and having an opening through which the product item may be placed within the receptacle body; (b) a sensing device having an optical sensor, said sensing device being adapted to: sense, using the optical sensor, second coded data on a user identity card, said second coded data being indicative of a user identity, sense, using the optical sensor, at least some of the first coded data on the interface surface of the product item as the product item is placed within the receptacle body, generate user identity data, and generate indicating data indicative of the identity of the product item and of a two-dimensional position on the interface surface; (c) a weighing device for sensing the weight of the product item, and generating weight data indicative of the sensed weight, the weight data; and (d) means for transferring the user identity data, the indicating data, the weight data and receptacle identity data to a computer system which: (i) determines, using the indicating data, an indicated weight of the product item in accordance with weight indications stored in a data store; (ii) compares the indicated weight to the sensed weight; and, (iii) is responsive to the comparison. 2. The receptacle of claim 1, wherein the computer system generates an alert in response to an unequal comparison. 3. The receptacle of claim 1, wherein the receptacle includes a user interface, and wherein an indication of the results of the comparison is provided via the user interface. 4. The receptacle of claim 1, wherein the receptacle includes the computer system. 5. The receptacle of claim 1, wherein the receptacle includes a communications means for communicating with the computer system. 6. The receptacle of claim 1, wherein the computer system: (a) determines, using the indicating data, type data indicative of a type of the product item; and, (b) determines, using the type data, the indicated weight of the product item. 7. The receptacle of claim 1, wherein the sensing device comprises: (a) a laser for emitting the at least one sensing beam, the sensing beam being directed in first and second orthogonal directions to thereby generate a raster scan pattern over a sensing patch, the sensing patch being provided in the sensing region such that it exposes at least one coded data portion; (b) a sensor for sensing the at least one exposed coded data portion; and (c) a processor for determining, using at least some of the sensed coded data, indicating data indicative of the identity of the product item. 8. The receptacle of claim 1, wherein the computer system is adapted to: (a) determine, using the indicating data, product information; and, (b) transfer the product information to a user interface, the user interface being responsive to the product information to display the product information. 9. The receptacle of claim 8, wherein the computer system is adapted to, using the indicating data, add an indication of the product item to a product item list. 10. The receptacle of claim 8, wherein the computer system is adapted to, using the indicating data, provide the product item list to the user via the user interface. 11. The receptacle of claim 1, wherein the computer is adapted to: (a) associate the sensing device with a user using the user identity and the shopping receptacle identity data; and, (b) dissociate the sensing device and a user using the user identity and the shopping receptacle identity data. 12. The receptacle of claim 1, wherein the receptacle is at least one of: (a) a shopping trolley; (b) a shopping cart; and, (c) a shopping basket. 13. The receptacle of claim 1, wherein the receptacle is adapted to perform at least one of: (a) provide product information about the product item to the user; (b) record a purchase transaction indicating that the user has purchased the product item; (c) record a potential purchase transaction indicating that the user wishes to purchase the product item; (d) provide comparison information to the user, the comparison information comparing product information about the product item with product information about another product item; (e) play a game associated with the product item; and (f) conduct a competition in relation to the product item. 14. The receptacle of claim 1, wherein the receptacle is adapted to display information relating to any one of the product's: (a) cost; (b) contents; (c) weight; (d) place of origin; (e) manufacturer; (f) date of manufacture; (g) date of packaging; (h) use-by date; (i) current owner; and (j) dimensions. 15. The receptacle of claim 1, wherein the first coded data is indicative of an EPC associated with the product item. 16. The receptacle of claim 1, wherein the first coded data distinguishes the product item from every other product item. 17. The receptacle of claim 1, wherein the first coded data is redundantly encoded. 18. The receptacle of claim 1, wherein the first coded data is redundantly encoded using Reed-Solomon encoding. 19. The receptacle of claim 1, wherein the first coded data is substantially invisible to the unaided eye. 20. The receptacle of claim 1, wherein the first coded data is printed using infrared ink. 21. The receptacle of claim 1, wherein the first coded data is provided on the interface surface coincident with visible markings representing at least one of: (a) product information; and, (b) the identity of the product item. 22. The receptacle of claim 1, wherein the interface surface is at least a portion of at least one of: (a) product item packaging; (b) product item labelling; (c) product manuals; (d) product instructions; and, (e) a surface of the product item. 23. The receptacle of claim 1, wherein the first coded data is disposed over at least one of: (a) substantially all of any one of: (i) an entire product surface; (ii) packaging; and, (iii) a product label; (b) more than 25% of any one of: (i) an entire product surface; (ii) packaging; and, (iii) a product label; (c) more than 50% of any one of: (i) an entire product surface; (ii) packaging; and, (iii) a product label; (d) more than 75% of any one of: (i) an entire product surface; (ii) packaging; and, (iii) a product label. 24. A method of facilitating interaction between a user and a computer system using a shopping receptacle, having a shopping receptacle identity, adapted to receive and retain a product item, the product item having an interface surface associated therewith, the interface surface having disposed thereon or therein first coded data including a plurality of coded data portions, each coded data portion being indicative of the identity of the product item and of a two-dimensional position on the interface surface, wherein the method includes: (a) in a sensing device: (i) sensing, using an optical sensor, second coded data on a user identity card, said second coded data being indicative of a user identity, and (ii) generating user identity data; (b) transferring the user identity data and shopping receptacle identity data to a computer system, which initiates a shopping session; (c) receiving a product item in a receptacle body, the receptacle body having an opening through which the product item may be placed within the receptacle body; (d) in the sensing device: (i) sensing, using the optical sensor, at least some of the first coded data on the interface surface of the product item as the product item is placed within the receptacle body; and, (ii) determining indicating data indicative of the identity of the product item and of a two-dimensional position on the interface surface; and, (e) in a weighing device: (i) sensing the weight of the product item; and, (ii) generating weight data indicative of the sensed weight, (f) transferring the weight data and the indicating data to the computer system which: (1) determines, using the indicating data, an indicated weight of the product item in accordance with weight indications stored in a data store; (2) compares the indicated weight to the sensed weight; and, (3) is responsive to the comparison to perform an action. 25. The method of claim 24, wherein the action includes in the computer system generating an alert in response to an unequal comparison. 26. The method of claim 25, wherein the method includes providing the alert at a location remote to the receptacle. 27. The method of claim 24, wherein the receptacle includes a user interface, and wherein the action includes providing an indication of the results of the comparison via the user interface. 28. The method of claim 24, wherein the receptacle includes the computer system. 29. The method of claim 24, wherein the receptacle includes a communications means for communicating with the computer system. 30. The method of claim 24, wherein the method includes, in the computer system: (a) determining, using the indicating data, type data indicative of a type of the product item; and, (b) determining, using the type data, the indicated weight of the product item. 31. The method of claim 24, wherein the action includes displaying information relating to any one of the products: (a) cost; (b) contents; (c) weight; (d) place of origin; (e) manufacturer; (f) date of manufacture; (g) date of packaging; (h) use-by date; (i) current owner; and (j) dimensions. 32. The method of claim 24, wherein the action includes at least one of: (a) providing product information about the product item to the user; (b) recording a purchase transaction indicating that the user has purchased the product item; (c) recording a potential purchase transaction indicating that the user wishes to purchase the product item; (d) providing comparison information to the user, the comparison information comparing product information about the product item with product information about another product item; (e) playing a game associated with the product item; and (f) conducting a competition in relation to the product item. 33. The method of claim 24, wherein the first coded data is indicative of an EPC associated with the product item. 34. The method of claim 24, wherein the first coded data distinguishes the product item from every other product item. 35. The method of claim 24, wherein the first coded data is redundantly encoded. 36. The method of claim 24, wherein the first coded data is redundantly encoded using Reed-Solomon encoding. 37. The method of claim 24, wherein the first coded data is substantially invisible to the unaided eye. 38. The method of claim 24, wherein the first coded is printed using infrared ink. 39. The method of claim 24, wherein the first coded data is provided on the interface surface coincident with visible markings representing at least one of: (a) product information; and, (b) the identity of the product item. 40. The method of claim 24, wherein the interface surface is at least a portion of at least one of: (a) product item packaging; (b) product item labelling; (c) product manuals; (d) product instructions; and, (e) a surface of the product item. 41. The method of claim 24, wherein the first coded data is disposed over at least one of: (a) substantially all of any one of: (i) an entire product surface; (ii) packaging; and, (iii) a product label; (b) more than 27% of any one of: (i) an entire product surface; (ii) packaging; and, (iii) a product label; (c) more than 50% of any one of: (i) an entire product surface; (ii) packaging; and, (iii) a product label; (d) more than 75% of any one of: (i) an entire product surface; (ii) packaging; and, (iii) a product label. 