An apparatus (10) and method for preheating welds uses a centered induction plate (12) having preferably a plurality of induction coils (30, 32) to impart the generation of heat in the materials to be welded (14), being interactively controlled by at least a temperature sensor (90, 92) and power supply control loop (16) so that even preheating can be obtained for a selected length of time given the parameters of the weld desired.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A self contained system for preheating and welding a gap in a railroad rail comprising: a weld delivery apparatus and power supply; a tool having first and second opposing sides, and disposed in a gap defined by first and second facing ends of the gap in the railroad rail, the tool further including mechanical centering assemblies disposed adjacent the facing ends of the gap in the railroad rail, wherein the mechanical centering assemblies position the tool longitudinally with respect to the railroad rails for proper proximity to the gap in the railroad rail; a first induction heating element affixed to the first side of the tool and disposed proximate the first and second railroad rails; a first heating zone defined by a first temperature sensor positioned proximate the first end of the gap in the railroad rail and the first heating element; a second induction heating element affixed to the second side of the tool and disposed proximate the first and second ends; a second heating zone defined by a second temperature sensor positioned proximate the second end of the gap in the railroad rail and the second heating element; a controller coupled to the first and second temperature sensors, the controller activating the first and second heating elements independently to achieve a preheating welding temperature in both first and second heating zones, said preheating temperature being controlled to be less than the melting point of the rail; and welding means for welding the railroad rails by filling the gap with weld material; said welding means comprising arc welding in which the energy used in welding can be sensed thereby providing feedback to said controller; said controller using said feedback to adjust said first temperature and said second temperature; said power supply providing energy for continuous operation of said first and second heating elements and welding means. 2. The system of claim 1, further comprising a first power supply coupled to the first heating element, and a second power supply coupled to the second heating element, wherein both first and second power supplies are coupled to the controller. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the first and second induction heating elements are ferrite core heating elements. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the temperature sensors comprise thermocouple temperature sensors. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the temperature sensors comprise pyrometer temperature sensors. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein the controller provides a discernible indication when the railroad rails have reached the preheating welding temperature. 7. The system of claim 6, wherein the discernible indication is a visual indication. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein the controller provides positioning information to a positioning robot that adjusts relative position of the tool until the preheating temperature is achieved. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein cooling fluid is provided proximate each of the heating elements. 10. The system of claim 9, wherein the controller controls cooling fluid activation. 11. The system of claim 1, wherein there are three or more heating elements. 12. The system of claim 1, wherein there are three or more heating zones. 13. A system for preheating and welding first and second railroad rails to be welded together comprising: a tool disposed in a gap defined by facing ends of the railroad rails, the tool further including mechanical centering assemblies disposed adjacent the facing ends of the railroad rails, wherein the mechanical centering assemblies position the tool longitudinally with respect to the railroad rails for proper proximity to the railroad rails; an induction heating element affixed to the tool and disposed proximate the first and second railroad rails; a heating zone defined by a temperature sensor positioned proximate the first railroad rail and the heating element; a controller coupled to the temperature sensor, the controller activating the heating element to achieve a preheating welding temperature in the heating zone; and at least one of an arc welding means or thermite welding means for welding the railroad rails by filling the gap between the railroad rails with weld material; said controller working in conjunction with feedback transmitted between said temperature sensor and said at least one of the arc welding means and the thermite welding means. 14. A system for preheating and welding first and second railroad rails to be welded together comprising: a tool disposed in a gap defined by facing ends of the railroad rails, the tool further including mechanical centering assemblies disposed adjacent the facing ends of the railroad rails, wherein the mechanical centering assemblies position the tool longitudinally with respect to the railroad rails for proper proximity to the railroad rails; a plurality of induction heating elements affixed to the tool and disposed proximate the first and second railroad rails; as plurality of heating zones defined by multiple temperature sensors positioned proximate the first railroad rail and the heating elements; a controller coupled to the temperature sensors, the controller activating the heating elements to achieve a preheating welding temperature in the heating zones; and a welder providing weld material filling the gap between the railroad rails; said preheating welding temperature being below the melting point of said rails; said controller processing feedback between said sensors and welder. 15. A system for preheating and welding first and second railroad rails to be welded together comprising: mounting means having first and second opposing sides, and disposed in a gap defined by facing ends of the railroad rails, wherein the mounting means further includes mechanical centering assemblies disposed adjacent the facing ends of the railroad rails, wherein the mechanical centering assemblies position the mounting means longitudinally with respect to the railroad rails for proper proximity to the railroad rails; a first induction heating means affixed to the first side of the mounting means and disposed proximate the first and second railroad rails; a first heating zone defined by a first temperature sensing means positioned proximate the first railroad rail and the first heating means; a second induction heating means affixed to the second side of the mounting means and disposed proximate the first and second railroad rails; a second heating zone defined by a second temperature sensing means positioned proximate the first railroad rail and the second heating means; a controller means coupled to the first and second temperature sensing means, the controller means activating the first and second heating means independently to achieve a preheating welding temperature in both first and second heating zones; and a welder providing weld material filling the gap between the railroad rails to weld the rails; said welder and heating means being transported and powered by a self contained vehicle; said heating means being controlled by said controller means in conjunction with the operation of said welder. 16. The system of claim 15, wherein the mounting means comprises a tool having first and second opposing sides. 17. The system of claim 15, further comprising a first power supply means coupled to the first heating means, and a second power supply means coupled to the second heating means, wherein both first and second power supplies means are coupled to the controller means. 18. The system of claim 15, wherein the first and second induction heating means comprise ferrite core heating elements. 19. The system of claim 15, wherein the temperature sensing means comprise thermocouple temperature sensors. 20. The system of claim 15, wherein the temperature sensing means comprise pyrometer temperature sensors. 21. The system of claim 15, wherein the controller means provides a discernible indication when the workpieces have reached the preheating temperature. 22. The system of claim 21, wherein the discernible indication is a visual indication. 23. The system of claim 15, wherein the controller means provides positioning information to a positioning means that adjusts relative position of the tool until the preheating temperature is achieved. 24. The system of claim 15, wherein cooling fluid is provided proximate each of the heating means. 25. The system of claim 24, wherein the controller means controls cooling fluid activation. 26. The system of claim 15, wherein there are three or more heating means. 27. The system of claim 15, wherein there are three or more heating zones. 28. A method for preheating and welding a railroad rail, the method comprising the steps of: (a) disposing, within a gap defined by first and second faces of at least a portion of a railroad rails, mounting means having first and second opposing sides; (b) providing mechanical centering assemblies disposed adjacent the first and second faces, wherein the mechanical centering assemblies position the mounting means longitudinally with respect to the railroad rails for proper proximity to the gap; (c) disposing a first induction heating means affixed to the first side of the mounting means proximate the first face; (d) defining a first heating zone by positioning a first temperature sensing means proximate the first face and the first heating means; (e) disposing a second induction heating means affixed to the second side of the mounting means proximate the first and second faces; (f) defining a second heating zone by positioning a second temperature sensing means proximate the second face and the second heating means; (g) activating the first and second heating means independently to achieve a predetermined preheat temperature in both first and second heating zones; and (h) welding the railroad rails by applying non-induction welding heat to the weld area; (i) providing weld material filling the gap between the faces to weld the rail; (j) providing power for both said non-induction welding heat and said first and second heating means being transported and powered by a self contained vehicle; (k) controlling said first and second heating means in conjunction with the operation of said non-induction welding heat. 29. The method of claim 28, wherein welding is by one of arc welding or thermite welding. 30. The method of claim 28, wherein the rails remain spaced during the step of activating to achieve a preheat temperature. 31. The method of claim 28, wherein the gap is filled during the welding step. 