A pool or tank cleaner that is propelled by means of one or more water jets is directed in one or more predetermined systematic scanning patterns of either straight, curvilinear, or combinations of both, by an apparatus and method that controls and varies the directional discharge of one or more water jets that propel the cleaner in its translational movement. The direction of the discharge of the propelling water jet is changed by mechanical sensors, electrical sensors, or by interrupting the water pump. Further variations in the direction of translational movement of the cleaner are effected by activating at least one retractable depending member to periodically contact the pool surface below the moving cleaner, thereby causing the cleaner to pivot or otherwise change direction.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for propelling a robotic pool cleaning apparatus over the bottom and side wall surfaces of a pool by means of a water jet, where the apparatus comprises a pump operatively attached to a pump motor for delivery of a stream of pressurized water to a pump outlet having a plurality of discharge conduits and a diverter interposed in said pump outlet between the discharge conduits and the pump, said method comprising: (a) discharging a jet of water received from the pump outlet in a first predetermined direction, wherein a first high pressure water stream passing through said pump outlet causes said diverter to be disposed in a first position to close a first one of said plurality of discharge conduits; (b) continuing the discharge of the water jet in the first predetermined direction for a period of time; (c) terminating the flow of the water jet in the first predetermined direction by interrupting power to the pump motor to effect a low pressure condition in said pump outlet that moves said diverter to a second position between said discharge conduits; (d) discharging the water jet in a second predetermined direction by providing power to the pump motor to direct a second high pressure water stream that passes through said pump outlet to cause said diverter to be disposed in a third position to close a second one of said plurality of discharge conduits; and (e) continuing the flow of the water jet in the second predetermined direction for a period of time, wherein the pool cleaning apparatus is propelled in directions which change in response to the changes in the direction of the discharged water jet. 2. The method of claim 1 in which the discharged water jet comprises a principal force vector that is parallel to the surface on which the apparatus is moving and a lesser force vector at an angle to the surface on which the apparatus is moving. 3. The method of claim 2 which further comprises the step of discharging a water jet in a direction that is generally normal to the surface of the pool on which the apparatus is moving. 4. The method of claim 3 in which the water jets are discharged downwardly at an angle towards the surface of the pool on which the apparatus is moving. 5. The method of claim 4 which comprises the further step in providing the apparatus with a weight that exceeds the lifting force of the downwardly discharged water jet, whereby the apparatus is maintained in cleaning contact with the pool surface. 6. The method of claim 4 where the water jets are discharged proximate the surface of the pool on which the apparatus is moving. 7. The method of claim 1 which further comprises discharging the water jet at an angle that is acute to the surface on which the apparatus is moving, wherein the end of the apparatus opposite the discharged water jet receives a resultant force vector in the direction of said surface. 8. The method of claim 1 which further comprises discontinuing the discharge of water from the pump outlet at the end of the first period of time. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein said diverter comprises a flap valve assembly having a flap member and bias-mounted lock bars for positioning the flap member, said method further comprising the steps of: moving the flap member from said first position to said second position during the time that discharge of water from the pump outlet is discontinued. 10. The method of claim 1 which further comprises the step of dividing the water jet into a first component that is discharged generally parallel to the surface on which the apparatus is moving and a second component that is discharged at an angle that is acute to the first component. 11. The method of claim 1 in which the direction of movement of the apparatus corresponds generally to the longitudinal axis of the apparatus and in which at least one of the first direction and the second direction of the discharged water jet is at an angle that is acute to the longitudinal axis of the apparatus, whereby the apparatus moves in an arcuate path in response to the angular discharge of the water jet. 12. The method of claim 1 in which the direction of movement corresponds generally to the longitudinal axis of the apparatus and in which the water jet is discharged in at least one of the first direction and second direction form a position that is laterally displaced form the central longitudinal axis of the apparatus, whereby the apparatus moves in an arcuate path in response to the laterally displaced discharge of the water jet. 13. The method of claim 1 which further comprises the step of providing the apparatus with asymmetrical hydrodynamic resistance to the movement of the apparatus through the water in at least one direction, whereby the apparatus moves in an arcuate path in response to the unequal hydrodynamic resistance. 14. The method of claim 1 which further comprises the steps of: providing the apparatus with a pivotally-mounted downwardly depending contact member; and intermittently applying an asymmetrical braking force between the contact member and the bottom of the pool over which the apparatus is moving to cause the apparatus to pivot about the contact member, whereby the direction of movement of the apparatus is altered. 15. The method of claim 14 where the braking force is provided by a downwardly depending contact member having a first free end in contact with the pool surface and second end attached to a movable piston in a fluid-damped cylinder, and the method comprises the further steps of: pivoting the apparatus around the free end of the contact member while it is in braking contact with the pool surface; moving the piston in the cylinder at a controlled rate; disengaging the free end of the rod from braking contact with the surface; and continuing the movement of the apparatus to clean the bottom surface of the pool. 16. The method of claim 14 where the braking force is provided by a pivotally mounted cam arm having an arcuate free end and the method comprises the further steps of: pivoting the cam arm to bring the arcuate end into breaking contact with the pool surface; controlling the movement of the cam arm about its pivot point by applying a retarding force to the end of the cam arm opposite the arcuate end; disengaging the arcuate end of the cam arm from the pool surface; and continuing the movement of the apparatus to clean the bottom surface of the pool. 17. The method of claim 16 where the retarding force is a frictional force. 18. The method of claim 16 where the retarding force is applied in response to a pressurized fluid. 19. The method of claim 16 where the retarding force is variable. 20. The method of claim 1 where the apparatus is provided with a housing and the water jet is discharged proximate the top of the housing. 