An integrated tool and automatic calibration systems that enable wet chemical processing chambers, lift-rotate units and other hardware to be quickly interchanged without having to recalibrate the transport system or other components to the replacement items. These tools are expected to reduce the down time associated with repairing or maintaining processing chambers and/or lift-rotate units so that the tools can maintain a high throughput. Several aspects of these tools are particularly useful for applications that have stringent performance requirements because components are more likely to require maintenance more frequently, and reducing the down time associated with maintaining such components will significantly enhance the integrated tool.
Claims We claim: 1. An integrated tool for wet chemical processing of microfeature workpieces, comprising: a frame a mounting module attached to the frame, the mounting module having a deck a plurality of positioning elements, and a plurality of attachment elements, wherein the deck comprises (a) a rigid first panel having a plurality of the positioning elements and a plurality of the attachment elements, (b) a rigid second panel juxtaposed to the first panel, (c) braces between the first and second panels, wherein the first panel, the braces and the second panel are fastened together to be dimensionally stable, and (d) a chamber receptacle through the first and second panels; a wet chemical processing chamber attached to the deck of the mounting module, the wet chemical processing chamber having a first interface member engaged with one of the positioning elements and a first fastener engaged with one of the attachment elements, wherein a portion of the chamber is received in the chamber receptacle; a transport system carried by the mounting module for transporting workpieces within the tool, the transport system having a second interface member engaged with one of the positioning elements, wherein the transport system has a second fastener engaged with another attachment element; and wherein the mounting module is configured to maintain relative positions between positioning elements such that the transport system does not need to be recalibrated when the processing chamber is replaced with another processing chamber. 2. The tool of claim 1 wherein the first panel, the second panel and the joists comprise stainless steel. 3. The tool of claim 1 wherein the first panel, the second panel and the joists comprise a fiber reinforced material. 4. The tool of claim 1 wherein the mounting module further comprises: a platform having a plurality of the positioning elements and being fixedly disposed relative to the processing deck, and wherein the second interface member of the workpiece transport mechanism is engaged with a corresponding positioning element of the platform. 5. The tool of claim 4 wherein the chamber receptacle has a contact area supporting the chamber and a bulge outside of the chambers through which fluid and/or electrical lines can extend. 6. The tool of claim 4 wherein the chamber receptacle has contact areas and bulges between the contact areas, and wherein the bulges define openings outside of the chambers through which gases flow between an area above the deck and an area below the deck. 7. The tool of claim 1 wherein the mounting module further comprises a platform for carrying the transport system, and wherein: the deck further comprises a first set of the positioning elements and a first set of the attachment elements at the first panel; the platform comprises a second set of positioning elements and a second set of attachment elements; the wet chemical processing station is carried by the deck and includes a plurality of first interface members and a plurality of first fasteners, and the first interface members being engaged with corresponding positioning elements of the first set of positioning elements and the first fasteners being engaged with corresponding attachment elements of the first set of attachment elements; and the transport system is carried by the platform and includes a plurality of second interface members and a plurality of second fasteners, and the second interface members being engaged with corresponding positioning elements of the second set of positioning elements and the second fasteners being engaged with corresponding attachments elements of the second set of attachment elements. 8. The tool of claim 7 wherein the wet chemical processing chamber comprises an electrochemical deposition chamber having a vessel, a first electrode in the vessel, a workpiece holder disposed relative to the vessel to hold a workpiece in a processing solution, and a second electrode carried by the workpiece holder to engage a workpiece. 9. The tool of claim 7 wherein the wet chemical processing chamber comprises a cleaning chamber having a fluid delivery system that directs a cleaning fluid onto a workpiece. 10. The tool of claim 7 wherein: the wet chemical processing chamber is a first electrochemical deposition chamber comprising a first vessel, a first workpiece holder disposed relative to the first vessel to hold a workpiece in a processing solution, a first cathodic electrode disposed in one of the first vessel or the first workpiece holder, and a first anodic electrode disposed in the other of the first vessel or the first workpiece holder; and the tool further comprises a second electrochemical deposition chamber comprising a second vessel, a second workpiece holder disposed relative to the second vessel to hold a workpiece in a processing solution, a second cathodic electrode disposed in one of the second vessel or the second workpiece holder, and a second anodic electrode disposed in the other of the second vessel or the second workpiece holder. 11. The tool of claim 1 wherein the wet chemical processing chamber comprises an electrochemical deposition chamber having a vessel, a first electrode in the vessel, a workpiece holder disposed relative to the vessel to hold a workpiece in a processing solution, and a second electrode carried by the workpiece holder to engage a workpiece. 12. The tool of claim 1 wherein the wet chemical processing chamber comprises a cleaning chamber having a fluid delivery system that directs a cleaning fluid onto a workpiece. 13. The tool of claim 1 wherein: the wet chemical processing chamber is a first electrochemical deposition chamber comprising a first vessel, a first workpiece holder disposed relative to the first vessel to hold a workpiece in a processing solution, a first cathodic electrode disposed in one of the first vessel or the first workpiece holder, and a first anodic electrode disposed in the other of the first vessel or the first workpiece holder; and the tool further includes a second wet chemical processing chamber comprising a cleaning chamber having a fluid delivery system that directs a cleaning fluid onto a workpiece. 14. The tool of claim 1 wherein the mounting module is configured to maintain the locations of the positioning elements to within 0.025 inch of predetermined reference locations for the positioning elements. 15. The tool of claim 1 wherein the mounting module is configured to maintain the locations of the positioning elements to within approximately 0.005 to 0.015 inch of predetermined reference locations for the positioning elements. 16. An integrated tool for wet chemical processing of microfeature workpieces, comprising: a frame; a mounting module attached to the frame, the mounting module comprising a deck having a rigid top panel with a plurality of positioning elements, a rigid bottom panel juxtaposed to the top panel bracing between the top panel and the bottom panel, and a chamber receptacle in the top panel and the bottom panel, wherein the top panel, the bracing and the bottom panel are fixed together to be dimensionally stable; a wet chemical processing station attached to the deck, the wet chemical processing station having a first interface member engaged with at least one of the positioning elements, wherein a portion of the chamber is received in the chamber receptacle; and a workpiece transport system attached to the mounting module. 17. The tool of claim 16 wherein the top panel is superimposed over the bottom panel, and the deck further comprises a plurality of bolts clamping the top panel to one side of the bracing the clamping the bottom panel to another side of the bracing. 18. The tool of claim 16 wherein the bracing comprises horizontal joists, the top panel is attached to a top side of the joists, the bottom panel is superimposed under the top panel and attached to an underside of the joists, and the deck further comprises a plurality of bolts extending through the bracing to clamp the top panel and the bottom panel to the joists. 19. The tool of claim 18 wherein the top panel, the joists, and the bottom panel are configured to maintain the location of the positioning elements across the top panel to within 0.025 inch of predetermined reference locations for the positioning elements. 20. The tool of claim 18 wherein the top panel, the joists and the bottom panel are configured to maintain the locations of the positioning elements across the top panel to within 0.010 inch of predetermined reference locations for the positioning elements. 21. The tool of claim 18 wherein the top panel comprises stainless steel. 22. The tool of claim 18 wherein the top panel comprises a fiber reinforce composite. 23. An integrated tool for wet chemical processing of microfeature workpieces, comprising: a frame a mounting module mounted to the frame, the mounting module comprising a deck having a rigid upper panel with a plurality of positioning elements and a plurality of attachment elements, a rigid lower panel superimposed under the upper panel, braces between the upper and lower panels, and a chamber receptacle in the upper and lower panels, wherein the upper panel, the braces and the lower panel are fixed together to be dimensionally stable; a wet chemical processing station attached to the deck, the wet chemical processing station having a first interface member engaged with at least one of the positioning elements and a first fastener engaged with an attachment element, wherein a portion of the wet chemical processing station is received in the chamber receptacle; and a workpiece transport system attached to the mounting module, the transport system having a second interface member engaged with one of the positioning elements and a second fastener engaged with another attachment element. 24. The tool of claim 23 wherein the upper panel comprises stainless steel. 25. The tool of claim 23 wherein the upper panel comprises a fiber reinforced composite. 26. The tool of claim 23 wherein: the first interface member of the wet chemical processing chamber is engaged with a corresponding positioning element of the upper panel of the deck; and the mounting module further comprises a platform having a plurality of the positioning elements and being fixedly disposed in the tool relative to the deck, and wherein the second interface member of the workpiece transport mechanism is engaged with a corresponding positioning element of the platform. 27. The tool of claim 23 wherein: the braces comprise a plurality of joists, the upper panel is attached to one side of the joists and has a first set of the positioning elements and a first set of the attachment elements, and the lower panel is juxtaposed to the first panel and attached to another side of the joists; the mounting module further comprises a platform including a second set of positioning elements and a second set of attachment elements; the wet chemical processing station is carried by the deck and includes a plurality of first interface members and a plurality of first fasteners, and the first interface members being engaged with corresponding positioning elements of the first set of positioning elements and the first fasteners being engaged with corresponding attachment elements of the first set of attachment elements; and the transport system is carried by the platform and includes a plurality of second interface members and a plurality of second fasteners, the second interface members being engaged with corresponding positioning elements of the second set of positioning elements and the second fasteners being engaged with corresponding attachments elements of the second set of attachment elements. 28. The tool of claim 27 wherein the wet chemical processing chamber comprises an electrochemical deposition chamber having a vessel, a first electrode in the vessel, a workpiece holder disposed relative to the vessel to hold a workpiece in a processing solution, and a second electrode carried by the workpiece holder to engage a workpiece. 29. The tool of claim 27 wherein the wet chemical processing chamber comprises a cleaning chamber having a fluid delivery system that directs a cleaning fluid onto a workpiece. 