The invention provides methods for dispensing tools that can be employed to generate multi-element arrays of sample material on a substrate surface. The substrates surfaces can be flat or geometrically altered to include wells of receiving material. The tool can dispense a spot of fluid to a substrate surface by spraying the fluid from the pin, contacting the substrate surface or forming a drop that touches against the substrate surface. The tool can form an array of sample material by dispensing sample material in a series of steps, while moving the pin to different locations above the substrate surface to form the sample array. The invention then passes the prepared sample arrays to a plate assembly that disposes the sample arrays for analysis by mass spectrometry. To this end, a mass spectrometer is provided that generates a set of spectra signal which can be understood as indicative of the composition of the sample material under analysis.
Claims We claim: 1. A process for preparing a substrate having an array of spots having matrix for matrix-assisted laser-desorption ionization (MALDI) mass spectrometry and no analyte, which comprises: (a) depositing a defined and controlled 0.2 to 20 nanoliter volume of a solution comprising 3-hydroxypicolinic acid matrix, an evaporating solvent and no analyte at a plurality of discrete locations on the surface of a substrate by an automated dispenser; and (b) evaporating the solvent, thereby forming an array of spots on the surface of the substrate comprising the matrix and no analyte. 2. The process of claim 1, wherein the substrate comprises material selected from the group consisting of silica, glass, cellulose, silicon, metal, plastic, polymer and metal-grafted polymer. 3. The process of claim 2, wherein the substrate comprises silicon. 4. The process of claim 2, wherein the substrate comprises a metal. 5. The process of claim 2, wherein the substrate comprises a plastic. 6. The process of claim 2, wherein the substrate comprises a metal-grafted polymer. 7. The process of claim 1, wherein the substrate is selected from the consisting of a flat surface, a flat surface with pits, a solid or porous bead, a membrane or a pin. 8. The process of claim 7, wherein the substrate comprises a flat surface. 9. The process of claim 7, wherein the substrate comprises a membrane. 10. The process of claim 1, wherein the substrate is chemically functionalized. 11. The process of claim 10, wherein the substrate is chemically functionalized with beads. 12. The process of claim 10, wherein the substrate is chemically functionalized with a dendritic material. 13. The process of claim 1, wherein the substrate is a chip. 14. The process of claim 13, wherein the substrate is a silicon chip. 15. The process of claim 1, wherein each spot is a flat disk. 16. The process of claim 1, wherein the spot size is defined by square dimensions of 800 micrometers by 800 micrometers or less. 17. The process of claim 1, wherein the spot size is defined by square dimensions of 450 micrometers by 450 micrometers or less. 18. The process of claim 1, wherein each spot consists essentially of the matrix after the solvent has evaporated. 19. The process of claim 18, wherein each spot consists of the matrix after the solvent has evaporated. 20. The process of claim 1, wherein the solvent comprises water. 21. The process of claim 20, wherein the solvent is water. 22. The process of claim 1, wherein the solvent comprises CH.sub.3CN. 23. The process of claim 22, wherein the solvent is 50% CH.sub.3CN. 24. The process of claim 1, wherein the solution comprising the matrix is a saturated matrix solution. 25. The process of claim 1, wherein the solution comprising the matrix is a diluted matrix solution. 26. The process of claim 1, wherein the automated dispenser comprises a vesicle having a chamber and a transducer element for ejecting fluid from the chamber. 27. The process of claim 26, wherein the transducer element is selected from the group consisting of piezoelectric, electric, electrorestrictive, magnetorestrictive, electrochemical transducers and the like. 28. The process of claim 27, wherein the transducer element is a piezoelectric transducer. 29. The process of claim 1, wherein the automated dispenser deposits the solution without touching the surface of the substrate. 30. The process of claim 1, wherein the automated dispenser comprises vesicle that comprises a pin having a chamber of sufficient narrow bore to allow the chamber to at least partially fill with a solution by capillary action. 31. The process of claim 1, wherein the automated dispenser deposits the solution by contacting the surface of the substrate. 32. The process of claim 1, wherein the automated dispenser comprises a vesicle that comprises a solid shaft of material. 33. The process of claim 1, wherein the automated dispenser comprises a vesicle that is rastered over the surface of the substrate. 34. The process of claim 1, wherein the automated dispenser comprises a plurality of vesicles in an array. 