A printhead assembly is provided comprising at least one printhead module comprising at least two printhead integrated circuits, each of which has nozzles formed therein for delivering printing fluid onto the surface of print media, a support member supporting the printhead integrated circuits and having at least one longitudinally extending channel for carrying the printing fluid, and an electrical connector for connecting electrical signals to the printhead integrated circuits. The assembly further comprises a casing removably mounting the printhead module and drive electronics for controlling the printing operation of the printhead integrated circuits via the electrical connector, and at least one connector arrangement mounted to at least one end of the casing, carrying at least one power terminal for power supply, at least one data terminal for data input, and at least one fluid delivery port for fluid supply.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A printhead assembly, comprising: at least one printhead module comprising at least two printhead integrated circuits, each of which has nozzles formed therein for delivering printing fluid onto the surface of print media, a support member supporting the at least two printhead integrated circuits and having at least one longitudinally extending channel for carrying the printing fluid, and an electrical connector for connecting electrical signals to the printhead integrated circuits; a casing comprising an elongate support frame removably mounting the at least one printhead module and a controller for processing print data and controlling the at least two printhead integrated circuits to print the processed print data via the electrical connector; and at least one connector arrangement arranged in a housing mounted to at least one longitudinal end of the support frame and carrying at least one power terminal for connecting the electrical connector to a power supply, a data terminal for connecting the controller to a data input, and at least one fluid delivery port for connecting the at least one channel of the support member to a fluid supply via fluid delivery tubes, the housing being configured to allow connection of the power and data terminals and fluid delivery port to the respective power supply, data input and fluid delivery tubes. 2. A printhead assembly according to claim 1, wherein: the at least one printhead module is formed as a unitary arrangement of the at least two printhead integrated circuits, the support member, the electrical connector, and at least two fluid distribution members each mounting one of the at least two printhead integrated circuits to the support member; and the support member has a plurality of apertures extending through a wall of the support member arranged so as to direct the printing fluid from the at least one channel to associated nozzles in both, or if more than two, all of the printhead integrated circuits by way of respective ones of the fluid distribution members. 3. A printhead assembly according to claim 1, wherein two connector arrangements are provided comprising a first connector arrangement carrying the power and data terminals and the fluid delivery port at one longitudinal end of the support frame and a second connector arrangement at the other longitudinal end of the support frame spring loading at least one first printed circuit board on which the controller is carried in the direction of the first connector arrangement. 4. A printhead assembly according to claim 3, wherein: the first connector arrangement is a second printed circuit board and the second connector arrangement is a third printed circuit board; and the at least one first printed circuit board is engaged at the one end of the support frame by the second printed board and is engaged at the other end of the support frame by a spring portion formed in the third printed circuit board. 5. A printhead system according to claim 4, further comprising a plurality of longitudinally extending electrical conductors connected to the second printed circuit board for delivering the power from the power supply to the controller and printhead integrated circuits via the electrical connector. 6. A printhead system according to claim 4, wherein the third printed circuit board carries another power terminal of the at least one power terminal and another fluid delivery port of the at least one fluid delivery port. 7. A printhead assembly according to claim 6, wherein the third printed circuit board comprises termination connections for terminating a data signal traversing the at least one first printed circuit board from the second printed circuit board. 8. A printhead system according to claim 6, further comprising a plurality of longitudinally extending electrical conductors arranged as two groups of electrical conductors respectively connected to the second and third printed circuit boards for delivering the power from the power supply to the controller and printhead integrated circuits via the electrical connector at respective ends of the printhead assembly, respective ones of electrical conductors of the two groups of electrical conductors being connected together at abutting regions intermediate the ends of the printhead assembly. 9. A printhead assembly according to claim 8, wherein the abutting regions of the individual electrical conductors are arranged in overlapping relationship. 