A method and apparatus is provided for determining substrate drift from its nominal or intended position. The apparatus includes at least two fixed reference points. The reference points can be fixed with respect to the processing tool, or with respect to the end effector. As a robotic arm moves the end effector and substrate along a path, a camera captures images of the edge of the substrate and the reference points. Two or more cameras can also be provided. A computer can then calculate positional drift of the substrate, relative to its expected or centered position on the end effector, based upon these readings, and this drift can be corrected in subsequent robotic arm movement.
Claims I claim: 1. A method of accurately positioning a substrate within a semiconductor processing apparatus, the method comprising: loading the substrate onto an end effector coupled to a robot; moving the substrate and end effector along a path with the robot; capturing a first image of a first edge portion of the substrate along with a proximately located first reference point; capturing a second image of a second edge portion of the substrate along with a proximately located second reference point; determining a difference in position of the substrate relative to an ideal substrate position by using the captured images; and compensating for any difference in position during subsequent robot movement of the substrate. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the first and second reference points are fixed with respect to the end effector. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein the first and second reference points are provided on the end effector. 4. The method of claim 2 wherein the first and second reference points are provided on reference point holders attached to the end effector. 5. The method of claim 2 wherein the first and second reference points are spaced from one another along a line substantially parallel to the path. 6. The method of claim 2 wherein the first and second reference points are spaced along a line substantially perpendicular to the path. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein capturing comprises employing an image capturing device having no more than a 50 mm.times.50 mm field of view. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein the image capturing device has no more than a 20 mm.times.20 mm field of view. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein the image capturing device has no more than a 10 mm.times.10 mm field of view. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein determining comprises calculating a center point of the substrate. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein determining a difference in position comprises comparing the calculated center point of the substrate to an ideal substrate center point of the end effector. 12. The method of claim 1 wherein compensating is conducted during movement of the substrate from a source location to a destination location. 13. The method of claim 1 wherein compensating is conducted by placing the wafer on a staging position and picking-up the wafer at a corrected position. 14. The method of claim 1 wherein capturing comprises employing a camera. 15. The method of claim 1 wherein capturing comprises employing a charged coupled device. 16. The method of claim 1 wherein a first image capturing device is positioned to capture the first image and a second image capturing device is positioned to capture the second image. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein the first image capturing device and the second image capturing device capture their respective images at about the same time. 18. The method of claim 1 wherein compensating comprises a processor instructing the robot to place the substrate at a destination location. 19. The method of claim 18 wherein the processor is programmed to identify a flat or notch on the substrate. 20. The method of claim 1 wherein the first reference point is in a fixed relationship to a camera capturing the first image and the second reference point is in a fixed relationship to a camera capturing the second image. 21. The method of claim 20 wherein the first and second images are captured by a single camera at different points in time while the substrate is at a first and second position respectively. 22. The method of claim 20 wherein the first reference point and the second reference point are the same point. 23. A method of accurately positioning a substrate within a semiconductor processing apparatus, the method comprising: moving a substrate along a path with the robot; capturing a first image of a first portion of an edge of the substrate and a first reference mark; capturing a second image of a second portion of the edge of the substrate and a second reference mark; measuring a distance from the respective reference mark to the edge of the substrate for each of the first and second images; and calculating a positional drift of the substrate with respect to an ideally positioned substrate using the measured distances. 24. A system for calculating substrate drift upon an end effector, comprising: a robot supporting and moving the end effector, the robot configured to move the end effector and a supported substrate along a translational path including a first position and a second position; a reference mark; a camera fixed with respect to the reference mark, the camera positioned to capture a first image with the substrate in the first position and a second image with the substrate in a second position, each of the first and second images including a reference mark that is fixed with respect to the camera and a different portions of an edge of the substrate; and a processor configured to calculate a position of the substrate relative to the reference mark, the processor receiving input form the camera and the robot. 