Method and apparatus are provided for job performance support. The apparatus for providing on-the-job performance support of a procedure comprises a memory configured to store performance support data. The performance support data comprises action data, resource data, reference data, procedure data, and assembly data. The apparatus further comprises a processor coupled to the memory and a display coupled to the processor. The processor is configured to access the memory, retrieve the performance support data, and assemble the performance support data to form the procedure. The display is configured to produce a Graphical User Interface (GUI) that visually presents the procedure assembled by the processor. The display is further configured to produce the GUI that visually presents an administrator interface. The administrator interface is configured to provide for the creation and modification of the action data, resource data, reference data, procedure data, and assembly data with a menu driven environment operating in conjunction with a browser of the first network.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An apparatus for providing on-the-job performance support of a procedure, the apparatus comprises: a memory configured to store performance support data, said performance support data comprising action data objects, resource data objects, reference data objects, procedure data objects, and assembly data objects, each data object associated with a data object owner that has a specified identity stored in said memory; a processor coupled to said memory with a first network operating in a first programming language and a second network in a second programming language, said first network comprising the internet, said second network comprising an intranet, said processor configured to access said memory using at least one of said first network and said second network and retrieve said performance support data, said processor further configured to assemble said performance support data to form the procedure; a browser coupled to at least one of said first and second networks, said browser capable of interpreting said first programming language and said second programming language; and a display coupled to said processor, said display configured to produce a Graphical User Interface(GUI) that visually presents the procedure assembled by said processor, said display further configured to operate with said browser to produce said GUI that visually presents an administrator interface, said administrator interface configured to provide for the creation and modification of said action data objects, resource data objects, reference data objects, procedure data objects, and assembly data objects with a menu driven environment operating in conjunction with said browser, each data object capable of being modified by the data object owner that has said specified identity via the administrator interface wherein the apparatus is configured to allow said data object owner that has said specified identity to modify said data object by editing said memory in which said data object is stored. 2. The apparatus for providing on-the-job performance support of the procedure of claim 1, wherein each of said action data objects describes a single activity of the procedure. 3. The apparatus for providing on-the-job performance support of the procedure of claim 1, wherein each of said reference data objects sets forth an address to data other than the performance support data stored in said memory. 4. The apparatus for providing on-the-job performance support of the procedure of claim 1, wherein each of said procedure data objects provides a series of actions for the procedure. 5. The apparatus for providing on-the-job performance support of the procedure of claim 1, wherein each of said assembly data objects provides a combination of text and images that are assembled to provide a visual representation of the procedure. 6. The apparatus for providing on-the-job performance support of the procedure of claim 2, wherein said administrator interface is configured to provide the ability for said associated data object owner to create and modify said action data object with a menu driven environment operating in conjunction with said browser. 7. The apparatus for providing on-the-job performance support of the procedure of claim 1, wherein said GUI is configured to provide a user interface. 8. A method for providing on-the-job performance support of a procedure, the method comprises: storing performance support data in a memory, said performance support data comprising action data objects, resource data objects, reference data objects, procedure data objects, and assembly data objects, each data object associated with a data object owner that has a specified identity stored in said memory; retrieving said performance support data from said memory through at least one of a first network operating in a first programming language and a second network operating in a second programming language, said first network comprising the internet and said second network comprising an intranet; assembling said performance support data to form the procedure; using a browser capable of interpreting said first and second programming languages to provide a Graphical User Interface (GUI) that visually presents the procedure assembled from said performance support data; and using said browser capable to produce said GUI that visually presents an administrator interface that is configured to provide for the creation and modification of said action data objects, resource data objects, reference data objects, procedure data objects, and assembly data objects by a data object owner that has said specified identity with a menu driven environment operating in conjunction with said browser, wherein said modification by said data object owner having said specified identity is made by editing said memory in which said data object is stored. 9. The method for providing on-the-job performance support of the procedure of claim 8, further comprising providing at least one administrator function with said administrator interface. 10. The method for providing on-the-job performance support of the procedure of claim 8, further comprising generating a user interface. 11. The method for providing on-the-job performance support of the procedure of claim 10, further comprising providing at least one user function with said user interface. 12. The method for providing on-the-job performance support of the procedure of claim 8, wherein each of said action data objects describes a single activity of the procedure. 13. The method for providing on-the-job performance support of the procedure of claim 8, wherein each of said reference data objects sets forth an address to data other than the performance support data stored in said memory. 14. The method for providing on-the-job performance support of the procedure of claim 8, wherein each of said procedure data objects provides a series of actions for the procedure. 15. The method for providing on-the-job performance support of the procedure of claim 8, wherein each of said assembly data objects provides a combination of text and images that are assembled to provide a visual representation of the procedure. 16. An apparatus for providing on-the-job performance support of a procedure, the apparatus comprises: a memory configured to store performance support data, said performance support data comprising: action data, said action data comprises action data objects with each of said action data objects describing a single activity of the procedure; resource data, said resource data comprises resource data objects; reference data, said reference data comprises reference data objects with each of said reference data objects setting forth an address to data other than the performance support data stored in said memory; procedure data, said procedure data comprises procedure data objects with each of said procedure data objects providing a series of actions for the procedure; and assembly data said assembly data comprises assembly data objects with each of said assembly data objects providing a combination of text and images that are assembled to provide a visual representation of the procedure; wherein each of said data objects is associated with a data object owner that has a specified identity stored in said memory; a processor coupled to said memory with a first network operating in a first programming language and a second network in a second programming language, said first network comprising the internet, said second network comprising an intranet, said processor configured to access said memory using at least one of said first network and said second network and retrieve said performance support data, said processor further configured to assemble said performance support data to form the procedure; a browser coupled to at least one of said first and second networks, said browser capable of interpreting said first programming language and said second programming language; and a display coupled to said processor, said display configured to produce a Graphical User Interface (GUI) that visually presents the procedure assembled by said processor to form the procedure, said display further configured to operate with said browser to produce said GUI that visually presents an administrator interface, said administrator interface configured to provide the ability for said data object owner to create and modify said action data objects, said resource data objects, said reference data objects, said procedure data objects, said assembly data objects with a menu driven environment operating in conjunction with said browser, wherein the apparatus is configured to allow said data object owner having said specified identity to modify said data object by editing said memory in which said data object is stored. 