A method utilizing a lithography system comprises a lithography patterning chamber, a wafer exchange chamber separated from the lithography patterning chamber by a first gate valve, and at least one alignment load-lock separated from the wafer exchange chamber by a second gate valve. The alignment load-lock includes an alignment stage that aligns a wafer during pump-down. The alignment load-lock can be uni-directional or bi-directional. The lithography system can include one or multiple alignment load-locks.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method, comprising: (a) aligning a substrate with respect to a substrate support within a chamber; (b) adjusting a pressure within the chamber from a first pressure to a second pressure substantially simultaneously during step (a); (c) securely coupling the aligned substrate to the substrate support in the chamber; and (d) transporting the securely coupled and aligned substrate on the substrate support from the chamber to another chamber. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the securely coupled and aligned substrate is transferred from the chamber to the another chamber having the second pressure via an area having the second pressure; and wherein the method further comprises: (e) patterning the securely coupled and aligned substrate in the another chamber. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: using a load-lock as the chamber; and using a patterning chamber as the another chamber. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein step (a) comprises: kinematically aligning the substrate support to an aligning stage; measuring a position of the substrate with respect to the substrate support using a camera; generating position signals with the camera based on the measuring step; and using the aligning stage to perform the aligning based on the position signals. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the kinematically aligning comprises aligning a hemisphere on a surface of the substrate support with a vee-block on a surface of the aligning stage. 6. The method of claim 4, further comprising: electrically coupling the substrate support to the aligning stage. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the electrical coupling comprises receiving a pogo contact protruding from the aligning stage in a contact pad on the substrate support. 8. The method of claim 1, further comprising using a load-lock as the chamber. 9. The method of claim 1, further comprising using a electrostatic chuck as the substrate support. 10. The method of claim 1, further comprising using a vacuum chuck as the substrate support. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein: step (a) further comprises aligning multiple ones of the substrate with respective multiple ones of the substrate support; and step (c) further comprises securely coupling the multiple ones of the aligned substrate to the respective multiple ones of the substrate support. 