A printhead assembly for a pagewidth ink jet printer includes an ink storage assembly that defines at least one ink storage chamber. An elongate mounting member is mounted on the ink storage assembly to be in fluid communication with the, or each, ink storage chamber. At least one printhead module is mounted on the mounting member and has a carrier that defines a recess and a printhead chip received in the recess. The recess is in fluid communication with the mounting member so that ink from the, or each, ink storage chamber can be fed to the printhead chip.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A printhead assembly for a pagewidth ink jet printer, the printhead assembly comprising: an ink storage assembly having a closure member and a cover member engaged with the closure member to define a number of ink storage chambers for storing differently colored ink; an elongate mounting member mounted on the ink storage assembly to be in fluid communication with the ink storage chambers; and at least one printhead module mounted on the mounting member and having a carrier that defines a recess and a printhead integrated circuit received in the recess, the recess being in fluid communication with the mounting member so that ink from the ink storage chambers can be fed to the printhead integrated circuit; wherein the carrier of each printhead module includes a plurality of conductive ribs on an outer surface thereof such that each rib bears against an electrical contact of the printhead integrated circuit mounted in the carrier; and, the cover member has a plurality of conductive ribs positioned thereon to make electrical contact with the conductive ribs of the printhead modules. 2. A printhead assembly as claimed in claim 1, which includes a number of printhead modules mounted on the elongate mounting member so that adjacent edge portions of consecutive printhead integrated circuits overlap across a printing zone. 3. A printhead assembly as claimed in claim 1, in which the ink storage assembly includes a number of internal plate formations that engage the closure member to define the ink storage chambers between the plate formations. 4. A printhead assembly as claimed in claim 3, in which the cover member and the plate formations are configured so that ink paths are defined between respective ink chambers and the printhead modules. 5. A printhead assembly as claimed in claim 1, in which a conductive strip is interposed between each printhead module and the cover to facilitate electrical connection between the ribs of the printhead modules and those of the cover. 