This invention relates generally to a flexible fastener for coupling members. In a preferred embodiment, the flexible fastener may be used to couple members that are non-parallel, non-aligned, or in specific instances when selective compliance in a member is desired. The present invention is directed generally to a fastener that comprises a spiral set of teeth. The spiral set of teeth are configured to allow a nut to travel along at least a portion of the spiral set of teeth. A selectively compliant core material runs completely internally to the spiral set of teeth, so that the fastener is laterally flexible along a length of the fastener. The selectively compliant core material is connected to the spiral set of teeth.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A fastener, comprising: a spiral set of teeth, the spiral set of teeth being configured to allow a nut to travel along at least a portion of the spiral set of teeth, adjacent ones of the spiral set of teeth being in contact with each other and carrying the load of the nut to an end of the fastener; a selectively compliant core material running completely internally to the spiral set of teeth, so that the fastener is laterally flexible along a length of the fastener; and coupling means for connecting the selectively compliant core material to the spiral set of teeth. 2. The fastener of claim 1, wherein the coupling means is welding. 3. The fastener of claim 1, wherein the coupling means is pinching. 4. The fastener of claim 1, wherein the selectively compliant core material comprises intermost wires grouped and bound with wires spirally wound in both directions. 5. The fastener of claim 1, wherein the spiral set of teeth interlock into one another. 6. The fastener of claim 1, further comprising a rotational element coupled to one of the ends of the spiral set of teeth for imparting rotational movement thereto. 7. The fastener of claim 6, wherein the rotational element is a bolt head. 8. The fastener of claim 6, wherein the rotational element is a screw head. 9. A fastener, comprising: a spiral set of threads, the spiral set of threads being configured to allow a nut to travel along at least a portion of the threads, adjacent ones of the spiral set of threads being in contact with each other and carrying the load of the nut to an end of the fastener; and selectively compliant core material running completely internally to the spiral set of threads, wherein the selectively compliant core material is coupled to the spiral set of threads so that the fastener is laterally flexible along a length of the fastener. 10. The fastener of claim 9, wherein the selectively compliant core material is coupled to the threads using welding. 11. The fastener of claim 9, wherein the selectively compliant core material is coupled to the threads using pinching. 12. The fastener of claim 9, wherein the selectively compliant core material comprises intermost wires grouped and bound with wires spirally wound in both directions. 13. The fastener of claim 9, wherein the spiral set of threads interlock into one another. 14. The fastener of claim 9, further comprising a rotational element coupled to one of the distal ends of the set of threads. 15. The fastener of claim 14 wherein the rotational element is a bolt head. 16. The fastener of claim 14 wherein the rotational element is a screw head. 