Implantable medical devices (IMDs) and their various components, including flat electrolytic capacitors for same, and methods of making and using same and providing for outgassing of gases released during capacitor charge and discharge cycles are disclosed. A gas vent and liquid electrolyte barrier into the electrolyte fill tube lumen that is used to fill the interior case chamber with electrolyte and then needs to be closed to prevent leakage of electrolyte. The fill port is shaped to comprise a fill port tube having interior and exterior tube ends and a fill port ferrule intermediate the ends of the fill port tube and comprising a fill port ferrule flange extending transversely to and away from the fill port tube. The fill port ferrule is mounted in an opening disposed in one of the case wall and the cover wall with the ferrule flange in sealing engagement therewith to locate the exterior tube end extending outwardly away from the fill port ferrule flange and the interior tube end within the interior case chamber. A microporous plug is injected into and fills the fill port lumen, the plug formed of a microporous material allowing the escape of gas released from the liquid electrolyte during capacitor charging while preventing escape of liquid or vaporized electrolyte.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus comprising: an implantable medical device; said implantable medical device having a capacitor; said capacitor including an electrolyte; said capacitor also including a housing having a filler aperture; and said housing further comprising a filler aperture cap having a plurality of small pores. 2. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein each of said pores has a diameter sufficient to permit passage of gaseous hydrogen molecules. 3. An apparatus according to claim 2 wherein each of said pores has a diameter sufficiently small to prevent passage of said electrolyte. 4. An apparatus according to claim 3 wherein said filler aperture cap further comprises a micro porous polymer. 5. An apparatus according to claim 3 wherein said filler aperture cap further comprises an osmotic membrane. 6. A method of making a capacitor comprising: providing a housing; placing a first electrode into said housing; applying an electrolyte to said first electrode; applying a second electrode to said electrolyte; establishing a filler aperture in said housing; and removably covering said filler aperture with a filler aperture cap having a plurality of small pores. 7. A method according to claim 6 further comprising: creating each of said pores small enough to prevent leakage of said electrolyte. 8. A method according to claim 7 further comprising: creating each of said pores large enough to permit passage of hydrogen gas. 9. A method according to claim 8 wherein said filler aperture cap further comprises an osmotic membrane. 10. A method according to claim 8 wherein said filler aperture cap further comprises a micro porous polymer. 11. An apparatus comprising: an implantable medical device; said implantable medical device having a capacitor; said capacitor including an electrolyte; said capacitor also including a housing having a filler aperture; and said housing further comprising a removable filler aperture cap comprising a micro porous polymer having a plurality of small pores each having a diameter to permit passage of gaseous hydrogen molecules and to prevent passage of said electrolyte. 