An apparatus for forming armed sutures has a swaging station for receiving, holding and swaging needles that are deposited therein. A linear motor drives a suture insertion gripper, which pulls suture from a supply reel and inserts a cut end thereof into a needle held in the swaging station. A ganged needle transfer assembly with a plurality of spaced needle gripper units carries needles along a line substantially at right angles to the suture line and transfers them to and from the swaging station and other needle processing stations. A precisor orients needles prior to placement in the swaging station and a pull test assembly tests armed sutures in both destructive and non-destructive modes. Both ends of the production line may be automated, e.g., by robots which load and offload needles prior to and after swaging, respectively. The apparatus is capable of forming double armed sutures by using a rotatable mount for the suture insertion gripper and a secondary, loop gripper. A suture transfer gripper extending up to the suture from a multi-tiered stack of slide tables. The suture transfer gripper cooperates with the suture insertion and loop grippers to hold the suture during cutting, insertion and transfer to the pull test apparatus and thereby protects the suture during processing.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus for forming armed sutures, comprising: (A) a swaging station for receiving, holding and swaging needles that are deposited therein; (B) a suture insertion apparatus for inserting suture into needles held in said swaging station; said suture insertion apparatus acting along a straight first line and moving an end of the suture to be inserted along that line from a starting position to an ending position where the end of the suture is inserted in a suture hole of a needle; (C) a needle transfer assembly for carrying needles to and from the swaging station, said needle transfer assembly acting along a straight second line substantially perpendicular to said first line, said first line and said second line intersecting at said swaging station, said needle transfer assembly having a plurality of extensible needle grippers disposed on a base thereof, said base moveable along said second line to assume a plurality of positions wherein the plurality of needle grippers may be selectively aligned with and extended towards a plurality of needle processing stations including said swaging station for transferring needles to said plurality of needle processing stations, said base moveable through said plurality of positions and reciprocating to sequentially transfer a plurality of needles to said plurality of needle processing stations. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said suture insertion apparatus includes a suture insertion gripper mounted on a suture tower slideably driven on a linear motor. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, further comprising a suture payoff assembly for dispensing suture from a bulk supply thereof and a cutter for cutting the suture at predetermined lengths suitable for forming armed sutures, said cutter disposed adjacent to the suture between the swaging station and the suture payoff assembly. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein said plurality of needle processing stations includes a precisor for establishing a precise position for a needle to be placed in the swaging station, said precisor disposed adjacent said swaging station, said needle transfer assembly having at least one needle gripper for transferring needles from said precisor to said swaging station. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, further including a suture transfer gripper moveable along the first line for grasping and moving the suture, said suture transfer gripper cooperating with said suture insertion gripper to hold the suture before and after cutting by said cutter, said suture transfer gripper moveable perpendicular to said first line. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein said suture insertion gripper and said suture transfer gripper can pass each other when moving to control suture position. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein said suture insertion gripper and said suture transfer gripper pass one another without colliding when one or the other is open. 8. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the position and movement of the needle transfer assembly is controlled by a servo motor/screw driven slide. 9. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein said needle grippers extend and retract towards and away from the swaging station and the precisor. 10. The apparatus of claim 3, further including an inspection station between said swaging station and said payout station, said inspection station checking the condition of suture to avoid defects therein before attachment of the suture to a needle. 11. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the cutter acts substantially at 90 degrees relative to the suture. 12. The apparatus of claim 2, further comprising a brake attached to the suture tower assembly to control the position thereof. 13. An apparatus for forming armed sutures, comprising: (A) a swaging station for receiving, holding and swaging needles that are deposited therein; (B) a suture insertion apparatus for inserting suture into needles held in said swaging station: said suture insertion apparatus acting alone a first line and moving an end of the suture to be inserted along that line from a starting position to an ending position where the end of the suture is inserted in a suture hole of a needle, said suture insertion apparatus including a suture insertion gripper mounted on a suture tower slideably driven on a linear motor, said insertion gripper being mounted on said suture tower via a rotatable turret, by which said suture insertion gripper may be oriented in a plurality of directions; (C) a needle transfer assembly for carrying needles to and from the swaging station, said needle transfer assembly acting along a second line substantially perpendicular to said first line, said first line and said second line intersecting at said swaging station; (D) a suture payoff assembly for dispensing suture from a bulk supply thereof; (E) a cutter for culling the suture at predetermined lengths suitable for forming armed sutures, said cutter disposed adjacent to the suture between the swaging station and the suture payoff assembly; (F) a precisor for establishing a precise position for a needle to be placed in the swaging station, said precisor disposed adjacent said swaging station, said needle transfer assembly having at least one needle gripper for transferring needles from said precisor to said swaging station; and (G) a suture transfer gripper moveable along the first line for grasping and moving the suture, said suture transfer gripper cooperating with said suture insertion gripper to hold the suture before and after cutting by said cutter. 14. The apparatus of claim 13, further comprising a loop gripper mounted on said rotatable turret distal to said suture insertion gripper in alignment therewith for simultaneously grasping suture disposed substantially along a line. 15. The apparatus of claim 14, further comprising a pull test station disposed adjacent said swaging station distal to said precisor, said pull test station, said swage station and said precisor being oriented beside one another along a line substantially parallel to said second line, said pull test station operable to pull the suture to test the attachment strength thereof to a needle. 16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein said suture transfer gripper is disposed below the suture and is slideably mounted on a first platform to provide movement of said suture transfer gripper parallel to the first line. 17. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein said first platform is slideably mounted on a second platform to provide movement of said first platform in a direction perpendicular to said first line. 18. The apparatus of claim 17, further comprising swage die portions insertable within said swaging station to form a swage opening therebetween for receiving needles to be swaged and further comprising funnel portions insertable within said swage station to form a funnel opening, said funnel portions positionable over said die portions with the funnel opening substantially concentric with the swage opening to funnel a suture through said swage opening and into a suture hole in a needle held in said swage opening, said funnel portions moveable independently of said swage die portions. 19. The apparatus of claim 18, further comprising means for positioning said funnel portions with the funnel opening concentric with the swage opening to promote the insertion of suture in a needle hole of a needle held in the swage opening, and means for opening said funnel portions prior to swaging with the swaging die portions. 20. The apparatus of claim 19, further including means for opening the swage dies after swaging to allow the removal of a swaged needle. 21. The apparatus of claim 17, further including an indeed robot to retrieve a needle from a first surface and deliver the needle to a needle gripper of the needle transfer assembly. 22. The apparatus of claim 21, further including an outfeed robot to retrieve a needle from a needle gripper of the needle transfer assembly and and deliver it second surface. 23. The apparatus of claim 22, further including a packaging machine for delivering and retrieving packages proximate to the outfeed robot, said outfeed robot capable of placing needles into the packages delivered by said packaging machine. 24. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein said in feed robot has gripper fingers with radiused gripper pads, said gripper pads permitting said gripper fingers to grasp needles with different radii of curvature. 25. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein said at least one needle gripper on said needle transfer assembly is extensible and retractable in a direction parallel to the first line. 26. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein said second platform is slideably mounted on a third platform, said cutter also mounted upon the third platform, said second platform and said cutter thereby being displaceable along the first line to adjust the length of armed suture produced. 27. The apparatus of claim 26, wherein a blade of said cutter is disposed at an angle relative to the suture, such that a taper is formed on the cut end of the suture when it is cut by the cutter. 28. The apparatus of claim 27, wherein said cutter has a suture control arm that supports the suture when the cutter is cutting the suture, said suture control arm having a suture support notch therein to control the motion of the suture during cutting. 29. The apparatus of claim 28, where a support surface of said suture support notch is disposed at 90 degrees relative to the direction of blade travel. 30. The apparatus of claim 29, wherein said suture control arm has an angled slot therein communicating with the suture support notch, said angled slot permitting said blade to pass through said suture control arm to cut a suture supported in the suture support notch. 31. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein said at least one needle gripper includes a plurality of needle grippers, each mounted on the needle transfer assembly in a ganged arrangement to permit the simultaneous transfer of a plurality of needles by the plurality of needle grippers to a plurality of said swage station, said precisor and said pull test station. 32. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein said suture insertion gripper can assume a suture insertion position, a first hold position with the suture insertion gripper facing forward behind the suture transfer gripper for cutting suture to make single armed suture and a second hold position with the suture facing back ahead of the suture transfer gripper for cutting suture to make double armed sutures. 33. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein said suture insertion gripper has "L" shaped gripper fingers the bottom leg of the "L" extending parallel to the first line. 34. An apparatus for forming armed sutures, comprising: (A) a swaging station for receiving, holding and swaging needles that are deposited therein; (B) a suture insertion apparatus for inserting suture into needles held in said swaging station; said suture insertion apparatus acting along a first line and moving an end of the suture to be inserted along that line from a starting position to an ending position where the end of the suture is inserted in a suture hole of a needle, said suture insertion apparatus including a suture insertion gripper mounted on a suture tower slideably driven on a linear motor: (C) a needle transfer assembly for carrying needles to and from the swaging station, said needle transfer assembly acting along a second line substantially; perpendicular to said first line, said first line and said second line intersecting at said swaging station; (D) a suture payoff assembly for dispensing suture from a bulk supply thereof; (E) a cutter for cutting the suture at predetermined lengths suitable for forming armed sutures, said cutter disposed adjacent to the suture between the swaging station and the suture payoff assembly; (F) a precisor for establishing a precise position for a needle to be placed in the swaging station, said precisor disposed adjacent said swaging station, said precisor having a bump block for bumping against a blunt end of a needle inserted therein to control the depth of insertion of the needle in preparation for inserting the needle to a selected depth in the swaging station, said needle transfer assembly having at least one needle gripper for transferring needles from said precisor to said swaging station. 35. The apparatus of claim 34, wherein the position of said bump block is controlled be a micrometer adjustment. 36. An apparatus for forming armed sutures, comprising: (A) a swaging station for receiving, holding and swaging needles that are deposited therein; (B) a suture insertion apparatus for inserting suture into needles held in said swaging station; said suture insertion apparatus acting along a first line and moving an end of the suture to be inserted along that line from a starting position to an ending position where the end of the suture is inserted in a suture hole of a needle, said suture insertion apparatus including a suture insertion gripper mounted on a suture tower slideably driven on a linear motor; (C) a needle transfer assembly for carrying needles to and from the swaging station, said needle transfer assembly acting along a second line substantially perpendicular to said first line, said first line and said second line intersecting at said swaging station; (D) a suture payoff assembly for dispensing suture from a bulk supply thereof; (E) a cutter for cutting the suture at predetermined lengths suitable for forming armed sutures, said cutter disposed adjacent to the suture between the swaging station and the suture payoff assembly; (F) a precisor for establishing a precise position for a needle to be placed in the swaging station, said precisor disposed adjacent said swaging station, said precisor having a rotatable gripper to rotate the needle to position the curvature of the needle in a selected position for swaging, said needle transfer assembly having at least one needle gripper for transferring needles from said precisor to said swaging station. 37. A method for forming armed sutures, comprising the steps of: (A) receiving, holding and swaging needles in a swaging station; (B) prior to said step of swaging, inserting suture into a needle held in the swaging station via a suture insertion apparatus acting along a straight first line and moving an end of the suture to be inserted along the first line from a starting position to an ending position where the end of the suture is inserted in a suture hole of a needle; and (C) simultaneously carrying a plurality of needles to and from the swaging station with a needle transfer assembly having a plurality of extensible needle grippers disposed on a base thereof, by moving the base to assume a plurality of positions wherein the plurality of needle grippers are selectively aligned with a plurality of needle processing stations including the swaging station and extending the needle grippers toward the plurality of needle processing stations, said base moving and reciprocating through the plurality of positions to sequentially transfer a plurality of needles to the plurality of needle processing stations, the needle transfer assembly acting along a straight second line substantially perpendicular to the first line, the first line and the second line intersecting at the swaging station. 