In one aspect, a supported walking system is disclosed, comprising a robotic walking figure and a wheeled support that at least partially supports the robotic walking figure. The supported walking system may be driven and controlled by a human operator. Computer algorithms automatically control the robot's walking functions so that it may step forwards, backwards, and sideways in synchronicity with the movements of the cart while driving and turning at varying speeds.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of controlling the movement of a legged figure coupled to a drive mechanism, the method comprising: receiving a command from an input device, the command representing a velocity to move the figure; translating the velocity into a step length; moving the entire figure at the velocity represented by the received command using the drive mechanism, wherein the act of moving the entire figure is implemented by a wheeled vehicle coupled to the figure; while the figure is moving, coordinating the leg movement by moving a first leg a distance corresponding to the step length; and moving a second leg once the first leg is planted on the ground. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the input device directly controls the velocity. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the act of moving the first leg comprises determining the force when contacting the ground. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the act of moving the first leg comprises moving the first leg along a partially predetermined trajectory. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the act of moving the first leg comprises moving the first leg along a partially predetermined trajectory. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the act of moving the first leg comprises moving the first leg to a predetermined height. 7. The method of claim 1 further comprising: translating the velocity into a step time; and completing the act of moving the first leg within the step time. 8. The method of claim 1 further comprising: stopping vertical motion of the first leg at the conclusion of a step when a preset ground force threshold is exceeded. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein the ground force is sensed indirectly by reading the current commanded to actuators in the first leg. 10. A method of controlling the movement of a legged figure, comprising: coupling the legged figure to a wheeled support, the wheeled support being propelled by a drive mechanism; receiving a command from an input device, the command representing a velocity to move the wheeled support; translating the velocity into a step length of the legged figure; moving the wheeled support at the velocity represented by the received command using the drive mechanism; and simultaneously moving the legged figure by moving a first leg a distance corresponding to the step length and moving a second leg once the first leg is planted on the ground, the movement of the legged figure being synchronized with the movement of the wheeled support. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein the moving the first leg comprises moving the first leg along a partially predetermined trajectory. 12. The method of claim 10 wherein the moving the first leg comprises moving the first leg to a predetermined height. 13. The method of claim 10 further comprising: stopping vertical motion of the first leg at the conclusion of a step when a preset ground force threshold is exceeded. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein the ground force is sensed indirectly by reading the current commanded to actuators in the first leg. 15. A method of controlling the movement of a legged figure, comprising: coupling the legged figure to a mobile support that is propelled by a drive mechanism; receiving a command from an input device representing a velocity to move the mobile support; translating the velocity into a step length of the legged figure; moving the mobile support at the velocity represented by the received command using the drive mechanism; and concurrent with the moving of the mobile support, moving the legged figure by moving a first leg a distance of about the step length and moving a second leg a distance of about the step length after the first leg is moved the distance. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the moving of the first leg comprises moving the first leg along an at least partially predetermined trajectory. 17. The method of claim 15, wherein the moving of the first leg comprises moving the first leg to a predetermined height. 18. A method of controlling the movement of a legged figure coupled to a drive mechanism, the method comprising: receiving a command from an input device, the command representing a velocity to move the figure; translating the velocity into a step length; translating the velocity into a step time; moving the legged figure at the velocity represented by the received command using the drive mechanism; and while the legged figure is moving, coordinating the legged figure moving by first moving a first leg a distance corresponding to the step length within a time equal to about the step time and second moving a second leg a distance corresponding to the step length within a time equal to about the step time. 