The present invention provides a system and method for the simultaneous detection of multiple analytes in a sample. The detection system includes a housing that holds a reagent carousel rotatably coupled thereto. Further included in the housing is an incubator carousel rotatably coupled thereto. The housing also includes magnetic material that is associated with the incubation carousel for assisting in separation beads from reagent and wash solution. A robot, associated with the housing is configured to manipulate at least either the reagent carousel or the incubator carousel and transfer materials therebetween. Reaction vessels hold samples and reaction vessels handlers move the reaction vessels. Sample analysis is determined by at least one laser based detector.
Claims What we claim is: 1. A multiple analyte detection system comprising: a chassis; a reagent storage assembly having a rotatable reagent carousel coupled to said chassis, wherein said reagent storage assembly comprises a reagent cooler, wherein said reagent carousel is rotatably coupled within said reagent cooler, and wherein said reagent carousel is configured to hold a reagent pack within said reagent carousel and said reagent cooler is configured to maintain the reagent pack at a predetermined temperature; a rotatable incubator carousel assembly coupled to said chassis and configured to receive a plurality of reaction vessels; at least one automated reaction vessel handler coupled to said chassis and configured to deliver a reaction vessel to said incubator carousel assembly; and a detector module attached to said chassis, wherein said detector module comprises a flow cytometer. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein said flow cytometer is a dual-beam flow cytometer. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein said reagent carousel is configured to hold a plurality of reagent packs. 4. The system of claim 3, further comprising at least one reagent pack, wherein each reagent pack includes at least one reagent bottle. 5. The system of claim 4, wherein at least one of said reagent packs includes beads configured to bind to at least one analyte to be detected by said detector module. 6. The system of claim 5, wherein said beads include a plurality of populations of magnetic beads, wherein each population of magnetic beads binds a particular analyte. 7. The system of claim 6, wherein the detector module comprises a first laser and a second laser, wherein the first laser is configured to classify the bead populations and the second laser is configured to measure fluorescence of an analyte-bead complex. 8. The system of claim 3, further comprising an automated reagent transfer assembly configured to transfer reagents within the plurality of reagent packs to said incubator carousel assembly without interrupting operation of the system. 9. The system of claim 8, wherein the automated reagent transfer assembly comprises a reagent robot and a reagent probe configured to aspirate reagent from a bottle within the reagent pack and deposit the reagent into a reaction vessel on said incubator carousel assembly. 10. The system of claim 3, wherein said reagent storage assembly further comprises: a rotational drive coupled to said reagent carousel and configured to rotate said reagent carousel; and an agitation drive coupled to said reagent carousel, said agitation drive including a plurality of mixer heads, each mixer head configured to engage a container within a reagent pack when any of the plurality of reagent packs are present in said carousel. 11. The system of claim 3, wherein said reagent storage assembly further comprises a reagent pack piercer comprising piercing pins configured to open a seal on a reagent container within one of the plurality of reagent packs. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein said reagent cooler comprises a cooler lid and said pack piercer is coupled to said cooler lid, said reagent pack piercer comprising a pack piercer drive assembly configured to drive said piercing pins through the seal when the reagent pack is present in the reagent carousel. 13. The system of claim 12, wherein the pack piercer drive assembly is configured to open said cooler lid. 14. The system of claim 3, wherein said reagent packs include a hingeable lid and said storage assembly further comprises a reagent pack lid opener having actuator pins configured to engage a reagent pack and open the hingeable lid when the reagent pack is present in said reagent carousel. 15. The system of claim 1, wherein said incubator carousel assembly comprises an inner incubator carousel and an outer separation carousel, wherein said separation carousel is rotatable around said inner incubator carousel. 16. The system of claim 1, further comprising an automated sample handler coupled to said chassis, wherein said sample handler is configured to transfer a sample from a sample container to a reaction vessel in said incubation carousel assembly. 17. The system of claim 16, further comprising an automated rack handling assembly coupled to said chassis, said rack handling assembly configured to manipulate a plurality of racks, each rack holding a plurality of sample containers. 18. The system of claim 1, further comprising an automated detector transfer assembly configured to transfer a sample from a reaction vessel within said incubator carousel assembly to said detector module for analysis by said detector module. 19. The system of claim 18, wherein said detector transfer assembly comprises: a detector transfer robot mounted to said chassis; a reaction vessel holder configured to receive a reaction vessel containing a sample to be analyzed; and a probe coupled to a head of said detector transfer robot, said probe having a lumen configured to aspirate and dispense a volume of the sample. 20. The system of claim 1, wherein said reagent storage assembly, said incubator carousel assembly, said reaction vessel handler, and said detector module are in electrical communication with a host computer coupled to said chassis. 21. A multiple analyte detection system comprising: a chassis a reagent storage assembly having a rotatable reagent carousel coupled to said chassis; a rotatable incubator carousel assembly coupled to said chassis and configured to receive a plurality of reaction vessels; at least one automated reaction vessel handler coupled to said chassis and configured to deliver a reaction vessel to said incubator carousel assembly; and a detector module attached to said chassis, wherein said detector module comprises a flow cytometer, wherein said incubator carousel assembly comprises an inner incubator carousel and an outer separation carousel, wherein said separation carousel is rotatable around said inner incubator carousel, and wherein said separation carousel includes at least one magnet for attracting magnetic material within a reaction vessel placed in said separation carousel. 22. The system of claim 21, wherein said reaction vessel handler is configured to move reaction vessels between said inner incubator carousel and said separation carousel. 23. The system of claim 21, wherein said inner incubator carousel further comprises a plurality of concentric reaction vessel holders and wherein said plurality of reaction vessel holders are rotatable with respect to each other. 24. The system of claim 21, wherein said reagent carousel is configured to contain reagent packs and wherein said reagent packs are accessible by said at least one automated reaction vessel handler without interrupting operation of the system. 25. A multiple analyte detection system, comprising: a chassis; a reagent storage assembly having a rotatable reagent carousel coupled to said chassis; a rotatable incubator carousel assembly coupled to said chassis and configured to receive a plurality of reaction vessels; at least one automated reaction vessel handler coupled to said chassis and configured to deliver a reaction vessel to said incubator carousel assembly; and a detector module attached to said chassis, wherein said detector module comprises a flow cytometer; wherein said reagent carousel is configured to hold a plurality of reagent kits, and said reagent storage assembly further comprises: a rotational drive configured to rotate said reagent carousel; mixers configured to interact with reagent containers in reagent kits, wherein said mixers mix contents of said reagent containers; and an insulated cooler having an inner chamber and a cooling system for maintaining a particular temperature range within said chamber. 26. The system of claim 25, wherein said reagent carousel is removably held within the chamber of said insulated cooler. 27. The system of claim 25, wherein said reagent carousel is removably held within the chamber by a lead screw mechanism coupled to said rotational drive. 28. The system of claim 25, wherein said mixers are coupled to gears that engage an agitation drive, wherein the agitation drive manipulates gears to mix the contents of said reagent containers. 29. The system of claim 28, wherein said reagent storage assembly further comprises a reagent pack piercer having a piercer drive coupled to at least one pin adapted to pierce a seal on the reagent containers when the reagent kits are held in said reagent carousel. 30. The system of claim 29, wherein said reagent storage assembly further comprises a reagent pack lid opener having actuator pins adapted to open a hingeable lid on a reagent kit when the reagent kit is present in said reagent carousel. 31. A multiple analyte detection system, comprising: a chassis; a reagent storage assembly having a rotatable reagent carousel coupled to said chassis; a rotatable incubator carousel assembly coupled to said chassis and configured to receive a plurality of reaction vessels; at least one automated reaction vessel handler coupled to said chassis and configured to deliver a reaction vessel to said incubator carousel assembly; and a detector module attached to said chassis, wherein said detector module comprises a flow cytometer; wherein said incubator carousel assembly comprises: an inner carousel having a plurality of receptacles, each for receiving a reaction container; an annular outer carousel, said outer carousel rotatable with respect to said inner carousel; and magnetic material adjacent a perimeter of outer carousel, wherein said inner and outer carousels are temperature controlled. 32. The system of claim 31, wherein said incubator carousel assembly further comprises an inner carousel drive coupled to said inner carousel and an outer carousel drive coupled to said outer carousel, said inner and outer carousel drives electronically connected to an automated control system to control movement of said inner and outer carousel. 33. The system of claim 31, wherein said inner carousel comprises a plurality of concentric rings of the receptacles. 34. The system of claim 33, wherein said magnetic material comprises a plurality of pairs of magnets, wherein each pair of magnets is adjacent to and associated with a receptacle dimensioned to receive a reaction vessel. 35. A multiple analyte detection system comprising: a chassis; a reagent storage assembly having a rotatable reagent carousel coupled to said chassis; a rotatable incubator carousel assembly coupled to said chassis and configured to receive a plurality of reaction vessels; at least one automated reaction vessel handler coupled to said chassis and configured to deliver a reaction vessel to said incubator carousel assembly; a detector module attached to said chassis, wherein said detector module comprises a flow cytometer; and a reagent pack comprising at least one reagent bottle; a housing for holding said reagent bottle, said housing configured to be received by the reagent carousel; and a tab coupled to said reagent bottle, wherein said tab is configured to interact with a mixer of the reagent carousel. 36. The system of claim 35, wherein said reagent pack further comprises a plurality of reagent bottles. 37. The system of claim 36, wherein said reagent pack further comprises: a foil seal covering an opening on each of the plurality of reagent bottles; and a lid moveably attached to said housing, wherein opening said lid provides access to said foil seals. 38. The system of claim 35, wherein said at least one reagent bottle includes beads adapted to bind with one or more particular analytes. 39. The system of claim 38, wherein the beads are magnetic. 40. The system of claim 38, wherein said reagent pack further comprises a second reagent bottle including a conjugate for binding said one or more particular analytes, wherein binding between a particular microsphere, analyte and conjugate creates a complex having a detectable signature. 41. The system of claim 39, wherein the detectable signature is a fluorescent signature. 