An injection moulding process for making a moulded article particularly a toothbrush consisting partly of a hard first plastics material by providing a first injection mould introducing a component into the cavity adjacent to the surface; injecting a plastics material into the cavity so that the plastic material is fixed to the component and the component forms part of the outer surface of the article. In a second moulding operation another material such as an elastomer may be injected. A toothbrush product made by this process is also described.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A process for making a moulded article consisting partly of a hard first plastics material, comprising: providing a first injection mould having a cavity which defines at least part of the shape of the article to be formed and having a cavity surface bounding the cavity; introducing a component which comprises a thin shell, made of thin sheet-form metal, plastic or a metal-plastic laminate or composite, a surface of which forms at least part of the outer surface of the article into the cavity adjacent to the cavity surface; injecting a first fluid plastics material into the first mould cavity, under conditions such that the plastics material flows into contact with the component and when the plastics material solidifies the hardened plastic material is fixed to the component and the component forms at least part of the outer surface of the article; then further processing the article in a second moulding operation by providing a second injection mould part having a second mould cavity therein; introducing the article into the second mould cavity of the second injection mould part; injecting a melted fluid second material into the second mould cavity and into contact with the article; and allowing the melted fluid second material to solidify sufficiently and such that when the second material solidifies the hardened second material is fixed to the article. 2. A process according to claim 1 wherein the moulded article formed in the process is a part toothbrush comprising a grip handle part and a head part. 3. A process according to claim 1 wherein the component is held in place in the cavity in contact with the cavity surface by the application of reduced atmospheric pressure to the component via a conduit in the mould and opening into the first mould cavity, sucking the component against the cavity surface. 4. A process according to claim 1 wherein the second material is a rubbery material. 5. A process according to claim 1 wherein one or more hollow is provided in the article formed in the first moulding operation, suitable to receive, and be wholly or partially filled with, the second material in the second moulding step. 6. A process according to claim 1 wherein the article formed in the first injection moulding stage is formed with one or more aperture in its structure so that the second material may flow through the aperture and flow to parts of the article distanced from the injection gate of the second material. 7. A process according to claim 6 wherein the component has one or more hole therein, in communication with an aperture when the article is in the second mould, so that the second material can flow via the aperture and into and optionally through the hole to thereby form a part of the second material exposed on the outer surface of the component. 8. A process according to claim 7 wherein in the second mould there is a cavity adjacent a hole so that the exposed second material forms a convex bulge on the surface of the component. 