A pill dispensing system includes a shelving unit in array form that holds a number of bulk containers, each holding a bulk amount of a pill to be dispensed. A computer controlled robot removes a selected bulk container and places it on a counter that also dispenses pills. The robot has an arm with a free end portion that can grip a bulk container or a single pill bottle to be filled. The robot is computer controlled to retrieve an empty pill bottle, place it on a label printing and applying unit, then place it next to the counter/dispenser to receive the selected number of selected prescription pills, then place the filled, labeled bottle on a conveyor. In an alternate embodiment, pill bottles are dispensed from a dispenser that holds bottles on inclined plates and feeds them to a vertical dispensing channel. Gates prevent the flow of bottles from an inclined position until the plate above has been emptied.
Claims That which is claimed: 1. An apparatus for filling prescriptions, comprising: a plurality of containers storing respective types of pills; a vial storage device for storing a plurality of vials; a counting and dispensing unit; and a computer controlled robot configured to automatically retrieve respective containers and move the respective containers to said counting and dispensing unit, said computer controlled robot also configured to move vials from said vial storage device to said counting and dispensing unit and from said counting and dispensing unit to a discharge location. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a label printing and applying unit, and wherein said computer controlled robot automatically moves vials from said vial storage device, to said label printing and applying unit, and then to said counting and dispensing unit. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said vial storage device comprises a dispenser. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said robot includes an articulated, computer controlled arm. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein a free end of said robot includes first and second gripping surface portions that are movable relative to one another and that are configured to grip a selected container or a selected vial, respectively. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising replenishment in and replenishment out ports, and wherein said computer controlled robot is configured to automatically move said containers from and to the replenishment in and replenishment out ports, respectively. 7. An apparatus for filling prescriptions, comprising: a plurality of containers storing respective types of pills; a vial storage device for storing a plurality of vials; a label applying unit; a counting and dispensing unit; and a computer controlled robot configured to automatically retrieve respective containers and move the respective containers to said counting and dispensing unit, said computer controlled robot also configured to move vials from said vial storage device to said label applying unit and then to said counting and dispensing unit. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein said vial storage device comprises a dispenser. 9. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein said robot includes an articulated, computer controlled arm. 10. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein a free end of said robot includes first and second gripping surface portions that are movable relative to one another and that are configured to grip a selected container or a selected vial, respectively. 11. An apparatus for filling prescriptions, comprising: a plurality of containers storing respective types of pills; a vial storage device for storing a plurality of vials; a counting and dispensing unit; a computer controlled robot configured to automatically retrieve respective containers and move the respective containers to said counting and dispensing unit, said computer controlled robot also configured to move vials from said vial storage device to said counting and dispensing unit and from said counting and dispensing unit to a discharge location; and an off load device proximate the discharge location, wherein said off-load device comprises one of a conveyor and a carousel. 12. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein said off-load device comprises a conveyor having more than one lane. 13. An apparatus for filling prescriptions, comprising: a plurality of containers storing respective types of pills; a vial storage device for storing a plurality of vials; a counting and dispensing unit; a computer controlled robot configured to automatically retrieve respective containers and move the respective containers to said counting and dispensing unit, said computer controlled robot also configured to move vials from said vial storage device to said counting and dispensing unit and from said counting and dispensing unit to a discharge location; and an off-load device proximate the discharge location, wherein said off load device comprises one of a conveyor and a carousel; further comprising replenishment in and replenishment out ports, and wherein said computer controlled robot is configured to automatically move said containers from and to the replenishment in and replenishment out ports, respectively. 14. An apparatus for filling prescriptions, comprising: a plurality of containers storing respective types of pills; a vial storage device for storing a plurality of vials; a label applying unit; a counting and dispensing unit; a computer controlled robot configured to automatically retrieve respective containers and move the respective containers to said counting and dispensing unit, said computer controlled robot also configured to move vials from said vial storage device to said label applying unit and then to said counting and dispensing unit; and an off-load device, wherein said robot is further configured to move vials from said counting and dispensing unit to said off load device, and wherein said off-load device comprises one of a conveyor and a carousel. 15. The apparatus of claim 14 further comprising replenishment in and replenishment out ports, and wherein said computer controlled robot is configured to automatically move said containers from and to the replenishment in and replenishment out ports, respectively. 