A system and method for heat treating castings and removing sand cores therefrom. The castings are initially located in indexed positions with their x, y, and z coordinates known. The castings are passed through a heat treatment station typically having a series of nozzles mounted in preset positions corresponding to the known indexed positions of the castings passing through the heat treatment station. The nozzles apply fluid to the castings for heat treating the castings and degrading the sand cores for removal from the castings.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of processing a metal casting, comprising: pouring a metal in molten form into a mold containing a core formed from a binder soluble in a fluid selected from water, steam, organic solvents, thermal oils and combinations thereof; retaining the metal within the mold for a time and to a temperature sufficient to at least partially solidify the metal to form the casting; placing the mold in a heat treatment station for heat treating the casting within the mold with the casting aligned in a defined, indexed position; and applying a flow of the fluid in which the binder is soluble at the casting to degrade a portion of the core. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein applying the fluid further comprises directing the fluid at the casting at a high pressure. 3. The method of claim 1 and wherein placing the mold in a heat treatment station further comprises: placing the casting in an indexed position with a plurality of core openings of the casting aligned in known, predefined alignment, aligning the core openings of the casting with a plurality of nozzles; and directing the fluid from the plurality of nozzles at and into the core openings. 4. The method of claim 3 and wherein placing the casting in an indexed position comprises positioning the casting at a first position with x, y and z axes of the casting oriented in a known first orientation, and wherein the core openings are in alignment with the plurality of nozzles. 5. The method of claim 4 and further comprising: placing the casting at a second position with the casting oriented in a known, second orientation, different from the first orientation so that at least a portion of the core openings are in alignment with a second plurality of nozzles; and directing a fluid flow from the second plurality of nozzles at the core openings. 