A system incorporating a robot to inspect ferrous surfaces. Preferably, the robot is an articulated device having a tractor module for motive power and steering, a power module for electrical power and communications and additional motive power, and a third module for cleaning and inspection. The robot uses sensors and generates and transmits signals to a computer through a tether and receives direction from an operator via the computer and tether. The computer continuously monitors the location of the robot and supports the robot during deployment. In a specific application, the robot travels the interior of a tank on a set of magnetized wheels. Prior to inspection, the tank surface is cleaned of deposits by rotary cutters and rotary brushes on the third module. The robot obtains thickness measurements via onboard ultrasonic transducers that contact the cleaned surface. A method for implementing inspection of ferrous surfaces is also described.
Claims We claim: 1. A system facilitating access to ferrous surfaces of a structure, said system comprising: motors: at least one conveyance having a long axis about which sections of said conveyance articulates, said conveyance having at least three said sections operably connected as at least a front section to a middle section and as said middle section to a rear section in line along the long axis of said conveyance, wherein said conveyance is deployed upon said ferrous surfaces without either modifying said structure or expanding access to said structure, and wherein said front section turns in only a first plane with respect to said middle section and said rear section turns in only a second plane with respect to said middle section, and wherein said front section incorporates a first part of a first connection assembly for connection to said middle section, at least one first magnetic wheeled axle assembly comprising polar member wheels and first sets of annular permanent magnets and at least one first pivotable lever arm, each said first set of annular permanent magnets comprising at least two annular permanent magnets, and wherein said front section steers said conveyance and transfers to the surface of operation at least part of the power to propel said conveyance, and wherein said middle section incorporates at least one second magnetic wheeled axle assembly comprising polar member wheels and second sets of annular permanent magnets, each said second set of annular permanent magnets comprising at least two annular permanent magnets, a second part of said first connection assembly for connection to said front section, a first part of a second connection assembly for connection to said rear section, at least one of said motors incorporating interoperable connections to at least one device in each of said front, middle and rear sections and at least one first push rod, and wherein said rear section incorporates a second part of said second connection assembly for connection to said middle section, and at least one abrading device, and wherein said rear section turns to permit changing the plane of operation of said conveyance only if each of said front, middle and rear sections are at least approximately aligned along the centerline of said long axis of said conveyance, and wherein said conveyance can move to a surface of operation in a plane different from the plane of the surface of current operation only in a forward direction such that said front section is moved to a new surface of operation prior to said middle and rear sections; at least one tether in operable communication with said conveyance, wherein said tether incorporates at least means for distributing power, means for distributing control signals and means for distributing fluids to said conveyance; at least one control system in operable communication with at least said means for distributing control signals, at least part of which said control system is remote from said conveyance and in operable communication with said conveyance via said means for distributing control signals, wherein said control system is in operable communication with at least one power source external to said conveyance, and wherein said power source energizes said motors; and sensors, wherein said sensors facilitate at least navigation and inspection functions. 2. The system of claim 1 in which said first plane is parallel to the surface upon which said front section is moving and said second plane is perpendicular to the surface upon which said front section is moving, wherein said rear section turns only in one direction and only for purposes of permitting said conveyance to change planes of operation. 3. The system of claim 2 in which said conveyance responds to input from at least one first contact switch in operable communication with a first pair of said sensors, wherein said first pair of sensors are mounted on first telescoping mounts that are parallel to the front of said front section, said first telescoping mounts compressing uniformly upon contact with a surface that is approximately perpendicular to the surface of operation of said conveyance. 4. The system of claim 3 in which a second pair of said sensors is mounted on a second telescoping mount that is parallel to the back of said rear section, said second telescoping mount compressing uniformly upon contact with a surface that is approximately perpendicular to the surface of operation of said conveyance, said compression activating at least one second contact switch, wherein activating said second contact switch alerts said conveyance to the need to alter course. 5. The system of claim 1 in which at least one of said motors is a DC reversible servomotor and in which at least one said DC reversible servomotor incorporates at least one odometric encoder. 6. The system of claim 1 in which said abrading device is selected from the group consisting of rotatable brushes, rotatable cutting wheels, scrapers, and combinations thereof, wherein said rotatable brushes and said rotatable cutting wheels are powered by at least one of said motors. 7. The system of claim 6 in which said scrapers are employed as pairs of said scrapers, mounted adjacent the outer circumference of each of said polar member wheels, wherein said pairs of scrapers serve to remove debris that accumulates on said polar member wheels, and wherein a first scraper of said scrapers in each said pair of said scrapers is mounted to remove debris when said conveyance is moving in a first direction and a second scraper of said scrapers in each said pair of said scrapers is mounted to remove debris when said conveyance is moving in a direction opposite to said first direction. 8. The system of claim 1 in which said abrading device comprises at least one first rotatable cylindrical brush coaxially mounted on said rear section to be approximately parallel to, and approximately the same width as, said second wheeled axle assembly. 9. The system of claim 8 in which said abrading device further comprises at least one first rotatable cylindrical cutting wheel coaxially mounted on said rear section to be approximately parallel to, and approximately the same width as, said second wheeled axle assembly, wherein said first cutting wheel rotates in the direction of movement of said conveyance and is protected by a unidirectional clutch. 10. The system of claim 9 in which said abrading device further comprises said at least one first cylindrical rotatable cuffing wheel cooperating with said at least one first rotatable cylindrical brush in a cooperating pair, wherein said cooperating pair is mounted across the width of said rear section, said width perpendicular to said long axis, so as to be parallel to the plane of operation of said conveyance, and wherein said cooperating pair is approximately the same width as said second wheeled axle assembly. 11. The system of claim 10 in which said abrading device comprises a first and second said cooperating pair, wherein said first rotatable cylindrical brush and said first cylindrical rotatable cutting wheel of said first cooperating pair are rotated upon said conveyance moving in a first direction, said first rotatable cylindrical brush rotating counter to the rotation direction of said first cylindrical rotatable cutting wheel, and wherein a second rotatable cylindrical brush and a second cylindrical rotatable cutting wheel of said second cooperating pair are rotated upon said conveyance moving in a second direction opposite to said first direction, said second rotatable cylindrical brush rotating in a direction counter to the rotation direction of said second cylindrical rotatable cutting wheel. 12. The system of claim 1 in which each said first and second magnetic wheeled axle assemblies comprises at least three said polar member wheels of a first diameter coaxially mounted parallel one to the other and in which each said first and second sets of annular permanent magnets comprises at least two said annular permanent magnets of a second diameter smaller than said first diameter, wherein each said annular permanent magnet of each said first and second sets set of annular permanent magnets is mounted coaxially so as to separate each of said polar member wheels from another of said polar member wheels, and wherein any two said annular permanent magnets, as affixed on either side of a polar member wheel, are oriented with opposing polarities. 13. The system of claim 12 in which at least one of said polar member wheels of a first diameter incorporates grooves across the width of the outer circumference of said at least one polar member wheel of a first diameter, wherein said grooves enhance fraction. 14. The system of claim 1 in which said conveyance is portable and configurable to insert into a riser of an underground tank. 15. The system of claim 14 in which said conveyance weighs less than about 18 Kg (40 lbs) and is configurable to have a diameter perpendicular to said long axis thereof of less than about 10 cm (4.0 inches) to permit insertion of said conveyance into said riser. 16. The system of claim 1 in which: said front section further comprises: three said polar member wheels and two said annular permanent magnets; at least a first steering mechanism for orienting said front section in a single plane; wherein orienting said front section in said single plane also orients said conveyance, and wherein said pivotally mounted first lever arm operates on said front section to lift said front section from a first surface upon which said first wheeled axle assembly is resting and lower said first wheeled axle assembly to rest upon a surface different from said first surface; and first communicating assemblies to facilitate operation of said first wheeled axle assembly, said first lever arm and said steering mechanism; said middle section further comprises: three said polar member wheels and two said annular permanent magnets in said second sets of annular permanent magnets; at least one of said motors; at least a first part of a maneuvering assembly; second communicating assemblies in operable communication at least with some said first communicating assemblies; third communicating assemblies in operable communication with at least said second wheeled axle assembly; and fourth communicating assemblies in operable communication with at least some parts of said middle and rear sections; and said rear section further comprises: at least a second part of said maneuvering assembly, wherein said maneuvering assembly permits said rear section to turn to follow said middle section onto a surface in a plane of operation different from a plane of operation in which said rear section is operating currently; at least one biasing mechanism, wherein said biasing mechanism permits said rear section to maintain firm contact with said surface of operation regardless of the orientation of said conveyance; and fifth communicating assemblies in operable communication with at least some of said fourth communicating assemblies to facilitate at least the operation of said abrading device. 17. The system of claim 1 in which said tether comprises a flexible hollow conduit environmentally sealed at least at the juncture with said conveyance and suitable for containing items selected from the group consisting of: cables, tubes, tubular nylon core, tubular nylon filler, coaxial cable, extruded jackets, braided jackets, insulated copper wire, wire, hose, pressurized hose, and combinations thereof. 18. The system of claim 1 in which said sensors are selected from the group consisting essentially of: acoustic sensors, ultrasonic transducers, electrical sensors, piezoresistive sensors, attitude sensors, contact sensors, thickness sensors, inclinometers, mutually orthogonal inclinometers, and combinations thereof, wherein at least one of said sensors is encapsulated in a block of dense, tough and resilient material suitable for continuously contacting said surface of operation while said conveyance is moving. 19. The system of claim 1 in which said control system further comprises: at least one personal computer, wherein said computer is interfaced to said conveyance via at least one means of communication carried in said tether, and wherein said computer facilitates control of said conveyance, positioning of said conveyance, mapping of said surfaces, assessment of said surfaces, and defect identification and location upon said surfaces; a supply of pressurized inert gas, wherein said supply is interfaced to said conveyance via at least one means for supplying material carried in said tether, and wherein said power source external to said conveyance supplies at least electrical power to said conveyance via at least an interface to means for supplying power carried in said tether; at least one transceiver incorporated in at least one said sections of said conveyance, wherein said transceiver communicates between at least said conveyance and at least said computer; and at least one retrieval bar affixed to said rear section of said conveyance, wherein said retrieval bar facilitates recovery of said conveyance from confined locations. 20. The system of claim 1 in which at least a part of at least one said sections of said conveyance is sealed and pressurized with an inert gas. 