A robotic apparatus for the cleaning and maintenance of coal fired boilers, which is designed to operate in the high temperature environment of the combustion gasses to effectively clean and remove slag deposits of the boiler heat transfer surfaces by use of a precision directed, low pressure, low flow rate water stream. The robotic cleaning apparatus is comprised of lightweight carbon fiber structural elements, attached to the exterior of the boiler, and cooled by annular pressurized water sheaths impingent on a thin metal skin covering the lightweight structural elements. Multiple articulated joints allow for complete access to the heat transfer surfaces of the boiler. A variety of payloads can be delivered to specific points within the boiler, including imaging systems, cutting, and welding apparatuses. A mathematical state space control matrix allows for optimal positioning and feedback control of motions.
Claims I claim: 1. A robotic apparatus for the cleaning and maintenance of a boiler comprising: at least two rigid structural members joined by at least one remote controlled articulated jointed member a carriage member carrying the above two structural members and translatably mounted external to said boiler to allow insertion and retraction of said structural and joint members into said boiler, at least one cooling system providing an essentially circumferentially continuous annular water spray surrounding an interior structural member. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a water delivery member for application of a water stream in close proximity to a boiler slag deposit. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 whereby a welding device is attached to one of the structural members. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein a metal cutting device or grinding device is attached to one of the structural members. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein an electronic imaging device or devices is attached to one of the structural members. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein at least one member of the apparatus can be inserted into and retracted out-of an operational combustion boiler. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a water delivery member for application of a water stream within three inches of a boiler slag deposit. 8. A robotic apparatus for the cleaning and maintenance of a boiler comprising: at least two rigid structural members joined by at least one controlled articulated jointed member a carriage member carrying the above two structural members and translatably mounted external to said boiler to allow insertion and retraction of said structural and joint members into said boiler; wherein control signals applied to cuase motion thereof are generated from an optimal state-space control algorithm. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein an electronic device or devices is attached to one of the structural members. 10. A boiler cleaning apparatus, comprising: a first structural member; a second structural member rotatably connected to the first structural member by a first controlled motor-driven joint; a carriage supporting the first and second structural members translatably mounted to the boiler, a fluid supply running through an annulus of the first and second structural members. 11. The boiler cleaning apparatus of claim 10, wherein the controlled motor-driven joint is a remote-controlled hinge. 12. The boiler cleaning apparatus of claim 10, wherein the carriage is translatably mounted to a linear rail external of the boiler. 13. The boiler cleaning apparatus of claim 10, wherein at least one of the first and second structural members can be inserted into and retracted out of an operational coal fired boiler. 14. The boiler cleaning apparatus of claim 10, further comprising an electronic imaging device attached to one of the first and second structural members. 15. The boiler cleaning apparatus of claim 10, further comprising a remotely controlled end effector attached to a tip of one of the first and second structural members. 16. A boiler cleaning apparatus, comprising: a first structural member; a second structural member rotatably connected to the first structural member by a first controlled motor-driven joint; a carriage supporting the first and second structural members translatably mounted to the boiler; a third structural member rotatably connected to one of the first or second structural members by a second controlled motor-driven joint; a cooling system for the first and second motor-driven joints; wherein the first controlled motor-driven joint is rotational according to a first degree of freedom, and the second controlled motor-driven joint is rotational according to a second degree of freedom; wherein the first and second degrees of freedom are orthogonal with respect to one another. 17. A boiler cleaning apparatus, comprising: a first structural member; a second structural member rotatably connected to the first structural member by a first controlled motor-driven joint; a carriage supporting the first and second structural members translatably mounted to the boiler; a third structural member rotatably connected to one of the first or second structural members by a second controlled motor-driven joint; a cooling system for the first and second motor-driven joints; wherein the first and second controlled motor-driven joints are controlled by signals generated by an optimal state- space control algorithm. 18. A method of removing slag deposits, comprising: providing a robotic arm; inserting the robotic arm into a boiler; remotely positioning a tip of the robotic arm adjacent to a slag deposit according to three degrees of freedom; flowing low pressure, low flow rate water from the tip of the robotic arm to the slag deposit. 19. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the low pressure comprises less than 200 PSI, and the low flow rate comprises less than 20 gallons per minute. 20. The method of claim 18, wherein the flowing water comprises directly impinging the slag deposit with water from the tip. 21. The method of claim 18, wherein the positioning comprises moving the tip of the robotic arm within three inches of the slag deposit. 22. A method, comprising: removing a slagdeposit from a boiler while the boiler is in operation, the method further comprising: providing a robotic arm; inserting the robotic arm into a boiler; remotely positioning a tip of the robotic arm adjacent to a slag deposit according to three degrees of freedom; flowing low pressure, low flow rate water from the tip of the robotic arm to the slag deposit. 23. A method according to claim 22, wherein the flowing a fluid comprises flowing low pressure, low flow rate water. 