A bayonet collet pickup tool includes a collet chuck having a collet portion including a bore disposed therein. A collet is held in the bore and is operable therein. A bayonet cap is mounted to an outer surface of the collet chuck proximate the bore. The bayonet cap includes a tubular socket concentric with the bore, at least one pair of diametrically opposed linear slots adjacent the socket, and a circular ledge adjacent the socket and perpendicular to the slots. A part including a shaft and at least one pair of diametrically opposed pins projecting from the shaft is receivable in the bayonet cap and the bore. Rotating the collet chuck while the pins are level with the ledge and then closing the collet releasably retains the part in the tool.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A bayonet collet pickup tool comprising: a collet chuck having a collet portion including a bore disposed therein; a collet held in said bore and operable therein; and a bayonet cap mounted to an outer surface of said collet chuck proximate said bore; said bayonet cap including a tubular socket concentric with said bore, at least one pair of diametrically opposed linear slots adjacent said socket, and a circular ledge adjacent said socket and perpendicular to said slots; wherein a part including a shaft and at least one pair of diametrically opposed pins projecting from said shaft is receivable in said bayonet cap and said bore, and rotating said collet chuck while said pins are level with said ledge and then closing said collet releasably retains said part in said tool. 2. The bayonet collet pickup tool of claim 1, wherein said bayonet cap includes two pairs of diametrically opposed linear slots. 3. The bayonet collet pickup tool of claim 1, wherein said circular ledge includes at least one pair of diametrically opposed grooves traversing said ledge. 4. The bayonet collet pickup tool of claim 3, wherein said circular ledge includes two pairs of said diametrically opposed grooves. 5. The bayonet collet pickup tool of claim 3, wherein said at least one pair of diametrically opposed grooves is offset 45 degrees angularly from said at least one pair of diametrically opposed linear slots. 6. The bayonet collet pickup tool of claim 1, wherein said slots extend from one end of said socket through said ledge. 7. The bayonet collet pickup tool of claim 1, wherein said collet is air operated. 8. The bayonet collet pickup tool of claim 1, wherein said collet chuck has a mount portion opposite said collet portion for coupling said tool to a manipulator of an automated device. 9. A pickup tool for releasably retaining a part during a pickup operation by an automated device, the part including a shaft and at least one pair of diametrically opposed pins projecting from said shaft, the pickup tool comprising: a collet chuck including a body having a bore disposed therein, a collet received in said bore for receiving said shaft, an actuator operably connected to and in mechanical communication with said collet for opening and closing said collet, and a fluid source in fluid communication with said actuator, wherein movement of the actuator in response to a fluid pressure from the fluid source opens said collet and movement of the actuator in response to a release of said fluid pressure closes said collet; a bayonet cap mounted to an outer surface of said collet chuck body proximate to and aligned with said bore; said bayonet cap including a tubular socket concentric with said bore, at least one pair of diametrically opposed linear slots adjacent said socket, and a circular ledge adjacent said socket and perpendicular to said slots; wherein the shaft of said part is receivable in said socket and in said collet, the pins of said part are receivable in the slots of said bayonet cap, and rotating said collet chuck while the pins of said shaft are level with said ledge and then closing said collet releasably retains said part in said tool. 10. The pickup tool of claim 9, wherein said collet chuck includes a mount operably engaged with said body for coupling the tool to said automated device. 11. The pickup tool of claim 10, wherein said collet chuck includes a mount adapter intermediate said actuator and said mount, said mount adapter being connected to said mount by a resilient member configured to absorb at least a portion of a force applied to said collet chuck body. 12. The pickup tool of claim 9, wherein said actuator includes a piston mounted to said collet and two resilient members connected between said piston and said collet chuck body, said resilient members configured to bias the piston against said fluid pressure. 13. The pickup tool of claim 9, wherein said bayonet cap includes two pairs of diametrically opposed linear slots. 14. The pickup tool of claim 9, wherein wherein said circular ledge includes at least one pair of diametrically opposed grooves traversing said ledge. 15. The pickup tool of claim 14, wherein said at least one pair of diametrically opposed grooves is offset 45 degrees angularly from said at least one pair of diametrically opposed linear slots. 16. A method of releasably retaining a part from a surface during a pickup operation by an automated device, the part including a shaft and at least one pair of diametrically opposed pins projecting from said shaft, the method comprising the steps of: providing a bayonet collet pickup tool including: a collet chuck having a collet portion including a bore disposed therein; a collet held in said bore and operable therein; and a bayonet cap mounted to an outer surface of said collet chuck proximate said bore; said bayonet cap including a tubular socket concentric with said bore, at least one pair of diametrically opposed linear slots adjacent said socket, and a circular ledge adjacent said socket and perpendicular to said slots; said circular ledge having at least one pair of diametrically opposed grooves traversing said ledge; wherein the part is receivable in said bayonet cap and said bore; opening the collet of the collet chuck; inserting the shaft of the part through the bayonet cap and into the collet; when the pins of the part are level with the ledge of said bayonet cap, rotating the chuck relative to the shaft of the part until the pins are aligned with the grooves in the ledge; closing the collet of the collet chuck around the shaft of the part; exerting an upward pulling force on the part by moving the collet chuck upward away from the surface; and if the shaft slips in the collet as the part is pulled away from the surface, then detaining the part in the grooves so the part is releasably secured in the collet chuck. 