A modular exoskeletal device adapted to fit the lower extremities of a patient during rehabilitation. The device has only two actuators during the standing stage of rehabilitation. Two additional actuators can be added, as modules, during the walking stage of rehabilitation. The actuators are affixed to the patient and provide controlled motion to at least one of the joints of the patient. A stationary control unit is separated from the patient. The control unit communicates with and directs the actuators, and has a hybrid control algorithm, such that the actuator forces are adjusted as the patient regains control of some joint motions, which is based upon the sliding-mode control theory. A back brace is affixed to the patient and helps to keep the torso of the patient in a stable, substantially vertical position.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A modular exoskeletal device adapted to fit the lower extremities of a patient during rehabilitation, the device comprising: only two actuators during the standing stage of rehabilitation, the actuators affixed to and independently acting upon the patient and providing automatically controlled motion to at least one of the joints of the patient; a stationary control unit separated from the patient and in communication with and automatically directing the actuators without patient actuation, the control unit including a hybrid mathematical control algorithm based upon the sliding-mode control theory such that the actuator forces are automatically adjusted as the patient regains control of some joint motions; and a back brace affixed to the patient, extending vertically between the waist and shoulders of the patient, and helping to keep the torso of the patient in a stable, substantially vertical position, wherein the modularity of the device permits incorporation of one or more additional actuators as needed by the patient. 2. The modular exoskeletal device as recited in claim 1 further comprising two additional actuators during the walking stage of rehabilitation. 3. The modular exoskeletal device as recited in claim 1 wherein the control unit communicates with and directs the actuators wirelessly. 4. The modular exoskeletal device as recited in claim 1 further comprising wires by which the control unit communicates with and directs the actuators. 5. The modular exoskeletal device as recited In claim 1 further comprising connecting rods engaging the actuators and providing additional structure for the device. 6. The modular exoskeletal device as recited in claim 5 further comprising at least one strap by which a connecting rod is affixed to a leg of the patient. 7. The modular exoskeletal device as recited in claim 1 further comprising a strap by which the back brace is affixed to the waist of the patient. 8. The modular exoskeletal device as recited in claim 1 wherein the actuators are rotary actuators located at any of the possible four hip and knee joints providing independent motion of those joints. 9. A modular exoskeletal device adapted to fit the lower extremities of a patient during rehabilitation, the device comprising: only two actuators during the standing stage of rehabilitation, the actuators affixed to and independently acting upon the patient and providing automatically controlled motion to at least one of the joints of the patient; connecting rods engaging the actuators and providing additional structure for the device; a stationary control unit (a) being separated from the patient, (b) communicating with and automatically directing the actuators without patient actuation, and (c) having a hybrid mathematical control algorithm, such that the actuator forces are adjusted as the patient regains control of some joint motions, based upon the sliding-mode control theory; and a back brace affixed to the patient, extending vertically between the waist and shoulders patient, and helping to keep the torso of the patient in a stable, substantially vertical position, wherein the modularity of the device permits incorporation of one or more additional actuators as needed by the patient. 10. The modular exoskeletal device as recited in claim 9 further comprising two additional actuators during the walking stage of rehabilitation. 11. The modular exoskeletal device as recited in claim 9 wherein the control unit communicates with and directs the actuators wirelessly. 12. The modular exoskeletal device as recited in claim 9 further comprising wires by which the control unit communicates with and directs the actuators. 13. The modular exoskeletal device as recited in claim 9 further comprising at least one leg strap by which a connecting rod is affixed to a leg of the patient. 14. The modular exoskeletal device as recited in claim 9 further comprising a waist strap by which the back brace is affixed to the waist of the patient. 15. The modular exoskeletal device as recited in claim 9 wherein the actuators are rotary actuators located at any of the possible four hip and knee joints providing independent motion of those joints. 16. A modular exoskeletal device adapted to fit the lower extremities of a patient during rehabilitation, the device comprising: only two actuators during the standing stage of rehabilitation, the actuators affixed to and independently acting upon the patient and providing automatically controlled motion to at least one of the joints of the patient; two additional actuators during the walking stage of rehabilitation; connecting rods engaging the actuators and providing additional structure for the device; leg straps encircling the legs of the patient by which the connecting rods are affixed to the patient; a stationary control unit (a) being separated from the patient, (b) communicating with and automatically directing the actuators without patient actuation, and (c) having a hybrid mathematical control algorithm, such that the actuator forces are adjusted as the patient regains control of some joint motions, based upon the sliding-mode control theory; wires connecting the control unit with the actuators and carrying signals between the control unit and the actuators; a back brace affixed to the patient, extending vertically between the waist and shoulders of the patient, and helping to keep the torso of the patient in a stable, substantially vertical position; and a waist strap by which the back brace is affixed to the waist of the patient, wherein the modularity of the device permits incorporation of one or more additional actuators as needed by the patient. 17. The modular exoskeletal device as recited in claim 16 wherein the actuators are rotary actuators located at any of the possible four hip and knee joints providing independent motion of those joints. 