The invention includes a heating apparatus for biological samples. The heating apparatus of the present invention includes a cover, a sample block having a plurality of openings in a top portion thereof for receiving a sample well tray having a plurality of sample wells, and an urging mechanism. The urging mechanism is positionable between the sample block and the sample well tray to urge the sample well tray away from the sample block when the cover is moved from a closed position toward an open position. The cover imparts a downward force on the top of the sample well tray to press the sample wells into the openings of the sample block when the heated cover is moved toward a closed position. The urging mechanism imparts an upward force on the sample well tray. The downward force imparted by the heated cover is sufficient to retain the sample well tray against the sample block when the cover is in the closed position.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for thermally cycling biological samples, comprising: a sample block having a plurality of openings for receiving samples of a sample well tray therein, the sample wells having closed sample well bottoms configured to contain a sample, the plurality of openings for receiving sample wells being configured to contact an outer surface of a corresponding sample well; a sample well tray holder for holding the sample well tray therein, said sample well tray being movable relative to the sample well tray holder; and a plurality of leaf springs interposed between the sample block and the sample well tray holder, the plurality of leaf springs configured to impart an urging force on the sample well tray via the sample well tray holder, said plurality of leaf springs creating an urging force to urge the sample wells away from the openings in the sample block upon removal of a pressing force imparted on the top of the sample well tray for pressing the sample wells into the openings of the sample block. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the plurality of leaf springs biases the sample well tray holder away from the sample block to thereby urge the sample wells out of the openings in the sample block upon removal of the pressing force, the removal of the pressing force occurring upon the opening of a cover for the sample well tray. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein a portion of the leaf springs are positioned on a bottom surface of the sample well tray holder. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the leaf springs are positioned substantially uniformly around an opening for the sample well tray on the bottom surface of the sample well tray holder. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, comprising four of said leaf springs. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a cover, wherein the sample well tray holder is configured to be pressed down by an outside portion of the cover so that the sample well tray becomes disengaged from the sample well tray holder, the urging mechanism no longer imparting an upward force on the sample well tray in this position. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the sample well tray receives said upward force from the sample well tray holder when the outside portion of the cover is no longer pressed downward so that the sample well tray holder engages the sample well tray. 