Apparatus and method for acquiring an infrared spectrum of a sample having or suspected to have an amide I band, an amide II band, an amide III band, an amide A band, an OH stretching region or a combination thereof. A representative method includes providing a sample; providing an internal reflecting element (IRE) with a functionalized tip; contacting the sample with the IRE to form a sample-IRE interface; directing a beam of infrared (IR) radiation through the IRE under conditions such that the IR radiation interacts with the sample-IRE interface once; recording a reflectance profile over a range of preselected frequencies, whereby an infrared spectrum of the of a sample having or suspected of having an amide I band, an amide II band, an amide III band, an amide A band, an OH stretching region or a combination thereof, disposed in an aqueous solution is acquired. Representative apparatus includes an internal reflecting element (IRE) comprising a reflection face located on the IRE at a region of intended contact between the IRE and a solublized sample; an infrared radiation source for supplying an evanescent wave of infrared radiation and directing the same from the outside of the IRE to the inside thereof so as to cause the infrared radiation to be incident on the reflection face, wherein the infrared radiation is reflected from the reflection face once; a sample cell; a functionalized tip comprising a surface-immobilized probe that partially or completely fills the volume exposed to the evanescent wave; and a detector for detecting the once-reflected infrared radiation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A multi-sample infrared (IR) spectrum measuring apparatus for the automated detection of the IR spectra of a plurality of solublized samples, the apparatus comprising: (a) an IR radiation source for supplying IR radiation; (b) a microscope objective for focusing said IR radiation at a focal plane; (c) a sample element mount wheel comprising a plurality of sampling elements, each sample element comprising; (i) an internal reflecting element (IRE) comprising a reflection face located on the IRE at a region of intended contact between the IRE and a solubilized sample; wherein when the sample element is placed at the focal plane, the IR radiation is incident on the reflection face, further wherein the IR radiation is reflected from the reflection face once thereby creating an evanescent wave; (ii) a sample cell comprising an active sample volume; (iii) a functionalized tip comprising a surface-immobilized probe that partially or completely fills the active sample volume exposed to the evanescent wave; and (iv) a delivery tube for delivery of one or more of the group consisting of a sample, a reaction mixture, and functionalization chemicals; (d) a drive shaft intersecting the sample element mount wheel perpendicularly through the center of the mount wheel and bonded thereto, wherein rotation of the drive shaft around its central axis rotates the sample element mount wheel such that each of the sample elements of the sample element mount wheel can be placed at the focal plane of the IR radiation; (e) a motor control and transmission chamber, comprising a motor control element, said motor control element being in contact with the drive shaft and providing rotation to the drive shaft; and (f) a detector for detecting the once-reflected IR radiation. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the IR radiation source is a Fourier transform infrared (FTIR)-based instrument. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the IRE of each of the plurality of sample elements is an attenuated total reflectance (ATR) objective. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the IRE of each of the plurality of sample elements comprises a material selected from the group consisting of silicon, zinc selenide, and germanium. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the IRE of each of the plurality of sample elements is hemispherical. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the functionalized tip of each of the plurality of sample elements comprises a material selected from the group consisting of a DNA oligomer and repeat sequences thereof, an RNA oligomer and repeat sequences thereof, a protein, a peptide, and a small molecule. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the material is disposed on a scaffold. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the material is disposed at a plurality of sites on the scaffold. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the microscope objective is a cassegrain objective. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the motor control and transmission chamber is sealed and vibrationally dampened. 11. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a sample chamber substantially enclosing the sample element mount wheel, the sample chamber comprising: (a) an upper chamber for sample deposition and reactions; and (b) a lower chamber for providing an environment for IR detection and into which the IR radiation is directed. 12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the lower chamber of the sample chamber is sealed. 13. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the upper chamber of the sample chamber is sealed. 14. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the sample chamber can control one or more environmental factor selected from the group consisting of temperature and humidity. 15. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein each of the plurality of solubilized samples has a volume of 50 picoliters or less. 