Apparatus for producing a semi-solid metal alloy from a molten charge includes vertically aligned treatment zones which are provided by vertically aligned passages defined by a plurality of spirally wound flow pipes which are interspersed between spirally wound induction coils. A container is mounted on a charging arrangement which displaces a first charge upwardly into the first treatment zone. Successive charges are introduced in a similar fashion thereby urging the previously introduced charge upwardly along the train of zones and until the leading charge is ejected from the top of the apparatus. The charge in each zone is subjected to controlled cooling and an induced electromagnetic field. The strength of the field and the rate of cooling are controlled to impede dendritic crystallisation and to promote globular primary crystal formation.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of producing a semi-solid metal alloy for use in forming a final product, which method includes providing a treatment zone which is defined by an AC induction coil and charge cooling means; introducing a charge of molten metal contained within a container into the treatment zone by displacing said container along a linear path from a starting position which is aligned with the treatment zone; simultaneously subjecting the charge to an electromagnetically induced force field and controlled cooling in said treatment zone, said force field being induced by supplying said induction coil with current in the range of 100 to 12000 amps and at a frequency of between 60 to 30000 Hz thereby to provide a force field intensity which is sufficient to induce turbulence and vibratory motion in the charge during cooling to promote primary globular crystal formation instead of dendritic crystal formation; and displacing said container from the treatment zone by urging a subsequent container charged with molten metal into the treatment zone along said linear path. 2. A method as claimed in claim 1, in which the container is displaced from the treatment zone into at least one further treatment zone which is arranged in series and aligned with said treatment zone. 3. A method as claimed in claim 2, which includes continuously introducing a subsequent container into the first of said treatment zones along the linear path thereby urging the previously introduced container which occupies the treatment zone through the at least one further treatment zone in a step-wise or sequential fashion until being ejected from the last of said treatment zones. 4. A method as claimed in claim 3, in which the containers are urged into the first of said treatment zones in a vertical direction along the linear path to provide a stack of vertically aligned charges. 5. A method as claimed in claim 4, in which the containers are introduced upwardly into the first treatment zone, the method further including supporting the container which occupies the first treatment zone in a fixed position and releasing said support with the introduction of a container of fresh charge into the first treatment zone to allow said container of fresh charge initially to support the container in the first treatment zone and, on being advanced, to displace the container upwardly into the next treatment zone. 