An apparatus is provided for needle filling and thermally resealing containers having stoppers that are needle penetrable for filling the containers with a substance, and are thermally resealable for thermally sealing a needle hole in the stopper upon withdrawal of a needle therefrom. A container support of the apparatus supports at least one container having a resealable stopper in a substantially fixed position during needle filling and thermally resealing a needle hole in the stopper upon withdrawal of a needle therefrom. A manifold is drivingly mounted over the container support and comprises (1) a needle cartridge including a needle for penetrating the resealable stopper and introducing a substance through the needle and into the container, a needle mount for mounting the needle cartridge on the manifold, and a needle cover releasably coupled to the needle mount for covering the needle during transportation, installation and/or removal of the needle cartridge from the manifold, and that is removable from the needle cartridge upon mounting the needle cartridge to the manifold. The manifold further includes a thermal source for heating a needle penetrated region of the stopper and, in turn, sealing a needle hole in the stopper.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for needle filling and thermally resealing containers having stoppers that are needle penetrable for filling the containers with a substance, and are thermally resealable for thermally sealing a needle hole in the stopper upon withdrawal of a needle therefrom, the apparatus comprising: a container support for supporting at least one container having a resealable stopper in a substantially fixed position during at least one of needle filling and thermally resealing a needle hole in the stopper upon withdrawal of a needle therefrom; a manifold drivingly mounted over the container support and comprising a needle cartridge including a needle for penetrating the resealable stopper and introducing a substance through the needle and into the container, and a needle mount for mounting the needle cartridge on the manifold; and a thermal source for heating a needle penetrated region of the stopper and, in turn, sealing a needle hole in the stopper. 2. An apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein the thermal source includes an output for transmitting a laser beam therefrom and onto a needle penetrated region of the stopper. 3. An apparatus as defined in claim 1, further comprising a temperature sensor for sensing the temperature of a needle penetrated region of the stopper to determine whether a needle hole therein is sealed. 4. An apparatus as defined in claim 3, wherein the temperature sensor compares a sensed temperature to at least one predetermined temperature to determine whether a needle hole in the stopper is sealed. 5. An apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein the needle mount includes a plurality of axially-extending connecting portions with slots formed therebetween, and radially-extending flanges fanned on the connecting portions for releasably engaging the manifold and securing the needle mount thereto. 6. An apparatus as defined in claim 3, wherein the apparatus comprises a plurality of needles, a plurality of thermal sources, and a plurality of temperature sensors. 7. An apparatus as defined in claim 1, further comprising an e-beam source for generating an e-beam field, and wherein the container support moves the at least one container within the e-beam field for sterilizing at least a needle penetrable and resealable portion thereof. 8. An apparatus as defined in claim 1, further comprising controller for controlling relative movement of the manifold and container support. 9. An apparatus as defined in claim 8, further comprising a temperature sensor, wherein the controller controls movement of at least one of the manifold and container support to align the needle and an underlying needle penetrable region of the stopper, insert the needle into the stopper, introduce a substance through the needle and into an interior chamber of the container, withdraw the needle from the stopper, transmit radiation through the thermal energy source and onto a needle hole formed in the stopper to reseal the stopper, and control the temperature sensor to determine whether the needle hole is resealed. 10. An apparatus as defined in claim 8, wherein the container support includes a tray that supports thereon a plurality of containers in fixed positions relative to each other and forming a matrix with a plurality of rows and columns of containers, and the controller controls relative movement of the manifold and container support to align the needle with one or more underlying stoppers. 11. An apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein the container support includes a drive unit for moving the container support relative to the manifold. 12. An apparatus as defined in claim 11, wherein the drive unit includes at least one of a drive belt, a lead screw, and a linear actuator, drivingly connected to the container support for moving the container support relative to the manifold. 13. An apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein the container support includes a tray that supports thereon a plurality of containers in fixed positions relative to each other, the tray includes a plurality of connecting portions, and each connecting portion is releasably connectable to a respective container for connecting the container thereto and for releasably fixing the container on the fray. 14. An apparatus as defined in claim 13, further comprising a container fixture receivable within the fray and including a plurality of connecting portions thereon for releasably connecting the containers thereto. 15. An apparatus as defined in claim 13, wherein a plurality of the connecting portions are each defined by a recess for receiving therein a base portion of a respective container, and at least one flexible upstanding portion tat is engageable with the base portion of the container to releasably secure the container thereto. 16. An apparatus as defined in claim 14, wherein the container fixture includes a plurality of connecting portions for releasably connecting and positioning the fixture within the tray. 17. An apparatus as defined in claim 1, further comprising a fray defining a plurality of recesses spaced relative to each other and connecting portions located adjacent to the recesses, and wherein the container defines a substantially cylindrical base and the connecting portions are defined by at least two upstanding flexible portions that flexibly engage the base to releasably secure the base within the respective recess. 18. An apparatus as defined in claim 13, further comprising a sterilization and transport container including a housing defining an internal chamber that receives therein at least one tray including a plurality of sealed empty containers mounted thereon, an access opening formed through the housing and permitting movement of the at least one tray therethrough, a cover movable between a closing position covering the access opening and forming a substantially fluid-tight seal therebetween to seal the at least one tray within the internal chamber, and an open position permitting movement of the at least one tray therethrough, and an adhesive strip covering at least a portion of a seam formed between the housing and cover in the closed position. 19. An apparatus as defined in claim 1, further comprising a laminar flow source for introducing a substantially laminar flow of sterile gas that is at least one of (1) directed vertically and (2) directed horizontally, over the manifold and a container mounted adjacent to the manifold. 20. An apparatus for needle filling and thermally resealing containers having stoppers that are needle penetrable for filling the containers with a substance, and are thermally resealable for Thermally sealing a needle hole in the stopper upon withdrawal of a needle therefrom, the apparatus comprising: first means for supporting at least one container having a resealable stopper in a substantially fixed position during at least one of needle filling and thermally resealing a needle hole in the stopper upon withdrawal of a needle therefrom; a manifold drivingly mounted over the first means and comprising a needle cartridge including a needle for penetrating the resealable stopper and introducing a substance through the needle and into the container, and second means for mounting the needle cartridge on the manifold; and third means for heating a needle penetrated region of the stopper and, in turn, scaling a needle hole in the stopper. 21. An apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein the thermal source is supported by the manifold. 22. An apparatus as defined in claim 1, further comprising a needle cover releasably coupled to the needle mount for covering the needle during at least one of transportation, installation and removal of the needle cartridge from the manifold, and removable from the needle cartridge upon mounting the needle cartridge to the manifold. 23. An apparatus as defined in claim 20, wherein the first means is a container support, the second means is a needle mount, and the third means is a thermal source. 24. An apparatus as defined in claim 20, further comprising fourth means releasably coupled to the second means for covering the needle during at least one of transportation, installation and removal of the needle cartridge from the manifold, and removable from the needle cartridge upon mounting the needle cartridge to the manifold. 25. An apparatus as defined in claim 24, wherein the first means is a container support, the second means is a needle mount, the third means is a thermal source, and the fourth means is a needle cover. 