The present invention provides parallel, cable based robotic manipulators, for use in different applications such as ultra high-speed robots or positioning devices with between three to six degrees of freedom. The manipulators provide more options for the number of degrees of freedom and also more simplicity compared to the current cable-based robots. The general structure of these manipulators includes a base platform, a moving platform or end effector, an extensible or telescoping central post connecting the base to moving platform to apply a pushing force to the platforms. The central post can apply the force by an actuator (active), or spring or air pressure (passive) using telescoping cylinders. The robotic manipulators use a combination of active and passive tensile (cable) members, and collapsible and rigid links to maximize the benefits of both pure cable and conventional parallel mechanisms. Different embodiments of the robotic manipulators use either active cables only, passive cables only, or combinations of active and passive cables. An active cable is one whose length is varied by means of a winch. A passive cable is one whose length is constant and which is used to provide a mechanical constraint. These mechanisms reduce the moving inertia significantly to enhance the operational speed of the robots. They also provide a simpler, more cost effective way to manufacture parallel mechanisms for use in robotic applications.
Claims Therefore what is claimed is: 1. A robotic mechanism, comprising: a support base, an end effector and a biasing member having opposed ends and attached at one of said opposed ends to the support base and attached at the other of said opposed ends to the end effector; and at least three cables each connected at a first end thereof to said end effector and said at least three cables having second ends being attached to an associated positioning mechanism for moving the second ends of said at least three cables to position said end effector in a selected position in space, a length of each of said at least three cables between said end effector and said associated positioning mechanism being fixed, said biasing member applying force on the end effector with respect to the support base for maintaining tension in said at least three cables. 2. The robotic mechanism according to claim 1 including a computer controller connected to each said positioning mechanism for synchronizing the movement of each positioning mechanism with respect to the other positioning mechanisms to control movement of said end effector. 3. The robotic mechanism according to claim 1 wherein said at least three cables are three pairs of cables with the first ends of each pair of cables attached to the end effector and the second ends of each pair of cables being attached to said associated positioning mechanism, wherein each positioning mechanism includes an actuator for moving the second ends of the associated pair of cables independently of the other pairs of cables, each pair of cables having the first ends of the pair of cables attached to the end effector and the second ends of the pair of cables being attached to its associated actuator in such a way that two cables of each pair of cables are parallel to each other and define a parallelogram so that the robotic mechanism has three degrees of freedom so that during movement of the end effector the orientation of the end effector remains fixed so that the robotic mechanism has three degrees of freedom. 4. The robotic mechanism according to claim 1 wherein said biasing member is a spring. 5. The robotic mechanism according to claim 1 wherein said biasing member is selected from a group of powered cylinders consisting of hydraulically, pneumatically, and electrically powered cylinders having an adjustable length. 6. The robotic mechanism according to claim 1 wherein said biasing member is pivotally attached to said end effector and said support base using universal joints. 7. The robotic mechanism according to claim 1 said end effector includes a mounting mechanism for receiving a tool to be mounted on the end effector. 