A minimally-invasive anastomosis system includes a suspension that connects an anastomosis tool to a stabilizer. The stabilizer may be rigidly connected to a retractor or other structure that is fixed relative to the patient. The suspension facilitates anastomosis of a graft vessel to a target vessel in that tissue, by allowing the anastomosis tool to move relative to the stabilizer so that it can move along with the remaining motion of the heart tissue.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for performing anastomosis between a graft vessel and a target vessel, wherein the anastomosis site is accessed through an incision in a patient, and wherein a structure is substantially fixed relative to the patient; the system comprising: a stabilizer; an anastomosis tool connected to said stabilizer, wherein at least a portion of said anastomosis tool is configured for motion relative to said stabilizer, said anastomosis tool comprising a staple holder, and an anvil movable relative to said staple holder; and a suspension connected to said stabilizer and to said anastomosis tool, wherein said suspension is passive and includes at least one spring. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein said stabilizer is substantially rigidly connected to the structure. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein at least part of said stabilizer is rigid. 4. A system for performing anastomosis between a graft vessel and a target vessel, wherein the anastomosis site is accessed through an incision in a patient and wherein a structure is substantially fixed relative to the patient; the system comprising: a stabilizer; an anastomosis tool connected to said stabilizer, wherein at least a portion of said anastomosis tool is configured for motion relative to said stabilizer, said anastomosis tool comprising a staple holder, and an anvil movable relative to said staple holder; and a suspension connected to said stabilizer and to said anastomosis tool, wherein said suspension is active. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein said motion includes at least one rotational component. 6. The system of claim 1, further comprising an incising element movable relative to said anvil. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein said anvil is adapted to be biased toward the target vessel. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein said tissue stabilizer further comprises a bracket; a ball joint connected to said bracket; and an interface ring connected to and movable relative to said ball joint; wherein said anvil is connected to said interface ring. 9. The system of claim 8, wherein the proximal end of said anvil is connected to said interface ring. 10. The system of claim 8, further comprising at least one cable connected to said interface ring, wherein said at least one cable controls rotational motion of said anvil. 11. The system of claim 1, wherein said motion is at least partly in a direction toward the target vessel. 12. The system of claim 1, wherein said anastomosis tool further comprises a mount connected to said suspension and to said anvil and said staple holder, wherein said mount allows motion of at least a part of said anastomosis tool toward the target vessel. 13. The system of claim 12, wherein said mount includes an interface structure connected to said anastomosis tool, and wherein said interface structure allows motion of at least a part of said anastomosis tool toward the target vessel. 14. The system of claim 13, wherein said interface structure is a leaf spring. 15. The system of claim 13, further comprising at least one actuator connected to said interface structure, wherein each said actuator is configured to urge said interface structure relative to said mount. 16. The system of claim 1, wherein said suspension allows motion at least partly in a direction toward the target vessel. 17. The system of claim 1, further comprising a unitary anastomosis device; wherein said anastomosis tool is configured to deploy said unitary anastomosis device to connect the graft vessel to the target vessel. 18. The system of claim 1, further comprising a plurality of connectors; wherein said anastomosis tool is configured to deploy said connectors to connect the graft vessel to the target vessel. 19. The system of claim 18, wherein said connectors are clips. 20. The system of claim 18, wherein said connectors are staples. 21. The system of claim 18, wherein said connectors are superelastic. 22. The system of claim 18, wherein said connectors are plastically deformable. 