The present invention provides robotic vehicles having wheeled and hopping mobilities that are capable of traversing (e.g. by hopping over) obstacles that are large in size relative to the robot and, are capable of operation in unpredictable terrain over long range. The present invention further provides combustion powered linear actuators, which can include latching mechanisms to facilitate pressurized fueling of the actuators, as can be used to provide wheeled vehicles with a hopping mobility.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A combustion powered linear actuator comprising: a body having a first chamber therein; a power piston movably mounted within the first chamber, the power piston movable between a retracted position and an extended position, the power piston having a combustion chamber therein, the combustion chamber operatively arranged to combust a mixture of a fuel and an oxidizer, the combustion chamber fluidically connected to the first chamber and, the power piston having a foot operatively arranged to contact a surface external of the actuator; means for providing the fuel and the oxidizer to the combustion chamber; means for igniting the mixture of the fuel and the oxidizer within the combustion chamber; means for exhausting combustion products from the combustion chamber; a latch operatively connected to the body and the power piston, the latch operatively arranged to releasably restrain the power piston in the retracted position; and, a return energy source connected to the body and the power piston, the return energy source operatively arranged to move the power piston towards the retracted position. 2. The actuator of claim 1 wherein the latch comprises one or more magnets. 3. The actuator of claim 2 wherein the one or more magnets comprise a portion of one or more components selected from the group consisting of the body and the foot. 4. The actuator of claim 1 wherein the means for exhausting comprises a taper disposed on a wall of the first chamber, the taper operatively arranged to exhaust combustion products from the combustion chamber when the power piston is at or near the extended position. 5. The actuator of claim 4 comprising a through-hole extending through the body, the through-hole disposed on the taper, the through-hole in fluid communication with the first chamber, the through-hole operatively arranged to exhaust combustion products from the combustion chamber, when the power piston is at or near the extended position. 6. The actuator of claim 1 wherein the return energy source comprises a spring. 7. The actuator of claim 6 wherein the spring is disposed within the first chamber. 8. The actuator of claim 1 wherein the foot comprises a shock absorbing material, the shock absorbing material operatively arranged to contact the surface. 9. The actuator of claim 1 wherein the power piston comprises a first flange and the body comprises a second flange, the first flange and the second flange operatively arranged to restrain the power piston within the body when the power piston is at or near the extended position. 10. The actuator of claim 9 comprising one or more seals disposed between the first flange and a surface of the first chamber. 11. The actuator of claim 9 comprising a shock absorbing material disposed between the first flange and the second flange. 12. The actuator of claim 1 comprising a rotatable mount disposed on the body of the actuator. 13. The actuator of claim 1 wherein the means for igniting comprises one or more components selected from the group consisting of a glow plug, a spark plug, a heated wire, and a piezoelectric ignition. 14. The actuator of claim 1 wherein the latch is operatively arranged to restrain the power piston in the retracted position, the power piston restrained against a force generated by a pressure within the combustion chamber equal to or less than approximately six atmospheres. 15. The actuator of claim 1 wherein the means for providing fuel and oxidizer to the combustion chamber comprises: a fuel storage tank and an oxidizer storage tank, the fuel and the oxidizer storage tanks operatively arranged to store a pressurized fuel and a pressurized oxidizer respectively; and, a delivery system for conveying the fuel and the oxidizer from the fuel and the oxidizer storage tanks, to the combustion chamber. 16. The actuator of claim 15 wherein the fuel and the oxidizer each have a critical temperature higher than a temperature of the environment within which the actuator is operated. 17. The actuator of claim 16 wherein the fuel comprises one or more fuels selected from the group consisting of propane, butane, methyl acetylene, propylene, butylene, and methylacetylene-propadiene. 18. The actuator of claim 16 wherein the oxidizer comprises one or more selected from the group consisting of nitrous oxide and nitrogen tetroxide. 19. The actuator of claim 15 wherein the delivery system comprises for each of the fuel and the oxidizer one or more selected from the group consisting of a pressure regulator and a pressure transducer. 20. The actuator of claim 1 wherein the mixture of the fuel and the oxidizer comprises a mixture having a pressure of from approximately one atmosphere to approximately six atmospheres. 21. The actuator of claim 1 wherein the body comprises a rotatable mount. 22. A combustion powered linear actuator comprising: a body having a first chamber therein; a power piston movably mounted within the first chamber, the power piston movable between a retracted position and an extended position, the power piston having a combustion chamber therein, the combustion chamber operatively arranged to combust a mixture of a fuel and an oxidizer, the combustion chamber fluidically connected to the first chamber and, the power piston having a foot operatively arranged to contact a surface external of the actuator; a fuel storage tank and an oxidizer storage tank, the fuel and the oxidizer storage tanks operatively arranged to store a pressurized fuel and a pressurized oxidizer respectively; a delivery system for conveying the fuel and the oxidizer from the fuel and the oxidizer storage tanks, to the combustion chamber; a glow plug operatively arranged to ignite the mixture of the fuel and the oxidizer within the combustion chamber; a taper disposed on a wall of the first chamber, the taper operatively arranged to exhaust combustion products from the combustion chamber when the power piston is at or near the extended position; a latch operatively connected to the body and the power piston, the latch operatively arranged to releasably restrain the power piston in the retracted position, the latch comprising one or more magnets disposed in the body, the one or more magnets operatively arranged to magnetically couple to a member within the foot when the power piston is at or near its retracted position; and, a spring connected to the body and the power piston, the spring disposed within the first chamber, the spring operatively arranged to move the power piston towards the retracted position. 23. The actuator of claim 22 comprising a through-hole extending through the body, the through-hole disposed on the taper, the through hole in fluid communication with the first chamber, the through hole operatively arranged to exhaust combustion products from the combustion chamber, when the power piston is at or near the extended position. 24. The actuator of claim 22 wherein the foot comprises a shock absorbing material, the shock absorbing material operatively arranged to contact the surface. 25. The actuator of claim 22 wherein the power piston comprises a first flange and, the body comprises a second flange, the first flange and the second flange operatively arranged to restrain the power piston within the body when the power piston is at or near the extended position. 26. The actuator of claim 25 wherein: the first flange comprises a top surface and a side surface; the first chamber comprises an end surface and a sidewall; a first seal disposed between the top surface and the end surface, the first seal operatively arranged to contact the top surface and the end surface when the power piston is at the retracted position. 27. The actuator of claim 26 comprising a second seal, the second seal disposed between the side surface and the sidewall. 28. The actuator of claim 25 comprising a shock absorbing material disposed between the first flange and the second flange. 29. The actuator of claim 22 wherein the fuel comprises one or more fuels selected from the group consisting of propane, butane, methyl acetylene, propylene, butylene, and methylacetylene-propadiene. 30. The actuator of claim 22 wherein the oxidizer comprises one or more oxidizers selected from the group consisting of nitrous oxide and nitrogen tetroxide. 31. The actuator of claim 22 wherein the delivery system comprises for each of the fuel and the oxidizer, one or more components selected from the group consisting of a pressure regulator and a pressure transducer. 32. The actuator of claim 22 wherein the mixture of fuel and oxidizer comprises a mixture having a pressure of from approximately one atmosphere to approximately six atmospheres. 33. The actuator of claim 22 wherein the body comprises a rotatable mount. 