Multiwell plate applications are describe for use with a plurality of fibres having an extraction phase coated thereon in combination with a positioning device. The device and method described are able to perform adsorption of components of interest from a biological system in high volume.
Claims The inventioned claimed is: 1. A solid-phase microextraction device for measuring or identifying one or more components of interest from liquid samples arranged in a plurality of wells in a multiwell plate, said device comprising: a plurality of non-porous fibres, each having a distal end at least partially coated with a polymeric extraction phase for absorbing or adsorbing the component of interest from the liquid samples; and a positioning device for guiding the coated distal end of said non-porous fibres into a submerged position within the plurality of wells of a multiwell plate, and for removing said non-porous fibres from said wells; said positioning device comprising: (i) a mounting plate for mounting each of a plurality of non-porous fibres in a position corresponding to a counterpart well on said multiwell plate, the non-porous fibres being retractably mounted within the mounting plate; and (ii) a guide for moving said mounting plate so the coated distal end of each of said non-porous fibres is submerged in a well of the multiwell plate, for retracting said non-porous fibres from said wells, and for positioning said non-porous fibres into a multiwell plate containing desorption solvent or into an analytical instrument. 2. The device of claim 1, additionally comprising a multiwell plate having a plurality of wells formed therein; said wells having openings dimensioned to produce an air tight seal around said fibre upon placement of said non-porous fibre in a well. 3. The device of claim 1 wherein the said guide or said positioning device is a component of a robotic system. 4. The device of claim 1, additionally comprising an agitator for: agitating during contact of said non-porous fibres with said sample; or agitating when said non-porous fibres are submerged in the wells. 5. The device of claim 4 wherein said agitator is an orbital shaker, a sonicator, a vibrator or a stirrer. 6. The device of claim 1 wherein said positioning device is a component of an autosampler or a robotic system. 7. The device of claim 1 comprising more than one non-porous fibre per well having the same or different extraction phase. 8. The device of claim 1 wherein said polymeric extraction phase comprises substituted or unsubstituted poly (dimethylsiloxane), polyacrylate, poly (ethylene glycol), poly(divinyl benzene), ionic liquid or polypyrrole. 9. The device of claim 1 wherein the said extraction phase comprises a bioaffinity agent. 10. The device of claim 9 wherein said bioaffinity agent is selected from the group consisting of a selective cavity, a molecular recognition moiety, a molecularly imprinted polymer, and an immobilized antibody. 11. The device of claim 1, wherein the said non-porous fibres are made of metal, metal alloy or fused silica. 12. The device of claim 1, wherein said extraction phase is at least partially coated with a biocompatible protection layer. 13. The device of claim 12, wherein said protection layer is selected from poly (ethylene glycol), poly(hydroxyethyl methacrylate), poly(acrylamide), poly(N, N-di methyl acrylamide), dextran, poly(acrylonitrile), poly(urethane) and derivatized cellulose. 14. The device of claim 13 wherein the said extraction phase additionally comprises derivatized silica. 15. The device of claim 1 wherein the said extraction phase comprises a bioaffinity agent selected from the group consisting of a selective cavity, a molecular recognition moiety, a molecularly imprinted polymer, an immobilized antibody, and aptamers. 16. The device of claim 15 wherein said immobilized antibody is attached to metal or metal alloy wire coated with polyimide prepared by uniform coating of said polymer. 17. The device of claim 1, wherein said extraction phase comprises a mixture of derivatized silica and poly (ethylene glycol). 18. The device of claim 1, wherein said extraction phase contains a calibrant. 19. The device of claim 2 wherein said plurality of wells have two positions: a closed position where the non-porous fibre is sealed in the well; and an opened position where the fibre can be exposed to sample, desorption solvent or an analytical instrument. 20. The device of claim 1 wherein said non-porous fibre comprises a hollow distal end, and wherein an interior surface of the hollow distal end is coated with the extraction phase. 21. The device of claim 20 wherein said non-porous fibre comprises a needle having the extraction phase coated on the interior surface of the hollow distal end. 22. The device of claim 1 wherein said positioning device positions said non-porous fibres into an analytical instrument. 23. A solid-phase microextraction device for measuring or identifying one or more components of interest from liquid samples arranged in a plurality of wells in a multiwell plate, said device comprising: a plurality of non-porous fibres, each having a distal end at least partially coated with a polymeric extraction phase for absorbing or adsorbing the component of interest from the liquid samples, said extraction phase being formed as a thin flat membrane in the shape of a fin on the distal end of the non-porous fibres; and a positioning device for guiding the coated distal end of said non-porous fibres into a submerged position within the plurality of wells of a multiwell plate, and for removing said non-porous fibres from said wells; said positioning device comprising: (i) a mounting plate for mounting each of a plurality of non-porous fibres in a position corresponding to a counterpart well on said multiwell plate, the non-porous fibres being retractably mounted within the mounting plate; and (ii) a guide for moving said mounting plate so the coated distal end of each of said non-porous fibres is submerged in a well of the multiwell plate, for retracting said non-porous fibres from said wells, and for positioning said non-porous fibres into a multiwell plate containing desorption solvent or into an analytical instrument. 24. The device of claim 23, additionally comprising a multiwell plate having a plurality of wells formed therein; said wells having openings dimensioned to produce an air tight seal around said fibre upon placement of said non-porous fibre in a well. 25. The device of claim 23, wherein said guide or positioning device is a component of a robotic system. 26. The device of claim 23, additionally comprising an agitator for: agitating during contact of said non-porous fibres with said sample; or agitating when said non-porous fibres are submerged in the wells. 27. The device of claim 26 wherein said agitator is an orbital shaker, a sonicator, a vibrator or a stirrer. 28. The device of claim 23 wherein said positioning device is a component of an autosampler or a robotic system. 29. The device of claim 23 comprising more than one non-porous fibre per well having the same or different extraction phase. 30. The device of claim 29 wherein said polymeric extraction phase comprises substituted or unsubstituted poly (dimethylsiloxane), polyacrylate, poly (ethylene glycol), poly(divinyl benzene), ionic liquid or polypyrrole. 31. The device of claim 23 wherein said extraction phase comprises a bioaffinity agent. 32. The device of claim 31 wherein said bioaffinity agent is selected from the group consisting of a selective cavity, a molecular recognition moiety, a molecularly imprinted polymer, and an immobilized antibody. 33. The device of claim 23, wherein said non-porous fibres are made of metal, metal alloy or fused silica. 34. The device of claim 23, wherein said extraction phase is at least partially coated with a biocompatible protection layer. 35. The device of claim 34, wherein said protection layer is selected from poly (ethylene glycol), poly(hydroxyethyl methacrylate), poly(acrylamide), poly(N, N-di methyl acrylamide), dextran, poly(acrylonitrile), poly(urethane) and derivatized cellulose. 36. The device of claim 35 wherein said extraction phase additionally comprises derivatized silica. 37. The device of claim 23 wherein said extraction phase comprises a bioaffinity agent selected from the group consisting of a selective cavity, a molecular recognition moiety, a molecularly imprinted polymer, an immobilized antibody, and aptamers. 38. The device of claim 37 wherein said immobilized antibody is attached to metal or metal alloy wire coated with polyimide prepared by uniform coating of said polymer. 39. The device of claim 23, wherein said extraction phase comprises a mixture of derivatized silica and poly (ethylene glycol). 40. The device of claim 23, wherein said extraction phase contains a calibrant. 41. The device of claim 24 wherein said plurality of wells have two positions: a closed position where the non-porous fibre is sealed in the well; and an opened position where the fibre can be exposed to sample, desorption solvent or an analytical instrument. 42. The device of claim 23 wherein said positioning device positions said non porous fibres into an analytical instrument. 