An apparatus for facilitating the running of multiple simultaneous solid phase reactions for mounting on a temperature controllable water bath and a method of using this apparatus in the presence or absence of paramagnetic beads to perform chemical syntheses resulting in separation and recovery of a final desired reaction product is provided. The apparatus comprises a reaction plate, a reaction vessel for mounting in the reaction plate, a reaction plate holder, a screw-like rod, a mounting block attached to the reaction plate holder for operably receiving the screw-like rod, a motor, a sonication region in the water bath and a magnetic separation region in the water bath. Paramagnetic beads having reaction sites are introduced into the reaction vessels along with the appropriate solvent and one or more reactants. The contents of the reaction vessel are sonicated, then moved to the magnetic separation region where the paramagnetic beads are tightly held against the reaction vessel while the solvent is aspirated off. Once the desired reaction product is attained, the reaction product is cleaved off the paramagnetic bead. In an alternative embodiment, chemical synthesis is performed in a similar manner in the absence of the paramagnetic beads.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for performing a chemical synthesis reaction on a paramagnetic bead, said apparatus comprising: a means for sonication mounted in a water bath at a first end of said water bath; a means for magnetic separation mounted in said water bath at a second end of said water bath; a motor located proximate said water bath; a glass reaction vessel for containing the paramagnetic bead; a reaction plate located in said water bath and having a well sized to receive said glass reaction vessel such that at least a portion of said glass reaction vessel is located below a water level of said water bath; a rod connected to said motor; and a means for rotatably mounting said reaction plate to said rod whereby activation of said motor results in rotation of said rod thereby moving said reaction plate between said means for sonication and said means for magnetic separation. 2. ) The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said means for rotatably mounting said reaction plate comprises a reaction plate holder. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said means for sonication is a transducer. 4. ) The apparatus of claim 3 wherein said means for magnetic separation is a magnetic disc. 5. ) The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said magnetic disc is comprised of neodymium. 6. ) The apparatus of claim 5 wherein said rod is threaded. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein said means for rotatably mounting said reaction plate comprises a reaction plate holder, a first mounting block seated on said reaction plate holder and a second mounting block seated on said reaction plate holder. 8. ) The apparatus of claim 7 wherein said first mounting block has a threaded hole sized to receive said rod and said second mounting block has a non-threaded hole sized to receive said rod. 9. ) The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a means for circulating water in said water bath. 10. ) The apparatus of claim 9 wherein said means for circulating said water comprises an inlet at said first end of said water bath and an outlet at said second end of said water bath. 11. An apparatus for separating a reactant from a solvent, said apparatus comprising: a glass reaction vessel for containing said reactant, said solvent, and at least one paramagnetic bead; a means for sonication of said solvent and said paramagnetic bead mounted proximate to a bottom of a water bath; a means for magnetic separation of said at least one paramagnetic bead from said solvent mounted proximate to said bottom of said water bath; and a means located in said water bath for positioning at least a portion of said glass reaction vessel below a water level in said water bath. 12. The apparatus of claim 11 further comprising a means operably connected to said glass reaction vessel for transporting said glass reaction vessel between said means for sonication and said means for magnetic separation. 13. The apparatus of claim 11 further comprising a means for providing a temperature controlled environment in said bath. 