Sequencing of a selected region of a target nucleic acid polymer in a genomic DNA sample can be performed in a single vessel by combining the sample with a sequencing mixture containing a primer pair, a thermally stable polymerase such as Thermo Sequenase.TM. which incorporates dideoxynucleotides into an extending nucleic acid polymer at a rate which is no less than about 0.4 times the rate of incorporation of deoxynucleotides, nucleotide feedstocks, and a chain terminating nucleotide. The mixture is processed through multiple thermal cycles for annealing, extension and denaturation to produce a product mixture which is analyzed by electrophoresis.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for sequencing of a selected region of a target nucleic acid polymer in a sample containing the selected region in substantially natural relative abundance, comprising the steps of: (a) combining the sample containing the target region in substantially natural relative abundance with first and second primers, a nucleotide triphosphate feedstock mixture, a chain-terminating nucleotide triphosphate and a thermally stable polymerase enzyme which incorporates dideoxynucleotides into an extending nucleic acid polymer at a rate which is no less than 0.4 times the rate of incorporation of deoxynucleotides in an amplification mixture to form a reaction mixture, said first and second primers binding to the sense and antisense strands, respectively, of the target nucleic acid polymer at locations flanking the selected region; (b) exposing the reaction mixture to a plurality of temperature cycles each of which includes at least a high temperature denaturation phase and a lower temperature extension phase, thereby producing a plurality of terminated fragments; and (c) evaluating terminated fragments produced during the additional cycles to determine the sequence of the selected region, wherein at least one of the first and second primers is labeled with a fluorescent label. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the polymerase enzyme is THERMO SEQUENASE.TM.. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the first and second primers are each labeled with a different fluorescent label. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the mole ratio of the dideoxynucleotide triphosphate to the corresponding deoxynucleotide triphosphate is from 1:50 to 1:500. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the mole ratio of the dideoxynucleotide triphosphate to the corresponding deoxynucleotide triphosphate is from 1:100 to 1:300. 6. A kit for sequencing a plurality of DNA regions from a genomic DNA sample consisting of, in packaged combination, a single region-specific reagent for each DNA region, and optionally one or more non-region-specific reagents. 7. The kit according to claim 6, wherein the kit includes a polymerase enzyme which incorporates dideoxynucleotides into an extending nucleic acid polymer at a rate which is no less than 0.4 times the rate of incorporation of deoxynucleotides. 8. The kit according to claim 7, wherein the polymerase enzyme in THERMO SEQUENASE.TM.. 