In order to control a movable object such as an automobile, the differential of acceleration is derived and used as control information. In order to derive that differential, a value representing the acceleration may be differentiated, but preferably a sensor is provided which generates a direct measurement of the differential of acceleration. In one example of such a sensor, a pendulum has a coil thereon which interacts with the magnetic field of a magnet on a casing supporting the pendulum. A current is supplied to the coil such as to generate a force resisting movement of the pendulum. It is then found that the voltage across the coil corresponds to the differential of acceleration.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An acceleration differential sensor for directly detecting differential of acceleration comprising: electromagnetic force generating means having a coil and a magnet; a movable member driven by said electromagnetic force generating means; displacement detecting means for detecting the displacement of said movable member; current supply means for supplying current to said coil of said electromagnetic force generating means on the basis of output of said displacement detection means so that said movable member is positioned at a reference position; and voltage detecting means for detecting the voltage of said coil produced by said current to position the movable member at said reference position, wherein said voltage directly corresponds to the differential of acceleration. 2. An acceleration differential sensor for directly detecting differential of acceleration according to claim 1, wherein said movable member is rotatable. 3. A sensor according to claim 1, wherein said reference position is a stationary position. 4. A sensor according to claim 1, wherein a servo amplifier is electrically connected to said displacement detecting means and said coil so that current from said displacement detecting means is directed to said coil through said servo amplifier. 5. A sensor according to claim 1, wherein said movable member is a pendulum. 6. A sensor according to claim 1, wherein said displacement detecting means includes a capacitor plate mounted on said movable member and another capacitor plate mounted on a stationary member adjacent to the movable member, and sensing means for sensing the variation of capacitance of said capacitor plates due to movement of said movable member relative to said stationary member. 7. An acceleration differential sensor for directly detecting differential of acceleration, comprising: a casing; a pendulum attached to said casing at one end thereof; a pair of movable electrodes attached to said pendulum at opposite sides in a pendulum-moving direction, respectively; a pair of electrodes provided on said casing so as to oppose said movable electrodes, respectively; a coil attached to said pendulum between said joint and said movable electrodes; magnet means provided on said casing so that a polarity thereof opposes a side of said coil and the other polarity opposes the opposite side of said coil in the pendulum-moving direction; a pair of fixed electrodes fixed to said casing so as to oppose said movable electrodes, respectively; displacement detecting means, electrically connected to said movable and fixed electrodes, for detecting the displacement of said pendulum; current supply means for supplying current to said coil on the basis of an output of said displacement detection means so that said pendulum is positioned at a reference position; and voltage detecting means for detecting the voltage of said coil produced by said current to position the pendulum at said reference position, wherein said voltage directly corresponds to the differential of acceleration. 8. An acceleration differential sensor according to claim 7, wherein said joint permits movement of said pendulum only in a single plane. 9. An acceleration differential sensor according to claim 7, wherein a read resistor having resistance (r) is connected in series with said coil having resistance (R) so that the current flowing in said coil passes through said read resistor, and wherein said voltage detecting means detects the voltage across said coil and the voltage across said read resistor, whereby the differential of acceleration is detected as: ##EQU26## where: .eta.=differential of acceleration .phi.=electromagnetic interlinkage coefficient M=mass of the pendulum ##EQU27## L=inductance of the coil e.sub.r =r.I(t). 10. An acceleration differential sensor according to claim 9, wherein a signal processing block comprising an operational amplifier is electrically connected to ends of said coil to provide an output of the voltage which corresponds to the differential of acceleration. 11. An acceleration differential sensor according to claim 7, wherein a direct differential of an acceleration detecting means is provided, said direct differential of the acceleration detecting means being said voltage detecting means. 