A device for coupling a robot to a column-mounted shift lever of a vehicle includes a line extending between the robot and shift lever for holding the shift lever in an unlocked position. An adapter is attached to the lever, and an actuator is coupled to the adapter via a ball joint. The actuator is also coupled to the robot for movement of the actuator to move the shift lever.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A device for moving a column-mounted shift lever of a vehicle, the shift lever being biased to a lock position, wherein; the lever cannot be moved, the shift lever being movable to an unlock position, wherein the lever can be moved, the device comprising: a base; a holder connected to the base and the column mounted shift lever for holding the lever in the unlock position; a shifter adapter configured for fixedly engaging the shift lever; and a shifter actuator coupled to the shifter adapter to move the shift lever. 2. The device of claim 1, wherein the shifter actuator is coupled to the base. 3. The device of claim 2, further comprising a ball joint interconnecting the actuator and adapter. 4. The device of claim 3, wherein the adapter comprises: a rigid housing formed with a channel, the channel being configured for closely receiving the shift lever therein. 5. A vehicle, comprising: a column-mounted shift lever biased to a lock position, wherein the lever cannot be moved, the shift lever being movable to an unlock position, wherein the lever can be moved; a shifter adapter affixed to the shift lever; a holder for holding the shift lever in the unlock position; and a shifter actuator coupled to the shifter adapter to move the shift lever. 6. The vehicle of claim 5, further comprising a robotic base, wherein the shifter actuator is coupled to the robotic base. 7. The vehicle of claim 6, further comprising a ball joint interconnecting the actuator and adapter. 8. The vehicle of claim 7, wherein the adapter comprises: a rigid housing formed with a channel, the channel being configured for closely receiving the shift lever therein. 9. A method for moving a column-mounted shift lever of a vehicle, comprising the steps of: engaging an adapter with the shift lever; engaging a line with the shift lever to hold the shift lever in an unlock position; and engaging an actuator with the adapter to move the shift lever. 10. The method of claim 9, further comprising the step of providing a ball joint to interconnect the actuator and adapter. 11. A device for moving a column-mounted shift lever of a vehicle, the shift lever being biased to a locked position wherein the lever cannot be moved, the shift lever being movable to an unlocked position wherein the lever can be moved, the device comprising: a base; a line connected to the base and the shift lever for holding the lever in the unlocked position, a shifter adapter configured for fixedly engaging the shift lever, the shifter adapter including a rigid housing formed with a channel, the channel being configured for closely receiving the shift lever therein; a shifter actuator coupled to the base and to the shifter adapter to move the shift lever; and a ball joint interconnecting the actuator and adapter. 12. A vehicle comprising: a robotic base; a column-mounted shift lever biased to a locked position wherein the lever cannot be moved, the shift lever being movable to an unlocked position wherein the lever can be moved; a shifter adapter affixed to the shift lever, the shifter adapter including a rigid housing formed with a channel, the channel being configured for closely receiving the shift lever therein; a line for holding the shift lever in the unlocked position; a shifter actuator coupled to the robotic base and to the shifter adapter to move the shift lever; and a ball joint interconnecting the actuator and adapter. 