An assay dispensing apparatus comprises a plurality of filling ports (366) arranged in a two-dimensional pattern and a plurality of outlets (376) in fluidic communication with the plurality of filling ports (366). The outlets (376) are arranged in a one-dimensional pattern.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An assay dispensing apparatus comprising: a plurality of filling ports arranged in a two-dimensional pattern at a first face of a body; an assay-member-receiving slot defined by the body at a second face, the second face oriented transverse to the first face; a plurality of outlets arranged in a one-dimensional pattern, the plurality of outlets positioned and accessible within the assay-member-receiving slot; and a plurality of conduits which couple the plurality of filling ports to the plurality of outlets, each of the plurality of conduits having an interior volume less than a volume of one of the plurality of filling ports coupled thereto. 2. The assay dispensing apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a plurality of conduits which couple the plurality of filling ports to the plurality of outlets, each of the plurality of conduits having an interior volume less than a volume of one of the plurality of filling ports coupled thereto. 3. The assay dispensing apparatus of claim 1 wherein the plurality of filling ports are arranged in accordance with a microplate standard. 4. The assay dispensing apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a cover to selectively cover the plurality of filling ports. 5. The assay dispensing apparatus of claim 4 wherein the cover is formed of a deformable material. 6. The assay dispensing apparatus of claim 4 wherein the cover includes an interior portion having a concave shape. 7. The assay dispensing apparatus of claim 1 wherein the first face is oriented transverse to the second face. 8. The assay dispensing apparatus of claim 1 wherein the assay-member-receiving slot is sized to receive a plurality of assay members. 9. The assay dispensing apparatus of claim 8 wherein the assay-member-receiving slot is sized to receive a stack of the plurality of assay members. 10. The assay dispensing apparatus of claim 9 further comprising a second plurality of outlets in fluidic communication with the plurality of filling ports, the second plurality of outlets arranged in a one-dimensional pattern substantially parallel to the one-dimensional pattern of the plurality of outlets. 