A treatment delivery apparatus comprises a metallic object and a treatment carrier device which is connected by a heat-sensitive biodegradable connector link to the magnetic object. This carrier device contains the treatment, i.e. the drug, to be transported. An electromagnet is positioned outside of the body part for producing a magnetic field which captures the magnetic object. This electromagnet may be either a simple coil system attached to a robotic arm which moves the electromagnet adjacent the body part, or a multicoil electromagnet system surrounding the body part. In either case, the robotically moved electromagnet or multicoil electromagnet system moves the magnetic object within the body part to a desired location. A computer controls either the robotic arm or multicoil current magnitudes and directions. This computer also provides visualization for observing the location and movement of the magnetic object and carrier device. Upon reaching the desired location, the magnetic object is heated, which causes the heat-sensitive biodegradable connector link to melt, which separates the drug-containing carrier device from the magnetic object. The electromagnet means then moves the magnetic object back out of the body part. The treatment-containing carrier device remains in the desired location and the drug is delivered to the specific location.
Claims We claim: 1. A treatment delivery apparatus, comprising: a) a string having a thin body and first and second longitudinal ends; b) treatment associated with the body of the string; c) a magnetic delivery lead; and d) means for attaching the magnetic delivery lead to the first longitudinal end of the string. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a retrieval tail having distal and proximal ends, wherein the distal end of the retrieval tail is attached to the second longitudinal end of the string. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, further comprising a flange device attached to the distal end of the retrieval tail. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the treatment comprises drugs. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the string is a fiber string. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the treatment is embedded in the fiber of the string. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the treatment is embedded in the fiber of the string when the string is manufactured. 8. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the string is coated with the treatment. 9. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the treatment is absorbed into the fibers of the string. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the string is biodegradable. 11. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the string is a flexible gelatinous mass. 12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the treatment is encased in the gelatinous mass. 13. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the treatment is a slurry of cells. 14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the cells are fetal neurons. 15. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the cells are genetically engineered cells. 16. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the attachment means comprises a heat-sensitive biodegradable connector link. 17. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the attachment means is a spring-mechanical mechanism. 18. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the treatment comprises proteins and neurotrophic compounds. 