An apparatus provides .theta.-rotational motion about a Z-axis. The apparatus is improved as follows. A stop structure is carried by the apparatus and rotates with it. The stop structure has a detent engagement structure. A detent structure comprises a rotatable member located adjacent to the stop structure. The rotatable member is mounted for free rotation about an axis parallel to the Z-axis. The rotatable member defines a plurality of detentes which are adapted for sequential engagement with the detent engaging structure as the stop structure rotates about the Z-axis. A biasing structure serves for biasing the stop member to deter it from rotating. The biasing structure is overcome by action of the detent engaging structure with any one of the detentes and otherwise prevents rotation of the stop member. A stationary detent is located adjacent the stop member. The stationary detent engages with and halts rotation of the stop member beyond a selected rotational position. It acts through the stop member to stop rotation of the apparatus about the Z-axis.
Claims That which is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for limiting rotation in a mechanism which includes at least one member having a .theta.-rotational motion about a Z-axis, the improvement comprising: a stop structure carried by the mechanism and rotating with the mechanism with .theta.-rotational motion about the Z-axis; and a detent structure which comprises: a rotatable member adjacent to the stop structure, the rotatable member being mounted for free rotation about an axis parallel to the Z-axis, the rotatable member defining a plurality of detent means for sequential engagement with the stop structure as the stop structure rotates about the Z-axis; biasing means for biasing the rotatable member at a first portion of the rotatable member to deter rotation thereof, the biasing means being overcome by action of the stop structure with any one of the detent means and otherwise preventing rotation of the rotatable member; and a stationary member adjacent the rotatable member, the stationary member being engagable with a second portion of the rotatable member to halt rotation of the rotatable member beyond a selected rotational position thereof and to act through the stop structure to stop rotation of the apparatus about the Z-axis. 2. An apparatus as set forth in claim 1, wherein the mechanism comprises a robotic arm mechanism capable of R-, Z- and .theta.-motion. 3. An apparatus as set forth in claim 2, wherein the stop structure and the detent structure are so constructed and positioned as to allow rotation of the robotic arm mechanism about the Z-axis of greater than 360.degree.. 4. An apparatus as set forth in claim 3, wherein the stop structure comprises a pair of engagers located 180.degree. apart. 5. An apparatus as set forth in claim 4, wherein the detent structure allows for 540.degree. rotation of the robotic arm mechanism. 6. An apparatus as set forth in claim 1, wherein the stop structure and the detent structure are so constructed and positioned as to allow rotation of the apparatus about the Z-axis of greater than 360.degree.. 7. An apparatus as set forth in claim 6, wherein the stop structure comprises a pair of engagers located 180.degree. apart. 8. An apparatus as set forth in claim 7, wherein the detent structure allows for 540.degree. rotation of the at least one member. 9. An apparatus as set forth in claim 1, wherein the stop structure comprises a pair of engagers located 180.degree. apart. 10. An apparatus as set forth in claim 9, wherein the detent structure allows for 540.degree. rotation of the at least one member. 11. An apparatus for limiting rotation in a robotic arm mechanism which provides .theta.-rotational motion about a Z-axis, the improvement comprising: a stop structure carried by the arm mechanism and rotating with the arm mechanism with .theta.-rotational motion about the Z-axis, the stop structure comprising a detent engagement structure; and a stop member adjacent to the stop structure and positioned to become engaged to be rotated thereby, the stop member being mounted for free rotation about an axis parallel to the Z-axis, the stop member defining a plurality of detents separated from one another, each detent receiving the detent engagement structure as the detent engagement structure rotates in a first direction about the Z-axis and to be contacted and impelled to rotate by the detent engagement structure; biasing means for biasing a first portion of the stop member to deter rotation thereof, the biasing means being overcome by action of the detent engagement structure against one of said plurality of detents; and a stationary member adjacent the stop member, the stationary member engagable with a second portion of the stop member to halt rotation of the stop member beyond a selected rotational position thereof and to act through the stop member to stop rotation of the apparatus about the Z-axis. 12. An apparatus as set forth in claim 11, wherein the detent engagement structure and the detent structure are so constructed and positioned as to allow rotation of the robotic arm mechanism about the Z-axis of greater than 360.degree.. 13. An apparatus as set forth in claim 12, wherein the detent engagement structure comprises a pair of engagers located 180.degree. apart. 14. An apparatus as set forth in claim 13, wherein the detent structure allows for 540.degree. rotation of the robotic arm mechanism. 15. An apparatus as set forth in claim 12, wherein the detent structure allows for 1080.degree. rotation of the robotic arm mechanism. 