A system for providing haptic information to a human operator. The system utilizes display devices that dynamically convey touch sensations to the human operator, thereby creating various tactile sensations such as texture and slippage. The system can combine multiple display devices as needed in order to create a specified sense.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for creating a complex tactile sensation that is sensed by a hand of a human operator, the apparatus comprising: (a) an articulating device dimensioned and constructed for receiving the hand of said operator, said articulating device including means for detecting a position and an orientation of said hand, and means for encoding the position and the orientation as data; (b) means associated with the articulating device for sensing a force produced by the hand and producing a force signal in response thereto that is indicative of the force; (c) computation means electrically coupled to the articulating device to receive said data and said force signal, said computation means calculating a set of commands based thereon; and (d) at least two display means for producing said complex tactile sensation, said display means receiving said set of commands from the computation means and producing said complex tactile sensation for the hand in response thereto. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the computation means is further adapted to contain a sensory model, said computation means further adapted to calculate said set of commands based on said data points and said sensory model. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said at least two display means comprises at least one slip display. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said at least two display means comprises at least one texture display. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said at least two display means comprises at least one force display. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said at least two display means comprises at least one temperature display. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said at least two display means comprises at least one vibration display. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said at least two display means comprises at least one shape display. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said at least two display means comprises at least one motion display. 10. A method for creating a complex tactile sensation that is sensed by a hand of a user, comprising the steps of: (a) detecting a position and a movement of the hand and producing a data signal indicative of the position and the orientation of the hand; (b) sensing a force produced by the hand and producing a force signal indicative of said force; (c) producing a set of commands as a function of the data signal and the force signal; and (d) applying the complex tactile sensation to the hand, said sensation being created by a plurality of display means that are controlled by the set of commands. 