Method and apparatus for synthesizing biopolymers, such as polypeptides and polynucleotides. The apparatus includes plural reaction vessels in which subunit coupling to biopolymers in a particle suspension is carried out. The vessels are connected to common valving structure for use in mixing the suspension and removing suspension liquid. In one embodiment, a robotic arm in the apparatus is operable to transfer reaction solution to the reaction vessels, and to transfer particle suspensions from the reaction vessels to a mixing vessel and back to the reaction vessels. The method can be used to produce preferably equi-molar amounts of different-sequence biopolymers, such as polypeptides and polynucleotides.
Claims It is claimed: 1. A method of synthesis of a mixture of different-sequence biopolymers, comprising the steps of distributing to each of a plurality of reaction vessels a particle suspension composed of a suspension of solid-phase particles, derivatized with particle-bound biopolymer terminal subunits, in a suspension solution, coupling a selected subunit to the particle-bound terminal subunits in each reaction vessel by successively adding to and removing from the particles in each vessel: (a) a reaction solution containing a selected subunit in a form effective to couple the subunit to said biopolymer terminal subunits, and (b) a volume of said suspension solution in which the particles are suspended, thereby forming a further particle suspension, withdrawing from each vessel a selected volume of said suspension, mixing the withdrawn suspensions to form a new particle suspension mixture, and repeating said distributing, coupling, withdrawing, and mixing steps, wherein said suspension solution is substantially isopycnic with said particles, and said particle suspensions thereby have a stable, substantially uniform particle density. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the particles are polystyrene particles, and the suspension solution includes dimethylformamide (DMF) and methylene chloride in substantially equal volume amounts. 3. The method of claim 1, for use in preparing substantially equal molar amounts of the different-sequence biopolymers, wherein the particle suspensions which are withdrawn from the vessels contain substantially equal molar amounts of biopolymers on the particles. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said coupling, withdrawing, and mixing steps are repeated until biopolymers of a desired number of subunits are formed on the particles. 5. The method of claim 1, for producing substantially equimolar amounts of polypeptides, wherein said terminal subunits bound to the particles are N-protected N-terminal amino acid residues, and said selected subunit added to each reaction vessel is an N-protected amino acid. 6. A method of synthesizing a mixture of biopolymers having different selected subunits at selected subunit positions, comprising the steps of forming a particle-suspension mixture composed of a suspension of solid-phase particles derivatized with different terminal particle-bound biopolymer subunits in a suspension solution, distributing selected volumes of said mixture into a plurality of separate reaction vessels, coupling a different selected subunit to the particle-bound terminal subunits in each reaction vessel, mixing the suspensions in the plural reaction vessels to form a new particle suspension mixture composed of a suspension of solid-phase particles derivatized with different terminal particle-bound biopolymer subunits, and repeating said distributing, coupling, and mixing steps for each subunit position at which different selected subunits are desired, wherein said suspension solution is substantially isopycnic with said particles, such that said particle suspensions have a stable, substantially uniform particle density. 7. The method of claim 6, for use in synthesizing substantially equimolar amounts of polypeptides having different selected amino acids at one or more selected amino acid positions, wherein said particle suspension mixture which is distributed into the reaction vessels contains substantially equimolar amounts of the derivatized biopolymer on the particles, and said coupling is carried out under conditions in which the coupling to the terminal subunits is substantially complete. 8. The method of claim 7, for use in determining the effect of amino acid substitutions at selected residue positions on a given activity of a known-sequence polypeptide, wherein the polypeptides are synthesized to include the known-sequence polypeptide and analogs thereof having selected amino acid substitutions at selected residues positions, and which further includes assaying the synthesized polypeptides for the given activity. 9. The method of claim 7, for producing a polypeptide having a selected binding activity to a receptor, wherein (a) at least about 10 different amino acids are coupled to the derivatized terminal amino acids at each coupling step, and (b) said repeating step is carried out at least 5 times. 10. The method of claim 6, wherein the particles are polystyrene particles, and the suspension solution includes dimethylformamide (DMF) and methylene chloride in substantially equal volume amounts. 