In a system and method for use in endoscopy and endosurgery, at least one link is pivotally connected between first and second cannulas through which first and second endoscopic devices are inserted into a body part through first and second points of entry in the surface of the body part. Angular movement of the first device about the first point of entry induces angular movement of the second device about the second point of entry. When the first and second devices are respectively an endosurgical instrument and an endoscope, the field of view of the endoscope is caused to track the moving tip of the endosurgical instrument by proper adjustment of the linkage. Thereby, a surgeon may operate an endoscopic surgical instrument while, without conscious effort, the endoscope tracks the instrument tip. According to one embodiment, coupling members are utilized to connect to cannulas of existing design. Each coupling member comprises a structural member provided with means for pivotal coupling and a clasp mechanism rigidly attached to the structural member. Each cannula is inserted through, and thereupon tightly gripped by, the clasp mechanism prior to insertion of the cannula into the body part. Pivotal connections are made between the link member and the structural member. Linkage components of adjustable span and configuration enable effective tracking for endoscopic devices of differing designs. Means are provided to control the degree of insertion of the endoscope into the body part, either by manual operation or by a remotely controlled motor drive. Endoscope cables are supported by a cable support that substantially prevents the weight and drag of the endoscope cables from impeding the surgeon's dexterous use of the linked endosurgical instrument.
Claims I claim: 1. An apparatus for effecting the motion of a first endoscopic device operating through a first cannula in response to the motion of a second endoscopic device operating through a second cannula comprising: a first pivot fixed with respect to the first cannula; a second pivot fixed with respect to the second cannula; a link member connected between the first and second pivots. 2. An apparatus as recited in claim 1 further comprising a coupling member for coupling the link member to the first cannula, the coupling member including: a structural member; a clasp for securing the structural member to the first cannula; and wherein the first pivot pivotally couples the link member to the structural member. 3. An apparatus as recited in claim 2 wherein the first pivot includes a pivot axle on the structural member, sized for reception within a cylindrical bore in the link member. 4. An apparatus as recited in claim 2 wherein the first pivot includes a pivot axle extending from the link member, sized for reception within a cylindrical bore in the structural member. 5. An apparatus as recited in claim 2 wherein the clasp comprises a tubular member capable of expanding in diameter to receive a cannula and contracting in diameter to secure the cannula. 6. An apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein the link member includes a length adjusting mechanism for facilitating changing the length of the link member. 7. An apparatus as recited in claim 6 wherein the link member includes a pair of half-links and the length adjustment mechanism includes a third pivot connected between the pair of half-links such that the half-links operate in a scissors-like manner. 8. An apparatus as recited in claim 6 wherein the length adjusting mechanism includes a motor for remote control of the link member length. 9. An apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein the first and second pivots substantially inhibit displacement of the cannula axes relative to each other in a direction normal to the plane of pivotal motion. 10. An apparatus as recited in claim 1 further comprising a spacer to space the first pivot away from the first cannula. 11. An apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein the link member includes a rotation mechanism for inclining the axis of the first pivot with respect to the axis of the second pivot. 12. An apparatus as recited in claim 1 further comprising an engagement mechanism fixed with respect to the first cannula for controlling the degree of insertion of the first endoscopic device received within the first cannula. 13. An apparatus as recited in claim 12 wherein the engagement mechanism is a releasable clamp. 14. An apparatus as recited in claim 12 wherein the engagement mechanism incorporates a friction drive wheel to advance and withdraw the device and a control knob suitable for manual operation of the drive wheel. 15. An apparatus as recited in claim 12 wherein the engagement mechanism incorporates a friction drive wheel to advance and withdraw the device and a motor to rotate the drive wheel. 16. An apparatus as recited in claim 1 further comprising a cable support mechanism to reduce the extent to which the weight and drag of endoscope cables are reflected through the linkage to the handle of an endosurgical instrument. 17. An apparatus as recited in claim 2 further comprising a spacer to space the first pivot away from the structural member. 18. A method of endoscopic operation comprising the steps of: inserting first and second cannulas respectively through first and second insertion points in the surface of a body part; pivotally coupling at least one link member between the first cannula and the second cannula; inserting a first endoscopic device through the first cannula; inserting a second endoscopic device through the second cannula; operating the first endoscopic device by causing its longitudinal axis to move angularly about the first insertion point, thereby causing the second endoscopic device to undergo angular movements about the second insertion point. 19. The method of claim 17 wherein the first endoscopic device is an endosurgical instrument. 20. The method of claim 18 wherein the second endoscopic device is an endoscope. 21. A method for enabling the movement of a first endoscopic device operating through a first cannula inserted through the surface of a body part in response to the movement of a second endoscopic device operating through a second cannula inserted through the surface of the same body part by means of the establishment of a four-bar linkage wherein one of the link elements is a segment of the surface of the body part, comprising the steps of: inserting the first cannula through the body part at a first location on its surface; inserting the second cannula through the body part at a second location on its surface; pivotally connecting a link member between the first and second cannulas at a location on each cannula displaced from the body part surface. 22. An apparatus for effecting the motion of a first endoscopic device operating through a first aperture in the surface of a body part in response to the motion of a second endoscopic device operating through a second aperture in the surface of a same body part, comprising at least one link member pivotally connected between first and second insertion tubes, wherein each insertion tube is sized to receive an associated endosurgical device and includes a stopper for preventing the insertion tube from entering the body part through its associated aperture. 