A novel process for creating aesthetically pleasing multicolor designs and patterns in cast materials, particularly cementitious materials, which may be used to imitate natural stone in appearance. The process includes the steps of preparing multiple colors of the casting material, geometrically loading these colors in a three dimensional array in a holding container according to formulas corresponding to particular patterns to be created, placing the geometrically loaded colors into a mold by means which include pouring, extruding and spraying, consolidating the mixtures in the mold and allowing them to set, and removing the cast structure from the mold followed by polishing and sealing if required. A removable matrix in the holding container provides the ability to reliably repeat patterns according to the loading formulas.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for creating multicolor designs and patterns in cast articles comprising the steps of: a) preparing a mold to receive casting mixtures; b) preparing at least two wet casting mixtures of different colors at a viscosity to facilitate even pouring thereof; c) providing a formula setting forth a horizontal and vertical geometric arrangement for loading said casting mixtures into a container and providing a container therefor and loading said casting mixtures into said container according to said formula; d) transferring said loaded mixtures from said container to said mold, and; e) consolidating said mixtures in said mold into a physically uniform mass and allowing said mass to set; whereby a cast article is formed having a color pattern therein which pattern is determined by said formula by which said casting mixtures are loaded into said container. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said consolidating step comprises applying low frequency, high amplitude shock waves to said mold. 3. The method of claim 2 further comprising removing said set mass from said mold and finishing a surface thereof. 4. The method of claim 1 further comprising providing a removable matrix in said container which subdivides said container, and loading said casting mixtures into said subdivided container according to said formula wherein said formula is keyed to said subdivided arrangement of said container provided by said matrix. 5. The method of claim 4 further comprising removing said matrix after loading said container. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein said loaded mixtures are transferred to said mold by pouring from said container. 7. The method of claim 6 further comprising providing a pouring chamber removably attachable to said container and having a plurality of baffles defining a path through which said loaded mixtures pass upon pouring, and pouring said loaded mixtures from said container through said pouring chamber into said mold, whereby said geometrically loaded mixtures flow around said baffles in a predictable manner to create said color pattern in said mold. 8. The method of claim 5 wherein said loaded mixtures are transferred to said mold by extruding. 9. The method of claim 5 wherein said loaded mixtures are transferred to said mold by spraying. 10. The method of claim 4 comprising removing said matrix from said container, providing a nozzle at one end of said container and a driven piston at an opposite end of said container and driving said piston into said container whereby said loaded mixtures are extruded through said nozzle into said mold. 11. A method for casting multicolored cement based casting mixtures and controlling said patterning thereof, comprising: a) preparing a mold to receive wet cement based casting mixtures; b) preparing at least two wet cement based casting mixtures having different colors; c) providing a container having a removable matrix subdividing said container into at least two subchambers; d) loading said mixtures into said container in a three dimensional geometric pattern according to said matrix and a repeatable formula devised therefor; e) removing said matrix from said container and attaching a baffled pouring aperture to said container, and; f) transferring said mixtures from said container to said mold through said pouring aperture whereby said baffled pouring aperture causes said mixtures to flow and combine in a predictable manner for controlling said patterning of said multicolored cement based casting mixtures. 12. The method of claim 11 further comprising consolidating said mixtures in said mold by application of low frequency, high amplitude shock waves to said mold. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein said container comprises a flexible bladder from which said mixtures are extruded through said aperture. 14. The method of claim 12 wherein said container comprises a rigid cylinder having a piston therein whereby said mixtures are extruded through said aperture. 15. The method of claim 12 wherein said container comprises a tiltable chamber with said baffled pouring aperture attached at one end whereby, when said matrix is removed, said chamber is tilted to pour said mixtures therefrom through said baffled pouring aperture. 16. A method for producing reproducible colored and patterned cement based castings which simulate natural stone, comprising; a) preparing two or more differently colored wet cement based mixtures at a viscosity whereby said mixtures are pourable but resist combining when placed against each other; b) providing a predetermined formula setting forth amounts and arrangements whereby said mixtures are to be loaded into a container to form a geometrically loaded bulk mix and a container therefor; c) loading said mixtures into said container at geometrically predetermined positions both vertically and horizontally within said container and in specific amounts according to said formula thereby forming said geometrically loaded bulk mix; d) transferring said geometrically loaded bulk mix from said container into a prepared form, and; e) allowing said mixtures to set; whereby a casting formed by said method has a color pattern simulating natural stone which corresponds to and is determined by said formula. 17. The method of claim 16 further comprising applying low frequency, high amplitude shock waves to said form to consolidate said mixtures. 18. The method of claim 17 comprising aiding said geometric loading of said mixtures in said container by providing a removable matrix temporarily subdividing said container into which said different colored mixtures are placed according to said formula, and wherein said matrix is removed from said container after loading of said mixtures and prior to transferring said bulk mix into said form. 19. The method of claim 17 further comprising providing a blending apparatus on said container and transferring said bulk mix by pouring from said container through said blending apparatus whereby said bulk mix is partially blended during pouring and wherein said partial blending is substantially predictable according to said viscosity of said mixtures and fluid characteristics thereof. 20. The method of claim 19 wherein said blending apparatus comprises a pouring lip on said container, said pouring lip having a fixed geometry. 21. The method of claim 19 wherein said blending apparatus comprises a pouring nozzle attachable to said container, said pouring nozzle comprising a plurality of baffles defining a specific flow pathway for said bulk mix. 22. The method of claim 16 wherein said predetermined formula specifies an order, location and amount of each of said cement mixtures to be loaded in said container. 23. A method for preparing multicolored mixes of castable materials, transferring said mixes to a mold, and producing cast articles having a pattern simulating natural stone from said mixes of said castable materials, wherein said method comprises loading individual colors of prepared castable materials into a container in a geometric, three dimensional, horizontal and vertical array according to a predetermined formula for said pattern, providing a removable matrix subdividing said container into an array of subchambers corresponding to said predetermined formula and into which said castable materials are loaded to form said geometric, three-dimensional, horizontal and vertical array according to said formula, and transferring said loaded castable materials from said container to said mold in a manner calculated to produce said pattern in said cast article, whereby said method renders production of said pattern controllable and reproducible in a plurality of said cast articles. 24. The method of claim 23 further comprising removing said matrix from said container after loading with said castable materials and before transferring. 25. The method of claim 23 wherein said castable materials are transferred by pouring from said container. 26. The method of claim 23 wherein said castable materials are transferred from said container by extruding. 27. The method of claim 23 wherein said castable materials are transferred from said container by spraying. 28. The method of claim 25 whereby said pattern produced in said cast article simulates marble. 29. The method of claim 26 whereby said pattern produced in said cast article resembles sandstone. 30. The method of claim 27 whereby said pattern produced in said cast article resembles granite. 