A robotic wafer handler has first and second arms pivotally connected at a swing point to operate in a plane. Each arm is independently drivable through greater than 360.degree. of rotation in the plane. The wafer handler may also include mechanisms for adjusting the plane of rotation, i.e., for providing lift and tilt.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic wafer handler comprising: a first drive mechanism; a first arm portion coupled to said first drive mechanism, and drivable by said first drive mechanism through 360 degrees of rotation; a second drive mechanism; a second arm portion coupled to said second drive mechanism, and pivotally engaged with said first arm portion, said second arm portion drivable by said second drive mechanism through more than 360 degrees of rotation with respect to said first arm portions; a lift mechanism coupled to said first arm portion, said lift mechanism functioning to vertically lift said first and second arm portions along a vertical axis; and a tilt mechanism coupled to said first arm portion, said tilt mechanism functioning to tilt said first and second arm portions. 2. The robotic wafer handler of claim 1, wherein said first and second arm portions substantially rotate in a plane. 3. The robotic wafer handler of claim 1, further including a lateral linear motion assembly coupled to said first arm portion, said lateral linear motion assembly functioning to move said first arm portion along an axis orthogonal to the vertical axis. 4. The robotic wafer handler of claim 3, wherein said second arm portion includes a laminated structure with an end effector. 5. The robotic wafer handler of claim 4, wherein said second arm portion includes holes and channels through which a gaseous material may be drawn. 6. The robotic wafer handler of claim 5, wherein said end effector includes a banker. 7. The robotic wafer handler of claim 6, wherein said first drive mechanism includes a motor coupled to said first arm portion. 8. The robotic wafer handler of claim 7, wherein said second drive mechanism includes a motor driven shaft driving a belt that rotates said second arm portion. 9. The robotic wafer handler of claim 8, wherein said lateral linear motion assembly includes a drive belt engaged with a plurality of cog pulleys. 10. The robotic wafer handler of claim 9, wherein said lift mechanism includes an eccentric drive mechanism. 11. The robotic wafer handler of claim 10, wherein said tilt mechanism includes an eccentric drive mechanism. 12. The robotic wafer handler of claim 11, further including position sensors for measuring relative positions of first and second arm portion rotation, and rotary motion assembly lift, tilt and lateral linear position. 13. The robotic wafer handler of claim 12, further including a motion control system. 14. A rotary assembly for collecting and depositing semiconductor wafers in a wafer processing system, comprising: a first arm portion having first and second ends; a second arm portion having first and second ends, said first end of said first arm portion pivotally connected to said first end of said second arm portion such that first and second arm portions are independently rotatable through more than 360 degrees of rotation, said second end of said second arm potion formed to accept wafers for transport; a base member coupled to said first arm portion; a first beam having first and second distal ends, said first beam pivotally coupled to said base member at said first end and coupled to an anchor at said second end; a second beam having first and second distal ends, said second beam pivotally coupled to said base member at said first end and coupled to an anchor at said second end; a first eccentric drive mechanism including a first asymmetrically rotatable wheel having an edge disposed against said first beam; and a second eccentric drive mechanism including a second asymmetrically rotatable wheel coupled to said second beam, whereby said first and second arm portions may be lifted, tilted, and simultaneously lifted and tilted through rotation of said first and second asymmetrically rotatable wheels. 15. The robotic wafer handler of claim 14, including a first rotational drive mechanism with a motor coupled to said first arm portion, said first rotational drive mechanism operative to rotate said first arm portion with respect to said second arm portion. 16. The robotic wafer handler of claim 15, including a second rotational drive mechanism with a motor driven shaft which drives a belt that is coupled to and rotates said second arm portion. 17. The robotic wafer handler of claim 16, further including an encoder disposed proximate to, and operationally engaged with said motor driven shaft. 18. A method of transporting wafers from a starting point to a destination point in a wafer fabrication system by employing a robot having first and second linked arm portions, comprising the steps of: positioning the second arm portion below a wafer at the starting point; securing the wafer to the second arm portion by applying a vacuum through the second arm portion; tilting the second arm portion away from the starting point; rotating said first arm portion with respect to said second arm portion pivotally connected to said first arm portion; and rotating said second arm portion with respect to said first arm portion. 19. The method of claim 18, further including moving said first and second arm portions laterally. 20. The method of claim 19, further including lifting said first and second arm portions. 