A process module which can be integrated with a reduced pressure cluster tool system for semiconductor wafer processing to perform ambient or near ambient pressure reactions without requiring an intermediate buffer chamber. The process module includes: a housing defining an evacuatable containment chamber; an evacuation system for evacuating the containment chamber to a pressure below ambient pressure; a process chamber in the interior of the housing adapted for performing a process operation on a substrate, at an operating pressure substantially above that of the pressure of the containment chamber, and including a substrate access port openable to the containment chamber, the substrate access port, when closed, isolating said process chamber from said containment chamber so that said containment chamber may be maintained at a lower pressure than the process chamber pressure during performance of said process operation, and the substrate access port, when opened to the containment chamber, permitting said evacuation means to evacuate the process chamber and the containment chamber to the same pressure. A control system is provided which is operable to cause said access port to open and close, to operate said evacuation means and to perform said process operation according to a predetermined processing sequence.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A process module for a cluster tool, the cluster tool comprising a handler unit, the handler unit including: a process module mating surface comprising an openable entry port; an interior compartment accessible through said entry port and maintained at a pressure below ambient pressure; and a transfer tool within the handler adapted to transport a processing substrate into and out of the handler via the entry port, the process module comprising: a housing adapted to be mounted on said mating surface of the cluster tool handler, the housing, when so mounted, defining an evacuatable containment chamber; evacuation means for evacuating the containment chamber to a pressure at or below the pressure of the handler interior compartment; and a process chamber in the interior of the housing adapted for performing a process operation on the substrate at an operating pressure substantially above that of the pressure of the interior compartment of the handler, the process chamber being spaced apart from said entry port by at least a portion of the containment chamber, and the process chamber further including an access port openable to the containment chamber, the access port being aligned with the entry port of the handler and sized to permit entry of said transfer tool and said substrate, whereby when both the entry port and the access port are opened, the transfer tool may transfer the substrate between the process chamber and the handler through said portion of the containment chamber, the access port, when closed, isolating said process chamber from said containment chamber so that said containment chamber may be maintained at a lower pressure than the process chamber pressure during performance of said process operation, and the access port, when opened to the containment chamber while the handler entry port is closed, permitting said evacuation means to evacuate the process chamber to a pressure at or below the pressure of the handler. 2. A process module as in claim 1 further comprising a control system operable to independently cause said handler entry port and said process chamber access port to open and close, to operate said evacuation means and to perform said process operation according to a preselected processing sequence. 3. A process module as in claim 2 wherein said control system is configured to perform a preselected processing sequence comprising the sequential steps of: (a) opening the process chamber access port; (b) evacuating the containment chamber and the process chamber to a first preselected pressure at or below the handler pressure; (c) opening the handler entry port; (d) operating the handler tool to transfer a substrate from the handler interior compartment to the processing chamber; (e) closing the entry and access ports; (f) performing a said processing operation on said substrate at a pressure above the pressure of the handler interior compartment; (g) opening the process chamber access port; (h) evacuating the containment chamber and the process chamber to a second preselected pressure at or below the handler pressure, which may be the same or different than said first preselected pressure; (i) opening the handler entry port; and (j) operating the handler tool to transfer the substrate from the processing chamber to the handler interior compartment. 4. A process module as in claim 3 further comprising an auxiliary evacuation means for reducing the pressure in the process chamber to a pressure between the process operating pressure and the pressure of the containment chamber while the access port is closed and wherein said processing sequence includes the further steps of: reducing the pressure in the process chamber to a pressure between the process operating pressure and the pressure of the containment chamber prior to said step (a) and reducing the pressure in the process chamber to a pressure between the process operating pressure and the pressure of the containment chamber between said step (f) and said step (g). 5. A process module as in claim 3 wherein in step (b) said first preselected pressure is below the handler pressure and the processing sequence further includes the step of backfilling the containment chamber and process chamber to the handler pressure with dry inert gas between step (b) and step (c). 6. A process module as in claim 5 wherein in step (h) said second preselected pressure is below the handler pressure and the processing sequence further includes the step of backfilling the containment chamber and process chamber to the handler pressure with dry inert gas between step (h) and step (i). 7. A process module as in claim 1 further comprising an auxiliary evacuation means for reducing the pressure in the process chamber to a pressure between the process operating pressure and the pressure of the containment chamber while the access port is closed. 8. A process module as in claim 7 wherein said process chamber includes liquid fluid supply means for supplying liquid process fluids to said process tool, and liquid removal means for removing the liquid process fluids from said process chamber while the access port is closed. 9. A process module as in claim 8 wherein the liquid removal means includes a liquid collection trough at the bottom of the chamber during processing, and isolatable from the chamber after processing while the access port is closed. 10. A process module as in claim 9 wherein the process chamber includes a rotatable substrate support holding the substrate in the chamber during processing and operable to spin-dry the substrate. 11. A process module as in claim 8 wherein said liquid supply means includes means for supplying an aqueous liquid. 12. A method of operating a process module as in claim 1 comprising the steps of: (a) opening the process chamber access port; (b) evacuating the containment chamber and the process chamber to a first preselected pressure at or below the handler pressure; (c) opening the handler entry port; (d) operating the handler tool to transfer a substrate from the handler interior compartment to the processing chamber; (e) closing the entry and access ports; (f) performing a said processing operation on said substrate at a pressure above the pressure of the handler interior compartment; (g) opening the process chamber access port; (h) evacuating the containment chamber and the process chamber to a second preselected pressure at or below the handler pressure, which may be the same or different than said first preselected pressure; (i) opening the handler entry port; and (j) operating the handler tool to transfer the substrate from the processing chamber to the handler interior compartment. 13. A process as in claim 12 further comprising the steps of: reducing the pressure in the process chamber to a pressure between the process operating pressure and the pressure of the containment chamber prior to said step (a) and reducing the pressure in the process chamber to a pressure between the process operating pressure and the pressure of the containment chamber between said step (f) and said step (g). 14. A process as in claim 12 wherein in step (b) said first preselected pressure is below the handler pressure and the process further comprises the step of backfilling the containment chamber and process chamber to the handler pressure with dry inert gas between step (b) and step (c). 15. A process as in claim 14 wherein in step (h) said second preselected pressure is below the handler pressure and the process further comprises the step of backfilling the containment chamber and process chamber to the handler pressure with dry inert gas between step (h) and step (i). 16. A process module comprising: a housing defining an evacuatable containment chamber; evacuation means for evacuating the containment chamber to a pressure below ambient pressure; and a process chamber in the interior of the housing adapted for performing a process operation on a substrate at an operating pressure substantially above that of the pressure of the containment chamber, and including a substrate access port openable to the containment chamber, the substrate access port, when closed, isolating said process chamber from said containment chamber so that said containment chamber may be maintained at a lower pressure than the process chamber pressure during performance of said process operation, and the substrate access port, when opened to the containment chamber while the handler interior port is closed, permitting said evacuation means to evacuate the process chamber and the containment chamber to the same pressure. 17. A process module as in claim 16 further comprising a control system operable to cause said access port to open and close, to operate said evacuation means and to perform said process operation according to a preselected processing sequence. 18. A process module as in claim 16 further comprising an auxiliary evacuation means for reducing the pressure in the process chamber to a pressure between the process operating pressure and the pressure of the containment chamber while the substrate access port is closed. 19. A process module as in claim 18 wherein said process chamber includes liquid fluid supply means for supplying liquid process fluids to said process tool, and liquid removal means for removing the liquid process fluids from said process chamber while the substrate access port is closed. 20. A process module as in claim 19 wherein the liquid removal means includes a liquid collection trough at the bottom of the chamber during processing, and isolatable from the chamber after processing while the substrate access port is closed. 21. A process module as in claim 20 wherein the process chamber includes a rotatable substrate support holding the substrate in the chamber during processing and operable to centrifugally dry the substrate. 