An improved automatic MIG welding torch assembly for use in automated welding environments includes a locking feature to provide an anti-rotational fit between a power adapter and a conductive inner body tube of a welding torch. The conductive inner body tube has a hollow body and a hexagonal shaped external circumference extending along at least a portion of the body tube. An outer tube for use in an automatic MIG welding assembly has a hollow body with at least one end having a polygonal cross-section. A pitch rack is detachably connected to the outer tube with at least two non-threaded fasteners. The outer body tube may also include a smoke exhaust integrally connected to the tube. Improved methods for assembling an automatic MIG welding torch and manufacturing the integral smoke exhaust are also provided.
Claims We claim: 1. An automatic MIG welding torch assembly for use in automated welding environments comprising: an outer tube; a conductive inner body tube positioned inside the outer tube, said inner body tube having a power connection end and a welding tip end; at least one insulator positioned between the outer tube and the inner body tube; and a locking mechanism located at the power connection end of the inner body tube for securably and releasably connecting the inner body tube to a power adapter, said locking mechanism having a lock ring removably positioned around a connection formed by the power connection end and the power adapter and a lock ring bushing slidably movable in an axial direction along the conductive inner body tube and sized to frictionally fit over the lock ring. 2. The automatic MIG welding torch of claim 1 wherein the lock ring comprises two sections. 3. The automatic MIG welding torch of claim 2 wherein the two sections form a ring having an inner diameter designed to fit over the connection between the power connection end of the inner body tube and the power adapter. 4. The automatic MIG welding torch of claim 3 wherein the power connection end of the inner body tube and an end of the power adapter form a recessed circumferential area at the connection between the power adapter and the power connection end of the inner body tube for receiving the locking ring. 5. The automatic MIG welding torch of claim 4 wherein the recessed circumferential area comprises a hexagonal shape and the inner diameter of the lock ring is a hexagonal shape adapted to fit within the recessed circumferential area. 6. The automatic MIG welding torch of claim 2 wherein the lock ring bushing further comprises a lock ring receiving section for receiving the lock ring in a frictional fit whereby an anti-rotational connection is maintained between the inner body tube and the power adapter. 7. The automatic MIG welding torch assembly of claim 1, wherein the at least one insulator maintains an air gap between the outer tube and the inner body tube. 8. The automatic MIG welding torch assembly of claim 7, wherein the air gap comprises a circumferential air gap between the outer tube and the inner body tube and extending along at least a portion of a length of the inner body tube. 9. The automatic MIG welding torch assembly of claim 7, wherein the air gap further comprises a longitudinal air gap extending along at least a portion of a length of the inner body tube. 10. The automatic MIG welding torch assembly of claim 1 further comprising a threaded nipple for connecting the power connection end of the inner body tube to the power adapter. 11. The automatic MIG welding torch assembly of claim 1, wherein the at least one insulator comprises a first spacer constructed from an insulating material, the first spacer positioned at the power connection end of the inner body tube, and a second spacer constructed from an insulating material, the second spacer positioned at the welding tip end of the inner body tube. 12. A conductive inner body tube for use in an automatic MIG welding assembly, said inner body tube comprising: a hollow body having a power connection end and a welding tip connector on an opposite end; and said hollow body also having an inner circumference extending axially from the power connection end to the welding tip connector and a non-circular shaped external circumference extending along at least a portion of the inner body tube. 13. The conductive inner body tube of claim 12 wherein the non-circular shaped external circumference is hexagonal. 14. The inner body tube of claim 12 wherein the power connection end further comprises an internally threaded area for receiving a power adapter and an area of reduced diameter defining a recessed area on the external circumference of the inner body tube. 15. The inner body tube of claim 12 wherein the welding tip connector further comprises an externally threaded portion for connecting to a head and a nozzle and an annular groove for receiving a retaining ring. 16. The inner body tube of claim 12 further comprising an anti-spatter gas port connecting the inner circumference to the external circumference of the inner body tube. 17. The inner body tube of claim 16 further comprising a shielding gas port connecting the inner circumference to the external circumference of the body tube. 18. The inner body tube of claim 12, wherein the welding tip end further comprises a welding tip connector for connecting to a head and a nozzle, and wherein the welding tip end further comprises an annular groove for receiving a retaining ring. 19. The inner body tube of claim 12, wherein the power connection end further comprises an internally threaded area for receiving a cable end fitting assembly, and wherein the power connection end further comprises an area of reduced diameter defining a recessed area on the external circumference of the inner body tube. 20. In an automatic MIG welding assembly comprising a conductive inner body tube having at least one electrical insulator, the electrical insulator having a polygonal outer circumference and positioned around an outer circumference of the conductive inner body tube, an outer tube comprising: a hollow body having a substantially cylindrical shape and two open ends, the hollow body configured to receive the conductive inner body tube and the electrical insulator; and at least one of the open ends having a polygonal cross-section wherein the outer tube forms an anti-rotational fit over the polygonal outer circumference of the electrical insulator positioned inside the outer tube. 21. The outer tube of claim 20 further comprising a planar bevel extending longitudinally along the exterior portion of the outer tube for receiving a pitch rack. 22. The outer tube of claim 20 further comprising: a pitch rack mounted longitudinally on the exterior of the outer tube, said pitch rack detachably connected to the outer tube with at least two non-threaded fasteners. 23. The outer tube of claim 22 wherein the non-threaded fasteners are aluminum rivets. 24. The outer tube of claim 22 wherein the rivets are blind hole hammer-in aluminum rivets whereby a user may attach or detach the pitch rack with a hammer. 25. The outer tube of claim 22, wherein the at least two non-threaded fasteners are constructed of a non-magnetic metal material. 26. A method of assembling an automatic MIG torch by a user in the field comprising the steps of: attaching a power adapter to an inner body tube to form a connection; and securing a locking mechanism over the connection by placing a lock ring having two sections directly on the connection of the power adapter and the inner body tube, wherein the lock ring contacts the inner body tube and the power adapter, and sliding a lock ring bushing axially along the inner body tube to form a frictional fit over the lock ring. 27. The method of claim 25 further comprising the steps of; placing a spring against the locking mechanism; positioning a rear insulator housing against the spring; positioning an outer tube over the inner body tube and over at least a portion of the rear insulator housing; placing a front spacer between the inner body tube and the outer body tube; and placing a retaining fastener adjacent to the front spacer, whereby the automatic MIG torch is securely and releasably held together. 28. A method of attaching a pitch rack onto an outer tube of an automatic MIG welding torch assembly comprising the steps of: providing an outer tube, a pitch rack, and at least two non-threaded fasteners; aligning the pitch rack over receiving holes in the outer tube; and hammering the fasteners through the pitch rack and the outer tube whereby a secure and robust connection is formed between the pitch rack and outer tube. 29. An automatic MIG welding assembly comprising: an outer tube comprising a hollow body having a polygonal cross-section and two open ends; a conductive inner body tube coaxially disposed within the outer tube; and at least one insulator positioned between the outer tube and the inner body tube and maintaining a spaced relationship between the inner body tube and the outer tube. 