The porosity and integrity of a nonconductive material is determined using electron beams and electronic instrumentation. The electric corona discharge from holes in the nonconductive material is detected and analyzed in order to determine the presence of viral and sub-viral sized voids or holes, as well as other material anomalies such as blisters and bubbles.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A method for the non-destructive testing and detecting of at least one of a porosity and an anomaly in a material, comprising the steps of: (a) disposing the material on a conductive model; (b) generating a point-to-point effect by: (i) flowing an electron beam in an open atmosphere through a fluid cover gas between a first conductor point and a second conductor point through the porosity or the anomaly in the material, the second conductor point being formed on the conductive model at the porosity or the anomaly, and (i) resisting the flow of electrons to control the size of the electron beam sufficiently to prevent avalanche discharge; and (c) measuring at least one of an electric discharge and a change in an electric field with a sensor, thereby to detect the porosity or anomaly. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the conductive model is one of a mandrel, a plate, a roller, and a point. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the fluid cover gas is one of nitrogen, a noncombustible gas, a noble gas, and dehydrated air. 4. The method of claim 2 further comprising the step of: positioning one of the conductive model and the sensor using an automatic positioning device while flowing the electron beam. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein the automatic positioning device is one of a servo motor, a stepper motor, and a programmable positioning robot. 6. A method for the non-destructive testing and measuring of at least one of a porosity and an anomaly in a material, comprising the steps of: disposing the material on a conductive model; generating a point-to-point effect by flowing an electron beam between a first conductor point and a second conductor point through the porosity or the anomaly in the material, the second conductor point being formed on the conductive model at the porosity or the anomaly; and measuring at least one of an electric discharge and a change in an electric field with a sensor, further comprising the steps of: securing the material as a partition in a capsule; flushing a first side of the partition with an electrically charged conductive or neutral fluid; introducing a fluid cover gas from a second side of the partition; and the step of flowing the electron beam includes flowing the electron beam through the fluid cover gas between a source of the beam and the porosity or the anomaly in the material. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein the electrically charged conductive or neutral fluid is one of a noble gas, an alkaline gas, an acidic gas, a heated gas, and a conductive liquid. 8. The method of claim 6 wherein the fluid cover gas is one of nitrogen, a noncombustible gas, a noble gas, and dehydrated air. 9. The method of claim 6 further comprising the step of: positioning one of the capsule and the sensor using an automatic positioning device while flowing the electron beam. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein the automatic positioning device is one of a servo motor, a stepper motor, and a programmable positioning robot. 11. The method of claim 1 wherein the anomaly is one of a contaminant, a blister, a bubble, an uncatalyzed resin, an unblended resin, a low density material, a material having a weak molecular crosslinking strength, a high density material, an overlapping material, a formation defect and a stress fracture. 12. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of resisting the flow of electrons to control the size of the electron beam uses a focusing resistance means having a resistance value between 1 kiloohm and 1000 teraohms. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein the resistance value has a preferred range of 30 gigaohms to 90 gigaohms. 14. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of flowing the electron beam includes: flowing the electron beam between a dielectric material, disposed above the first conductor point, and the second conductor point through the porosity or the anomaly in the material. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein a field strength and angle attenuator ring is disposed around the second conductor point. 16. The method of claim 14 further comprising the step of: disposing the dielectric material between the material and the conductive model; and the step of flowing the electron beam includes flowing the electron beam through a first fluid cover gas between a source of the electron beam and the porosity or the anomaly in the material. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein the step of flowing the electron beam includes flowing the electron beam through a vacuum between the second conductor point and the dielectric material. 18. A method for the non-destructive testing and measuring of at least one of a porosity and an anomaly in a material, comprising the steps of: disposing the material on a conductive model; disposing a dielectric material between the material and the conductive model, the dielectric material being disposed above a first conductor point; and generating a point-to-point effect by flowing an electron beam between the first conductor point and a second conductor point through the porosity or the anomaly in the material, the second conductor point being formed on the conductive model at the porosity or the anomaly, wherein the step of flowing the electron beam includes: flowing the electron beam between the dielectric material and the second conductor point through theporosity or the anomaly in the material, flowing the electron beam through a first fluid cover gas between a source of the electron beam and the porosity or the anomaly in the material, and flowing the electron beam through a second fluid cover gas between the second conductor point and the dielectric material; and measuring at least one of an electric discharge and a change in an electric field with a sensor. 19. The method of claim 18 wherein each one of the first fluid cover gas and the second fluid cover gas is one of nitrogen, a noncombustible gas, a noble gas, and dehydrated air. 20. A method for the non-destructive testing and measuring of at least one of a porosity and an anomaly in a material, comprising the steps of: disposing the material on a conductive model; disposing a dielectric material between the material and the conductive model, the dielectric material being disposed above a first conductor point; and generating a point-to-point effect by flowing an electron beam between the first conductor point and a second conductor point through the porosity or the anomaly in the material, the second conductor point being formed on the conductive model at the porosity or the anomaly, wherein the step of flowing the electron beam includes: flowing the electron beam between the dielectric material and the second conductor point through theporosity or the anomaly in the material, flowing the electron beam through a first fluid cover gas between a source of the electron beam and the porosity or the anomaly in the material, and wherein the dielectric material is positioned between the first conductor point and the second conductor point; and measuring at least one of an electric discharge and a change in an electric field with a sensor. 21. A method for the non-destructive testing and measuring of at least one of a porosity and an anomaly in a material, comprising the steps of: disposing the material on a conductive model; disposing a dielectric material between the material and the conductive model, the dielectric material being disposed above a first conductor point; and generating a point-to-point effect by flowing an electron beam between the first conductor point and a second conductor point through the porosity or the anomaly in the material, the second conductor point being formed on the conductive model at the porosity or the anomaly, wherein the step of flowing the electron beam includes: flowing the electron beam between the dielectric material and the second conductor point through theporosity or the anomaly in the material, flowing the electron beam through a first fluid cover gas between a source of the electron beam and the porosity or the anomaly in the material, and wherein the dielectric material is one of a nylon screen and an anomaly-free dielectric film; and measuring at least one of an electric discharge and a change in an electric field with a sensor. 22. A method for the non-destructive testing and measuring of at least one of a porosity and an anomaly in a material, comprising the steps of: disposing the material on a conductive model; generating a point-to-point effect by: flowing an electron beam between a first conductor point and a second conductor point through the porosity or the anomaly in the material, the second conductor point being formed on the conductive model at the porosity or the anomaly, wherein the step of flowing the electron beam includes flowing the electron beam between a dielectric material, disposed above the first conductor point, and the second conductor point through theporosity or the anomaly in the material; and measuring at least one of an electric discharge and a change in an electric field with a sensor, further comprising the steps of: securing the material on the dielectric material as a partition in a capsule; flushing a first side of the partition with an electrically charged conductive or neutral fluid; introducing a cover gas from a second side of the partition; and the step of flowing the electron beam includes flowing the electron beam through the flow of the cover gas between a source of the electron beam and the porosity or the anomaly in the material. 23. An apparatus for the non-destructive testing and detecting of at least one of a porosity and an anomaly of a material, comprising: means for generating a point-to-point effect including: means for flowing an electron beam in an open atmosphere through a fluid cover gas between a first conductor point and a second conductor point through the porosity or the anomaly in the material, the material disposed on a conductive model, and the second conductor point being formed on the conductive model at the porosity or the anomaly, and focusing resistance means for controlling the beam size of the electron beam so as to prevent avalanche discharge; and sensor means for measuring at least one of an electric discharge and a change in an electric field, thereby to detect the porosity or anomaly. 24. The apparatus of claim 23 wherein the sensor means includes: an anode for attracting a plurality of electrons; a coil for detecting the plurality of electrons; and an ammeter for measuring a flow of current in the coil. 25. The apparatus of claim 23 comprising: wherein the anomaly is one of a contaminant, a blister, a bubble, an uncatalyzed resin, an unblended resin, a low density material, a material having a weak molecular crosslinking strength, a high density material, an overlapping material, formulation defect and a stress fracture, and wherein there exists an inverse relationship between the change in the electric field and the size of the porosity or the anomaly of the material. 26. The apparatus of claim 23 wherein the conductive model is one of a mandrel, a plate, a roller, and a point. 27. The apparatus of claim 23 wherein the fluid cover gas is one of nitrogen, a noncombustible gas, a noble gas, and dehydrated air. 28. The apparatus of claim 25 further comprising an automatic positioning device for positioning one of the conductive model and the sensor. 29. The apparatus of claim 28 wherein the automatic positioning device is one of a servo motor, a stepper motor, and a programmable robot. 30. The apparatus of claim 23 further comprising: a capsule in which the material is placed; means for flushing the capsule with an electrically charged conductive or neutral fluid; and means for flowing the electron beam through a fluid cover gas. 31. The apparatus of claim 30 wherein the electrically charged conductive or neutral fluid is one of a noble gas, an alkaline gas, an acidic gas, a heated gas, and a conductive liquid. 32. The apparatus of claim 30 wherein the fluid cover gas is one of nitrogen, a noncombustible gas, a noble gas, and dehydrated air. 33. The apparatus of claim 30 further comprising automatic positioning means for positioning the sensor. 34. The apparatus of claim 33 wherein the automatic positioning means is one of a servo motor, a stepper motor, and a programmable positioning robot. 35. The apparatus of claim 23 further comprising: means for flowing the electron beam between a dielectric material, disposed above the second conductor point, and the first conductor point through the porosity or the anomaly in the material. 36. The apparatus of claim 35 further comprising: field strength attenuator means disposed around the second conductor point for decreasing a field intensity of the electron beam. 37. An apparatus for the non-destructive testing and measuring of at least one of a porosity and an anomaly of a material, comprising: means for generating a point-to-point effect including means for flowing an electron beam between a first conductor point and a second conductor point through the porosity or the anomaly in the material, the material disposed on a conductive model, and the second conductor point being formed on the conductive model at the porosity or the anomaly; means for flowing the electron beam between a dielectric material, disposed above the second conductor point, and the first conductor point through the porosity or the anomaly in the material; and sensor means for measuring at least one of an electric discharge and a change in an electric field, further comprising: one of a dielectric screen and an anomaly-free dielectric film disposed between the material and the conductive model, the material being placed on the dielectric screen or the anomaly-free dielectric film, the dielectric material being the dielectric screen or the anomaly-free dielectric film; means for introducing a first fluid cover gas between the material and the first conductor point; and means for flowing the electron beam through the first fluid cover gas. 38. The apparatus of claim 37 wherein the dielectric material is nylon. 39. The apparatus of claim 37 further comprising: means for introducing a second fluid cover gas between a surface of the dielectric material and the second conductor point; and means for flowing the electron beam through the second fluid cover gas. 40. The apparatus of claim 39 wherein each one of the first fluid cover gas and second fluid cover gas is one of nitrogen, a noncombustible gas, a noble gas, and dehydrated air. 41. The apparatus of claim 37 wherein the dielectric material is positioned between the first conductor point and the second conductor point. 42. The apparatus of claim 41 further comprising: a capsule in which the material, secured on the dielectric material, is placed; and means for flushing the capsule with an electrically charged conductive or neutral fluid. 43. The apparatus of claim 37 further comprising: means for directing a draw of one of a vacuum and a partial vacuum from a surface of the dielectric material; and means for flowing the electron beam through the one of the vacuum and the partial vacuum. 44. The apparatus of claim 24 wherein the focusing resistance means has a resistance value between 1 kiloohm and 1000 teraohms. 45. The apparatus of claim 44 wherein the resistance value has a preferred range of 30 gigaohms to 90 gigaohms. 46. The method of claim 1 wherein the material is a dielectric bag having a conductive content. 47. The apparatus of claim 23 wherein the material is a dielectric bag having a conductive content. 48. The apparatus of claim 24 further comprising an electric field analyzer for measuring the change in the electric field. 49. A method for the non-destructive testing and measuring of the integrity of a material, comprising the steps of: placing the material on one of a conductive plate, a roller, a mandrel, a dielectric screen and an anomaly-free dielectric film; generating a point-to-point effect by flowing an electron beam through a fluid cover gas through at least one of a porosity and an anomaly in the material from the one of the conductive plate, the roller, the mandrel, the dielectric screen and the anomaly-free dielectric film to a conductor point; resisting the flow of electrons to control the size of the electron beam sufficiently to prevent avalanche discharge; measuring at least one of an electric discharge and a change in an electric field with a sensor; and measuring and analyzing at least one of a waveshape, a frequency and an amplitude change associated with the electric discharge or the change in the electric field with a signal analyzer. 50. An apparatus for the non-destructive testing and measuring of the integrity of a material, comprising: one of a conductive plate, a roller, a mandrel, a dielectric screen and an anomaly-free dielectric film on which the material is placed; means for generating a point-to-point effect including means for flowing an electron beam through a fluid cover gas from the one of the conductive plate, the roller, the mandrel, the dielectric screen and the anomaly-free dielectric film to a conductor point, and focusing resistance means for controlling the beam size of the electron beam; sensor means for measuring at least one of an electric discharge and a change in an electric field; and signal analyzer means for measuring and analyzing a change in at least one of amplitude, frequency and waveshape of the electric discharge or the change in the electric field. 