A flexible carrier tape used for protecting components while they are being transported, wherein the carrier tape comprises a strip portion having a component-receiving surface and first and second longitudinal edge surfaces. A plurality of walls extend from the component-receiving surface between the first and second longitudinal edge surfaces, and the walls extend longitudinally along the carrier tape. The carrier tape further comprises an adhesive on at least a portion of the component-receiving surface between at least one of the plurality of walls and one of the first and second longitudinal edge surfaces.
Claims The embodiments for which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows: 1. An elongated flexible carrier tape for transporting a plurality of components, the carrier tape having a length and comprising: a strip portion comprising a component-receiving surface and first and second longitudinal edge surfaces; a plurality of walls extending from the component-receiving surface between the first and second longitudinal edge surfaces and extending longitudinally along the carrier tape, wherein each of the walls comprises a top surface spaced from the component-receiving surface, and wherein the top surface of each of the walls is spaced from the top surface of each adjacent wall in a longitudinal direction of the tape; and an adhesive on at least a portion of the component-receiving surface between at least one of the plurality of walls and one of the first and second longitudinal edge surfaces. 2. The carrier tape of claim 1, wherein each wall of the plurality of walls is adjacent to and aligned with another wall of the plurality of walls in the longitudinal direction of the tape. 3. The carrier tape of claim 1, wherein the plurality of walls comprises at least one pair of walls, wherein each pair of walls comprises a first wall adjacent to the first longitudinal edge surface and a second wall adjacent to the second longitudinal edge surface. 4. The carrier tape of claim 3, wherein a first pair of walls is adjacent to a second pair of walls along the length of the carrier tape. 5. The carrier tape of claim 3, wherein at least a portion of the first wall is transversely opposite at least a portion of the second wall, the carrier tape further comprising at least one component storage area defined between the first wall and the second wall of the at least one pair of walls in a transverse direction to the longitudinal edge surfaces. 6. The carrier tape of claim 5, further comprising a hole through the strip portion, wherein the hole is positioned within the at least one component storage area. 7. The carrier tape of claim 5, wherein the at least one component storage area contains a component. 8. The carrier tape of claim 3, wherein the first wall of each pair of walls is offset from the second wall of each pair of walls in a transverse direction to the longitudinal edge surfaces. 9. The carrier tape of claim 3, wherein the adhesive is between the first wall and the second wall of the at least one pair of walls. 10. The carrier tape of claim 3, wherein the first wall of the at least one pair of walls is generally parallel to the first longitudinal edge surface and the second wall of the at least one pair of walls is generally parallel to the second longitudinal edge surface. 11. The carrier tape of claim 1, wherein the strip portion further comprises a means for advancing the carrier tape by an advancement mechanism. 12. The carrier tape of claim 1, wherein the carrier tape is electrically dissipative. 13. The carrier tape of claim 1, further comprising at least one reinforcing rib, wherein each rib extends in a transverse direction of the carrier tape. 14. The carrier tape of claim 13, wherein each rib is generally perpendicular to at least one of the first and second longitudinal edge surfaces. 15. The carrier tape of claim 1, wherein the adhesive is a continuous adhesive strip. 16. The carrier tape of claim 1, wherein the flexible carrier tape is a unitary tape. 17. The carrier tape of claim 1, wherein the carrier tape is wound about the core of a reel. 18. An elongated flexible carrier tape for advancement by an advancement mechanism and for transporting a plurality of components, the carrier tape having a length and comprising: a strip portion comprising a component-receiving surface, first and second longitudinal edge surfaces, and a means for advancing the carrier tape by an advancement mechanism; a plurality of wall pairs extending from the component-receiving surface between the first and second edge surfaces, wherein at least one of the plurality of wall pairs comprises a first wall and a second wall, at least a portion of the first wall being transversely opposite at least a portion of the second wall, wherein the first and second walls of at least one of the plurality of wall pairs are adjacent to the first and second longitudinal edge surfaces, respectively, wherein each of the walls comprises a top surface spaced from the component-receiving surface, wherein the top surface of each of the walls is spaced from the top surface of each adjacent wall in a longitudinal direction of the carrier tape; a plurality of component storage areas provided on the component-receiving surface wherein at least one of the component storage areas is defined as the area between the first wall and the second wall of at least one of the plurality of wall pairs; and an adhesive in at least one of the plurality of component storage areas for releasably attaching a component to the component-receiving surface. 19. The carrier tape of claim 18, wherein the carrier tape flexes transversely between the first component storage area and an adjacent second component storage area. 20. The carrier tape of claim 18, wherein the carrier tape is wound about the core of a reel. 21. A method of loading components into a carrier tape for seriatim delivery by an advancement mechanism, comprising the steps of: (a) providing an elongated flexible carrier tape, the carrier tape comprising: a strip portion comprising a component-receiving surface and first and second longitudinal edge surfaces; a plurality of walls extending from the component-receiving surface between the first and second edge surfaces and extending longitudinally along the carrier tape, wherein each of the walls compromises a top surface spaced from the component-receiveng surface, and wherein the top surface of each of the walls is spaced from the top surface of each adjacent wall in longitudinal direction of the tape; and an adhesive on at least a portion of the component-receiving surface between at least one of the plurality of walls and one of the first and second longitudinal edge surfaces; and (b) placing at least one component on the adhesive. 22. The method of claim 21, further including the step of winding the carrier tape around a core for storage and transporting thereof. 23. A method of protecting components on a carrier tape wound about the hub of a reel, the method comprising the steps of: providing a carrier tape comprising a strip portion having a component-receiving surface, a rear surface, and first and second longitudinal edge surfaces, a plurality of walls extending from the component-receiving surface between the first and second longitudinal edge surfaces and extending longitudinally along the carrier tape, wherein each of the walls comprises a top surface spaced from the component-receiving surface, and wherein the top surface of each of the walls is spaced from the top surface of each adjacent wall in a longitudinal direction of the tape, and an adhesive on at least a portion of the component-receiving surface between at least one of the plurality of walls and one of the first and second longitudinal edge surfaces; placing at least one component on the adhesive; and winding the carrier tape about the hub of a reel so as to provide a plurality of carrier tape windings, wherein the plurality of walls in one winding engage the rear surface of the strip portion in an adjacent winding to protect the at least one component from contacting the rear surface of the strip portion of the adjacent winding. 24. An elongated flexible carrier tape for transporting a plurality of components, the carrier tape having a length and comprising: a strip portion comprising a component-receiving surface and first and second longitudinal edge surfaces; a plurality of walls extending from the component-receiving surface between the first and second longitudinal edge surfaces and extending longitudinally along the carrier tape; an adhesive on at least a portion of the component-receiving surface between at least one of the plurality of walls and one of the first and second longitudinal edge surfaces; and at least one reinforcing rib extending from a surface of the carrier tape opposite the component-receiving surface in a direction transverse to the longitudinal edge surfaces of the carrier tape. 