An injection molding machine of the present invention includes a first mold half having one of at least one mold cavity and at least one mold core and a rotatable turret block rotatable on an axis for rotating a plurality of movable mold halves thereof into alignment with the first mold half. Each of the movable mold halves include one of at least one mold cavity and at least one mold core matable with the first mold half for forming a mold for molding a molded article. The rotatable turret block is further for clamping the movable mold halves and the first mold half together. The machine further includes a mechanism for moving the rotatable turret block relative the first mold half, a first injector for injecting melt into the at least one mold cavity, to form an injected article and a second injector for injecting melt into the at least one mold cavity over the injected article to form an injected article having at least two layers.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A process for injection molding, comprises: providing an injection molding machine having a first mold half with one of at least one mold cavity and at least one mold core, and a rotatable turret means which is rotatable on an axis for rotating a plurality of mold halves thereof into alignment with said first mold half, each of said movable mold halves including one of a mold cavity and mold core matable with said first mold half for forming a mold for molding a molded article, said rotatable turret further clamping said movable mold halves and said first mold half together; moving said rotatable turret means relative said first mold half; injecting melt from a first injection means into said mold at a first injection station to form an injection molded article; and injecting melt from a second injection means adjacent said injection molded article to form an injection molded article containing at least two melt feedings. 2. A process according to claim 1 including injecting melt from said second injection means at a second injection station spaced from said first injection station. 3. A process according to claim 1 including forming an injection molded article having at least two layers. 4. A process according to claim 3 including rotating said turret into alignment with said first mold half, and rotating said turret into alignment with a second mold half at a second injection station. 5. A process according to claim 4 including injecting a relatively thin layer of plastic at one of said injection stations, and injecting a relatively thick layer of plastic at another of said injection stations. 6. A process according to claim 4 including relatively moving said first mold half and movable mold halves from a mold open to mold closed position at said first injection station, and relatively moving said second mold half and movable mold halves from a mold open to mold closed position at said second injection station. 7. A process according to claim 6 including opening and closing said first and second injection stations in sequence. 8. A process according to claim 7 including loading an insert at one of said turrent stations and forming a composite article by said injection molding machine. 9. A process according to claim 8 including forming a three layer article. 10. A process according to claim 6 including opening and closing said first and second injection stations simultaneously. 11. A process according to claim 6 including rotating said turret to a plurality of separate turret stations, one of which being said first injection station and another of which being said second injection station. 12. A process according to claim 11 including rotating said turret to four of said separate turret stations. 13. A process according to claim 12 including locating said first injection station at a first of said separate turret stations and locating said second injection station at a third of said separate turret stations. 14. A process according to claim 11 including separating said first and second injection stations by one of said separate turret stations. 15. A process according to claim 11 including locating said first and second injection stations on adjacent turret stations. 16. A process according to claim 6 including generating a higher mold clamp force in said mold closed position at the first injection station than in the mold closed position at the second injection station. 17. A process according to claim 1 including injecting melt into said mold substantially vertically. 18. A process according to claim 1 including injecting melt into said mold substantially horizontally. 19. An injection molding machine comprising: a first mold half having one of at least one mold cavity and at least one mold core; a rotatable turret means rotatable on an axis for rotating a plurality of movable mold halves thereof into alignment with said first mold half, each of said movable mold halves including one of a mold cavity and mold core matable with said first mold half for forming a mold for molding a molded article, said rotatable turret means further clamping said movable mold halves and said first mold half together; means for moving said rotatable turret means relative said first mold half; a first injection means for injecting melt into said mold at a first injection station to form an injection molded article; and further including at least one second injection means for injecting melt adjacent said injection molded article to form an injection molded article comprising at least two melt feedings. 20. The injection molding machine according to claim 19, including said second injection means at a second injection station spaced from said first injection station. 21. The injection molding machine according to claim 19, wherein said injection molded article has at least two layers. 22. The injection molding machine according to claim 21, including said second injection means at a second injection station spaced from said first injection station. 23. The injection molding machine according to claim 22, including a second mold half having at least one of at least one mold cavity and at least one mold core spaced from said first mold half, wherein said rotatable turret means is rotatable on an axis for rotating said plurality of movable mold halves thereof into alignment with said first mold half at said first injection station, and is rotatable on an axis for rotating said plurality of movable mold halves thereof into alignment with said second mold half at said second injection station. 24. The injection molding machine according to claim 23, including first means for relatively moving said first mold half and movable mold halves from a mold open to mold closed position at said first injection station, and second means for relatively moving said second mold half and movable mold halves from a mold open to a mold closed position at said second injection station. 25. The injection molding machine according to claim 24, wherein said first and second means are operative to open and close said first and second injection stations in sequence. 26. The injection molding machine according to claim 25, including an insert loading station located at one of said turret stations, wherein said machine is operative to form a composite article. 27. The injection molding machine according to claim 26, wherein said machine is operative to form a three-layered article. 28. The injection molding machine according to claim 24, wherein said first and second means are operative to open and close said first and second injection stations simultaneously. 29. The injection molding machine according to claim 24, wherein said first means is operative to generate a higher mold clamp force in said mold closed position at the first injection station than said second means in said mold closed position at the second injection station. 30. The injection molding machine according to claim 23, wherein said rotatable turret means is rotatable to a plurality of separate turret stations, one of which being said first injection station and another of which being said second injection station. 31. The injection molding machine according to claim 30, including four of said separate turret stations. 32. The injection molding machine according to claim 31, wherein said first injection station is located at a first of said separate turret stations and said second injection station is located at a third of said separate turret stations. 33. The injection molding machine according to claim 30, wherein said first and second injection stations are separated by one of said separate turret stations. 34. The injection molding machine according to claim 30, wherein said first and second injection stations are located on adjacent turret stations. 35. The injection molding machine according to claim 23, wherein one of said injection means injects a relatively thin layer of plastic at one of said injection stations, and another of said injection means injects a relatively thick layer of plastic at the other of said injection stations. 36. The injection molding machine according to claim 19, wherein said first and second injection means are operative to inject melt substantially horizontally. 37. The injection molding machine according to claim 19, wherein at least one of said injection means is operative to inject melt substantially vertically. 38. The injection molding machine according to claim 19, wherein at least one of said injection means is operative to inject melt substantially horizontally. 