An apparatus and methods are provided for treating a workpiece such as a shoe component. The workpiece treating apparatus preferably includes a transporter for transporting a workpiece along a predetermined path of travel and a storage device for storing a plurality of predetermined parameters of each of a plurality of workpieces. A workpiece identifier is positioned responsive to the storage device for identifying the workpiece during travel along the predetermined path. A workpiece treatment applicator is positioned adjacent the transporter and responsive to the workpiece identifier for applying a treatment a workpiece being transported along the predetermined path of travel. A workpiece treatment position determiner preferably is positioned responsive to the workpiece identifier for continuously determining the position of the workpiece treatment applicator along a predetermined trajectory during treatment of the workpiece.
Claims That which is claimed: 1. A workpiece treating apparatus for treating a workpiece, the workpiece treating apparatus comprising: transporting means for transporting a workpiece along a predetermined path of travel; workpiece identifying means for identifying at least parameters of the workpiece during travel along the predetermined path; workpiece treating means positioned adjacent said transporting means and responsive to said workpiece identifying means for treating a workpiece being transported along the predetermined path of travel; and workpiece treatment position determining means responsive to said workpiece identifying means for continuously determining the position of said workpiece treating means along a predetermined trajectory during treatment of the workpiece. 2. An apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein said image collector of said workpiece identifying means comprises an imaging collector positioned to capture a visual image of a workpiece being transported by said transporting means, and wherein said workpiece identifying means further includes a processor responsive to said imaging collector for processing data representative of the image of the workpiece and comparing the image data to the plurality of predetermined parameters of at least one of the plurality of workpieces. 3. An apparatus as defined in claim 2, wherein said processor includes workpiece position identifying means for identifying the orientational position of the workpiece being transported along the predetermined path of travel by said transporting means. 4. An apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein said workpiece treatment position determining means comprises an optical sensor connected to said workpiece treating means and positioned to sense optical data from the workpiece being transported by said transporting means. 5. An apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein said workpiece treating means comprises a transport position processor responsive to said transporting means for processing data representative of the position of the workpiece being transported along the predetermined path of travel, a workpiece treating controller responsive to said transport position processor, said workpiece identifying means, and said workpiece treatment position determining means for controlling the treatment of the workpiece, and a workpiece treatment applicator responsive to said workpiece treating controller for applying a workpiece treatment to the workpiece. 6. An apparatus as defined in claim 5, wherein said workpiece treating controller includes trajectory determining means responsive to said workpiece identifying means for determining a treatment trajectory for said workpiece treatment applicator to thereby apply the workpiece treatment to the workpiece along the determined trajectory. 7. An apparatus as defined in claim 5, wherein said transporting means comprises a conveyor, and wherein the workpiece comprises a component of a shoe. 8. A workpiece treating apparatus for treating a workpiece, the workpiece treating apparatus comprising: a transporter for transporting a workpiece along a predetermined path of travel; a storage device for storing a plurality of predetermined parameters of each of a plurality of workpieces; a workpiece identifier responsive to said storage device for identifying the workpiece during travel along the predetermined path; a workpiece treatment applicator positioned adjacent said transporter and responsive to said workpiece identifier for applying a treatment to a workpiece being transported along the predetermined path of travel; and a workpiece treatment position determiner responsive to said workpiece identifier for continuously determining the position of said workpiece treatment applicator along a predetermined trajectory during treatment of the workpiece. 9. An apparatus as defined in claim 8, wherein said workpiece identifier comprises a camera positioned to capture a visual image of a workpiece being transported by said transporter, a vision processor responsive to said camera for processing data representative of the visual image of the workpiece and comparing the visual image data to the plurality of predetermined parameters of at least one of the plurality of workpieces, and a user interface responsive to said vision processor for providing a visual image of the workpiece to a user thereof. 10. An apparatus as defined in claim 9, wherein said vision processor includes workpiece position identifier for identifying the orientational position of the workpiece being transported along the predetermined path of travel by said transporter. 11. An apparatus as defined in claim 10, wherein said workpiece treatment position determiner comprises an optical sensor connected to said workpiece treatment applicator and positioned to sense optical data from the workpiece being transported by said transporter. 12. An apparatus as defined in claim 11, further comprising a transport position processor responsive to said transporter for processing data representative of the position of the workpiece along the predetermined path of travel, and a workpiece treating controller responsive to said transport position processor, said workpiece identifier, and said workpiece treatment position determiner for controlling the treatment of the workpiece. 13. An apparatus as defined in claim 12, wherein said workpiece treating controller includes a trajectory determiner responsive to said workpiece identifier for determining a treatment trajectory for said workpiece treatment applicator to thereby apply the workpiece treatment to the workpiece along the determined trajectory. 14. An apparatus as defined in claim 13, wherein said transporter comprises a conveyor, and wherein the workpiece comprises a component of a shoe. 15. A workpiece treating apparatus for treating a workpiece, the workpiece treating apparatus comprising: workpiece identifying means for identifying a workpiece; workpiece treating means responsive to said workpiece identifying means for treating a workpiece; and workpiece treatment position determining means responsive to said workpiece identifying means for determining the position of said workpiece treating means along a predetermined trajectory during treatment of the workpiece. 16. An apparatus as defined in claim 15, wherein said workpiece identifying means comprises a camera positioned to capture a visual image of a workpiece, a vision processor responsive to said camera for processing data representative of the visual image of the workpiece and comparing the visual image data to a plurality of predetermined parameters of at least one workpiece. 17. An apparatus as defined in claim 16, wherein said vision processor includes workpiece position identifying means for identifying the orientational position of a workpiece. 18. An apparatus as defined in claim 17, wherein said workpiece treatment position determining means comprises an optical sensor connected to said workpiece treating means and positioned to sense optical data from the workpiece. 19. An apparatus as defined in claim 18, wherein said workpiece treating means includes a workpiece treating controller responsive to said workpiece identifying means and said workpiece treatment position determining means for controlling the treatment of the workpiece and a workpiece treatment applicator responsive to said workpiece treating controller for applying a workpiece treatment to the workpiece. 20. An apparatus as defined in claim 19, wherein said workpiece treating controller includes trajectory determining means responsive to said workpiece identifying means for determining a treatment trajectory for said workpiece treatment applicator to thereby apply the workpiece treatment to the workpiece along the determined trajectory. 21. A workpiece treating apparatus for treating a workpiece, the workpiece treating apparatus comprising: a workpiece treatment applicator for applying a treatment to a workpiece; a workpiece treating controller connected to said workpiece treatment applicator for controlling the application of the treatment to the workpiece by said workpiece treatment applicator; and workpiece treatment position determining means responsive to said workpiece treatment applicator and said workpiece treatment controller for continuously determining the position of said workpiece treatment applicator along a predetermined trajectory during the application of the treatment of the workpiece. 22. An apparatus as defined in claim 21, wherein said workpiece treatment position determining means comprises an optical sensor connected to said workpiece treating means and positioned to sense optical data from the workpiece. 23. An apparatus as defined in claim 22, wherein said workpiece treating controller includes trajectory determining means for determining a treatment trajectory for said workpiece treatment applicator to thereby apply the workpiece treatment to the workpiece along the determined trajectory. 24. A shoe component treating apparatus for treating a component of a shoe, the shoe component treating apparatus comprising: a conveyor for conveying a shoe component along a predetermined path of travel; a memory device for storing a plurality of predetermined parameters of each of a plurality of shoe components; component identifying means responsive to said memory device for identifying a shoe component during travel along the predetermined path; component treating means positioned adjacent said conveyor and responsive to said component identifying means for treating a shoe component being transported along the predetermined path of travel; and component treatment position determining means responsive to said component identifying means for continuously determining the position of said component treating means along a predetermined trajectory during treatment of the shoe component. 25. An apparatus as defined in claim 24, wherein said component identifying means comprises a video camera positioned to capture a visual image of a shoe component being conveyed by said conveyor and a vision processor responsive to said video camera for processing data representative of the visual image of the shoe component and comparing the visual image data to the plurality of predetermined parameters of at least one of the plurality of shoe components. 26. An apparatus as defined in claim 25, wherein said vision processor includes component position identifying means for identifying the orientational position of the shoe component being conveyed along the predetermined path of travel by said conveyor. 27. An apparatus as defined in claim 24, wherein said component treating means comprises a conveyor position processor responsive to said conveyor for processing data representative of the position of the shoe component along the predetermined path of travel, a component treating controller responsive to said conveyor position processor, said component identifying means, and said component treatment position determining means for controlling the treatment of the shoe component, and a component treatment applicator responsive to said component treating controller for applying a shoe component treatment to the shoe component. 28. An apparatus as defined in claim 24, wherein said component treatment position determining means comprises an optical emitter and an optical detector connected to a distal end of said component treatment applicator and responsive to said component treating controller for responsively monitoring the position of the distal end of said component treatment applicator during treatment of the shoe component. 29. An apparatus as defined in claim 27, wherein said component treating controller includes trajectory determining means responsive to said component identifying means for determining a treatment trajectory for said component treatment applicator to thereby apply the shoe component treatment to the shoe component along the determined trajectory. 30. A method of treating a workpiece, the method comprising: transporting a workpiece along a predetermined path of travel; identifying the workpiece during travel along the predetermined path; treating the workpiece being transported along the predetermined path of travel; and continuously determining the position of a workpiece treatment applicator along a predetermined trajectory during treatment of the workpiece. 31. A method as defined in claim 30, wherein the step of identifying the workpiece includes the steps of capturing a visual image of the workpiece being transported, processing data representative of the visual image of the workpiece, and comparing the visual image data to a plurality of predetermined parameters of at least one of a plurality of workpieces. 32. A method as defined in claim 31, wherein the processing step includes identifying the orientational position of the workpiece being transported along the predetermined path of travel. 33. A method as defined in claim 30, wherein the step of determining the position of a workpiece applicator includes the step of sensing optical data from the workpiece being transported. 34. A method as defined in claim 30, wherein the step of treating the workpiece includes the step of processing data representative of the position of the workpiece being transported along the predetermined path of travel, controlling the treatment of the workpiece, and applying a workpiece treatment to the workpiece. 35. A method as defined in claim 34, wherein the step of controlling the treatment of the workpiece includes the step of determining a treatment trajectory for a workpiece treatment applicator to thereby apply the workpiece treatment to the workpiece along the determined trajectory. 36. A method of treating a shoe component, the method comprising: identifying the shoe component responsive to a database of a plurality of shoe components; applying an adhesive to a surface of the shoe component being transported along a predetermined path of travel; and continuously monitoring the position of an adhesive applicator along a predetermined trajectory during application of an adhesive to the shoe component. 37. A method as defined in claim 36, further comprising locating a shoe component with a camera during travel along a predetermined path and inspecting the shoe component during travel along the predetermined path. 38. A method as defined in claim 37, wherein the step of identifying the shoe component includes the steps of capturing a visual image of the shoe component being transported, processing data representative of the visual image of the shoe component, and comparing the visual image data to a plurality of predetermined parameters of at least one of a plurality of shoe components. 39. A method as defined in claim 38, wherein the processing step includes identifying the orientational position of the shoe component being transported along the predetermined path of travel. 40. A method as defined in claim 39, wherein the step of monitoring the position of the shoe component treatment applicator includes the steps of sensing optical data from the shoe component being transported and determining the position of the shoe component treatment applicator during treatment of the shoe component. 41. A method as defined in claim 40, wherein the step of applying adhesive to the shoe component includes the step of processing data representative of the position of the shoe component being transported along the predetermined path of travel and controlling the application of the adhesive to the shoe component. 42. A method as defined in claim 41, wherein the step of controlling the application of the adhesive to the shoe component includes the step of determining a treatment trajectory for the shoe component treatment applicator to thereby apply the adhesive to a surface of the shoe component along the determined trajectory. 43. A method of treating a workpiece, the method comprising: identifying the workpiece during travel along a predetermined path; treating the workpiece being transported along the predetermined path of travel; and continuously monitoring the position of a workpiece treatment applicator along a predetermined trajectory during treatment of the workpiece. 44. A method as defined in claim 43, wherein the step of identifying the workpiece includes the steps of capturing a visual image of the workpiece being transported, processing data representative of the visual image of the workpiece, and comparing the visual image data to a plurality of predetermined parameters of at least one of a plurality of workpieces. 45. A method as defined in claim 44, wherein the processing step includes identifying the orientational position of the workpiece being transported along the predetermined path of travel. 46. A method as defined in claim 45, wherein the step of monitoring the position of a workpiece applicator includes the steps of sensing optical data from the workpiece being transported and determining the position of the workpiece treatment applicator during treatment of the workpiece. 47. A method as defined in claim 46, wherein the step of treating the workpiece includes the step of processing data representative of the position of the workpiece being transported along the predetermined path of travel, controlling the treatment of the workpiece, and applying a workpiece treatment to the workpiece. 48. A method as defined in claim 47, wherein the step of controlling the treatment of the workpiece includes the step of determining a treatment trajectory for a workpiece treatment applicator to thereby apply the workpiece treatment to the workpiece along the determined trajectory. 49. A method of treating a workpiece, the method comprising: applying a treatment to a workpiece by the use of a workpiece treatment applicator; controlling the application of the treatment to the workpiece by the workpiece treatment applicator; and continuously determining the position of the workpiece treatment applicator along a predetermined trajectory during the application of the treatment of the workpiece. 50. A method as defined in claim 49, wherein the continuously determining step includes sensing the position of the workpiece treatment application by an optical sensor. 51. A method as defined in claim 49, wherein the controlling the application step includes determining a treatment trajectory for the workpiece treatment applicator to thereby apply the workpiece treatment to the workpiece along the determined trajectory. 