A method and system for multiple pass welding that includes a welding torch mounted on the arm of an industrial robot. The robot has a data processor with a memory and the coordinates of a first path are inputted to the data processor and are stored in the memory. The welding torch is then moved along the first path by the robot to make a first weld of a workpiece (or workpieces). A second weld of the workpiece is made by moving the welding torch along a second path which is offset from the first by a predetermined positional increment. The positional increment is established by positional coordinate increments which are inputted to the data processor by a robot user before or after the first weld has been made. The user may also input a weld torch angle increment to change the angle of the welding torch with respect to the first path. Subsequent welding passes are made by moving the welding torch along additional paths which are also offset from the first path.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of multiple pass welding using a programmable, industrial robot having a memory, a data processor, a robot arm, and a welding torch which is coupled to the robot arm, the method comprising the steps of: inputting a first path and a positional increment to the data processor of the programmable, industrial robot and storing the positional coordinates of the first path in the memory; making a first pass of a workpiece by moving the welding torch by means of the robot arm along the first path and storing a second path which is offset from the first path by the positional increment, the welding torch being positioned at a predetermined angle with respect to the workpiece; and making a second pass of the workpiece by moving the welding torch by means of the robot arm along the second path. 2. The method as claimed in claim 1, further comprising: moving the welding torch by means of the robot arm along a third path which is offset from the first path. 3. The method as claimed in claim 1, further comprising the step of inputting an angle increment into the data processor before the welding torch has moved along the first path, wherein the input causes the robot arm to change the angle of the welding torch with respect to the workpiece before the second pass is made. 4. A method of programming a programmable, industrial robot to perform a multiple pass weld, the programmable industrial robot having a memory, a data processor, a robot arm, and a welding torch which is coupled to the robot arm, the method comprising: inputting a first set of instructions to the data processor of the programmable, industrial robot, including a root path and left and right weave positions of the welding torch; moving the welding torch along the root path and storing the averages of the left and right weave positions of the welding torch as it is moved along the root path as positional coordinates in the memory, the welding torch being positioned at a predetermined angle with respect to a workpiece; moving the welding torch by means of the robot arm along a first offset path which is offset from the root path by an offset; inputting one or more positional increments into the data processor; repeating the step of inputting one or more positional increments until the offset from the root path is at a desired amount; and moving the welding torch by means of the robot arm along a second offset path which overwrites the first offset path. 5. The method as claimed in claim 4, further comprising: moving the welding torch by means of the robot arm along a third path which is offset from the first path. 6. The method as claimed in claim 4, further comprising inputting an angle increment into the data processor before the welding torch has moved along the root path, wherein the input causes the robot arm to change the angle of the welding torch with respect to the workpiece before the welding torch is moved along the first offset path. 