A flexible carrier tape used for protecting components while they are being transported, wherein the carrier tape comprise a strip portion having a component-receiving surface and first and second longitudinal edge surfaces. At least two side walls having inner and outer major surfaces extend upwardly from the component-receiving surface between the longitudinal edge surfaces forming at least one component-receiving area. The inner major surface of at least one side wall is inclined inwardly toward the component-receiving area, forming an angle greater than 0 degrees but less than 90 degrees with the component-receiving surface of the carrier tape. When a component is placed in the component-receiving area, the inclined inner major surface advantageously exerts a force on the component that prevents the component from moving within or falling out of the component-receiving area. This obviates the need for an adhesive or cover tape to hold the component in place, and minimizes the possibility of contamination by adhesive residue and damage to the components by static electricity created by removal of the cover tape or movement of the components.
Claims The embodiments for which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows: 1. An elongated flexible carrier tape for transporting at least one component, the carrier tape having a length and comprising: a planar strip portion comprising a planar component-receiving surface and first and second longitudinal edge surfaces; at least two side walls longitudinally disposed along the length of the carrier tape and extending upwardly from the component-receiving surface between the first and second longitudinal edge surfaces, wherein each of the at least two side walls comprises an inner major surface; and at least one planar component-receiving area comprising an area of the strip portion bordered by the at least two side walls; at least one of the side walls being inclined inwardly toward the at least one component-receiving area forming an angle greater than 0 degrees but less than 90 degrees with the component-receiving surface of the carrier tape, wherein the at least one inclined side wall comprises a first end attached to the component-receiving surface and a second end spaced from the component-receiving surface and wherein the at least one inclined side wall is substantially planar between the first and second ends of the at least one inclined side wall, the inner major surface of the at least one inclined side wall and the inner major surface of at least one other side wall being capable of contacting a component inserted into the at least one component-receiving area to secure the component within the component-receiving area, the at least one inclined side wall being capable of being displaced to a position that allows a component to be inserted into the at least one component-receiving area, with subsequent recovery to a component-securing position, the at least one inclined side wall further being capable of being displaced from the component-securing position to a position that allows for removal of the component from the at least one component-receiving area. 2. An elongated flexible carrier tape according to claim 1 wherein each of the at least two side walls is inclined inwardly toward the component-receiving area so that the inner major surface of each of the side walls forms an angle greater than 0 degrees but less than 90 degrees with the component-receiving surface of the carrier tape. 3. An elongated flexible carrier tape according to claim 1 wherein the inner major surface of the at least one inclined side wall forms an angle greater than 45 degrees but less than 90 degrees with the component-receiving surface of the carrier tape. 4. An elongated flexible carrier tape according to claim 1 wherein the inner major surface of the at least one inclined side wall forms an angle greater than 60 degrees but less than 90 degrees with the component-receiving surface of the carrier tape. 5. An elongated flexible carrier tape according to claim 1 wherein the inner major surface of the at least one inclined side wall forms an angle greater than 80 degrees but less than 90 degrees with the component-receiving surface of the carrier tape. 6. An elongated flexible carrier tape according to claim 1 wherein each of the at least two side walls further comprises an outer major surface, each of the outer major surfaces forming an angle less than 45 degrees or greater than 135 degrees with a longitudinal edge surface. 7. An elongated flexible carrier tape according to claim 1 wherein the at least two side walls are substantially parallel with a longitudinal edge surface. 8. An elongated flexible carrier tape according to claim 1 wherein the at least two side walls are directly opposite one another. 9. An elongated flexible carrier tape according to claim 1 additionally comprising a hole through the strip portion positioned within the at least one component-receiving area. 10. An elongated flexible carrier tape according to claim 1 wherein the at least one component-receiving area contains a component. 11. An elongated flexible carrier tape according to claim 1 wherein the strip portion further comprises a means for advancing the carrier tape by an advancement mechanism. 12. An elongated flexible carrier tape according to claim 1 wherein the carrier tape is electrically dissipative. 13. An elongated flexible carrier tape according to claim 1 wherein the flexible carrier tape is a unitary tape. 14. An elongated flexible carrier tape according to claim 1 comprising a material selected from the group consisting of polypropylene and unfilled polycarbonate. 15. An elongated flexible carrier tape according to claim 1 comprising a plurality of pairs of side walls, each pair forming a component-receiving area. 16. An elongated flexible carrier tape according to claim 15 wherein a plurality of components are secured therein. 17. The carrier tape of claim 1 wherein the carrier tape is wound about the core of a reel. 18. An elongated flexible carrier tape for transporting at least one component, the carrier tape having a length and comprising: a planar strip portion comprising a planar component-receiving surface and first and second longitudinal edge surfaces; at least two side walls longitudinally disposed along the length of the carrier tape and extending upwardly from the component-receiving surface between the first and second longitudinal edge surfaces; and at least one planar component-receiving area comprising an area of the strip portion bordered by the at least two side walls; at least one of the side walls being inclined inwardly toward the at least one component-receiving area forming an angle greater than 0 degrees but less than 90 degrees with the component-receiving surface of the carrier tape, wherein the at least one inclined side wall comprises a first end attached to the component-receiving surface and a second end spaced from the component-receiving surface and wherein the at least one inclined side wall is substantially planar between the first and second ends of the at least one inclined side wall, the at least one inclined side wall being capable of being displaced to a position that allows a component to be inserted into the at least one component-receiving area, with subsequent recovery to a component-securing position, the at least one inclined side wall further being capable of being displaced from the component-securing position to a position that allows for removal of the component from the at least one component-receiving area, wherein the component-receiving area comprises an area of the strip portion bordered by at least one end wall in addition to the at least two side walls. 19. An elongated flexible carrier tape according to claim 18 wherein the at least one end wall is substantially perpendicular to the component-receiving surface of the carrier tape. 20. A method of securing at least one component into a carrier tape without the need for a cover tape or adhesive, the method comprising the steps of: (a) providing a carrier tape having a length and comprising: a planar strip portion comprising a planar component-receiving surface and first and second longitudinal edge surfaces; at least two side walls longitudinally disposed along the length of the carrier tape and extending upwardly from the component-receiving surface between the first and second longitudinal edge surfaces, wherein each of the at least two side walls comprises an inner major surface; and at least one planar component-receiving area comprising an area of the strip portion bordered by the at least two side walls; at least one of the side walls being inclined inwardly toward the at least one component-receiving area forming an angle greater than 0 degrees but less than 90 degrees with the component-receiving surface of the carrier tape, wherein the at least one inclined side wall comprises a first end attached to the component-receiving surface and a second end spaced from the component-receiving surface and wherein the at least one inclined side wall is substantially planar between the first and second ends of the at least one inclined side wall; (b) displacing the at least one inclined side wall to a position that allows a component to be inserted into the at least one component-receiving area; (c) placing at least one component in the at least one component-receiving area; and (d) allowing the displaced side wall to recover to a component-securing position so that the inner major surface of the at least one inclined side wall and the inner major surface of at least one other side wall contact the at least one component to secure the component within the component-receiving area. 21. The method of claim 20, further including the step of winding the carrier tape around a core for storage and transporting thereof. 22. A method of removing at least one component from a loaded carrier tape, said method comprising the steps of: (a) providing a loaded carrier tape, the carrier tape having a length and comprising: a planar strip portion comprising a planar component-receiving surface and first and second longitudinal edge surfaces; at least two side walls longitudinally disposed along the length of the carrier tape and extending upwardly from the component-receiving surface between the first and second longitudinal edge surfaces; at least one planar component-receiving area comprising an area of the strip portion bordered by the at least two side walls wherein each of the at least two side walls comprises an inner major surface, and a component in the at least one component-receiving area, at least one of the at least two side walls being inclined inwardly toward the component-receiving area, forming an angle greater than 0 degrees but less than 90 degrees with the component-receiving surface of the carrier tape, wherein the at least one inclined side wall comprises a first end attached to the component-receiving surface and a second end spaced from the component-receiving surface and wherein the at least one inclined side wall is substantially planar between the first and second ends of the at least one inclined side wall, the component residing under at least a portion of the at least one inclined side wall and secured within the component-receiving area by the inner major surface of the at least one inclined side wall, (b) displacing the at least one inclined side wall to a position that allows the component to be removed from the at least one component-receiving area; and (c) removing the component from the at least one component-receiving area. 23. An elongated flexible carrier tape for transporting at least one component, the carrier tape having a length and comprising: a planar strip portion comprising a planar component-receiving surface and first and second longitudinal edge surfaces; and at least two side walls longitudinally disposed along the length of the carrier tape and extending upwardly from the component-receiving surface between the first and second longitudinal edge surfaces, the at least two side walls being directly opposite each other and substantially parallel to a longitudinal edge; at least one end wall positioned in the transverse direction of the carrier tape so that it is substantially perpendicular to a longitudinal edge surface; at least one planar component-receiving area comprising an area of the strip portion bordered by the at least two side walls and the at least one end wall; each of the two side walls being inclined inwardly toward the at least one component-receiving area forming an angle greater than 60 degrees but less than 90 degrees with the component-receiving surface of the carrier tape and capable of being displaced to a position that allows a component to be inserted into the at least one component-receiving area, with subsequent recovery to a component-securing position, each of the two side walls further being capable of being displaced from the component-securing position to a position that allows for removal of the component from the at least one component-receiving area. 24. An elongated flexible carrier tape for transporting at least one component, the carrier tape having a length and comprising: a planar strip portion comprising a planar component-receiving surface and first and second longitudinal edge surfaces; at least two side walls longitudinally disposed along the length of the carrier tape and extending upwardly from the component-receiving surface between the first and second longitudinal edge surfaces, wherein each of the at least two side walls comprises a first end attached to the component-receiving surface, a second end spaced from the component-receiving surface, and an intermediate portion between the first and second ends; and at least one planar component-receiving area comprising an area of the strip portion bordered by the at least two side walls; at least one of the side walls being inclined inwardly toward the at least one component-receiving area forming an angle greater than 0 degrees but less than 90 degrees with the component-receiving surface of the carrier tape, wherein the at least one inclined side wall is substantially planar between the first and second ends of the at least one inclined side wall, the intermediate portion of the at least one inclined side wall and the intermediate portion of at least one other side wall being capable of contacting a component inserted into the at least one component-receiving area to secure the component within the component-receiving area, the at least one inclined side wall being capable of being displaced to a position that allows a component to be inserted into the at least one component-receiving area, with subsequent recovery to a component-securing position, the at least one inclined side wall further being capable of being displaced from the component-securing position to a position that allows for removal of the component from the at least one component-receiving area. 