A robotic device having at least first and second arms joined with an elbow-joint is relatively maintenance-free and is particularly suitable for use in an atmosphere full of vapors from paints or organic solvents. These substances pose considerable operational problems in conventional robotic devices because of the accumulation of dust and solvents, which causes not only degradation in the performance of the robot but requires high maintenance cost. These problems are solved in the present robotic device by housing the driving motor for the second arm within the confines of the cross sectional area of the first arm, and the second arm is coupled through a connector to the output shaft of the driving motor, again within the same confined area. Such a compact design includes side caps providing protection of the feed-through cables and wires, which are routed out of the first shaft inner space to loop around the elbow-joint to enter into the second shaft inner space. The protection caps are sealed against the side walls of the first shaft to guard the cables and wires from the organic vapors in the operating atmosphere while allowing a wide degree of freedom of movement of the second arm and preventing inertial loading on the second arm which is should be free to perform quick and complex maneuvers. The sealing material may either be labyrinth-type seal or a felt material seal which permits sliding against the arms.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An industrial robotic means for performing tasks under command comprising a freely rotatable first arm having an electrical driving means disposed at one end for driving a second arm, one end of said second arm being freely rotatably coupled to said first arm; wherein said electrical driving means is supported by a first hollow frame housing which projects from said one end of the first arm, and said second arm is coupled to an output shaft of a reduction gear unit, which is driven by said electrical driving means, through a second hollow frame housing, said second hollow frame housing projects from said one end of said second arm and is overlapped with said first hollow frame housing; wherein the industrial robotic means also comprises: a first flange which is arranged inside of the first hollow frame housing axially to the electrical driving means in order to support the electrical driving means; and, a second flange which is arranged inside of the second hollow frame housing axially to the electrical driving means and is spaced from the first flange in an axial direction, said reduction gear unit being disposed between said first and second flanges. 2. An industrial robotic means as claimed in claim 1, wherein said one end of the first arm and said one end of the second arm are provided with respective feed-through holes for inserting cables and wires into interior spaces of said first arm and said second arm, and each of said first arm and said second arm is provided with a cover member, for guarding said cables and wires disposed on exterior spaces of said first arm and said second arm, which is supported on either said first arm or said second arm by way of a sealing means. 3. An industrial robotic means as claimed in claim 1, wherein said first arm is an arm which is arranged in said industrial robotic means proximal to a base of said industrial robotic means and said second arm is arranged in said industrial robotic means distal to the base of said industrial robotic means. 4. An industrial robotic means as claimed in claim 2, wherein said first arm is an arm which is arranged in said industrial robotic means proximal to a base of said industrial robotic means and said second arm is arranged in said industrial robotic means distal to the base of said industrial robotic means. 5. An industrial robotic means as claimed in claim 2, wherein said cover member is supported on said first arm and said sealing means is provided between said cover member and said second arm. 6. An industrial robotic means as claimed in claim 4, wherein said cover member is supported on said first arm and said sealing means is provided between said cover member and said second arm. 7. An industrial robotic means as claimed in claim 2, wherein said cover member is supported on one of said first and second arms which is located closer to a base section of said robotic means. 8. An industrial robotic means as claimed in claim 4, wherein said cover member is supported on one of said first and second arms which is located closer to a base section of said robotic means. 9. An industrial robotic means as claimed in claim 2, wherein said sealing means is a labyrinth packing. 10. An industrial robotic means as claimed in claim 4, wherein said sealing means is a labyrinth packing. 11. An industrial robotic means as claimed in claim 5, wherein said sealing means is a labyrinth packing. 12. An industrial robotic means as claimed in claim 7, wherein said sealing means is a labyrinth packing. 13. An industrial robotic means as claimed in claim 2, wherein said sealing means is a felt material fixedly disposed on said first arm so as to slide against said second arm. 14. An industrial robotic means as claimed in claim 4, wherein said sealing means is a felt material fixedly disposed on said first arm so as to slide against said second arm. 15. An industrial robotic means as claimed in claim 5, wherein said sealing means is a felt material fixedly disposed on said first arm so as to slide against said second arm. 16. An industrial robotic means as claimed in claim 7, wherein said sealing means is a felt material fixedly disposed on said first arm so as to slide against said second arm. 17. An industrial robotic means as claimed in claim 2, wherein said second arm is utilized for operating a spraying means for applying a fluid material to a work object. 18. An industrial robotic means as claimed in claim 4, wherein said second arm is utilized for operating a spraying means for applying a fluid material to a work object. 19. An industrial robotic means as claimed in claim 2, wherein said robotic means is positioned in a vicinity of a painting robotic means. 20. An industrial robotic means as claimed in claim 4, wherein said robotic means is positioned in a vicinity of a painting robotic means. 21. An industrial robotic means as claimed in claim 1, wherein said first hollow frame housing has an H-shape in cross section including an axle of said electric drive means. 