A centrifugal semiconductor processing system having a rotor which holds articles for centrifugal processing. The rotor includes a rotor frame with a receiver for holding the wafers or other articles in a spaced array without a wafer carrier to improve fluid access to the wafers. The rotor also has one or more retainers which are pivoted relative to the rotor to controllably urge the wafers into their desired processing positions. The retainers are preferably constructed to provide initial spring biasing with added restraining forces being generated during rotation. The processing system also preferably includes an implement mounted on a robot for loading the rotor, and a vision system to aid in the loading operation.
Claims We claim: 1. A centrifugal process rotor for holding a plurality of semiconductor articles for centrifugal treatment, comprising: a rotor frame mounted for rotation; a receiver on the rotor frame for receiving the plurality of semiconductor articles; at least one movable article retainer connected to the rotor frame and rotatable with the rotor frame; said at least one movable article retainer being movable relative to the rotor frame and semiconductor articles held in the receiver to maintain semiconductor articles at desired processing positions on the rotor when the at least one movable article retainer is in a closed position. 2. A centrifugal process rotor according to claim 1 wherein the at least one movable article retainer is pivotally connected to the rotor frame. 3. A centrifugal process rotor according to claim 1 wherein the at least one movable article retainer is pivotally connected to the rotor frame and configured to force the semiconductor articles into the desired processing positions when the rotor is rotated. 4. A centrifugal process rotor according to claim 1 wherein the at least one movable article retainer is pivotally connected to the rotor frame and balanced to force the semiconductor articles into the desired processing positions when the rotor is rotated and centrifugal forces are developed thereon. 5. A centrifugal process rotor according to claim 1 wherein the at least one movable article retainer is pivotally connected to the rotor frame and balanced to provide centrifugal forces urging the semiconductor articles into the desired processing positions when the rotor is rotated; said at least one movable article retainer further being spring biased when in a closed position to initially bear upon the semiconductor articles without rotation of the rotor. 6. A centrifugal process rotor according to claim 1 and further comprising at least one retainer operator which operates the at least one movable article retainer in movable relationship to the rotor frame to effect automatic operation of the at least one movable article retainer to develop force against semiconductor articles held in the receiver during rotation of the rotor. 7. A centrifugal process rotor according to claim 1 wherein there are a plurality of movable article retainers. 8. A centrifugal process rotor according to claim 1 wherein there are a plurality of movable article retainers which are pivotally connected to the rotor frame. 9. A centrifugal process rotor according to claim 1 wherein there are a plurality of movable article retainers which are pivotally connected to the rotor frame and balanced to provide centrifugal forces urging the semiconductor articles into the desired processing positions when the rotor is rotated. 10. A centrifugal process rotor according to claim 1 wherein there are a plurality of movable article retainers, and further comprising at least one retainer operator which operates the plurality of movable article retainers in movable relationship to the rotor frame to effect automatic operation of the plurality of movable article retainers to develop forces against semiconductor articles held in the receiver during rotation of the rotor. 11. A centrifugal process rotor according to claim 1 wherein said at least one movable article retainer is spring biased. 12. A centrifugal process rotor according to claim 1 wherein said at least one movable article retainer further being spring biased when in a closed position to initially bear upon the semiconductor articles without rotation of the rotor. 13. A centrifugal process rotor according to claim 1 wherein said at least one movable article retainer is spring biased into an open position. 14. A centrifugal process rotor according to claim 1 wherein said at least one movable article retainer is spring biased into a closed position. 15. A centrifugal process rotor according to claim 1 wherein said at least one movable article retainer is spring biased into open and closed positions. 16. A centrifugal process rotor according to claim 1 wherein the rotor frame encircles the receiver. 17. A rotor and rotor transfer implement combination for loading, unloading and centrifugally processing a plurality of semiconductor articles, comprising: a) a rotor having: a rotor frame mounted for rotation; a receiver on the rotor frame for receiving the plurality of semiconductor articles; at least one movable article retainer connected to the rotor frame and rotatable with the rotor frame; said at least one movable article retainer being movable relative to the rotor frame and semiconductor articles held in the receiver to maintain semiconductor articles at desired processing positions on the rotor when the at least one movable article retainer is in a closed position; b) a transfer implement having: plural semiconductor holding features for holding the plurality of semiconductor articles in suitable transfer positions for being received within the receiver. 18. A rotor and rotor transfer implement combination according to claim 17 wherein the transfer implement has at least one arm which extends into the rotor when the transfer implement is loading or unloading semiconductor articles relative to the rotor. 19. A rotor and rotor transfer implement combination according to claim 17 wherein the transfer implement has at least one arm which extends into the rotor when the transfer implement is loading or unloading semiconductor articles relative to the rotor; said plural semiconductor holding features being at least partially provided on said at least one arm. 20. A rotor and rotor transfer implement combination according to claim 17 wherein the transfer implement has plural arms which extend into the rotor when the transfer implement is loading or unloading semiconductor articles relative to the rotor. 21. A rotor and rotor transfer implement combination according to claim 17 wherein the transfer implement has plural arms which extend into the rotor when the transfer implement is loading or unloading semiconductor articles relative to the rotor; said plural semiconductor holding features being at least partially provided on said arms. 22. A rotor and rotor transfer implement combination according to claim 17 wherein the transfer implement further comprises at least one retainer actuator which interacts with portions of the rotor to affect the position of the at least one movable article retainer relative to the rotor frame. 23. A rotor and rotor transfer implement combination according to claim 17 wherein the at least one movable article retainer is pivotally connected to the rotor frame. 24. A rotor and rotor transfer implement combination according to claim 17 wherein the at least one movable article retainer is pivotally connected to the rotor frame and configured to force the semiconductor articles into the desired processing positions when the rotor is rotated. 25. A rotor and rotor transfer implement combination according to claim 17 wherein the at least one movable article retainer is pivotally connected to the rotor frame and balanced to force the semiconductor articles into the desired processing positions when the rotor is rotated and centrifugal forces are developed thereon. 26. A rotor and rotor transfer implement combination according to claim 17 wherein the at least one movable article retainer is pivotally connected to the rotor frame and balanced to provide centrifugal forces urging the semiconductor articles into the desired processing positions when the rotor is rotated; said at least one movable article retainer further being spring biased when in a closed position to initially bear upon the semiconductor articles without rotation of the rotor. 27. A rotor and rotor transfer implement combination according to claim 17 and further comprising at least one retainer operator which operates the at least one movable article retainer in movable relationship to the rotor frame to effect automatic operation of the at least one movable article retainer to develop force against semiconductor articles held in the receiver during rotation of the rotor. 28. A rotor and rotor transfer implement combination according to claim 17 wherein there are a plurality of movable article retainers. 29. A rotor and rotor transfer implement combination according to claim 17 wherein there are a plurality of movable article retainers which are pivotally connected to the rotor frame. 30. A rotor and rotor transfer implement combination according to claim 17 wherein there are a plurality of movable article retainers which are pivotally connected to the rotor frame and balanced to provide centrifugal forces urging the semiconductor articles into the desired processing positions when the rotor is rotated. 31. A rotor and rotor transfer implement combination according to claim 17 wherein there are a plurality of movable article retainers, and further comprising at least one retainer operator which operates the plurality of movable article retainers in movable relationship to the rotor frame to effect automatic operation of the plurality of movable article retainers to develop forces against semiconductor articles held in the receiver during rotation of the rotor. 32. A rotor and rotor transfer implement combination according to claim 17 wherein said at least one movable article retainer is spring biased. 33. A rotor and rotor transfer implement combination according to claim 17 wherein said at least one movable article retainer further being spring biased when in a closed position to initially bear upon the semiconductor articles without rotation of the rotor. 34. A rotor and rotor transfer implement combination according to claim 17 wherein said at least one movable article retainer is spring biased into an open position. 35. A rotor and rotor transfer implement combination according to claim 17 wherein said at least one movable article retainer is spring biased into a closed position. 36. A rotor and rotor transfer implement combination according to claim 17 wherein said at least one movable article retainer is spring biased into open and closed positions. 37. A rotor and rotor transfer implement combination according to claim 17 wherein the rotor frame encircles the receiver. 38. A rotor and rotor transfer implement combination according to claim 17 and further comprising a vision subsystem including a vision detector for detecting the relative position of the rotor and rotor transfer implement. 39. A centrifugal processing system for centrifugal treatment of batches containing a plurality of semiconductor articles, comprising: a frame; a batch transfer robot which is movable relative to the frame; at least one processing station mounted in sufficient proximity to the batch transfer robot to allow transfer of batches to and from the at least one processing station, said at least one processing station having: a processing vessel which defines a processing chamber therein; a rotor frame mounted for controlled rotation within the processing chamber; a receiver on the rotor frame for receiving a batch containing a plurality of semiconductor articles; at least one movable article retainer connected to the rotor frame and rotatable with the rotor frame; said at least one movable article retainer being movable relative to the rotor frame and semiconductor articles held in the receiver to maintain semiconductor articles at desired processing positions on the rotor when the at least one movable article retainer is in a closed position; a transfer implement mounted upon the batch transfer robot having plural semiconductor holding features for holding the plurality of semiconductor articles in suitable transfer positions for being received within the receiver. 40. A rotor and rotor transfer implement combination according to claim 39 wherein the transfer implement has at least one arm which extends into the rotor when the transfer implement is loading or unloading semiconductor articles relative to the rotor. 41. A rotor and rotor transfer implement combination according to claim 39 wherein the transfer implement has at least one arm which extends into the rotor when the transfer implement is loading or unloading semiconductor articles relative to the rotor; said plural semiconductor holding features being at least partially provided on said at least one arm. 42. A rotor and rotor transfer implement combination according to claim 39 wherein the transfer implement has plural arms which extend into the rotor when the transfer implement is loading or unloading semiconductor articles relative to the rotor. 43. A rotor and rotor transfer implement combination according to claim 39 wherein the transfer implement has plural arms which extend into the rotor when the transfer implement is loading or unloading semiconductor articles relative to the rotor; said plural semiconductor holding features being at least partially provided on said arms. 44. A rotor and rotor transfer implement combination according to claim 39 wherein the transfer implement further comprises at least one retainer actuator which interacts with portions of the rotor to affect the position of the at least one movable article retainer relative to the rotor frame. 45. A rotor and rotor transfer implement combination according to claim 39 wherein the at least one movable article retainer is pivotally connected to the rotor frame. 46. A rotor and rotor transfer implement combination according to claim 39 wherein the at least one movable article retainer is pivotally connected to the rotor frame and configured to force the semiconductor articles into the desired processing positions when the rotor is rotated. 47. A rotor and rotor transfer implement combination according to claim 39 wherein the at least one movable article retainer is pivotally connected to the rotor frame and balanced to force the semiconductor articles into the desired processing positions when the rotor is rotated and centrifugal forces are developed thereon. 48. A rotor and rotor transfer implement combination according to claim 39 wherein the at least one movable article retainer is pivotally connected to the rotor frame and balanced to provide centrifugal forces urging the semiconductor articles into the desired processing positions when the rotor is rotated; said at least one movable article retainer further being spring biased when in a closed position to initially bear upon the semiconductor articles without rotation of the rotor. 49. A rotor and rotor transfer implement combination according to claim 39 and further comprising at least one retainer operator which operates the at least one movable article retainer in movable relationship to the rotor frame to effect automatic operation of the at least one movable article retainer to develop force against semiconductor articles held in the receiver during rotation of the rotor. 50. A rotor and rotor transfer implement combination according to claim 39 wherein there are a plurality of movable article retainers. 51. A rotor and rotor transfer implement combination according to claim 39 wherein there are a plurality of movable article retainers which are pivotally connected to the rotor frame. 52. A rotor and rotor transfer implement combination according to claim 39 wherein there are a plurality of movable article retainers which are pivotally connected to the rotor frame and balanced to provide centrifugal forces urging the semiconductor articles into the desired processing positions when the rotor is rotated. 53. A rotor and rotor transfer implement combination according to claim 39 wherein there are a plurality of movable article retainers, and further comprising at least one retainer operator which operates the plurality of movable article retainers in movable relationship to the rotor frame to effect automatic operation of the plurality of movable article retainers to develop forces against semiconductor articles held in the receiver during rotation of the rotor. 54. A rotor and rotor transfer implement combination according to claim 39 wherein said at least one movable article retainer is spring biased. 55. A rotor and rotor transfer implement combination according to claim 39 wherein said at least one movable article retainer further being spring biased when in a closed position to initially bear upon the semiconductor articles without rotation of the rotor. 56. A rotor and rotor transfer implement combination according to claim 39 wherein said at least one movable article retainer is spring biased into an open position. 57. A rotor and rotor transfer implement combination according to claim 39 wherein said at least one movable article retainer is spring biased into a closed position. 58. A rotor and rotor transfer implement combination according to claim 39 wherein said at least one movable article retainer is spring biased into open and closed positions. 59. A rotor and rotor transfer implement combination according to claim 39 wherein the rotor frame encircles the receiver. 60. A rotor and rotor transfer implement combination according to claim 39 and further comprising a vision subsystem including a vision detector for detecting the relative position of the rotor and rotor transfer implement. 61. A method for centrifugally processing batches of semiconductor articles, comprising: supporting plural semiconductor articles in a batch array upon a transfer implement; moving the transfer implement into a processing station having a process chamber opening which opens to a processing chamber defined within a processing vessel; said processing station further having a rotor which includes a rotor frame which is mounted for rotation within the process chamber; positioning the transfer implement within a receiver which is on the rotor frame; engaging the batch array with the receiver to support the plural semiconductor articles using the receiver; repositioning at least one movable article retainer which is movably mounted upon the rotor frame into a closed position wherein the at least one movable article retainer is in juxtaposition with the plural semiconductor articles held in the receiver; said at least one movable article retainer serving to maintain the semiconductor articles at desired processing positions on the rotor when the at least one movable article retainer is in a closed position. 62. A method according to claim 61 and further comprising retracting the transfer implement from the processing chamber; closing the processing chamber opening using a movable processing chamber door to provide a substantially enclosed processing chamber; rotating the rotor and supported plural semiconductor articles within the processing chamber. 63. A method according to claim 61 and further comprising: retracting the transfer implement from the processing chamber; closing the processing chamber opening using a movable processing chamber door to provide a substantially enclosed processing chamber; rotating the rotor and supported plural semiconductor articles within the processing chamber; opening the processing chamber opening by retracting the movable processing chamber door; moving the transfer implement into the processing station; repositioning the at least one movable article retainer which is movably mounted upon the rotor frame into an open position wherein the at least one movable article retainer is spaced from the plural semiconductor articles held in the receiver; engaging the transfer implement with the batch array to support the plural semiconductor articles upon the transfer implement; retracting the transfer implement and supported batch array from the processing station. 64. A method according to claim 61 and further comprising urging the plural semiconductor articles using a centrifugally motivated article retainer operator to apply added force maintaining the plural semiconductor articles in the desired processing positions during rotation of the rotor and supported batch array. 