A self-closing cap for the fuel filler neck of a vehicle is provided which is particularly adapted for use with an automatic gas filling machine. The cap comprises a closure ring having an annular body and screw threads or bayonet lugs for detachably mounting the periphery of the annular body around the open end of the filler neck, and a closure flap assembly formed from a circular member with a nozzle receiving opening, a closure flap spring biased over the opening, and a pivotal mounting connecting the flap over the opening. The closure flap assembly includes a locking ratchet mechanism for securing the circular member over the closure ring in a selected angular position such that the pivotal mounting is substantially 180.degree. opposite from the pivotal connection of the restrictive flap within a filler neck of a vehicle to allow a fuel nozzle from an automatic gas filling machine to be smoothly inserted into and withdrawn from the self-closing cap. The cap has a cover that snap-fits over the closure flap assembly. The top wall of the cover serves as an inclined guide face for guiding the nozzle of an automatic gas filling machine into the opening of the closure flap assembly.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A self-closing cap adapted to be mounted onto a filler neck of a fuel tank of an automotive vehicle wherein said neck includes a restrictive flap pivotally connected thereto, comprising: a closure ring having an annular body and means for detachably mounting the periphery of said annular body around a peripheral edge of a filler neck, a closure flap assembly including a circular member having an opening for receiving a nozzle, a closure flap, means for pivotally mounting an edge of said closure flap over said opening, and means for affixing said circular member to said annular body such that the orientation of said pivotal mounting means is adjustable relative to a pivotal connection between said restrictive flap and said neck, and a cover means detachably mountable over said closure flap assembly. 2. The self-closing cap as defined in claim 1, wherein said closure flap is spring biased over said opening in said circular member. 3. The self-closing cap as defined in claim 1, wherein said means for affixing said circular member to said annular body includes a ratchet lock mechanism. 4. The self-closing cap as defined in claim 1, wherein said cover means includes a port for receiving a nozzle and a guide face for guiding said nozzle into said port. 5. The self-closing cap as defined in claim 4, wherein said guide face is inclined with respect to said circular member of said closure flap assembly to facilitate the guiding of said nozzle into said port. 6. The self-closing cap as defined in claim 5, wherein said filler neck is inclined at an oblique angle with respect to an adjacent wall of said vehicle, and said inclination of said guide face orients said face at an angle that facilitates the insertion of a fuel nozzle from an automatic filling machine. 7. The self-closing cap as defined in claim 4, wherein said cover means includes means for guiding the nozzle of an automatic fuel-dispensing machine. 8. The self-closing cap as defined in claim 7, wherein said guide means is a permanent magnet. 9. A self-closing cap for attachment to the fuel filler neck of a vehicle that is particularly adapted for use with an automatic filling machine, said neck having a restrictive flap within its inner diameter that is connected thereto by a pivotal connection, comprising: a closure ring having an annular body and means for detachably mounting the periphery of said annular body around the periphery of a filler neck, a closure flap assembly including a circular member having an opening, a closure flap, means for pivotally mounting said closure flap over said opening, and means for affixing said circular member at a selected position with respect to the periphery of said annular body of said closure ring after said ring has been mounted around the periphery of said filler neck such that the orientation of said pivotal mounting means is angularly adjustable relative to said annular body to a position substantially 180.degree. opposite from said pivotal connection of said restrictive flap, and a cover means detachably mountable over said closure flap assembly. 10. The self-closing cap as defined in claim 9, wherein both said restrictive flap and said closure flap are spring biased over said neck inner diameter and opening, respectively, and wherein said 180.degree. orientation between said pivotal connection and said pivotal mounting means facilitates the insertion and withdrawal of a fuel dispensing nozzle from an automatic filling machine through said cap and filler neck. 11. The self-closing cap as defined in claim 9, wherein said affixing means includes a ratchet lock mechanism. 12. The self-closing cap as defined in claim 9, wherein said cover means includes a port for receiving a fuel nozzle, and a guide face for guiding said nozzle into said port. 13. The self-closing cap as defined in claim 12, wherein said guide face is inclined with respect to said circular member of said closure flap assembly to facilitate the guiding of said fuel nozzle into said port. 14. The self-closing cap as defined in claim 13, wherein said filler neck is inclined at an oblique angle with respect to an adjacent wall of said vehicle, and said inclination of said guide face facilitates the insertion of said fuel nozzle into said port and through said opening. 15. The self-closing cap as defined in claim 13, wherein said cover means includes means for guiding the nozzle of an automatic fuel dispensing machine. 16. The self-closing cap as defined in claim 15, herein said guide means is a permanent magnet. 17. A self-closing cap adapted to be mounted onto a filler neck of a fuel tank of an automotive vehicle, comprising: a closure ring having an annular body and means for detachably mounting the periphery of said annular body around a peripheral edge of a filler neck, and a closure flap assembly including a circular member having an opening for receiving a nozzle, a closure flap, means for pivotally mounting an edge of said closure flap over said opening, and means for permanently affixing said circular member to said annular body such that the orientation of said pivotal mounting means is angularly adjustable relative to said annular body, and a cover means detachably mountable over said closure flap assembly. 