An injection molding machine of the present invention includes a first mold half having one of at least one mold cavity and at least one mold core and a rotatable turret block rotatable on an axis for rotating a plurality of movable mold halves thereof into alignment with the first mold half. Each of the movable mold halves include one of at least one mold cavity and at least one mold core matable with the first mold half for forming a mold for molding a molded article. The rotatable turret block is further for clamping the movable mold halves and the first mold half together. The machine further includes a mechanism for moving the rotatable turret block relative the first mold half a first injector for injecting melt into the at least one mold cavity.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An injection molding machine, comprising: an injection molding machine having only two platens and including a first platen carrying a first mold half having a central axis and one of at least one mold cavity and at least one mold core; a second platen in association with said first platen, said second platen comprising a rotatable turret means rotatable on a central axis of rotation for rotating a plurality of movable mold halves thereof into alignment with said first mold half, each of said movable mold halves including one of at least one mold cavity and at least one mold core matable with said first mold half for forming a mold for molding a molded article, said rotatable turret means operative for clamping said movable mold halves and said first mold half together; means for moving said rotatable turret means relative said first mold half; and a first injection means for injecting melt into said at least one mold cavity, wherein the central axis of rotation of the turret is perpendicular to the central axis of the first mold half. 2. The injection molding machine according to claim 1, further including a frame wherein said first mold half is stationary and affixed to said frame and said rotatable turret means is one of horizontally and vertically movable toward and away from said first mold half on said frame via said means for moving. 3. The injection molding machine according to claim 2, wherein said rotatable turret means is guided on said frame via tie bars. 4. The injection molding machine according to claim 2, further including hardened ways on which said rotatable turret means is longitudinally movable toward and away from said first mold half. 5. The injection molding machine according to claim 1, further comprising means for servicing said rotatable turret means on board said rotatable turret means. 6. The injection molding machine according to claim 5, wherein said means for servicing comprises at least one of hydraulic fluid, cooling fluid, and electricity. 7. The injection molding machine according to claim 6, including means for electing molded articles from said movable mold halves, wherein said means for servicing comprises hydraulic fluid and said means for ejecting comprise hydraulically actuated ejector pistons. 8. The injection molding machine according to claim 7, further including at least one of circuitry and control valves for operating said ejector pistons position on said rotatable turret means. 9. The injection molding machine according to claim 1, further including an article molding area defined between said movable mold halves and said first mold half and an article removal area, wherein said article removal area is located outside of said article molding area allowing for clear access to finished molded articles, wherein a means for removing said articles is positioned for operation in said article removal area. 10. The injection molding machine according to claim 9, wherein said means for removing comprises a robot for automatically removing said articles. 11. The injection molding machine according to claim 1, further comprising a second injection means for co-injecting another type of melt into said at least one mold cavity, said first and second injection means allowing for co-injection molding for forming said molded articles from more than one material. 12. The injection molding machine according to claim 11, wherein each of said first and second injection means comprises a reciprocating screw injection unit. 13. The injection molding machine according to claim 1, further comprising means for rotating said rotatable turret means. 14. The injection molding machine according to claim 1, wherein said rotatable turret means is rotatable through arcuate sectors for moving each of said plurality of movable mold halves to at least one work station positioned at the beginning of at least one of said arcuate sectors. 15. The injection molding machine according to claim 14, wherein each of said arcuate sectors spans an angle of substantially 90.degree.. 16. The injection molding machine according to claim 1, wherein said first mold half includes said at least one mold cavity and each of said movable mold halves include said at least one mold core. 17. The injection molding machine according to claim 1, wherein said rotatable turret means is one of horizontally and vertically movable. 18. The injection molding machine according to claim 17, further including a frame on which said first mold half is stationary and substantially horizontally orientated on said frame, wherein said rotatable turret means with said movable mold halves is vertically movable relative said first mold half. 19. The injection molding machine according to claim 18, wherein said frame has a horizontal longitudinal axis and wherein said rotatable turret means is rotatable on a horizontal axis extending substantially parallel to said horizontal longitudinal axis. 20. The injection molding machine according to claim 18, wherein said frame has a horizontal longitudinal axis and wherein said rotatable turret means is rotatable on a horizontal axis extending substantially perpendicular to said horizontal longitudinal axis. 21. The injection molding machine according to claim 18, wherein said rotatable turret means is vertically movable on vertically extending tie bars. 22. The injection molding machine according to claim 1, wherein: said rotatable turret means for rotating comprising a turret block rotatable on a horizontal axis, said turret block including a plurality of faces for accommodating said plurality of movable mold halves; said turret block longitudinally movable toward and away from said first mold half; and said means for moving comprising tie bars extending into said turret block and mechanisms for moving said tie bars along with said turret block. 23. The injection molding machine according to claim 1, further including at least one means for performing at least one operation in addition to said molding. 24. The injection molding machine according to claim 23, wherein said at least one means for performing comprises each of said movable mold halves including means for ejecting molded articles from said mold cores. 25. The injection molding machine according to claim 23, wherein said at least one means for performing comprises a means for temperature conditioning said molded articles after said molded articles are formed, said means for temperature conditioning positioned adjacent at least one of said movable mold halves. 26. The injection molding machine according to claim 25, wherein said means for temperature conditioning comprises an air blower. 27. The injection molding machine according to claim 23, wherein said at least one means for performing comprises means for removing said molded articles from each of said movable mold halves while said molded articles are ejected from said mold cores. 28. The injection molding machine according to claim 27, wherein said means for removing comprises airveyors positioned for alignment with said mold cores, wherein said airveyors include means for applying vacuum to said molded articles for further removing said molded articles from said mold cores after said molded articles are ejected. 29. The injection molding machine according to claim 28, further including means for moving said airveyors toward and away from said mold cores of said rotatable turret means. 30. The injection molding machine according to claim 29, wherein said airveyors are connected to a movable platform and wherein said means for moving comprises a piston/cylinder assembly attached to said platform for moving said platform and said airveyors toward and away from said rotatable turret means. 31. The injection molding machine according to claim 27, further including an article molding area defined between said movable mold halves and said first mold half and an article removal area, wherein said article removal area is located outside of said article molding area allowing for clear access to finished molded articles, wherein said means for removing said articles is positioned for operation in said article removal area. 32. The injection molding machine according to claim 31, wherein said means for removing comprises a robot for automatically removing said articles. 33. The injection molding machine according to claim 23, wherein said at least one means for performing comprises means for labeling said molded articles. 34. The injection molding machine according to claim 33, wherein said means for labeling comprises a robot including a plurality of tubes positioned adjacent at least one of said plurality of movable mold halves, wherein said robot includes means for positioning labels adjacent said molded articles via said tubes and means for applying said labels to said molded articles. 35. The injection molding machine according to claim 34, wherein said means for positioning comprises a means for providing a vacuum via said tubes to said labels for holding said labels and said means for applying comprises means for providing pressure via said tubes for forcing said labels on said molded articles. 36. The injection molding machine according to claim 23, wherein said at least one means for performing comprises means for supplying liners to said mold cores for a subsequent overmolding process in said mold cavities for forming multi-layered molded articles. 37. The injection molding machine according to claim 36, wherein said means for supplying liners comprises a robotic liner loader positioned adjacent said rotatable turret means. 38. The injection molding machine according to claim 37, wherein said mold cores include means for applying a vacuum to said liners for maintaining said liners on said mold cores during movement into said mold cavities. 39. The injection molding machine according to claim 23, wherein said means for performing at least one additional operation comprises at least one of an article cooling station, an article removal station, a liner providing station, an article labeling station, an article unscrewing station, and an article ejector, wherein said at least one operation is performed on at least one of said molded article and elements used in molding said molded article. 40. The injection molding machine according to claim 1, including means for clamping said mold halves comprising said turret means and including tie bars connected to said means for clamping. 41. An injection molding machine, comprising: a first mold half having one of at least one mold cavity and at least one mold core; a rotatable turret means rotatable on an axis for rotating a plurality of movable mold halves thereof into alignment with said first mold half, each of said movable mold halves including one of at least one mold cavity and at least one mold core matable with said first mold half for forming a mold for molding a molded article, said rotatable turret means operative for clamping said movable mold halves and said first mold half together; means for moving said rotatable turret means relative said first mold half; and a first injection means for injecting melt into said at least one mold cavity, further including a frame wherein said first mold half is stationary and affixed to said frame and said rotatable turret means is one of horizontally and vertically movable toward and away from said first mold half on said frame via said means for moving, wherein said rotatable turret means is guided on said frame via tie bars, and wherein said tie bars are operatively connected with said means for moving. 42. The injection molding machine according to claim 41, wherein said means for moving comprises a piston and cylinder assembly. 43. An injection molding machine, comprising: a first mold half having one of at least one mold cavity and at least one mold core; a rotatable turret means rotatable on an axis for rotating a plurality of movable mold halves thereof into alignment with said first mold half, each of said movable mold halves including one of at least one mold cavity and at least one mold core matable with said first mold half for forming a mold for molding a molded article, said rotatable turret means operative for clamping said movable mold halves and said first mold half together; means for moving said rotatable turret means relative said first mold half; and a first injection means for injecting melt into said at least one mold cavity, further including a frame wherein said first mold half is stationary and affixed to said frame and said rotatable turret means is one of horizontally and vertically movable toward and away from said first mold half on said frame via said means for moving, and further including hardened ways on which said rotatable turret means is longitudinally movable toward and away from said first mold half, wherein said rotatable turret means further includes rollers engagable with said ways for allowing said rotatable turret means to be movable on said hardened ways. 44. An injection molding machine, comprising: a first mold half having one of at least one mold cavity and at least one mold core; a rotatable turret means rotatable on an axis for rotating a plurality of movable mold halves thereof into alignment with said first mold half, each of said movable mold halves including one of at least one mold cavity and at least one mold core matable with said first mold half for forming a mold for molding a molded article, said rotatable turret means operative for clamping said movable mold halves and said first mold half together; means for moving said rotatable turret means relative said first mold half; and a first injection means for injecting melt into said at least one mold cavity, wherein said molded article comprises a molded fastening means requiring said article to be screwed off said at least one mold core for removal therefrom, further comprising means for screwing said molded article off of said mold core. 45. The injection molding machine according to claim 44, wherein said means for screwing comprises an unscrewing head. 46. The injection molding machine according to claim 45, further including an article molding area defined between said movable mold halves and said first mold half and an article removal area, wherein said article removal area is located outside of said article molding area allowing for clear access to finished molded articles, wherein said unscrewing head is positioned for operation in said article removal area. 47. An injection molding machine, comprising: an injection molding machine having only two platens and including a first platen carrying a first mold half having a central axis and one of at least one mold cavity and at least one mold core; a second platen in association with said first platen, said second platen comprising a rotatable turret means rotatable on a central axis of rotation for rotating a plurality of movable mold halves thereof into alignment with said first mold half, each of said movable mold halves including one of at least one mold cavity and at least one mold core matable with said first mold half for forming a mold for molding a molded article, said rotatable turret means operative for clamping said movable mold halves and said first mold half together; means for moving said rotatable turret means relative said first mold half; and a first injection means for injecting melt into said at least one mold cavity. 