A method and apparatus for optically determining the dimension of part surfaces. Particular embodiments describe optical triangulation based coordinate measurement machines capable of accurate measurement of complex surfaces, such as gear teeth and turbine blades. Other embodiments provide highly useful sensors for robot guidance and related purposes. Up to 5 axis sensing capability is provided on surfaces of widely varying form.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic system for determining a dimension of an object, comprising: non-contact sensor means for sensing a characteristic of said object and for providing data related to said characteristic, robot means having at least 4 axes of positional movement for positioning said sensor means relative to said object, control means for controlling said movement of said robot means to position said sensor means relative to said object, and means for analyzing data from said sensor means to determine a dimension of said object. 2. Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said sensor is an electro-optical sensor. 3. Apparatus according to claim 1 including further means to combine robot position and sensor data. 4. Apparatus according to claim 1 including further means to rotate said object about an axis. 5. Apparatus according to claim 1 including means to compare said object characteristic to a stored value. 6. Apparatus according to claim 1 including means for storing said determined characteristic and/or said sensor data. 7. Apparatus according to claim 1 including means for comparing said determined characteristic and/or said sensor data to predetermined values. 8. Apparatus according to claim 1 including information means to provide said control means design information concerning said object. 9. Apparatus according to claim 2 including optical range sensing means. 10. Apparatus according to claim 9 wherein said range sensor utilizes a laser diode. 11. Apparatus according to claim 9 wherein said range sensor utilizes a photodetector array. 12. Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said sensor includes a TV camera. 13. Apparatus according to claim 1 further including means for display of the output of said sensor. 14. Apparatus according to claim 2 wherein said sensor determines characteristics of object features. 15. Apparatus according to claim 2 wherein said sensor determines edge locations of said object. 16. A method for determining a dimension of an object comprising the steps of: providing non-contact sensor means for sensing a characteristic of an object, providing a robot means having at least 4 degrees of positional movement for positioning said sensor means relative to said object, controlling said robot means to position said sensor means with respect to said object, using said sensor means, sensing a characteristic of said object and providing data related to said characteristic, analyzing said data from said sensor to determine a dimension of said object. 