An adaptive control system for mechanical and dynamic systems being transferred from an initial to a desired final state by control devices. The control system comprises an adaptive controller (e.g. in the form of an artificial neural network) for providing scaling parameters p, from inputs to the controller of coordinates for desired final and initial states, to a function generator which provides prototypical time functions scaled by the above parameters, those signals being provided directly via connections to the control devices which generate the required control signals. The adaptive control system may be used for a robotic manipulator having a number of rigid links interconnected by joints, the links being moveable by actuators. The manipulator's Kinematics and Dynamics, including joint interaction effects, are taken into account by this adaptive control system and it controls a manipulator's movements without the need for any real-time feedback circuity or any explicit calculations of inverse kinematics or inverse dynamics.
Claims The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property of privilege is claimed are defined as follows: 1. An adaptive control system for dynamic systems which are transferable from one state to another with at least one degree-of-freedom wherein the dynamic systems can be transferred from an initial state to a selectable desired final state by at least one control device; the control system comprising an adaptive controller for receiving, as inputs thereto, coordinates for desired final and initial system states and for providing, based on said inputs, a plurality of scaling parameters p for each said degree-of-freedom; and a function generator, connected to the adaptive controller, for receiving said parameters p and for generating prototypical time functions wherein the parameters p are applied to scale said prototypical time functions to generate drive signals which are applied to said at least one control device via connections between the function generator and said at least one control device, said drive signals activating said at least one control device to apply required drive forces which transfer the dynamic systems from one state to another desired state. 2. An adaptive control system for mechanical systems which are movable from one state to another with at least one degree-of-freedom wherein the mechanical systems can be transferred from an initial configuration to a selectable desired final configuration by at least one actuator; the control system comprising an adaptive controller for receiving, as inputs thereto, coordinates for desired final and initial mechanical configurations and for providing, based on said inputs, a plurality of scaling parameters p for each said degree-of-freedom; and a function generator, connected to the adaptive controller, for receiving said parameters p and for generating prototypical time functions wherein the parameters p are applied to scale said prototypical time functions to generate drive signals which are applied to said at least one actuator via connections between the function generator and said at least one actuator, said drive signals activating said at least one actuator to apply required drive forces which move the mechanical systems from one state to another. 3. An adaptive control system as defined in claim 2, wherein the mechanical systems are robotic manipulators having at least two links connected by movable joints and said at least one actuator is a joint actuator adapted to move said links from one manipulator configuration to desired final manipulator configurations. 4. An adaptive control system as defined in claim 1, wherein the adaptive controller is an artificial neural network that is trainable by training movements of the dynamic systems to provide a set of parameters from inputs of initial and desired final dynamic systems states; those parameters being used for scaling of said prototypical time functions to transfer the dynamic systems from one state to another desired final state. 5. An adaptive control system as defined in claim 4, wherein the artificial neural network is one containing a number of neurons, which are interconnected; that neural network mapping input signals of coordinates for final desired and initial dynamic systems states into output signals, those output signals being said scaling parameters p. 6. An adaptive control system as defined in claim 5, wherein input signals to the artificial neural network pass through a first layer in the neural network of a large number of coarse-coding neurons, then through at least one hidden layer with a number of neurons and finally through a layer of output neurons having one output neuron for each parameter p. 7. An adaptive control system as defined in claim 6, wherein the coarse-coding neurons in the first layer are each tuned to a range of input values and have overlapping ranges for neighbouring neurons and wherein the neural network has at least two hidden layers. 8. An adaptive control system as defined in claim 4, wherein the function generator is a programmable function generator. 9. An adaptive control system as defined in claim 8, wherein the function generator is a forward- and laterally- and backward-connected artificial neural network performing relaxation oscillations. 10. An adaptive control system as defined in claim 4, wherein there are at least three scaling parameters p for each degree-of-freedom with the parameter p1 specifying the amplitude of a first lobe, p2 the amplitude of a second lobe, and p3 is the time of switching from the first lobe to the second lobe. 11. An adaptive control system as defined in claim 10, wherein said parameters include at least one further parameter selected from the group of (1) a parameter specifying movement path and any of its higher order time derivatives, (2) a parameter specifying speed, and (3) a parameter specifying shape of velocity profiles and any of its higher order derivatives. 12. An adaptive control system as defined in claim 10, wherein the artificial neural network is one containing a number of neurons, which are interconnected; that neural network mapping input signals of coordinates for final desired and initial dynamic systems states into output signals, those output signals being said scaling parameters p. 13. An adaptive control system as defined in claim 12, wherein input signals to the artificial neural network pass through a first layer in the neural network of a large number of coarse-coding neurons, then through at least one hidden layer with a number of neurons and finally through a layer of output neurons having one output neuron for each parameter p. 14. An adaptive control system as defined in claim 13, wherein the coarse-coding neurons in the first layer are each tuned to a range of input values and have overlapping ranges for neighbouring neurons and wherein the neural network has at least two hidden layers. 15. An adaptive control system as defined in claim 14, wherein the function generator is a programmable function generator. 16. An adaptive control system as defined in claim 15, wherein the function generator is a forward- and laterally- and backward connected artificial neural network performing relaxation oscillations. 17. An adaptive control system as defined in claim 2, wherein the adaptive controller is an artificial neural network that is trainable by training movements of the mechanical systems to provide a set of parameters from inputs of initial and desired final mechanical systems configurations; those parameters being used for scaling of said prototypical time functions to move the mechanical systems from one configuration to another desired final configuration. 18. An adaptive control system as defined in claim 17, wherein the artificial neural network is one containing a number of neurons, which are interconnected; that neural network mapping input signals of coordinates for final desired and initial mechanical systems configurations into output signals, those output signals being said scaling parameters p. 19. An adaptive control system as defined in claim 18, wherein input signals to the artificial neural network pass through a first layer in the neural network of a large number of coarse-coding neurons, then through at least one hidden layer with a number of neurons and finally through a layer of output neurons having one output neuron for each parameter p. 20. An adaptive control system as defined in claim 19, wherein the coarse-coding neurons in the first layer are each tuned to a range of input values and have overlapping ranges for neighbouring neurons and wherein the neural network has at least two hidden layers. 21. An adaptive control system as defined in claim 17, wherein the function generator is a programmable function generator. 22. An adaptive control system as defined in claim 21, wherein the function generator is a forward- and laterally- and backward-connected artificial neural network performing relaxation oscillations. 23. An adaptive control system as defined in claim 2, wherein there are at least three scaling parameters p for each degree-of-freedom with the parameter p1 specifying the amplitude of a first lobe, p2 the amplitude of a second lobe, and p3 is the time of switching from the first lobe to the second lobe. 24. An adaptive control system as defined in claim 23, wherein said parameters include at least one further parameter selected from the group of (1) a parameter specifying movement path and any of its higher order time derivatives, (2) a parameter specifying speed, and (3) a parameter specifying shape of velocity profiles and any of its higher order derivatives. 25. An adaptive control system as defined in claim 17, wherein the artificial neural network is one containing a number of neurons, which are interconnected; that neural network mapping input signals of coordinates for final desired and initial mechanical systems configurations into output signals, those output signals being said scaling parameters p. 26. An adaptive control system as defined in claim 25, wherein input signals to the artificial neural network pass through a first layer in the neural network of a large number of coarse-coding neurons, then through at least one hidden layer with a number of neurons and finally through a layer of output neurons having one output neuron for each parameter p. 27. An adaptive control system as defined in claim 26, wherein the coarse-coding neurons in the first layer are each tuned to a range of input values and have overlapping ranges for neighbouring neurons and wherein the neural network has at least two hidden layers. 28. An adaptive control system as defined in claim 27, wherein the function generator is a programmable function generator. 29. An adaptive control system as defined in claim 28, wherein the function generator is a forward- and laterally- and backward-connected artificial neural network performing relaxation oscillations. 30. An adaptive control system as defined in claim 23, wherein the mechanical systems are robotic manipulators having at least two links connected by movable joints and said at least one actuator is a joint actuator adapted to move said links from one manipulator configuration to desired final manipulator configurations. 