A robot and associated control system, as well as a method of control, for servicing a heat exchanger having a substantially planar tube sheet which defines a multiplicity of laterally spaced tube openings of known shape, each of which is centered at a coordinate on a tube sheet coordinate system. A sensory system associated with the robot end effector and the associated digital processing system, includes a vision subsystem for generating an image of a portion of the tube sheet and generating a first signal commensurate with the spatial relationship of the tool to a selected tube opening. An optical subsystem is also provided, for projecting a structured light beam toward the tube sheet and receiving a reflected structured light pattern, indicative of how closely the tool is aligned with the target opening. The end effector also includes transducers responsive to at least one of force and torque acting on the end effector, resulting from partial entry of the tool, or a tool proxy such as a guide, into a tube opening. The sensing of the reflected light pattern, and the sensing of the force and/or torque, result in the generation of second and third signals, respectively which, along with the first signal, are utilized in the computer for controlling the arm to center the tool for actuation fully into the selected tube opening.
Claims We claim: 1. A computer controlled robot for servicing a heat exchanger having a substantially planar tube sheet which defines a multiplicity of laterally spaced tube openings of known shape, each of which is centered at a coordinate on a tube sheet coordinate system, comprising: a manipulator having a base fixed with respect to the tube sheet, an articulated arm for moving parallel to said tube sheet, and an end effector carried by the arm for sequential positioning under a plurality of selected tube openings, the end effector carrying a tool which is actuable in a direction perpendicular to the tube sheet for insertion into a respective selected tube opening; a sensory system having means carried by the end effector and means in said computer, for dynamically positioning the tool relative to a selected tube opening, said sensory system including, means for generating an image of a portion of the tube sheet, means for processing said image and generating a first signal commensurate with the spatial relationship of the tool to the selected tube opening, means carried on the end effector for projecting a structured light beam toward the tube sheet at the location of either one of said selected tube opening or a laterally spaced tube opening, means on the end effector for receiving a structured light pattern reflected by the tube sheet from said means for projecting, means for sensing the reflected light pattern and generating a second signal commensurate with the spatial relationship of the reflection to said either one of said selected tube opening or laterally spaced tube opening, means on the end effector for sensing at least one of force and torque acting on the end effector resulting from the tool partially entering said selected tube opening or a probe partially entering said laterally spaced tube opening; means for generating a third signal commensurate with at least one of said sensed force or torque; and means in said computer responsive to said first, second, and third signals, for controlling said arm to center said tool for actuation fully into said selected opening. 2. The robot of claim 1, wherein the means for generating an image includes a CCD camera, means for illuminating the tube sheet, and means in the computer for converting the image from the camera into a digitized image. 3. The robot of claim 2, wherein the means for illuminating the tube sheet is carried on said tool and projects light substantially vertically toward the tube sheet. 4. The robot of claim 3, wherein the means for generating a first signal includes a vision subsystem for tracking the position of said camera moving relative to the tube sheet. 5. The robot of claim 1, wherein the means for projecting a structured light beam includes a laser source. 6. The robot of claim 5, wherein the laser source is carried on the end effector at a location which is one tube opening pitch lateral of said tool. 7. The robot of claim 5, wherein the structured light beam includes a plurality of distinct beams which are laterally spaced from each other such that when the laser source is aligned with a tube opening, all said beams enter the opening, but when the source is not aligned within a preestablished tolerance, at least one of said beams will impinge on and reflect from a portion of the tube sheet that surrounds said opening. 8. The robot of claim 7, wherein the laser source projects four distinct beams arranged at the circumference of a circle having a diameter slightly less than the diameter of said opening. 9. The robot of claim 1, wherein the means for sensing at least one of force and torque includes an elongated probe projecting from the end effector in parallel with the tool, and located one tube opening pitch laterally of the tool. 10. The robot of claim 9, wherein the probe has a substantially conical leading end. 11. The robot of claim 9, wherein the probe projects from the end effector, a distance greater than the projection of the tool from the end effector. 12. The robot of claim 9, wherein the probe has a base, and includes at least one force transducer interposed between the base and the end effector. 13. The robot of claim 9, wherein the probe has a base, and includes at least one torque transducer interposed between the base and the end effector. 14. A control system for a robot for servicing a heat exchanger having a substantially planar tube sheet which defines a multiplicity of laterally spaced tube openings of known shape, each of which is centered at a coordinate on a tube sheet coordinate system, the robot including a manipulator having a base fixed with respect to the tube sheet, an articulated arm for moving parallel to said tube sheet, and an end effector carried by the arm for sequential positioning under a plurality of selected tube openings, the end effector carrying a tool which is actuable in a direction perpendicular to the tube sheet for insertion into a respective selected tube opening, wherein the control system comprises: a control device for delivering control signals to the robot arm; means for generating a primary demand signal for delivery to the control device for controlling the movement of the robot arm to position end effector at said selected tube opening; a position feedback control loop which tracks the movement of the end effector and provides a coarse adjustment to the primary demand signal; and a differential feedback control loop responsive to one of torque or force imposed on the end effector when means on the end effector contact the tube sheet, for delivery to the control device for fine position adjustment of the end effector. 15. The control system of claim 14, including another feedback loop responsive to a structured light pattern reflected from the tube sheet, for fine position adjustment of the end effector. 16. The control system of claim 15, wherein a feed forward control signal responsive to the primary demand signal is delivered to the control device for minimizing overshoot, the position feedback loop is responsive to a visual determination of how close the robot tool is to the selected opening, and the differential feedback loop is responsive to at least one of a torque or force vector imposed on a probe which is actuated to enter an opening in the tube sheet. 17. The control system of claim 16, wherein the primary demand signal is defined by a motion algorithm including kinematics equations, which specifies how the robot moves from a first opening to a second opening, and the position feedback loop modifies the primary demand signal upstream of the control device, and the differential feedback loop and said other feedback loop directly enter the control device. 18. The control system of claim 14, wherein a feed forward control signal responsive to the primary demand signal is delivered to the control device for minimizing overshoot, the position feedback loop is responsive to a visual determination of how close the robot tool is to the selected opening, and the differential feedback loop is responsive to at least one of a torque or force vector imposed on a probe which is actuated to enter an opening in the tube sheet. 19. In a computerized robot for servicing a heat exchanger having a substantially planar tube sheet which defines a multiplicity of laterally spaced tube openings of known shape, each of which is centered at a coordinate on a tube sheet coordinate system, the robot having a base fixed with respect to the tube sheet, an articulated arm for moving parallel to said tube sheet, and an end effector carried by the arm for sequential positioning under a plurality of selected tube openings, the end effector carrying a tool which is actuable in a direction perpendicular to the tube sheet for insertion into a respective selected tube opening, a method for tracking and controlling the tool position, comprising positioning said tool closer to said selected tube opening than to any other tube opening; projecting a structured light beam toward the tube sheet at the location of either one of said selected tube opening or a laterally spaced tube opening, thereby producing a reflected light pattern; sensing the reflected light pattern; comparing the sensed pattern to at least one preestablished reference pattern corresponding to the tool being centered below a tube opening; from the comparison, generating a signal commensurate with deviation of the current position of the tool relative to the center of the selected tube opening; in response to the signal, moving the arm to reduce said deviation; actuating a probe to initiate entry of the probe into a tube opening adjacent said selected opening; sensing at least one of force and torque vector component imposed on the end effector, resulting from actuation of the probe; generating another signal commensurate with at least one of said force or torque vector components; in response to said another signal, controlling the arm to reduce the magnitude of said vector components; and fully inserting said tool into the selected tube opening. 20. In a computerized robot for servicing a heat exchanger having a substantially planar tube sheet which defines a multiplicity of laterally spaced tube openings of known shape, each of which is centered at a coordinate on a tube sheet coordinate system, the robot having a base fixed with respect to the tube sheet, an articulated arm for moving parallel to said tube sheet, and an end effector carried by the arm for sequential positioning under a plurality of selected tube openings, the end effector carrying a tool which is actuable in a direction perpendicular to the tube sheet for insertion into a respective selected tube opening, a method for tracking and controlling the tool position, comprising positioning said tool closer to said selected tube opening than to any other tube opening; projecting a structured light beam toward the tube sheet at the location of either one of said selected tube opening or a laterally spaced tube opening, thereby producing a reflected light pattern; sensing the reflected light pattern; comparing the sensed pattern to at least one preestablished reference pattern corresponding to the tool being centered below a tube opening; from the comparison, generating a signal commensurate with deviation of the current position of the tool relative to the center of the selected tube opening; in response to the signal, moving the arm to reduce said deviation; actuating the tool to initiate partial entry of the tool into said selected opening; sensing at least one of force and torque vector component imposed on the end effector, resulting from partial actuation of the tool; generating another signal commensurate with at least one of said force or torque vector components; in response to said another signal, controlling the arm to reduce the magnitude of said vector components; and fully inserting said tool into the selected tube opening. 