A robotic device for use in conjunction with an imaging system and an imaging method is provided. The robotic device can provide mechanical measurements within the imaging system, and can also control the mechanical environment within the imaging system. An end effector of the robotic device engages a body segment of the patient. In addition, position and force sensors are associated with the robotic device such that the position and forces applied to the end effector can be sensed/measured and recorded, while images are obtained. In addition, the robotic device includes actuators to move the end effector to a desired position, and/or to provide a force to a body segment of a patient by way of the end effector. In a particularly preferred form, structural, sensory, and actuator components of the robotic device are magneto-translucent, such that the robotic device can control and/or provide measured information regarding the mechanical environment within a magnetic resonance imaging system.
Claims What is claimed as new and desired to be secured by Letters: Patent of the United States is: 1. A robotic system for use in an imaging system comprising: an end effector adapted to engage a body segment of a patient; a mounting assembly movably mounting said end effector wherein said end effector and said mounting assembly are formed of magneto-translucent materials; a position sensing system for providing positional information of the end effector; an actuator system for moving said end effector; and wherein said position sensing system includes a magneto-translucent encoder coupled to one of said mounting assembly and said end effector of said robotic system. 2. A robotic system as recited in claim 1, wherein said actuator system includes at least one actuator formed of magneto-translucent materials. 3. A robotic system as recited in claim 2, wherein said at least one actuator comprises a cable system. 4. A robotic system as recited in claim 2, wherein said at least one actuator comprises a hydraulic cylinder. 5. A robotic system as recited in claim 1, wherein said position sensing system further includes a light source, a first optical cable extending from said light source to a first location adjacent said magneto-translucent encoder, a transducer, and a second optical cable extending from a second location adjacent said magneto-translucent encoder to said transducer. 6. A robotic system as recited in claim 1, further including a force sensing system for sensing forces applied to said end effector. 7. A robotic system as recited in claim 6, wherein said force sensing system includes a magneto-translucent deformable member coupled to one of said end effector and said mounting assembly. 8. A robotic system as recited in claim 7, further including means for storing information sensed by said position sensing system and said force sensing system. 9. A robotic system as recited in claim 8, wherein said means for storing comprises a computer, and wherein said computer includes means for controlling said actuator system. 10. A robotic system as recited in claim 6, further including means for storing information sensed by said position sensing system and said force sensing system. 11. A robotic system as recited in claim 10, wherein said means for storing comprises a computer, and wherein said computer includes means for controlling said actuator system. 12. A robotic system as recited in claim 1, further including means for storing information sensed by said position sensing system. 13. A robotic system for use in an imaging system comprising: an end effector adapted to engage a body segment of a patient; a mounting assembly movably mounting said end effector; a position sensing system for providing positional information of the end effector; and an actuator system for moving said end effector; the robotic system further including a force sensing system for providing force information of forces applied to said end effector, wherein said force sensing system includes a magneto-translucent deformable member coupled to one of said end effector and said mounting assembly. 14. A robotic system as recited in claim 13, wherein said force sensing system further comprises a light source, a transducer, an optical cable extending from said light source to a first location adjacent said deformable member, and a further optical cable extending from a second location adjacent said deformable member to said transducer. 15. A diagnostic/therapeutic imaging system comprising: (a) an imaging system for obtaining an image of a first body segment of a patient; (b) a robotic system including: (i) an end effector adapted to engage a second body segment of a patient while said imaging system is obtaining an image of said first body segment, and wherein said end effector is selectively movable in a plurality of degrees of freedom; and (ii) a sensing system for sensing movement of said end effector and providing sensed information for correlation with an image of said first body segment obtained by said imaging system; wherein said robotic system is at least partially disposed within said imaging system. 16. A diagnostic/therapeutic imaging system as recited in claim 15, further including an actuator system for moving said end effector. 17. A diagnostic/therapeutic imaging system as recited in claim 15, further including a computer for storing information sensed by said sensing system, and wherein said computer controls said actuator system. 18. A diagnostic/therapeutic imaging system as recited in claim 17, wherein said computer stores a plurality of preprogrammed sequences for controlling said actuator system. 19. A diagnostic/therapeutic imaging system as recited in claim 15, further including an instructional display for instructing a patient to perform a task. 20. A diagnostic/therapeutic imaging system comprising: (a) an imaging system for obtaining an image of a first body segment of a patient; (b) a robotic system including: (i) an end effector adapted to engage a second body segment of a patient while said imaging system is obtaining an image of said first body segment, and wherein said end effector is selectively movable in a plurality of degrees of freedom; and (ii) a sensing system for sensing movement of said end effector and providing sensed information for correlation with an image of said first body segment obtained by said imaging system; wherein said imaging system comprises a magnetic resonance imaging system, and wherein said end effector and at least part of said sensing system are formed of magneto-translucent materials, the diagnostic/therapeutic imaging system further including means for recording movement of said end effector, wherein said means for recording movement is disposed outside of said imaging system. 21. A diagnostic/therapeutic imaging system comprising: (a) an imaging system for obtaining an image of a first body segment of a patient; (b) a robotic system including: (i) an end effector adapted to engage a second body segment of a patient while said imaging system is obtaining an image of said first body segment, and wherein said end effector is selectively movable in a plurality of degrees of freedom; and (ii) a sensing system for sensing movement of said end effector and providing sensed information for correlation with an image of said first body segment obtained by said imaging system; (c) wherein said sensing system includes: an encoder for sensing movement of said end effector, said encoder including an encoder disk disposed in said imaging system; (ii) a light source disposed outside of said imaging system; and (iii) an optical cable extending from said encoder disk to said light source. 22. A diagnostic/therapeutic imaging system as recited in claim 21, wherein said sensing system further includes a transducer disposed outside of said imaging system, and an additional optical cable extending from said encoder disk to said transducer, and wherein said transducer is connected to means for recording movement. 23. A diagnostic/therapeutic imaging system comprising: (a) an imaging system for obtaining an image of a first body segment of a patient; (b) a robotic system including: (i) an end effector adapted to engage a second body segment of a patient while said imaging system is obtaining an image of said first body segment, and wherein said end effector is selectively movable in a plurality of degrees of freedom; and (ii) a sensing system for sensing movement of said end effector and providing sensed information for correlation with an image of said first body segment obtained by said imaging system; (c) wherein the system further includes an optical strain gauge comprising: (i) a deformable member coupled to said robotic system such that said deformable member is deformed in response to a force applied to said end effector; (ii) a light source disposed outside of said imaging system; and (iii) an optical cable extending from said deformable member to said light source. 24. A diagnostic/therapeutic imaging system as recited in claim 23, further including an encoder disk coupled to said deformable member. 25. A diagnostic/therapeutic imaging system as recited in claim 24, further including a transducer disposed outside of said imaging system and an additional optical cable extending from said deformable member to said transducer. 26. A diagnostic/therapeutic imaging system comprising: (a) an imaging system for obtaining an image of a first body segment of a patient; (b) a robotic system including: (i) an end effector adapted to engage a second body segment of a patient while said imaging system is obtaining an image of said first body segment, and wherein said end effector is selectively movable in a plurality of degrees of freedom; and (ii) a sensing system for sensing movement of said end effector and providing sensed information for correlation with an image of said first body segment obtained by said imaging system; (c) an instructional display for instructing a patient to perform a task; and (d) wherein the system further includes a computer which stores information sensed by said sensing system, and wherein said computer stores a plurality of images to be displayed by said instructional display. 27. A diagnostic/therapeutic imaging system as recited in claim 26, further including an actuator system for applying forces to the robotic system, and wherein said computer controls said actuator system. 28. A diagnostic/therapeutic imaging system as recited in claim 27, wherein said computer stores a plurality of actuator sequences. 29. A diagnostic/therapeutic imaging system as recited in claim 28, wherein said plurality of actuator sequences includes at least one perturbing sequence to provide a force opposing a patient while a patient is performing a task instructed by said instructional display. 30. A robotic system for use in a diagnostic/therapeutic imaging, comprising: (a) an end effector to be disposed within an imaging system, said end effector providing a coupling between the robotic system and a body segment of a patient, said end effector formed of a magneto-translucent material; (b) a mounting assembly for movably mounting said end effector; (c) at least one sensor component coupled to one of said mounting assembly and said end effector, said at least one sensor component including at least one of: (i) an encoder disk which moves in response to movement of said end effector; and (ii) a deformable member which deforms in response to a force applied to said end effector; (d) a light source; and (e) an optical cable extending from said light source to said at least one sensor component. 31. A robotic system as recited in claim 30, further including an actuator system coupled to said mounting assembly for imparting a force to said end effector. 32. A robotic system as recited in claim 31, further including control means for recording information sensed by said at least one sensor component, and wherein said control means controls said actuator system. 33. A robotic system as recited in claim 32, further including instructional display means for providing a patient with instructions to perform a task while said end effector engages a body segment, and wherein said control means controls said actuator system to provide a perturbing force while a patient is attempting to perform a task instructed by said instructional display means. 34. A robotic system as recited in claim 30, wherein a plurality of sensor components are provided for sensing position and force information associated with movement of said handle member, the robotic system further including an actuator system for moving said end effector and for providing an opposition force opposing movement of the end effector by a patient. 35. A robotic system as recited in claim 30, wherein said mounting assembly movably mounts said end effector for selectable and variable movement in at least two degrees of freedom. 36. An imaging method utilizing a robotic system, comprising: providing a robotic system having an end effector selectively movable in at least two degrees of freedom to allow performance of a plurality of different tasks; coupling the end effector to a body segment of a patient; sensing at least one of: (a) a force applied to said end effector, and (b) a position of said end effector; obtaining at least one brain image during the sensing step; and correlating the at least one brain image to information obtained during said sensing step. 37. A method as recited in claim 36, further including providing said robotic system with a plurality of actuators for imparting a force to said end effector. 38. A method as recited in claim 36, wherein said sensing step includes taking position and force measurements. 39. A method as recited in claim 36, wherein said end effector is a handle member adapted to engage an extremity of a patient, the method further including sensing position of said end effector and sensing forces applied to said end effector while said patient is performing a task with said handle member. 40. An imaging method as recited in claim 36, further including providing an actuator system for moving said end effector, and wherein the step of obtaining at least one brain image includes obtaining at least one brain image while said end effector is being moved by said actuator system. 41. An imaging method utilizing a robotic system, comprising: providing a robotic system having an end effector selectively movable in at least two degrees of freedom to allow performance of a plurality of different tasks; coupling the end effector to a body segment of a patient; sensing at least one of: (a) a force applied to said end effector, and (b) a position of said end effector; obtaining at least one image during the sensing step; wherein said end effector is a handle member adapted to engage an extremity of a patient, the method further including sensing position of said end effector and sensing forces applied to said end effector while said patient is performing a task with said handle member; wherein the step of obtaining an image includes obtaining an image utilizing a magnetic resonance imaging system, and wherein at least a portion of said robotic system is disposed inside of said magnetic resonance imaging system; and wherein the sensing step includes providing a plurality of sensor components inside of said magnetic resonance imaging system, providing at least one light source outside of said magnetic resonance imaging system, and providing optical cables for feeding light from said at least one light source to said plurality of sensor components. 42. A method as recited in claim 41, wherein the step of obtaining at least one image includes obtaining a brain image. 43. A diagnostic/therapeutic imaging system comprising: (a) a magnetic resonance imaging system; and (b) a robotic system including: (i) an end effector adapted to engage an extremity of a patient during imaging of said patient by said magnetic resonance imaging system; (ii) a mounting assembly for movably mounting said end effector such that said end effector is selectively movable in a plurality of degrees of freedom; (iii) an actuator system for moving said end effector and thereby moving the extremity of the patient; (iv) position sensor means for sensing position of said end effector; and (v) control means for controlling said actuator system to cause said actuator system to move said end effector. 44. A diagnostic/therapeutic imaging system as recited in claim 43, further including force sensing means for sensing forces associated with movement of said end effector. 45. A diagnostic/therapeutic imaging system as recited in claim 44, wherein said control means stores a plurality of actuator system sequences. 46. A diagnostic/therapeutic imaging system as recited in claim 45, wherein said control means stores information obtained by said position sensor means and said force sensor means. 47. A diagnostic/therapeutic imaging system as recited in claim 43, wherein at least part of said robotic system is disposed inside of said magnetic resonance imaging system. 48. A robotic system for use in a magnetic field comprising: (a) an end effector formed of a magneto-translucent material; (b) a mounting assembly for movably mounting the end effector; (c) a position sensor formed of a magneto-translucent material, said position sensor coupled to one of said end effector and said mounting assembly; (d) a light source; and (e) an optical cable extending from said light source to said position sensor. 49. A robotic system as recited in claim 48, further including at least one actuator formed of a magneto-translucent material, and a force sensor formed of a magneto-translucent material. 