A rigid three-dimensional preform is made by moving a plurality of webs of fibrous reinforcement material superposed and coplanar to a cutter, the webs being coated with an electromagnetic energy-curable binder and pressed together. Prior to cutting a blank in a two-dimensional development of the three-dimensional preform from the webs, the webs are tacked together at spaced local zones by locally curing the binder at those zones by locally applying the appropriate electromagnetic radiation (microwave, ultraviolet, electron) so that the webs travel as one to the cutter. After cutting of the blank, the blank is loaded into a mold to replicate the three-dimensional shape of the preform and the remainder of the binder is cured in the mold by the application of the appropriate electromagnetic radiation. An auxiliary member may be attached to the preform by applying an electromagnetic energy-curable binder to at least one location on the preform, moving the auxiliary member into a desired position and intimate contact with the binder-coated location and the binder cured at that location by the application of the appropriate electromagnetic radiation.
Claims We claim: 1. A room temperature method for attachment of a member to a previously formed and cured carrier preform comprising the steps of: providing a formed and cured carrier preform; applying a UV-curable binder to a surface portion of the carrier preform, the member or both, at a binder area where the carrier preform and member are to be joined; positioning the carrier preform and member in intimate contact at the binder area; and stitching the carrier preform and member together by irradiating at least a portion of the binder area with UV energy to cure the UV-curable binder and bond the carrier preform and member together along the binder area. 2. A method as defined in claim 1, wherein the UV-curable binder is applied by spraying. 3. A method as defined in claim 1, wherein the UV-curable binder is applied to more than one surface portion to provide a plurality of binder areas. 4. A method as defined in claim 1, wherein in the stitching step irradiation is performed with a scanning UV-energy applicator. 5. A method as defined in claim 1, wherein the binder area is a marginal edge of the-carrier preform. 6. A method as defined in claim 1, wherein the carrier preform has an internal cavity and the binder area is disposed in the internal cavity for bonding the member in the internal cavity. 7. A room temperature method for making a rigid three-dimensional preform comprising the steps of: applying a UV-curable binder to a fibrous mat material; shaping the fibrous mat material into a predetermined shape; curing the binder in the predetermined shape by irradiating the predetermined shape with UV-energy to form a first rigid preform; applying a UV-curable binder to a first surface portion of the first rigid preform at a first binder area; contacting the binder covered first surface portion of the first rigid preform with a second preform member; and irradiating the first binder area between the first rigid preform and the second preform member with UV-energy to cure the binder and bond the first rigid preform and second preform member together without deforming the predetermined shape of the rigid preform. 8. A method as defined in claim 7, further comprising the steps of applying a UV-curable binder to a second surface portion of the rigid preform at a second binder area; contacting the binder covered second surface portion of the second binder area with a structural reinforcement member; and irradiating the second binder area with UV-energy to cure the binder and bond the rigid preform and structural reinforcement member together at the second binder area. 9. A method as defined in claim 7, wherein the rigid preform includes a pocket and the method further comprises the step of: applying a UV-curable binder to a surface portion in the pocket at a pocket binder area; contacting the binder covered surface portion of the pocket binder area with a core; and irradiating the pocket binder area with UV-energy to cure the binder and bond the core to the pocket. 10. A room temperature method for making a preform comprising the steps of: supplying a first fibrous mat of reinforcement material; applying a UV-curable binder to the first mat; supplying a second fibrous mat of reinforcement material and positioning the second mat on the binder and first mat to define an assembly; selectively irradiating selected portions of the assembly with UV-energy to cure the binder and tack the first and second mats together along the selected portions such that remaining uncured binder disposed outside of the selected portions is curable upon further UV exposure to complete a three-dimensionally shaped preform. 11. A method as defined in claim 10, wherein the assembly is pressed together before selectively irradiating. 12. A method as defined in claim 10, further comprising the step of cutting the tacked mats to a desired preform shape. 13. A method as defined in claim 10, further comprising the steps of molding the tacked mats by placing the tacked mats in a UV-transparent mold and thereafter irradiating the tacked mats with UV-energy to cure the remaining uncured binder to provide a rigid three-dimensional preform. 14. A method as defined in claim 10, wherein the first and the second fibrous mats are withdrawn from a supply roll. 