A virtual surgery system or virtual testing system provides a simulation or test based on image data. A simulator combined with a real exam requires simulation tasks by a test taker. Additionally, a surgical procedure may be simulated using image data of a patient in devices simulating the physical instruments a surgeon uses in performing the actual procedure, for example. The user input device, such as a mouse, three dimensional mouse, joystick, seven dimensional joystick, full size simulator, etc., can be used in a virtual simulation to move through the image data while the user looks at the data and interaction of the input device with the image data on a display screen. Force feedback can be provided based on based on physical constraint models (of the anatomy, for example), or based on edge and collision detection between the virtual scope or virtual tool used by the operator and walls or edges of the image data in the image space. The virtual simulator may be used as a teaching, training, testing, demonstration, or remote telesurgery device, for example.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for recording data of an actual surgical procedure, the apparatus comprising: a computer for receiving and storing data related to the actual surgical procedure; and a virtual orifice attached directly over a real orifice of a patient undergoing the actual surgical procedure, wherein said virtual orifice is connected to said computer and wherein said virtual orifice transmits motion data of an actual surgical instrument inserted through said virtual orifice and into the real orifice of the patient to said computer during the actual surgical procedure. 2. The apparatus for recording data of an actual surgical procedure according to claim 1, wherein said computer merges said motion data of the actual surgical instrument with image data of the anatomy of the actual patient. 3. The apparatus for recording data of an actual surgical procedure according to claim 1, wherein said computer stores said data of the actual surgical procedure on a recording device. 4. The apparatus for recording data of an actual surgical procedure according to claim 3, wherein the recording device comprises one of a CDROM, magnetic tape, computer disc and a memory associated with a remote computer. 5. The apparatus for recording data of an actual surgical procedure according to claim 1, wherein said actual surgical instrument is connected to said computer and provides data of the actual surgical procedure to said computer. 6. The apparatus for recording data of an actual surgical procedure according to claim 1 further comprising means for capturing the motion and position of the actual surgical instrument during the actual surgical procedure, wherein said means for capturing the motion and position of the actual surgical instrument transmits data representative of the captured motion and position of the actual surgical instrument to said computer and wherein said means for capturing the motion and position of the actual surgical instrument is located within the room where the actual surgical procedure is being conducted and is not directly connected to the virtual orifice or the actual surgical instrument. 7. The apparatus for recording data of an actual surgical procedure according to claim 6 wherein said means for capturing the motion and position of the actual surgical instrument during an actual surgical procedure also captures the motion and position of the persons conducting the actual surgical procedure and the actual patient and wherein said means for capturing the motion and position of the actual surgical instrument transmits data representative of the captured motion and position of the persons and actual patient to said computer. 8. The apparatus for recording data of an actual surgical procedure according to claim 6 wherein said means for capturing the motion and position of the actual surgical instrument includes motion detection sensors. 9. The apparatus for recording data of an actual surgical procedure according to claim 6 wherein said means for capturing the motion and position of the actual surgical instrument includes a video camera. 10. A method for recording data of an actual surgical procedure comprising the steps of: positioning a virtual orifice directly over a real orifice of an actual patient wherein said virtual orifice is connected to a computer for transmitting data to said computer; inserting an actual medical instrument through said virtual orifice and into the real orifice of the actual patient for conducting an actual surgical procedure; sensing the motion of the actual medical instrument during the actual surgical procedure by said virtual orifice; transmitting data representative of the motion of the actual medical instrument during the actual surgical procedure to said computer by said virtual orifice; and recording said data representative of the motion of the actual medical instrument by said computer. 11. The method for recording data of an actual surgical procedure according to claim 10 wherein said actual medical instrument is connected to said computer and provides data of the actual surgical procedure to said computer. 12. The method for recording data of an actual surgical procedure according to claim 10 further comprising the step of merging said data representative of the motion of the actual medical instrument during the actual surgical procedure with image data of the anatomy of the actual patient. 13. The method for recording data of an actual surgical procedure according to claim 12 further comprising the step of generating a medical record of the actual surgical procedure. 14. The method for recording data of an actual surgical procedure according to claim 10 further comprising the step of generating a digital medical record for the actual surgical procedure. 15. The method for recording data of an actual surgical procedure according to claim 10 further comprising the steps of: positioning a means for capturing the motion and position of the actual medical instrument during the actual surgical procedure within the room where the actual surgical procedure is being conducted wherein said means for capturing the motion and position of the actual medical instrument is not directly connected to the virtual orifice or the actual medical instrument; capturing the motion and position of the actual medical instrument by said means for capturing the motion and position of the actual medical instrument; and transmitting data representative of the captured motion and position of the actual medical instrument to said computer by said means for capturing the motion and position of the actual medical instrument. 16. The method for recording data of an actual surgical procedure according to claim 15 wherein said means for capturing the motion and position of the actual medical instrument during an actual surgical procedure also captures the motion and position of the persons conducting the actual surgical procedure and the actual patient and wherein said means for capturing the motion and position of the actual medical instrument transmits data representative of the captured motion and position of the persons and actual patient to said computer. 17. The method for recording data of an actual surgical procedure according to claim 15 wherein said means for capturing the motion and position of the actual medical instrument includes motion detection sensors. 18. The method for recording data of an actual surgical procedure according to claim 15 wherein said means for capturing the motion and position of the actual medical instrument includes a video camera. 19. The method for recording data of an actual surgical procedure according to claim 16 further comprising the steps of: sensing the forces applied to the actual medical instrument during the actual surgical procedure by said virtual orifice; transmitting data representative of the forces applied to the actual medical instrument to said computer by said virtual orifice; and recording said data representative of the forces applied to the actual medical instrument by said computer. 20. The method for recording data of an actual surgical procedure according to claim 19 further comprising the steps of: merging said data representative of the captured motion and position of the persons conducting the actual surgical procedure and the actual patient with said data representative of the motion of the actual medical instrument and the forces applied to the actual medical instrument; recording said merged data by said computer; and transmitting said recorded merged data to a virtual surgery simulator. 