A scheduling method for robotic manufacturing processes that can be used in the processing of semiconductor wafers employs planning of dispatch times for wafers based on predetermined durations for some operations and estimated durations for other operations. Dispatch is based on the actual execution time for operations, but the planned order of operations is not changed. The planning of dispatch times is modified based upon the measurement of actual execution times of operations that were formerly estimated. Specific wafers are identified and a chain of custody is established during planning and dispatch.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for planning and controlling a processing of a group of objects by a cluster tool, the cluster tool having resources that respectively include each of a plurality of process modules, each of the process modules performing a desired process on selected objects of the group of objects while each of the selected objects are located in each of the process modules, the resources further including a manipulator that, on a plurality of respective carrying paddles, carries and moves the objects into and out of the process modules in a series of discrete movements, the carrying paddles and the process modules each defining a single respective object location, each object location being constructed and arranged to have located thereat only one object of the group of objects at any time, operations being performed by the resources on the objects, wherein the operations each occur to a single one of the objects using predetermined resources of the resources and occurring at corresponding predetermined of the object locations, the operations each having an operation time period defined by a predetermined operation start time and an operation time duration, each object having a sequence of operations performed thereupon including (a) an initial operation of moving the related object to one of the paddles from an initial location, (b) a final operation of moving the related object to a final location from one of the paddles and (c) intervening operations between the initial operation and the final operation, wherein there are a plurality of sets of the operations each respectively performed upon each related object and, by each of the sets of the operations, each related object is moved from one of the paddles on which it is located to a desired process module, the related object is processed by the desired process module and the related object is moved from the desired process module to one of the paddles, the object locations being occupied by respective objects for a respective occupancy time period, each occupancy time period starting at a start of an operation that moves an object to the object location and ending at an end of an earliest subsequent operation that moves the object from the object location, the method comprising the steps of: 1. planning discrete movements and processing each object of the group of objects, in turn, in desired process modules, the step of planning, for each of the object, including: A. assigning operation start times for operations in a sequence of operations related to the object, including: i. setting each operation start time for the related object so that the operation start time follows an immediately preceding operation time period for the related object; ii. setting each operation start time for the related object so that, for each resource to be used for the respective operation, the operation time period is free of overlap with all previously set operation time periods for operations using the same resource for other objects; iii. setting each operation start time for the related object so that, for each specific operation location for a respective operation, the operation time period is free of overlap with any previously set occupancy time period for the specific operation location for operations performed upon other objects, and iv. setting each operation start time to start as early as possible based upon each of steps 1A(i) and 1A(ii) and 1A(iii); B. i. interrupting each of steps 1A(i), 1A(ii), 1A(iii) and 1A(iv) when an operation start time (T), for a respective operation-to-be-set (OP2), for the related object that includes a sequence of operations having at least a first operation (OP1) through a last operation (OP2), wherein OP1 is a movement of a selected object (O) to a selected object location (L) and OP2 is a subsequent removal of O from L, is set so that an operation time period for a prior operation at L for another object overlaps any time from an end of OP1 to a start of OP2, and thereafter, ii. restarting step 1A from OP1 with the operation start time of OP1 not less than T; C. after all desired operation start times are set in steps A and B, revising the operation start times for all previously set operations in reverse order from a next-to-last operation to a first operation by adding the lesser of: i. a time duration from the end of the operation time period of an operation start time being revised to an operation start time of a earliest subsequent operation time period for the related object and ii. a time duration from an end of the operation time period of the operation start time being revised to the operation start time of an earliest subsequent operation time period for a previously planned operation for another object using any of the same resources as used by the operation with the revised operation start time; D. repeating steps 1A, 1B, and 1C, each time setting the operation start time of the first operation for the related object to be greater than the operation start time of the first operation set in an immediately preceding set of steps 1A, 1B, and 1C until the operation start time for the last operation for the related object changes relative to the operation start time for the last operation in the immediately preceding set of steps 1A, 1B and 1C, and setting each of the operation start times in the sequence of operations for the next related object as the corresponding operation start times from the immediately preceding steps 1A, 1B and 1C; and 2. 2. controlling the sequence of operations related to each of the objects in the group of objects including: A. initiating each of the operations in the sequence in an order of the operation start time assigned in step 1 and initiating the operations simultaneously if respective assigned operation start times thereof are the same as each other; and B. if the assigned operation start times of respective operations are different from each other, then initiating the operations with different operation start times, free of dependence upon the respective assigned operation start times, when both of (a) all preceding operations on the same object have ended and (b) all preceding operations using the same resource have ended. 2. The method as set forth in claim 1 wherein there are at least a first plurality of objects and a second plurality of objects in the group of objects wherein all objects in each of the first plurality of objects have identical respective first sets of operations performed thereupon and all objects in each of the second plurality of objects have identical respective second sets of operations performed thereupon and wherein the first sets of operations differ from the second sets of operations. 3. The method as set forth in claim 2 wherein the second plurality of objects is planned by the step of planning while the first plurality of objects is being processed by the step of controlling, the step of planning being performed incrementally during the step of controlling including, when a plurality of objects is added for processing and when a current operation completes: a. selecting each plurality of objects in a descending order of usage that a next object of each plurality makes upon a resource with a greatest remaining usage by all of the objects in all the pluralities of objects, b. provisionally assigning operation start times according to the step of assigning (A) to the next object of each plurality, the operations for objects of previously selected pluralities of objects being previously planned operations, c. selecting an object with an earliest provisional operation start time to define the operation start time for the respective object and discarding any remaining provisional operation start times for other objects, and d. if the provisional operation start time for a first operation of the selected object is not greater than the operation start time for any previously planned operations that have not started, then confirm all starting times for the selected object, else discard all starting times for the selected object. 4. The method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the step of controlling includes measuring durations of predetermined operations and storing averaging durations for the predetermined operations. 5. The method as set forth in claim 4 wherein the step of planning includes employing the average durations as the durations of operation time periods for operations that are the same as the predetermined operations. 6. The method as set forth in claim 1 wherein at least two of the process modules are constructed and arranged to perform an identical process on the objects and the step of planning includes setting operation start times for the objects so that objects that require an operation that uses the same process module are set, in turn. 7. The method as set forth in claim 1 further comprising operating the manipulator to move two paddles that are opposed to each other and that rotate on a common axis and that each move independently, radially relative to the axis, the process modules being located about the axis, the step of planning including grouping process modules at predetermined times so that each of the two paddles is located adjacent two respective process modules between which objects are to be moved. 8. The method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the step of planning includes establishing predetermined delay times between operation time periods using specific of the resources based upon usage of the specific resources so that predetermined others of the resources are used on a more continuous basis. 9. The method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the step of planning includes establishing predetermined preallocation time periods that occur before operation time periods using specific of the resources wherein the preallocation time periods are free of overlap with operation time periods for operations using the specific resources for previously planned objects, so that predetermined of the resources are used on a more continuous basis. 10. The method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the objects comprise semiconductor wafers and the process modules comprise semiconductor fabrication processors. 11. The method as set forth in claim 10 wherein the resources include an aligner module for aligning each of the wafers relative to one of the carrying paddles, and wherein one of the operations comprises moving wafers to the aligner module, aligning the wafers, and moving each of the wafers from the aligner module to one of the process modules. 12. The method as set forth in claim 11 further comprising operating the manipulator to move two paddles that are opposed to each other and that rotate on a common axis and that each move independently, radially relative to the axis, the process modules being located about the axis, the step of planning including grouping process modules at predetermined times so that each of the two paddles is located adjacent two respective process modules between which objects are to be moved. 