A polishing facility integrates separate components of polishing such as wafer transport, polishing, cleaning and drying in one standardized facility to provide efficient polishing operation at low cost. The facility is designed to deal with a variety of different types of wafers, including different types of surface film, and is designed also to enables quick and low cost upgrading of the facility to meet advancing requirements of customers. The polishing facility can be placed within a cleanroom to provide efficient handling of polished wafers for further processing and fabrication tasks. Individual work component of polishing is arranged in one block having its own power supply and signal lines, and is controlled by a central controller having a dedicated software program for each work component. Therefore, if upgrading of the facility is required on any work component, only that work component requiring attention needs to be repaired/replaced, thus eliminating the need to shut down the entire facility as in conventional polishing setups. Each work component is modularized for easy replacement and inventory purposes. The overall effect of the integrated polishing facility is that the efficiency of the polishing operation is significantly improved at minimal cost of labor and capital investments.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A modular polishing facility for polishing workpieces, said facility comprising: a load/unload function module for receipt of a cassette for workpieces to be polished; a transport function module for moving workpieces within said facility; a polishing function module for polishing workpieces; a cleaning function module for cleaning workpieces; a control function module for controlling said facility; each of said transport function module, said polishing function module and said cleaning function module including a driver for driving a motor, an electrical terminal for supplying electrical power to said driver, a conversion interface for control signals for said driver, and a communications terminal for receiving control signals; and said control function module including a power source for supplying electrical power to each of said load/unload function module, said transport function module, said polishing function module and said cleaning function module through an electrical terminal, a computer for generating command signals, an electrical input terminal for receiving input of external electrical power, and an operation panel for inputting commands for said facility. 2. A facility as claimed in claim 1, wherein each of said transport function module, said polishing function module and said cleaning function module further includes control valves for controlling operations of an air cylinder and process valves, and an air supply for supplying air to said control valves, and said conversion interface is for control signals for said control valves. 3. A facility as claimed in claim 2, wherein said load/unload function module includes a driver for driving a motor, an electrical terminal for supplying electrical power to said driver, control valves for controlling operations of an air cylinder and process valves, an air supply for supplying air to said control valves, a conversion interface for control signals for said driver and said control valves, and a communications terminal for receiving control signals. 4. A facility as claimed in claim 3, wherein, for each of said load/unload function module, said transport function module, said polishing function module and said cleaning function module, said driver, said electrical terminal, said control valves, said air supply, said conversion interface and said communications terminal thereof are housed in an individual chassis that is mounted to be pulled out from and pushed into the respective said module, thereby providing access thereto. 5. A facility as claimed in claim 1, wherein said cleaning function module further includes a drip tray having a leak sensor to protect an interior of the respective said chassis. 6. A facility as claimed in claim 1, wherein all of said modules are mountable in freely arrangeable positions on a frame of said facility. 7. A facility as claimed in claim 1, wherein at least one of said modules comprises plural sub-modules of the same function. 8. A facility as claimed in claim 1, wherein each of said load/unload function module, said transport function module, said polishing function module and said cleaning function module is operatively connected to said control function module by respective dedicated electrical power and communication lines, and further comprising respective dedicated control programs in each of said load/unload function module, said transport function control module, said polishing control module and said cleaning function control module. 9. A facility as claimed in claim 8, wherein each said control program includes a utility monitoring program. 10. A facility as claimed in claim 8, further comprising a polishing solution supply device, a waste management device, a cooling water supply device and a warm water supply device, each said device being operatively connected to said control function module by a respective dedicated communication line. 11. A facility as claimed in claim 1, wherein each of said modules is free of direct mechanical connection to any other of said modules. 12. A modular polishing facility for polishing workpieces, said facility comprising: a frame; a load/unload function module for receipt of a cassette for workpieces to be polished; a transport function module for moving workpieces within said facility; a polishing function module for polishing workpieces; a cleaning function module for cleaning workpieces; a control function module for controlling said facility; and said load/unload function module, said transport function module, said polishing module and said cleaning module being individually removably mounted on said frame without direct mechanical connection between any of said load/unload function module, said transport function module, said polishing function module and said cleaning function module. 13. A facility as claimed in claim 10, wherein each of said transport function module, said polishing function module and said cleaning function module includes a driver for driving a motor, an electrical terminal for supplying electrical power to said driver, a conversion interface for control signals for said driver, and a communications terminal for receiving control signals, and said control function module includes a power source for supplying electrical power to each of said load/unload function module, said transport function module, said polishing function module and said cleaning function module through an electrical terminal, a computer for generating command signals, an electrical input terminal for receiving input of external electrical power, and an operation panel for inputting commands for said facility. 14. A facility as claimed in claim 13, wherein each of said transport function module, said polishing function module and said cleaning function module further includes control valves for controlling operations of an air cylinder and process valves, and an air supply for supplying air to said control valves, and said conversion interface is for control signals for said control valves. 15. A facility as claimed in claim 14, wherein said load/unload function module includes a driver for driving a motor, an electrical terminal for supplying electrical power to said driver, control valves for controlling operations of an air cylinder and process valves, an air supply for supplying air to said control valves, a conversion interface for control signals for said driver and said control valves, and a communications terminal for receiving control signals. 16. A facility as claimed in claim 15, wherein, for each of said load/unload function module, said transport function module, said polishing function module and said cleaning function module, said driver, said electrical terminal, said control valves, said air supply, said conversion interface and said communications terminal thereof are housed in an individual chassis that is mounted to be pulled out from and pushed into the respective said module, thereby providing access thereto. 17. A facility as claimed in claim 13, wherein said cleaning function module further includes a drip tray having a leak sensor to protect an interior of the respective said chassis. 18. A facility as claimed in claim 12, wherein at least one of said modules comprises plural sub-modules of the same function. 19. A facility as claimed in claim 12, wherein each of said load/unload function module, said transport function module, said polishing function module and said cleaning function module is operatively connected to said control function module by respective dedicated electrical power and communication lines, and further comprising respective dedicated control programs for each of said load/unload function module, said transport function control module, said polishing control module and said cleaning function control module. 20. A facility as claimed in claim 19, wherein each said control program includes a utility monitoring program. 21. A facility as claimed in claim 19, further comprising a polishing solution supply device, a waste management device, a cooling water supply device and a warm water supply device, each said device being operatively connected to said control function module by a respective dedicated communication line. 