A palletizing system for placing articles from a conveyor onto two pallets. The palletizing system includes first and second substantially horizontally extending tracks each having a longitudinal axis. The first track adapted to move along the second track. At least two grippers engage at least one article to be palletized. A translatable carriage supports the grippers. The translatable carriage is movably mounted on the first track. Two pallet supports each support a respective pallet. Each of the pallet support move along a vertical axis. A control controls the movement of the first track, the translatable carriage, the at least two grippers and the two pallet supports. The control is responsive to a predetermined instruction set such that after each of the grippers places at least one article in a layer on a respective one of the pallets, each of the pallets moves downwardly to permit each of the grippers to place at least one more article in a next layer on the respective pallet with minimal or no vertical movement of the grippers.
Claims I claim: 1. A system for transporting articles from at least one conveyor onto at least one pallet, comprising: a. at least one substantially horizontal elongate first track; b. a substantially horizontal elongate second track extending at substantially a right angle to said at least one first track; c. means for moving said at least one first track along length of said second track; d. at least one carriage movably supported on said first track, said at least one carriage having gripper means for laterally adjusting a position of an article to be palletized; e. at least one pallet support means; f. means for adjusting a vertical position of said at least one pallet support means; and g. means effective during loading of articles onto said pallet for controlling: (1) lateral movement of said at least one first track and said second track to position each article laterally above a predetermined location for each said article at a height above that of the top of the article being placed onto said pallet, and (2) vertical movement of the pallet support means by an amount substantially corresponding to the vertical height of layers of articles on said pallet, whereby each of a layer of said articles to be placed on said pallet will, for each of the successive layers of said articles positioned on said pallet, be released onto said pallet and whereby vertical movement of the article as it travels between the respective conveyor and said pallet is minimized. 2. A method of palletizing articles in multiple layers on at least one pallet, comprising the steps of: laterally moving each of the articles to be palletized from a first pickup location to a selected predetermined location on a pallet by non-rotary motion along one or both of two substantially mutually perpendicular and substantially horizontal directions, and when a predetermined number of said articles intended to be positioned in a layer on said pallet is in place, vertically moving said pallet downwardly by an amount substantially equal to the vertical height of the articles positioned on the pallet, whereby vertical movement of each article as it travels from the first pickup point to the pallet is minimized. 3. A system for palletizing articles from at least one conveyor onto any one of at least two pallets, comprising: a. at least one substantially horizontal elongate first track; b. a substantially horizontal elongate second track extending at substantially a right angle to said first track; c. means for moving said at least one first track along the length of said second track; d. at least one carriage movably supported on said first track, said at least one carriage having gripper means for laterally adjusting the position of an article to be palletized; e. pallet support means for each of said at least two pallets; f. means for adjusting a vertical position of each of said pallet support means; and g. control means effective during the loading of articles onto said at least one of said at least two pallets for controlling: (1) the lateral movement of said at least one first track and said carriage to position each article at a predetermined location on the pallet, and (2) the vertical position of the pallet support means by amounts substantially corresponding to the vertical height of the layers of articles on said pallet, whereby each of a layer of said articles to be placed on said pallet will, for each of the successive layers of said articles positioned on said pallet, be released onto said pallet and whereby vertical movement of the article as it travels between the respective conveyor and said pallet is minimized. 4. A method of palletizing articles in multiple layers on at least two pallets, comprising the steps of: laterally moving each of the articles to be palletized from a first pickup location to a selected predetermined location on one of said at least two pallets by non-rotary motion along one or both of two substantially mutually perpendicular and substantially horizontal directions, and when the predetermined number of said articles intended to be positioned in a layer on said pallet is in place, vertically moving said pallet downwardly by an amount substantially equal to the vertical height of the articles positioned on the pallet, whereby the vertical movement of each article as it travels from the first pickup point to the pallet is minimized. 