The invention is directed to a system and method for releasably holding a surgical instrument (14), such as an endoscopic instrument configured for delivery through a small percutaneous penetration in a patient. The instrument comprises an elongate shaft (100) with a pair of mounting pins (116) laterally extending from the shaft between its proximal and distal ends. An instrument holder comprises a support having a central bore (202) and an axially extending slot (204) for receiving the instrument shaft and the mounting pins. A pair of locking slots (206) are cut into the support transversely to and in communication with the axial slot so that the mounting pins can be rotated within the locking slots. The instrument support further includes a latch assembly for automatically locking the mounting pins within the locking slots to releasably couple the instrument to the instrument holder. With this twist-lock motion, the surgeon can rapidly engage and disengage various instruments from the holder during a surgical procedure, such as open surgery, laparoscopy or thoracoscopy.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A surgical system comprising: a surgical instrument comprising an elongate shaft with proximal and distal ends, an end effector on the distal end and a mounting means laterally extending from the shaft intermediate the proximal and distal ends; an instrument holder comprising a support having a body with first and second ends; an actuator releasably coupled to the instrument shaft for actuating the end effector on the surgical instrument; and a device for constraining movement of said instrument about a desired spherical center of rotation at a desired location along said instrument, the device comprising: a base; a first linkage pivotally mounted on said base for rotation about an axis, said instrument holder holding said instrument in a position so that the desired remote center of spherical rotation along the instrument intersects said axis; and a second linkage connected to said instrument holder for moving said instrument holder in a parallel-plane relationship to said second linkage, said second linkage being pivotally connected to said first linkage so that said second linkage remains parallel to said axis and said first linkage remains parallel to the instrument; wherein said first and second linkages constrain movement of said instrument, such that said desired location on said instrument remains fixed at said spherical center of rotation. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein said instrument holder includes first and second links for coupling the drive assembly with the surgical instrument and for transferring at least two motion actuations from the drive assembly to the instrument. 3. The surgical system of claim 1 wherein the instrument holder further comprises one or more electrical feedthroughs for transferring electrical signals to and from the manipulator assembly and the instrument. 4. The system of claim 1 further comprising a drive coupled to the instrument holder, the drive having an actuator for rotating the instrument about the instrument axis. 5. The system of claim 1 wherein the surgical instrument includes a wrist, the distal end of the instrument being pivotable about the wrist relative to the instrument shaft, the system further comprising an actuator coupled to the instrument holder for pivoting the distal end portion of the instrument shaft about the wrist. 6. The system of claim 1 wherein at least one of the linkage elements includes a flexible drive element such that a movement of one of the linkages is transmitted to the other of the linkages by the flexible drive element. 7. A surgical system comprising: a surgical instrument comprising an elongate shaft with proximal and distal ends and an end effector on the distal end; an input control device located remotely from said surgical instrument; an instrument holder for holding the surgical instrument at a surgical site; one or more servomechanisms coupled to the instrument holder and the input control device for remotely controlling the surgical instrument with the input control device; one or more sensors coupled to the servomechanism for sensing forces acting against the instrument and for transferring said forces to the input control device, wherein said forces detected by the sensors include gravitational forces acting against said instrument holder; and an inclinometer coupled to said servomechanism for determining an orientation with respect to vertical of the surgical instrument. 8. The surgical system of claim 7 wherein the instrument is oriented at an angle with respect to vertical, the inclinometer determining said angle and sending signals to said servomechanism representing said angle so as to prevent gravitational forces acting against the instrument from being transferred to the input control device. 