A system for precisely aligning two cantilever shafts has a regular polygonal recess having N substantially flat faces on a free end of a first shaft cooperating with N free-rotatable rollers regularly angularly spaced and supported on the free end of the other shaft. The diameter of the circle circumscribed about the rollers is equal to the diameter of the circle inscribed by the N faces of the regular polygonal recess in order to allow introduction of the rollers into the recess when the rollers are aligned with the vertices of the polygonal recess and respective angular rotation of 180/N.degree. between the two cantilever shafts provides precise alignment of the two cantilevered shafts.
Claims I claim: 1. A system for precisely aligning a first cylindrical cantilevered shaft with respect to a second cylindrical cantilevered shaft, said first cylindrical cantilevered shaft has an axis and comprises a free end, said second cylindrical cantilevered shaft has an axis substantially aligned with the axis of said first cylindrical cantilevered shaft and comprises a free end; the system comprising: a) a regular polygonal recess having N faces adapted to be disposed within the free end of one of said shafts, a first circle with a given diameter being inscribed by said N faces of said polygonal recess; b) N cylindrical rollers adapted to be rotatably mounted on the free end of the other one of said shafts, said rollers being positioned in such a way as to be equally angularly spaced and inscribed in a second circle whose diameter is substantially equal to the diameter of the first circle; c) the N cylindrical rollers being received into said polygonal recess, wherein each of the rollers substantially faces a corresponding vertex of the polygonal recess; d) whereby one of said shafts is rotated with respect to the other one of said shafts through an angle substantially equal to 180/N.degree. once when the N cylindrical rollers are in the polygonal recess in order to precisely align the two cantilevered shafts with respect to each other. 2. A system according to claim 1, wherein said recess is substantially triangular in shape, and the angle being substantially equal to 60.degree.. 3. A system according to claim 1, wherein the diameter of the second circle is slightly greater than the diameter of the first circle. 4. A system according to claim 1, wherein said polygonal recess and said rollers are disposed in such a way that, when precise alignment is obtained, respective top generatrices of the shafts are substantially collinear. 