An error reduction and accommodation method and system can be used in an automated assembly environment. This method and system use a simple localized calibration process devised to improve similarity between an actual device and a simulated model when an off-line programming technique is used. The system uses grid-hole tables with modular fixtures holding the workpieces. The grid-hole table has round holes instead of screw holes or T-slots and allows modular fixtures with round pins to be placed on the grid-hole table with greater precision. A compliant coupling which is able to accommodate any small error in the system and when used with any end-tool, allows the assembly robot to carry out tasks within the modular system. The use of the grid-hole table and modular fixtures allows the robot, once taught the grid-hole table and the modular fixtures, to be subsequently programmed off-line to carry out any tasks with any standardized modular fixture placed any where on the grid-hole table. The modular fixtures easily slide into any selected grid-holes as required and may be used without further clamping or may be clamped to the grid-hole table, if so desired.
Claims We claim: 1. A system for handling a workpiece comprising: a grid-hole surface having a plurality of uniformly spaced holes; at least one sub-base; means for detachably mounting the sub-base to the grid-hole surface, the means for mounting including at least one pin extending from an underside of the sub-base, the pin being slidable into one of the holes on the grid-hole surface to thereby detachably mount the sub-base to the grid-hole surface; a device which interacts with at least one workpiece on the sub-base, the device being movable toward and away from the workpiece on the sub-base, the grid-hole surface at least partially surrounding the device; control means for automatically controlling movement of the device toward and away from the workpiece; and programming means for instructing the control means about moving toward and away from the workpiece on the sub-base, the programming means including an off-line programming system for modeling positioning of the workpiece on the sub-base relative to a fixed location and wherein the means for mounting precisely locates the sub-base such that deviations between modeling positioning during the off-line programming and an actual positioning of the workpiece and fixed location are minimized. 2. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein the device is a robotic manipulator movable toward and away from the workpiece on the sub-base, the manipulator being at least one of reciprocally, pivotally and rotationally movable relative to the workpiece. 3. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein the workpiece is detachably mounted on the sub-base and is moved by the device after the device moves toward and engages the workpiece. 4. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein the workpiece is fixed to the sub-base. 5. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein at least one pin of the means for detachably mounting comprises a plurality of pins extending from an underside of the sub-base to provide for bolt-less attachment of the sub-base to the grid-hole surface, one of the pins on the sub-base being a generally round pin and another of the pins being a diamond shaped pin, both the round pin and the diamond shaped pin being insertable into separate holes on the grid-hole surface. 6. The system as recited in claim 5, wherein weight on the sub-base and any workpiece thereon secures the sub-base to the grid-hole surface along with the pins inserted into the holes on the grid-hole surface. 7. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein the plurality of holes in the grid-hole surface are either tapped holes or plain holes and wherein the round pin is insertable into one of the plain holes and the diamond shaped pin is insertable in another of the plain holes. 8. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein the at least one sub-base has a plurality of holes for receiving at least one fixture holding one or more workpieces, the holes in the sub-base being used by the programming means as positional references for the workpiece. 9. The system as recited in claim 8, wherein the device includes a robotic manipulator with a plunger having a tip, the robotic manipulator being movable whereby the tip of the plunger is sequentially insertable and removable from the holes in the grid hole surface, the tip of the plunger and the plurality of holes having similar diameters with the diameters of the holes being only slightly larger than the diameter of the plunger whereby the plunger is slidably fit into the holes with a close tolerance, the plunger being inserted in at least some of the holes in the grid hole surface when the programming means calibrates positioning. 10. The system as recited in claim 9, wherein the tip of the plunger has a round conical end and is attached at a tool center point to the robotic manipulator. 11. The system as recited in claim 9, wherein the robotic manipulator includes an exchangeable end-tool at one end thereof, the end-tool being detachably mounted to the end of the manipulator. 12. The system as recited in claim 1, further comprising an energizable magnet provided for aiding in attachment of the sub-base to the grid-hole surface, the magnet being provided on the sub-base. 13. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein the device includes a robotic manipulator and wherein the system further comprises a contact monitoring sensor, an air bearing and a locking mechanism, the robotic manipulator being movable at least toward and away from the workpiece and wherein the contact monitoring sensor activates the air bearing when the manipulator is sensed to contact an item during movement, activation of the air bearing unlocks the locking mechanism to thereby lock the locking mechanism to stop movement of the robotic manipulator. 14. A method for handling a workpiece comprising the steps of; providing a grid-hole surface with a plurality of uniformly spaced holes; detachably mounting a sub-base to the grid-hole surface; the step of detachably mounting comprising inserting at least one pin on an underside of the sub-base into one of the holes on the grid-hole surface; providing a workpiece on the sub-base; moving a robotic manipulator toward the workpiece on the sub-base; engaging the workpiece with a portion of the robotic manipulator; programming the robotic manipulator to automatically move toward the workpiece prior to the step of moving, the step of programming comprising modeling a position of the workpiece on the sub-base relative to a fixed location by using an off-line programming system; and precisely locating the sub-base on the grid-hole surface whereby deviation between actual positioning of the workpiece and a modeled position of the workpiece is minimized. 15. The method as recited in claim 14, wherein the sub-base has a plurality of pins on the underside thereof, the pins including a generally round pin and another diamond shaped pin and wherein the inserting in the step of detachably mounting includes sliding both the round pin and the diamond shaped pin into holes in the grid-hole surface whereby the sub-base is mounted to the grid-hole surface by a boltless attachment. 16. The method as recited in claim 14, wherein the step of moving a robotic manipulator toward the workpiece on the sub-base comprises at least one of the steps of reciprocating, pivoting and rotating the robotic manipulator relative to the workpiece. 