A high precision redundant robotic manipulator for overcoming contents imposed by obstacles or imposed by a highly congested work space. One embodiment of the manipulator has four degrees of freedom and another embodiment has seven degreed of freedom. Each of the embodiments utilize a first selective compliant assembly robot arm (SCARA) configuration to provide high stiffness in the vertical plane, a second SCARA configuration to provide high stiffness in the horizontal plane. The seven degree of freedom embodiment also utilizes kinematic redundancy to provide the capability of avoiding obstacles that lie between the base of the manipulator and the end effector or link of the manipulator. These additional three degrees of freedom are added at the wrist link of the manipulator to provide pitch, yaw and roll. The seven degrees of freedom embodiment uses one revolute point per degree of freedom. For each of the revolute joints, a harmonic gear coupled to an electric motor is introduced, and together with properly designed based servo controllers provide an end point repeatability of less than 10 microns.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A redundant robotic manipulator, including: a first pair of links mounted to rotate about a pair of spaced vertical axis lines and interconnected to form a first selective compliant assembly robot arm; and a second pair of links operatively mounted to rotate about a pair of spaced horizontal axis lines and mounted to one link of said first pair of links and interconnected to form a second selective compliant assembly robot arm. 2. The manipulator of claim 1, wherein said first selective compliant assembly robot arm provides stiffness in a vertical plane, and wherein said second selective compliant assembly robot arm provides stiffness in a horizontal plane. 3. The manipulator of claim 1, additionally including a support member to which another link of said first pair of links is operatively connected. 4. The manipulator of claim 1, wherein said first pair of links each include a counter weight. 5. The manipulator of claim 1, wherein each link of said first and second pair of links is provided with means for rotating said links. 6. The manipulator of claim 5, wherein the means for rotating said links comprises a motor operatively connected to said link. 7. The manipulator of claim 6, additionally including a support member, said motor for rotating another link of said first pair of links is mounted in said support member, said motor for rotating said one link of said first pair of links is mounted on said another link of said first pair of links, said motor for rotating a first link of said second pair of links being mounted in said one link of said first pair of links, and said motor for rotating a second link of said second pair of links being mounted on said first link of said second pair of links. 8. The manipulator of claim 7, additionally including a counter weight connected to at least each link of said first pair of links. 9. The manipulator of claim 1, additionally including means operative connected to a link of said second pair of links for providing pitch, yaw and roll of an associated object to be manipulated. 10. The manipulator of claim 9, wherein said means for providing pitch, yaw and roll includes a first link rotabably connected to an outer link of said second pair of links, means for rotating said first link a second link rotabably connected to said first link, and means for rotating said second link. 11. The manipulator of claim 10, wherein said means for rotating said first link includes a motor mounted on said outer link of said second pair of links, and wherein said means for rotating said second link includes a motor mounted on said first link. 12. The manipulator of claim 11, additionally including a support member to which another link of said first pair of links is rotatably mounted. 13. A mechanism for providing multiple degrees for freedom, including: a support member; a first pair of interconnected links mounted to rotate about a pair of vertical axis lines, one link of said first pair of links being rotatably mounted to said support member about a first of said pair of vertical axis lines; a second pair of interconnected links, mounted to rotate about a pair of horizontal axis lines, one link of said second pair of links being rotatably mounted to another link of said first pair of links about a first of said pair of horizontal axis lines; said first pair of links being constructed and connected to provide stiffness in a vertical plane; said second pair of links being constructed and connected to provide stiffness in a horizontal plane; and means for rotating each link of said first and second pair of links. 14. The mechanism of claim 13, additionally including means connected to another link of said second pair of links for providing an additional three degrees of freedom. 15. The mechanism of claim 14, wherein said means for providing an additional three degrees of freedom including a first link rotatably mounted to said another link of said second pair of links, a second link rotatably mounted to said first link, and means for rotating said first and second links. 16. The mechanism of claim 15, wherein said means for rotating said first and second links comprise a pair of motors, each motor being connected to one of said first or second links. 17. The mechanism of claim 16, wherein said motor connected to said first link is mounted to said another link of said second pair of links, and wherein said motor connected to said second link is mounted to said first link. 18. The mechanism of claim 13, wherein four degrees of freedom are provided by said first and second pairs of links. 19. The mechanism of claim 14, wherein seven degrees of freedom are provided by said first and second pairs of links and said means connected to said another link of said second pair of links. 