A robotic system for automated durability road testing of a vehicle includes a robotic body that is positioned on a base plate, and the base plate in turn is positioned on the driver's seat of a vehicle. The robotic body includes a brake pedal bell crank assembly for operating the brake pedal, and an accelerator beel crank assembly for operating the accelerator pedal. Additionally, the robotic body includes a steering wheel shaft that is engaged with the steering column of the vehicle for turning the vehicle, and a shift mechanism engaged with the gear shifter of the vehicle to shift the gears of the vehicle.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic system for guiding a vehicle along a predetermined route, comprising: a robotic body positionable on a driver's seat of the vehicle; a steering wheel motor mounted on the robotic body; a turning shaft coupled to the steering wheel motor, the turning shaft being engageable with a steering column of the vehicle for turning the column when the steering wheel motor turns the turning shaft; a pedal actuator mounted on the robotic body; a connecting rod coupled to the pedal actuator, the connecting rod being engageable with a pedal of the vehicle for reciprocating motion relative thereto for depressing and releasing the pedal when the connecting rod is reciprocated by the pedal actuator; and a pivot bracket interconnecting the connecting rod and its associated actuator to thereby establish a bell crank assembly. 2. The system of claim 1, further comprising: a shifter actuator mounted on the robotic body; and a shifter adapter coupled to the shifter actuator and engageable with a shift mechanism of the vehicle for moving the shift mechanism when the shifter adapter is moved by the shifter actuator. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein the pedal actuator is an accelerator pedal actuator, the connecting rod is an accelerator connecting rod engageable with an accelerator pedal of the vehicle, and the system further comprises: a brake pedal actuator mounted on the robotic body; and a brake connecting rod coupled to the brake pedal actuator, the brake connecting rod being engageable with a brake pedal of the vehicle for reciprocating motion relative thereto for depressing and releasing the brake pedal when the brake connecting rod is reciprocated by the brake pedal actuator. 4. The system of claim 3, further comprising: an adapter engaged with the turning shaft and engageable with the steering column, the adapter including a wheel mount boltingly engageable with the steering wheel, the adapter further including an adapter element spaced from and coupled with the wheel mount, the adapter element being splined to the turning shaft. 5. The system of claim 1, further comprising respective ball joint connectors interconnecting respective connecting rods to respective pedals. 6. The system of claim 1, further comprising: a hollow, parallelepiped-shaped base plate having a seat plate positionable on the driver's seat of the vehicle, the robot being positioned on the base plate to define a ballast space therebetween. 7. The system of claim 6, further comprising: a ratchet buckle having a hollow lever arm; and a belt affixed to the vehicle and operably engaged with the lever arm, the belt being engaged with the base plate for holding the base plate stationary relative to the seat. 8. A vehicle, comprising: a driver's seat, a steering wheel, a shift mechanism and a control pedal; a robotic body positioned on the driver's seat; a steering wheel motor mounted on the robotic body; a turning shaft coupled to the steering wheel motor, the turning shaft being engaged with the steering wheel of the vehicle for turning the wheel when the steering wheel motor turns the turning shaft; an adapter engaged with the turning shaft and engaged with the steering wheel, the adapter including a wheel mount boltingly engaged with the steering wheel, the adapter further including an adapter element spaced from and coupled with the wheel mount, the adapter element being splined to the turning shaft; a pedal actuator mounted on the robotic body; and a connecting rod coupled to the pedal actuator, the connecting rod being engaged with the control pedal of the vehicle for reciprocating motion relative thereto for depressing and releasing the pedal when the connecting rod is reciprocated by the pedal actuator. 9. The vehicle of claim 8, further comprising: a shifter actuator mounted on the robotic body; and a shifter adapter coupled to the shifter actuator, the shifter adapter being engaged with the shift mechanism of the vehicle for moving the shift mechanism when the shifter actuator moves. 10. The vehicle of claim 9, wherein the control pedal is an accelerator pedal, the pedal actuator is an accelerator pedal actuator, the connecting rod is an accelerator connecting rod engaged with the accelerator pedal, and the vehicle further comprises: a brake pedal; a brake pedal actuator mounted on the robotic body; and a brake connecting rod coupled to the brake pedal actuator, the brake connecting rod being engaged with the brake pedal of the vehicle for reciprocating motion relative thereto for depressing and releasing the brake pedal when the brake connecting rod is reciprocated by the brake pedal actuator. 11. The vehicle of claim 10, further comprising a respective pivot bracket interconnecting each connecting rod and its associated actuator to thereby establish a respective bell crank assembly. 12. The vehicle of claim 11, further comprising respective ball joint connectors interconnecting respective connecting rods to respective pedals. 13. The vehicle of claim 12, further comprising: a hollow, parallelepiped-shaped base plate having a seat plate positionable on the driver's seat of the vehicle, the robot being positioned on the base plate to define a ballast space therebetween; a ratchet buckle having a hollow lever arm; and a belt affixed to the vehicle and operably engaged with the lever arm, the belt being engaged with the base plate for holding the base plate stationary relative to the seat. 