An improved tool mount structure allows the infinite placement of a tool along a generally elongate cylindrical member at an infinite number of locations. The elongate cylindrical member is fixed at each axial end to a generally rigid moving member such as a robotic arm boom or transfer bar. The cylindrical member is fixed in a bracket at one axial end, and into a quick-release mount at an opposed axial end. The cylindrical member may be quickly released from the moving member such that the tool may be easily changed. At the same time, by fixing the cylindrical member at each axial end, a secure rigid connection is provided.
Claims We claim: 1. A tool mounting system comprising: a generally rigid moving member to manipulate a tool; at least one tool mounted to said tool mount at any one of an infinite number of positions; and a pair of elongate tool mounts fixed to said moving member adjacent each axial end of each said tool mount extending parallel to a longitudinal axis of said moving member and connected by saddle bracket members extending laterally across said moving member. 2. A tool mounting system as recited in claim 1, wherein each said tool mount is generally cylindrical. 3. A tool mounting system as recited in claim 1, wherein said moving member is a robot arm boom. 4. A tool mounting system as recited in claim 3, wherein there being tool mounts allowing infinite adjustment of the location of tools on each lateral side of said moving member. 5. A tool mounting system as recited in claim 2, wherein said moving member is an end fixed to a robot arm boom, said robot arm boom extending generally perpendicular to said end and moved to move said end, said end and said boom being T-shaped in combination. 6. A tool mounting system as recited in claim 1, wherein said saddle brackets are connected to said moving member by quick release mounts. 7. A tool mounting system as recited in claim 6, wherein said each tool mount is mounted to one of said saddle brackets at each end, said moving member having mating bracket structures, said saddle brackets connected to said mating bracket structure at an opposed axial ends by said quick-release mounts. 8. A tool mounting system as recited in claim 7, wherein each said tool mount is generally cylindrical. 9. A tool mounting system as recited in claim 1, wherein said rigid moving member is a moving cross bar. 10. A tool mounting system comprising: a moving member for manipulation of tools attached to said moving member; at least one elongate tool mount extending between two axial ends, said elongate tool mount being fixed to said moving member adjacent each axial end, and being removable therefrom; a quick-release mount structure including a handle, said handle being actuatable to release said tool mount from said moving member, said handle being fixed to said moving member, structure connecting and locking two ends of said elongated tool mount to said moving member when said handle is in a locked position, and said elongate tool mount being removable from said moving member when said handle has been moved to a removal position for facilitating locking and removal of said tool mount to said moving member; and tools mounted on said tool mount at any of an infinite number of locations. 11. A tool mounting system as recited in claim 10, wherein said tool mount is generally cylindrical. 12. A tool mounting system as recited in claim 10, wherein said connecting structure comprises a bracket at one end of said tool mount formed with mating structure for a bracket fixed to said moving member, and said handle fixed on said moving member securing a second end of said tool mount. 13. A tool mounting system as recited in claim 10, wherein said moving member has two lateral sides, and said tool mounts are mounted on each lateral side of said moving member. 14. A tool mounting system as recited in claim 10, wherein a robotic manipulator is connected to said moving member to move said moving member. 15. A tool mounting system as recited in claim 10, wherein said tools are suction cups for holding a workpiece. 16. A tool mounting system as recited in claim 10, wherein said moving member is a cross bar. 17. A tool mounting system for mounting tools on a moving member comprising: a moving boom member fixed to a robotic manipulator to move said moving boom member and move tools fixed to said moving boom member; and at least one generally elongate tool mount fixed at each axial end to said moving boom member, said tool mount having a bracket at one axial end received in mating structure on a bracket on said movement member, and a second axial end of said tool mount being received in a quick-release mount on said moving boom member including a handle, said handle being actuatable to release said tool mount from said moving member, said handle being fixed to said moving member, with said elongated tool mount having its two ends connected to said moving member and locked to said moving member when said handle is in a locked position, and said elongate tool mount being removable from said moving member when said handle has been moved to a removal position. 18. A tool mounting system as recited in claim 17, wherein said moving boom member having two lateral sides, and there being two of said tool mounts with one said tool mount mounted on each said lateral sides of said moving boom moving. 19. A tool mounting system as recited in claim 17, wherein said moving boom member is connected to a T-member fixed at an angle to a said moving boom member, said tool mount being fixed to said T-member. 20. A tool mounting system as recited in claim 17, wherein said tool mount holds means to selectively move a tool carried by said means forwardly relative to the boom to a position spaced forwardly of said boom. 21. A tool mounting system as recited in claim 10, wherein said at least one elongate tool mount has a first end received in a guide structure on said moving member and a second end received in said quick release mount such that upon release said second end may be removed from said quick release mount, and said first end may then be removed from said guide structure. 22. A tool mounting system as recited in claim 17, wherein said at least one elongate tool mount has a first end received in a guide structure on said moving member and a second end received in said quick release mount such that upon release said second end may be removed from said quick release mount, and said first end may then be removed from said guide structure. 23. A tool mount system as recited in claim 10, wherein said handle is an over-center handle. 24. A tool mount system as recited in claim 17, wherein said handle is an over-center handle. 