Methods and systems for finish cutting of bone cavities rely on making a plurality of axial finish cuts along the cavity wall. Finish cuts are made using a rotary cutter, and a sufficient number of cuts are made to limit the radial height of cusps between adjacent cuts resulting from the arcuate shape of the cut profile. Cutting time is reduced by selectively terminating the axial lengths of the finish cuts in a manner which does not result in unacceptably high radial cusp heights between adjacent cuts.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An improved method for cutting a tapered cavity into an elongate bone, said cavity being of the type wherein an enlarged entrance tapers down in an axial direction and over an axial length to a small terminal end and said method being of the type wherein the bone is first rough cut to produce a rough cavity and then finish cut by translating a rotary cutter axially along a plurality of circumferentially spaced-apart finish cut paths to form axial grooves separated by axial cusps in a cavity wall which approximates a preplanned cavity model, wherein the improvement comprises selectively shortening the axial lengths of some but not all of the finish cut paths to a distance less than the axial cavity length whereby total cutting time is reduced. 2. An improved method as in claim 1, wherein the finish cut paths are equally spaced-apart at the cavity entrance and wherein the distances therebetween decrease uniformly toward the terminal end of the cavity, wherein the improvement further comprises terminating an axial finish path when the distance between the two immediately adjacent finish cut paths is equal to or less than the distance between a pair of adjacent finish cut paths at the entrance end of the cavity. 3. A method for cutting a tapered cavity into an elongate bone, said method comprising: providing a cavity model defining a cavity envelope having dimensions including axial length from an entrance end to a terminal end thereof and cross-sectional geometries and dimensions at various depths from the entrance toward the terminal end; rough cutting the cavity to remove bone material along the cavity axis to approximate the shape of the cavity envelope; finish cutting the tapered cavity with a rotary cutter having a radius (r) as follows: defining a plurality of finish cut paths which are spaced radially inward from the envelope by the distance r and which are circumferentially spaced-apart by a distance (d) selected to produce at the entrance end of the cavity a preselected radial cusp height between adjacent cuts, wherein said radial cusp height will diminish as the cavity tapers and the finish cut paths move circumferentially closer together; and finish cutting with the rotary cutter along each of the finish cut paths, wherein cutting along a particular cut path is terminated when the two cut paths adjacent to said particular cut path become sufficiently close so that the cusp height between said adjacent cut paths is equal to or less than the preselected radial cusp height and wherein cutting along said adjacent cut paths is continued. 4. A method as in claim 3, wherein the rough cutting step comprises penetrating a rotary cutter in an axial direction into the bone and advancing the cutter about the circumferential periphery of the envelope in a plurality of successive cross-sectional planes, wherein the cutter may touch but not cross the envelope. 5. A method as in claim 3, wherein the same rotary cutter is used for both rough cutting and finish cutting. 6. A method as in claim 4, wherein the rotary cutter is a disk cutter or a ball cutter. 7. A method as in claim 3, wherein the defining and finish cutting steps further comprise: determining the number (N.sub.0) of finish cut paths necessary to produce the predetermined cusp height when the cut paths are evenly distributed around the cavity circumference at the cavity entrance; determining the circumferential length (h.sub.0) about the cavity envelope at the entrance end; determining the cavity depth (d.sub.1) from the entrance end toward the terminal end at which the circumferential length (L.sub.1) about the cavity has diminished to a value of h.sub.0 /2; and terminating alternate ones of the finish cut paths at depth d.sub.1, except that if N.sub.0 is odd two adjacent non-terminated cut paths will remain. 8. A method as in claim 7, further comprising: determining the cavity depth (d.sub.2) at which the circumferential length (L.sub.2) has diminished to a value of L.sub.0 /4; and terminating alternate ones of the cut paths at depth d.sub.2, except that the same two non-terminated cut paths will remain if N.sub.0 is odd. 9. A method as in claim 8, further comprising: determining the cavity depth (d.sub.3) at which the circumferential length (L.sub.3) has diminished to a value of L.sub.0 /8; and terminating alternate ones of the cut paths, except that the same two non-terminated cut paths will remain if N.sub.0 is odd. 