A robotic gripper with two fingers for friction gripping. The fingers are self-locking in that an increased resistance to a pulling force results in an increased gripping force. The fingers are mounted onto a thumb that slides in a sleeve. A post extends into slots in the fingers so that movement of the post relative to the thumb causes the fingers to rotate around pivot points on the thumb. The friction force required to move the thumb relative to the sleeve is greater than the friction force required to move the post relative to the thumb. Therefore, movement of the post typically results in rotation of the fingers and a stationary thumb, but there are several ways in which the post can be locked relative to the thumb to provide movement of the thumb relative to the sleeve. The sleeve also includes features so that if an object is being gripped as the post is moving away from the sleeve, the fingers do not grip when the post is retracted. If no object is being gripped as the post is moving away from the sleeve, the fingers rotate to a gripping position as the post is retracted.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic gripper comprising: a sleeve; a thumb adapted to slide in the sleeve; pivot points on the thumb; a post that is moveable relative to the thumb; a pair of fingers for gripping an object, the fingers rotating around the pivot points on the thumb, the post extending into slots in the fingers, wherein movement of the post relative to the thumb causes the fingers to rotate: movement of the post relative to the thumb requiring a first force having a first force magnitude; movement of the thumb relative to the sleeve requiring a second force having a second force magnitude; and the second force magnitude being greater than the first force magnitude. 2. The gripper of claim 1 further comprising: a first track in the sleeve; a second track in the sleeve, the first and second tracks connected at a junction; a plate moveably attached to the thumb; a pin attached to the plate, the pin extending into one of the first and second tracks; the plate locking the post and thumb together during retraction of the post into the sleeve when the pin is in the first track; the plate permitting movement of the post relative to the thumb when the pin is in the second track. 3. The gripper of claim 2 further comprising: a gate at the junction of the first and second tracks; a ramp in the sleeve, the ramp connected to the gate; wherein when the object is being gripped by the pair of fingers, the object forces the ramp into the sleeve, causing the gate to block the second track; and when the object is not being gripped by the pair of fingers, the gate does not block the second track. 