A method is provided for improving the localization of a robot autonomous mobile unit. A slippage is predicted along a path that the unit is to traverse may be predicted, in that a simplified absolute path trajectory is determined, and based on the unit geometry and motion behavior of three-wheel kinematics, an imaginary slippage derives in the end position. This imaginary slippage can be calculated for various end positions and the most beneficial travel path can thus be selected from a starting point.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for calculating slippage of an autonomous mobile unit with three-wheel kinematics, the method comprising the following steps: a) predicting a cumulative overall slippage to be incurred in traversing a travel distance from a starting point to a destination point along an imaginary absolute motion path of the unit, the imaginary absolute motion path including: a first rotation of the unit of the starting point by a first rotational angle selected such that the unit is directed toward the destination point after the first rotation; forward travel of the unit of a distance from the starting point to the destination point; and a second rotation of the unit at the destination point at a second rotational angle selected such that the unit assumes a rotational position required at the destination point after the second rotation; b) calculating an overall slippage per wheel of the unit based on at least one distance-dependent prescribed slippage whereby the imaginary travel distance of each wheel is calculated based on dimensions between wheels of the unit in conjunction with three-wheel kinematics and is multiplied by the prescribed slippage. 2. The method according to claim 1, further comprising: subtracting the first and the second rotational angle from .pi. for travel of the unit in reverse. 3. The method according to claim 1, wherein the prescribed slippage is weighted with a Gaussian distribution. 4. The method according to claim 3, wherein the Gaussian distribution having a standard deviation greater in amount than a maximum value of the Gauss curve in order to cover uncertainties in the real travel execution. 5. The method according to claim 4, wherein the standard deviation is greater than the normal slippage on a smooth floor. 6. The method according to claim 1, wherein the distance between starting point and destination point is at least a length of the unit. 7. A method for route planning of an autonomous mobile unit, whereby sub-jobs to be implemented and to be planned by the unit are defined by cost functions, the method comprising: monitoring a position uncertainty of the unit with at least one sub-job; and calculating an overall slippage per wheel of the unit based on at least one distance-dependent prescribed slippage wherein an imaginary absolute travel distance of each wheel is calculated based on dimensions between wheels of the unit in conjunction with three-wheel kinematics and is multiplied by the prescribed slippage. 8. A method for route planning of an autonomous mobile unit, whereby sub-jobs to be implemented and to be planned by the unit are defined by cost functions, the method comprising: correcting a position uncertainty of the unit with at least one sub-job; and calculating an overall slippage per wheel of the unit based on at least one distance-dependent prescribed slippage wherein an imaginary absolute travel distance of each wheel is calculated based dimensions between wheels of the unit in conjunction with three-wheel kinematics and is multiplied by the prescribed slippage. 