In an array of butted silicon chips, as would be found in a full-page photosensitive scanner, ink-jet printhead, or LED exposure bar, individual silicon chips forming the array each define a planar bevel near the border of a neighboring chip. The planarity of the bevel avoids damage to the chips when the chips are placed in the chip array assembly.
Claims We claim: 1. A chip array, comprising: a substrate defining a main surface; and a plurality of silicon chips attached to the main surface and arranged in a linear array on the main surface, each pair of adjacent silicon chips in the linear array defining a border therebetween; a silicon chip of the plurality of silicon chips defining a bevel extending from a portion of the chip adjacent the main surface to a portion of the chip adjacent a border with another chip in the linear array, the bevel defining a planar surface. 2. The array of claim 1, the silicon chip defining a thickness from the main surface of the substrate to a surface of the chip opposite the substrate, the bevel extending no less than one-quarter but no more than three-quarters of the thickness of the silicon chip. 3. The array of claim 2, the bevel extending about one-half the thickness of the silicon chip. 4. The array of claim 1, the planar surface defined by the bevel defining an angle of not less than 45 degrees and not more than 75 degrees relative to the main surface of the substrate. 5. The array of claim 4, the planar surface defined by the bevel defining an angle of approximately 60 degrees relative to the main surface of the substrate. 6. The array of claim 1, the silicon chip defining a first bevel adjacent a first border with a first neighboring chip in the linear array and a second bevel adjacent a second border with a second neighboring chip in the linear array. 7. The array of claim 1, a silicon chip of the plurality of silicon chips defining a top bevel extending from a portion of the chip opposite the main surface of the substrate to a portion of the chip adjacent a border with another chip in the linear array, the bevel defining a planar surface. 8. The array of claim 7, the top bevel on a silicon chip of the plurality of silicon chips intersecting with the bevel on said silicon chip. 9. The array of claim 1, each silicon chip in the plurality of silicon chips defining repetitive structures thereon, the repetitive structures on the plurality of silicon chips together forming a single linear array. 