Apparatus and method for automatically milking animals such cows confined within a milking compartment. The milking apparatus includes four robotic arms for individually emplacing and removing teat cups from the animal's teats and a separate robot arm for scanning the animal's teats to effect a computer-controlled emplacement of the teat cups on the animals' teats. The detector includes a laser which beams through a window on the detector carried by an omnidirecting member having a four-bar parallelogram member whereby beams are both horizontally and vertically movable. A cleaning member for spraying cleaning fluid on the detector window is mounted on the milking compartment so that the fluid is sprayed on the window. The longitudinal sides of the milking compartment have spray members for cleaning the teat cups which, when not used for milking, are under the spraying members. The robotic arms for emplacing and removing the teat cups each contain cords attached to the teat cups by which they are drawn tautly against the robotic arms for emplacement and removal and played out so that the animal can move within limits after the teat cups are emplaced. Tubes for milk and operating vacuum that connect to the teat cups are mounted on each longitudinal side of a milking compartment so as to be outboard thereof, the tubes being curved in roughly "U" configurations to permit the animal to move within limits without dislodging the teat cups from the animal's teats.
Claims Having disclosed my invention, what I claim is new and to be secured by Letters Patent of the United States is: 1. An apparatus for automatically milking animals, such as cows that comprises milking compartments, a milking robot including teat cups of the animals, said teat cups being supported by a robot arms means; a detector that generates beams and uses their reflections for determining the positions of the teats, said detector being disposed on a robot arms construction spacially separated from said robot arm means, said robot arm construction comprising omni-directing means for maneuvering said detector so that said detector's beams can be aimed at different angles with respect to the teats of the animal to be milked, and whereby said omni-direction further comprises scanning means for performing a scanning motion in different directions. 2. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1 wherein said omnidirecting means functions to move said detector substantially vertically and substantially horizontally. 3. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1 wherein said scanning means performs the function of detecting the teats of an animal in said compartment wherein such teats are at different heights above the floor of said milking compartment. 4. An Apparatus in accordance with claim 1 wherein said scanning means performs the function of scanning approximately ten centimeters in the vertical direction. 5. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1 wherein said omnidirecting means comprises a four-bar linkage and a robot arm to which said four-bar linkage is connected. 6. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1 wherein said omnidirecting means performs the function of moving said detector substantially in a horizontal plane. 7. An apparatus in accordance with claim 6 wherein said omnidirecting means comprises a substantially vertical shaft, said detector being pivotally movable relative to said substantially vertical shaft. 8. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1 wherein said robot arm construction is supported from proximate a longitudinal side of said milking compartment. 9. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1 wherein said omnidirecting means is movable from inside to outside of said milking compartment and vice versa. 10. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1 wherein said omnidirecting means comprises a computer-controlled stepping motor. 11. An apparatus in accordance with claim 10 comprising a computer-controlled animal identification system which cooperates with said omnidirecting means to move said detector under the identified animal in said milking compartment. 12. An apparatus for automatically milking animals, such as cows, comprising a milking compartment, a milking robot including teat cups for automatically connecting said teat cups to the teats of the animals, a detector for determining the position of the teats, and a cleaning means for cleaning said detector. 13. An apparatus in accordance with claim 12 wherein said milking compartment comprises a longitudinal side and said cleaning means is associated with said longitudinal side so as to be disposed outside of said milking compartment. 14. An apparatus in accordance with claim 12 comprising a cleaning fluid, said cleaning means performing the function of spraying said cleaning fluid against said detector. 15. An apparatus in accordance with claim 14 wherein said detector comprises a laser and a window, said cleaning means spraying said cleaning fluid against said window. 16. An Apparatus for automatically milking animals, such as cows, that comprises milking compartments, a milking robot including teat cups for automatically connecting said teat cups to the teats of the animals, and a detector that generates beams and uses their reflections for determining the positions of the teats, said detector being disposed on a separate robot arm construction, said robot arm construction comprising omnidirecting means for maneuvering said detector so that said detector's beams can be aimed at different angles with respect to the teats of the animal to be milked, and the apparatus further comprising cleaning means for performing the function of cleaning said detector. 