A human interface device for a user, including a data transmission selector for selecting at least one of a plurality of simultaneously transmitted programs being responsive to an input; a program database containing information relating to at least one the plurality of programs, having an output; a graphical user interface for receiving user commands; and a controller for controlling the graphical user interface and the data transmission selector, the controller determining a user characteristic, receiving the output of the program database and presenting, based on the user characteristic and the program database, information relating to at least one of the plurality of programs on the graphic user interface in association with a command, the graphic user interface allowing the user to select the command and thereby authorize an operation in relation to the at least one of the plurality of programs. An objective user characteristic is detected based on one or more temporal-spatial user characteristics of the input, including a velocity component, an efficiency of input, an accuracy of input, an interruption of input and a high frequency component of the input signal.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A human interface device for a user comprising: a data transmission selector for selecting at least one of a plurality of simultaneously transmitted programs being responsive to an input; a program database containing information relating to at least one said plurality of programs, having an output; a graphical user interface for receiving user commands; and a controller for controlling said graphical user interface and said data transmission selector, said controller determining a user characteristic based on implicit data, receiving said output of said program database and presenting, based on said user characteristic and said program database, information relating to at least one of said plurality of programs on said graphic user interface in association with a command, said graphic user interface allowing the user to select said command and thereby authorize an operation in relation to said at least one of said plurality of programs. 2. The interface device according to claim 1, further comprising: a plurality of stored profiles; a processor for characterizing input to said graphic user interface to produce a characterized user input; and means for comparing said characterized user input with at least one of said stored profiles to produce a comparison index, wherein said graphic user interface is modified on the basis of said comparison index. 3. The interface device according to claim 1, further comprising: an image analyzer for analyzing at least one of said plurality of programs, and providing an analysis to said controller, said controller associating commands with said at least one of said plurality of programs based on said analysis. 4. The interface device according to claim 1, wherein said graphic user interface comprises: (a) an image display device having at least two dimensions of display, providing visual image feedback to a user; and (b) a multidimensional input device having at least one independent axis of operability, said axis corresponding to an axis of said display device, and having an output, so that the user may cause said input device to produce a change in an image of said display device by translating a repositionable indicator portion of said display along said at least one axis of operability, based on said visual image feedback received from said image display device, said indicator portion being repositioned to a translated location of said display device corresponding to a user input. 5. The interface device according to claim 1, wherein said determined user characteristic relates indirectly to said received user commands. 6. An apparatus, receiving an input from a human user having a user characteristic, comprising: an input device, producing an input signal from the human user input; a display for displaying information relating to the input from the user and feedback on a current state of the apparatus, having an alterable image type; an input processor for extracting an input instruction relating to a desired change in a state of the apparatus from the input signal; a detector for detecting one or more temporal-spatial user characteristics of the input signal, independent of said input instruction, selected from the group consisting of a velocity component, an efficiency of input, an accuracy of input, an interruption of input and a high frequency component of input; a memory for storing data related to said user characteristics; and a controller for altering said image type based on the user characteristics. 7. The apparatus according to claim 6, wherein said controller alters said image type based on an output of said detector and said stored data so that said display displays an image type which corresponds to said detected user characteristics. 8. The apparatus according to claim 6, being for controlling the causation of an action on the occurrence of an event, further comprising: a control for receiving said input instruction and storing a program instruction associated with said input instruction, said control having a memory sufficient for storing program instructions to perform an action on the occurrence of an event; and a monitor for monitoring an environment of said apparatus to determine the occurrence of the event, and causing the performance of the action on the occurrence of the event. 9. The apparatus according to claim 8, wherein said controller alters said image type based on an output of said detector and said stored data so that said display means displays an image type which corresponds to said detected user characteristics. 10. A programmable device, comprising: an input for receiving path dependant and path independent user data; a filter, separating said path dependant user data as user characterization data and said path independent user data as instructions; a memory for storing said user characterization data; a processor for executing said instructions; and a feedback device, presenting information relating to said instructions and said stored user characterization data. 11. The device according to claim 10, further comprising: a hierarchical command structure of said processor, said command structure having commands of different function; and means for predicting a probability of execution of a plurality of commands based on said input, said feedback device presenting commands based on at least said predicted probabilities. 12. The device according to claim 10, further comprising: an input for receiving environmental data; a hierarchical command structure of said processor, said command structure having commands of different function; and means for predicting a probability of execution of a plurality of commands based on said environmental data, said feedback device presenting commands based on at least said predicted probabilities. 13. The device according to claim 12, wherein said environmental data comprises a plurality of audio or image data streams. 14. The device according to claim 13, wherein said processor selectively processes an audio or image stream. 15. The device according to claim 12, wherein said means for predicting comprises a pattern matching processor comparing environmental data patterns with stored data patterns. 16. The device according to claim 10, wherein said path dependant user data is selected from the group consisting of a velocity component, an efficiency of input, an accuracy of input, an interruption of input and a high frequency component of input. 17. The device according to claim 10, wherein said path independent user data comprises an input status. 18. The device according to claim 10, wherein said input and said feedback device comprise a graphic user interface having at least two input axes. 19. The programmable device according to claim 10, further comprising: a display for displaying information relating to the input from the user and feedback on a current state of the apparatus, having an alterable image type; said filter being an input processor, for separating said path independent data as an input instruction relating to a desired change in state of the apparatus; and a detector for detecting one or more temporal-spatial user characteristics of the input signal as path dependent data, independent of said input instruction, selected from the group consisting of a velocity component, an efficiency of input, an accuracy of input, an interruption of input and a high frequency component of input, said feedback device being responsive to said processor for altering an image type of said display based on said user characteristics. 20. The programmable device according to claim 10, further comprising: a data transmission selector for selecting at least one of a plurality of simultaneously transmitted programs being responsive to an input; a program database containing information relating to at least one said plurality of programs, having an output; a graphical user interface for receiving user commands, comprising said input and said feedback device; and a controller, comprising said filter, said processor and said memory, for controlling said graphical user interface and said data transmission selector, said controller determining a user characteristic as said user characterization data, receiving said output of said program database and presenting, based on said user characteristic and said program database, information relating to at least one of said plurality of programs on said graphic user interface in association with a command, said graphic user interface allowing the user to select said command and thereby authorize an operation in relation to said at least one of said plurality of programs. 21. A human interface device for a user comprising: a user interface for receiving user commands, having an image information display and a user input defining a spatial relationship with said information display; a media data processor, adapted to selectively process at least one transmitted media program selected from the group consisting of a plurality of transmitted media programs, being responsive to a selection input; a database containing information relating to a plurality of media programs, said information contained in said database being accessible through an interface system; and a control system, for: (a) controlling said user interface to present display information relating to a state of said control and receiving user input; (b) controlling said media data processor to selectively process at least one transmitted program through said selection input; (c) determining a user characteristic based on implicit data, having a relation to said information relating to a plurality of media programs stored in said database; (d) processing said determined user characteristic and at least a portion of said information contained in said database, selectively and differentially processing information relating to at least one of said media programs; (e) presenting to the user said selectively and differentially processed information relating to at least one of said media programs; (f) receiving, from the user, a command, said command relating to a desired function of said media data processor. 22. The human interface device according to claim 21, wherein said user characteristic is determined based on a temporal-spatial characteristic of said user input. 23. The interface device according to claim 21, wherein said media data processor comprises a selector for selecting a transmitted media program. 24. The interface device according to claim 21, wherein said media programs comprise video data streams. 25. The interface device according to claim 21, wherein said selective and differential processing of information relating to at least one of said media programs comprises outputting a set of identifications of selected media programs. 26. The interface device according to claim 21, wherein said selective and differential processing of information relating to at least two of said media programs to produce an output of a non-zero degree of correspondence of said at least two of said media programs with said determined user characteristic. 27. The interface device according to claim 21, wherein said determined user characteristic relates indirectly to said received user commands. 