An automotive battery connection assembly comprises terminals for automated connection to battery posts, and a housing with plus and minus pole circuitry mounted therein. The terminal comprises a contact section and a rotatable spring element that has tabs that cam against the periphery of the contact section. Rotation of the spring element thus clamps the battery post between the spring element and the contact section. The latter design enables robotic assembly of the battery terminals to battery posts, for example by means of a tool having pins that engage in slots of the spring element. Within the housing, a linear actuation motor drives a bridge element between tabs of the plus and minus pole circuits respectively for short circuiting the battery in the occurrence of an accident. The short circuiting blows the high current fuse thereby disconnecting power supply to most devices of the automobile. The latter is to prevent occurrence of electrical fires.
Claims I/we claim: 1. An automotive battery connection assembly comprising a terminal for electrical and mechanical connection to a battery post, and a connection section for electrical connection to conductors of an automobile, the terminal comprising a contact section having a conical wall portion forming a cavity for receiving the battery post therein, characterized in that the terminal further comprises a spring clamp rotatably mounted adjacent the conical wall portion and having a base portion with a cutout for receiving the battery post therethrough, the cutout having an edge for clamping towards the battery post, the spring clamp further comprising a camming portion in resilient engagement against a camming surface of the contact section, the camming surface having an arcuate profile of increasing distance with respect to a center axis of the battery post such that upon rotation of the spring clamp from a disconnected position to a connected position, the spring clamp and contact sections are biased apart from each other in a direction substantially perpendicular to the center axis thereby clamping the battery post between the spring clamp and contact section. 2. The battery connection assembly of claim 1 characterized in that the spring clamp is positioned between upper and lower conical wall portions that extend from top and base walls respectively. 3. The battery connection assembly of claim 1 characterized in that the spring clamp camming portion comprises resilient tabs projecting in an axial direction, defined by the direction of the battery post center axis, and in abutment against peripheral edges of the contact section base and top walls that form the camming surface. 4. The battery connection assembly of claim 1 characterized in that the spring clamp comprises slots formed in extensions on opposing sides of the base portion for axially receiving pins of a tool therein, for rotating the spring clamp. 5. An automotive battery connection assembly comprising a terminal for electrical and mechanical connection to a battery post, and a connection section for electrical connection to conductors of an automobile, the terminal comprising a contact section having a conical wall portion forming a cavity for receiving the battery post therein, characterized in that the terminal further comprises a camming element rotatably mounted adjacent an extension extending from the conical wall portion, the camming element comprising a camming surface in engagement against a camming surface of the extension, the camming element camming surface having an arcuate profile of increasing distance with respect to an axis of rotation of the camming element such that upon rotation thereof from a disconnected position to a connected position, the camming element biases the extension thereby pulling the coaxial wall portion tightly around the battery post to clamp thereagainst. 