In accordance with the teachings of the present invention, a robot bumper device coupled to a mobile robot for immobilizing the robot when a predetermined external force is sensed and a robotic bumper system for controlling at least one mobile robot located within an assembly area is provided. The robot bumper device includes at least one constant force spring member having a first portion attached to an outer surface of a mobile robot for providing constant absorption of an external force resulting from a collision between the bumper device and an unsuspecting object. A pressure sensitive electronic switch is mounted to a first surface of a substantially planar plastic member that extends across a predetermined length of the mobile robot. A second portion, opposite the first portion, of the at least one constant force spring member is mounted to a second surface of the plastic member such that the at least one constant force spring member is compressed when the external force resulting from a collision is exerted against the pressure sensitive electronic switch. The switch closes and generates an electric signal for controlling movements of the mobile robot.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot bumper device coupled to a mobile robot for altering control of the robot when a predetermined external force is sensed, comprising: a pair of compressible loop members each having a first portion attached to an outer surface of the mobile robot facing a path traveled by the robot; an electronic switch associated with at least a portion of the outer surface of the mobile robot; and a plastic member having a first surface and a second surface, the electronic switch being mounted to the first surface of the plastic member, second portions of the pair of compressible loop members being attached to the second surface of the plastic member, whereby when the external force is exerted against the electronic switch, the loop members are compressed and provide constant absorption of the external force and the electronic switch generates an electric signal in response to the external force, the electronic switch being able to generate the electric signal independently of the loop members being compressed. 2. The robot bumper device of claim 1, wherein each of the compressible loop members includes: a first length of elastic material having a first surface and a second surface; a second length of elastic material having a first surface and a second surface; a first end portion of the first surface of the first length of elastic material being coupled to the outer surface of the mobile robot, a second end portion of the first surface of the first length of elastic material being coupled to the a second surface of the plastic member; and the second length of elastic material being positioned opposite to the first length of elastic material with a first end portion of the first surface of the second length of elastic material being coupled to the outer surface of the mobile robot and a second end of the first surface of the second length of elastic material being coupled to the second surface of the plastic member. 3. The robot bumper device of claim 1, further comprising: electronic controller means operable for altering control of the robot in response to the electronic signal generated by the electronic switch and wherein the electronic switch comprises a normally open pressure sensitive switch that closes in response to the application of the external force thereto and generates the electronic signal in response thereto. 4. A robotic bumper system for controlling at least two mobile robots located within an assembly area, comprising: at least two robot bumper devices coupled to the at least two mobile robots for altering control of the at least two robots when a predetermined external force is sensed by any one of the at least two robot bumper devices, each of the at least two robot bumper devices including: (a) constant force spring means, coupled to an outer surface of one of the at least two mobile robots facing a path traversed by the robot, for providing constant absorption of the external force throughout a predetermined displacement length of the constant force spring means; (b) a pressure sensitive electronic switch extending across a predetermined length of the mobile robot; and (c) mounting means for mounting the pressure sensitive electronic switch to the constant force spring means, whereby the constant force spring means is compressed when the external force is exerted against the pressure sensitive electronic switch and the pressure sensitive electronic switch concurrently generates an electronic signal, and the electronic switch being able to generate the electronic signal independently of the constant force spring means being compressed. 5. The robotic bumper system of claim 4, wherein the constant force spring means includes at least one compressible loop member having a first portion attached to the outer surface of the mobile robot and a second portion, opposite the first portion, coupled to the mounting means. 6. The robotic bumper system of claim 4, wherein the constant force spring means includes: a first length of elastic material having a first surface and a second surface; a second length of elastic material having a first surface and a second surface; a first end portion of the first surface of the first length of elastic material being coupled to the outer surface of the mobile robot, a second end portion of the first surface of the first length of elastic material being coupled to the mounting means; and the second length of elastic material being positioned opposite to the first length of elastic material with a first end portion of the first surface of the second length of elastic material being coupled to the outer surface of the mobile robot and a second end of the first surface of the second length of elastic material being coupled to the mounting means. 7. The robotic bumper system of claim 4, wherein each of the at least two robot bumper devices further includes: a pair end cap assemblies for sealing openings in opposite ends of the pressure sensitive electronic switch from liquid infiltration, each of the end cap assemblies including: (a) an end cap member having a main portion and a protrusion extending therefrom, the protrusion being insertable within an opening in one of the ends of the pressure sensitive electronic switch the end cap member having an aperture extending through the protrusion and the main portion; (b) a pair of clamping members coupled to one another about opposite sides of the electronic switch corresponding to the location of the protrusion therein for sealing the end of the pressure sensitive electronic switch, whereby conductive leads extending from one of the ends of the pressure sensitive electronic switch extend through the aperture in the cap member for external access thereto; a threaded plug member located within the aperture of a first of the pair of end cap members for sealing the aperture; and (c) a hollow compression fitting member coupled to a sleeve member, the compression fitting member being secured within the aperture of a second of the pair of end cap members with the leads of the pressure sensitive switch extending through the compression fitting member and the sleeve member. 8. The robotic bumper system of claim 4, further comprising: electronic controller means operable for immobilizing the at least two robots located within the assembly area in response to one of the electronic signals generated by the pressure sensitive electronic switches of the at least two robots. 9. The robotic bumper system of claim 8, further comprising: electrical junction means for coupling the electronic signals generated by the pressure sensitive electronic switches of the at least two robots located within the assembly area to the electronic controller means. 10. A bumper device coupled to a mobile element for altering control of the mobile element when a predetermined external force is sensed, comprising: a constant force spring element, coupled to an outer surface of the mobile element, for providing constant absorption of the external force; an electronic switch associated with at least a portion of the outer surface of the mobile element and generating an electronic signal in response to the external force; the electronic switch being able to generate the electronic signal independently of the absorption of the external force by the constant force spring element; and wherein the constant force spring element includes at least one compressible loop member having a first portion attached to the outer surface of the mobile element and a second portion, opposite the first portion, coupled to the electronic switch. 11. The bumper device of claim 10, wherein the constant force spring element includes: a first length of elastic material having a first surface and a second surface; a second length of elastic material having a first surface and a second surface; a first end portion of the first surface of the first length of elastic material being coupled to the outer surface of the mobile element, a second end portion of the first surface of the first length of elastic material being coupled to the electronic switch; and the second length of elastic material being positioned opposite to the first length of elastic material with a first end portion of the first surface of the second length of elastic material being coupled to the outer surface of the mobile element and a second end of the first surface of the second length of elastic material being coupled to the electronic switch. 12. The bumper device of claim 10, wherein the at least one loop member is formed from a plastic material. 13. The bumper device of claim 10, further comprising: a mounting assembly for mounting the electronic switch to the constant force spring element such that the constant force spring element is compressed when the external force is exerted against the electronic switch. 14. The device of claim 13, wherein the mounting assembly includes a plastic member having a plurality of apertures therethrough for mounting the electronic switch to a first surface thereof and for mounting the constant force spring element to a second surface thereof, whereby the plastic member reduces overall weight of the bumper device. 15. The bumper device of claim 14, wherein the mounting assembly further includes: a vertical support member having a first end coupled to the second surface of the plastic member and a second end coupled to the outer surface of the mobile element at a height above the plastic member, whereby the vertical support member provides support for the bumper device in a vertical direction. 16. The bumper device of claim 10, further comprising: a pair of end cap assemblies for sealing openings in opposite ends of the pressure sensitive electronic switch from liquid infiltration, each of the end cap assemblies including: (a) an end cap member having a main portion and a protrusion extending therefrom, the protrusion being insertable within an opening in one of the ends of the pressure sensitive electronic switch, the end cap member having an aperture extending through the protrusion and the main portion; and (b) a pair of clamping members coupled to one another about opposite sides of the electronic switch corresponding to the location of the protrusion therein for sealing the end of the pressure sensitive electronic switch, whereby conductive leads extending from one of the ends of the pressure sensitive electronic switch extend through the aperture in the cap member for external access thereto. wherein the electronic switch comprises a normally open pressure sensitive switch that closes in response to the application of the external force thereto and generates the electronic signal in response thereto, the pressure sensitive electronic switch including a plurality of conductive leads extending therefrom. 17. The bumper device of claim 16, wherein the pair of end cap assemblies further comprises: a threaded plug member located within the aperture of a first cap member for sealing the aperture; and a hollow compression fitting member coupled to a sleeve member, the compression fitting member being secured within the aperture of a second end cap member with the leads of the pressure sensitive switch extending through the compression fitting member and the sleeve member. 18. The bumper device of claim 17, wherein the plug member and sleeve member are formed from a plastic material. 