Apparatus, and a related method, for photographing the interior of a building to which access by personnel has been limited or denied because of contamination of some kind, and then converting the resulting photographic images to a three-dimensional digital model, which may be used to generate different types of information for safe and efficient decontamination or deconstruction of the building. In the embodiment of the invention disclosed herein by way of example, the photographs are taken by personnel in protective clothing or by a remotely controlled mobile robot. Then the photographic images are digitized and processed to create a three-dimensional model stored in a database. The model database is updated to include information not in the original photographs, and then used to create additional interior views, animated videos of the interior, real-time computer displays, or drawings in a conventional computer aided design (CAD) format. The drawings are used to facilitate a contaminant survey of the building interior, using personnel or the mobile robot to carry contaminant detectors. The contaminant data are overlayed on the drawings to provide a contaminant dose map of the interior.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for reconnaissance and characterization of a building interior, which may include structures, equipment and other objects, and to which access by personnel has been limited, the method comprising the steps of: taking multiple photographs of the interior of the building; processing the photographs photogrammetrically to obtain a consistent set of data defining a position, a shape, a color, and a texture of each identifiable primitive geometric shape in the photographs, wherein the primitive geometric shapes are identifiable as structures, equipment, or other objects in the interior of the building; converting the data obtained from the photographs to a three-dimensional digital model in which the position, the shape, the color and the texture, in three-dimensional space, of each of the structures, equipment or other objects are recorded to a desired degree of detail; storing the digital model in a computer database; and using the database to obtain additional information about the interior of the building, wherein the step of using the database includes generating display images in a conventional computer aided design (CAD) format, planning a contaminant survey of the building interior, by making use of the display images in CAD format as a map of the building, performing a contaminant survey of the building interior, and updating the database to include data relating to mapped contamination levels in the building. 2. A method as defined in claim 1, and further comprising the step of: updating the database with additional information about the structures, equipment, or other objects in the building, obtained from external sources or from personal knowledge of an operator. 3. A method as defined in claim 2, wherein the step of taking photographs is performed by personnel in protective clothing. 4. A method as defined in claim 2, wherein the step of taking photographs is performed by robotic means. 5. A method as defined in claim 2, wherein the step of using the database includes: manipulating the database to generate additional views requested by a user. 6. A method as defined in claim 5, wherein the step of manipulating the database includes: generating additional views of the building interior as seen from vantage points other than those from which the original photographs were taken. 7. A method as defined in claim 5, wherein the step of generating additional views includes: generating an animated video or a real-time computer display from the vantage point of a person moving through the building. 8. A method as defined in claim 1, wherein the step of using the database includes: generating display images in a conventional computer aided design (CAD) format. 9. A method as defined in claim 8, wherein the step of using the database further includes: deriving from the database a bill of materials relating to the equipment and objects in the building. 10. A method as defined in claim 1, wherein the step of performing a contaminant survey includes: mounting contaminant detectors on a robot; and directing the robot to enter the building and record contaminant levels at selected locations, determined in part from the CAD images of the building interior. 11. An apparatus for reconnaissance and characterization of a building interior to which access by personnel has been limited, the apparatus comprising: means for taking multiple photographs of the interior of the building; means for processing the photographs photogrammetrically to obtain a consistent set of data defining a position, a shape, a color, and a texture of each identifiable primitive geometric shape in the photographs, wherein the primitive geometric shapes are identifiable as equipment and objects in the interior of the building; means for converting the data obtained from the photographs to a three-dimensional digital model in which the position, the shape, the color and the texture, in three-dimensional space, of each of the structures, equipment or other objects are recorded to a desired degree of detail; means for storing the digital model in a computer database; means for using the database to obtain additional information about the interior of the building; and means for updating the database with additional information about the equipment and objects in the building, obtained from external sources or from personal knowledge of an operator; wherein the means for using the database includes means for generating display images in a conventional computer aided design (CAD) format, means for planning a contaminant survey of the building interior, by making use of the display images in CAD format as a map of the building, means for performing a contaminant survey of the building interior, and means for updating the database to include data relating to mapped contamination levels in the building. 12. Apparatus as defined in claim 11, and further comprising: means for updating the database with additional information about the equipment and objects in the building, obtained from external sources or from personal knowledge of an operator. 13. Apparatus as defined in claim 12, wherein the means for taking multiple photographs includes: camera equipment carried by personnel in protective clothing. 14. Apparatus as defined in claim 12, wherein the means for taking multiple photographs includes: a mobile robot, including means for directing the robot to move within the building. 15. Apparatus as defined in claim 12, wherein the means for using the database includes: means for generating additional views requested by a user. 16. Apparatus as defined in claim 12, wherein the means for generating additional views includes: means for generating additional views of the building interior as seen from vantage points other than those from which the original photographs were taken. 17. Apparatus as defined in claim 16, wherein the means for generating additional views includes: means for generating an animated video or a real-time computer display from the vantage point of a person moving through the building. 18. Apparatus as defined in claim 12, wherein the means for using the database includes: means for generating display images in a conventional computer aided design (CAD) format. 19. Apparatus as defined in claim 18, wherein the means for using the database further includes: means for deriving from the database a bill of materials relating to the equipment and objects in the building. 20. Apparatus as defined in claim 11, wherein the means for performing a contaminant survey includes: means for mounting contaminant detectors on the robot; and means for directing the robot to move within the building and record contaminant levels at selected locations, determined in part from the CAD images of the building interior. 