A method and device for the simultaneous production of chemical compounds in an array which is capable of providing a very broad range of reaction environments including reaction temperatures of -40.degree. C. to 150.degree. C., reflux condensation, and a selective gas environment. The invention also allows the addition of several reagents during the course of the production process. The device is comprised of a number of different block sections which are fastened together to provide the required reaction environment.
Claims We claim: 1. A device for the retention of reaction vessels and the synthesis of compounds in an array comprising: a) a retaining block section having a top surface and a bottom surface and a plurality of apertures communicating between the top surface and the bottom surface of the retaining block section; wherein said retaining block section is provided with a series of channels along the top surface of said retaining block section interconnecting the apertures in said retaining block section above the point at which the reaction vessel is secured; wherein said retaining block is provided with a gas inlet connected to said series of channels; b) a fastener adapted for securing said reaction vessels within said retaining block section so that openings in said reaction vessels communicate with an associated aperture and closed vessel ends depend downward therefrom; and c) a solid needle penetrable septum for introducing reagents, covering and sealing said channels at the top surface of said retaining block so as to form individual conduits between said apertures in said gas inlet in said retention block section above the openings in said reaction vessels. 2. The device of claim 1, wherein said device additionally comprises: d) a securing plate disposed above said solid septum and detachably fastening the septum to the top surface of said retention block section, said securing plate having at least one opening in registration with said apertures in the top surface of said retention block section for receiving a needle. 3. The device of claim 2, wherein said device additionally comprises: e) a temperature control block section having an outer surface, an inner surface, an open top end, and a closed bottom end defining a fluid receiving cavity, said temperature control block section mounted below said retaining block section and receiving said reaction vessels through said open top end so that the downwardly depending closed vessel ends extend below the plane of the open top end and into the fluid receiving cavity. 4. The device of claim 3, wherein said temperature control block section is provided with a fluid inlet and a fluid outlet communicating from the exterior of said temperature control block section and said interior cavity. 5. The device of claim 4, wherein said device additionally comprises: f) a reflux control block section detachably mounted between said retaining block section and said temperature control block section. 6. The device of claim 5, wherein said reflux control block section is a structure having a top surface and a bottom surface, the structure is formed to provide an interior cavity, and a plurality of apertures are provided to receive a midbody portion of said reaction vessels, between said open upper end and said closed lower end, through the top of said reflux control block section and to allow the bottom ends of said reaction vessels to extend through the bottom surface of said reflux control block section and into said temperature control block section. 7. A device for the retention of a reaction vessel having an open upper end and a closed lower end and the synthesis of compounds in an array comprising: a) a retaining structure having outside surface defining an interior cavity having an interior surface; b) a reaction vessel securing structure provided with an aperture in communication with said interior cavity and having a mounting structure for holding the open end of a reaction vessel in communication with said interior cavity and to allow the closed end of said reaction vessel to depend from said reaction vessel securing structure; wherein said retaining structure is provided with a series of channels along the top surface of said retaining structure interconnecting the aperture above the point at which the reaction vessel is secured; wherein said retaining structure is provided with a gas inlet connected to said series of channels; c) a gas inlet port in communication with said interior cavity; and d) a chemical injection and withdrawal port in communication with said interior cavity and covered with a solid needle penetrable septum and oriented to accommodate the deposition and withdrawal of material from said reaction vessel. 8. The device of claim 7, wherein said device additionally comprises: e) a second interior cavity having an interior surface defined within said retaining structure; f) a second reaction vessel securing structure provided with a second aperture in communication with said second interior cavity and having a second mounting structure for holding the open end of a second reaction vessel in communication with said second interior cavity; g) a second gas inlet port in communication with said second interior cavity; and h) a second chemical injection and withdrawal port in communication with said second interior cavity and covered with a second solid needle penetrable septum and oriented to accommodate the deposition and withdrawal of material from said reaction vessel. 9. The device of claim 8, wherein said gas inlet port and said second gas inlet port are in communication. 10. The device of claim 9, wherein said gas inlet port and said second gas inlet port are connected to a common source of inert gas. 11. The device of claim 10, wherein said chemical injection and withdrawal port and said second chemical injection and withdrawal port are covered with a single solid needle penetrable septum. 