Bonded vehicular glass assemblies utilizing two-component urethane adhesives to attach dynamic load-bearing attachment members to glass substrates to form a joint suitable for use on a vehicle, and related methods of forming are described herein. In addition, methods of attaching components to glass by use of these adhesives are disclosed. The two-component urethane adhesives utilized in this invention have been found to provide surprisingly strong bonds between glass and other materials which meet or exceed OEM requirements, and be particularly well suited for use in vehicles.
Claims The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows: 1. A vehicular window assembly suitable for use in a vehicle, said window assembly comprising: a glass panel having a first surface and an opposing second surface; a load-bearing attachment member selected from the group consisting of mounting members, hinges, clevises, latches, lift brackets, division bars, positionable members, guide tracks, handles, guide pins, strut-mounting hardware, strikers, struts, power-mounting hardware, track members, rails, latch members, antennas, wiper mounts, sealing members, cosmetic articles, pin components, and hinge members; and said glass panel and said load-bearinig attachment member joined by an adhesive layer; said adhesive layer consisting essentially of a layer of a rapid set, rapid cure, two-component urethane adhesive disposed between said first surface of said glass panel and said attachment member, said layer of adhesive cured to form a joint suitable for use on the vehicle; wherein said rapid set characteristic is such that said adhesive achieves a set within a time period of about 3 minutes or less from the time of initial disposition of said adhesive between said glass panel and said attachment member, and wherein said rapid cure characteristic is such that said adhesive cures in a time period of less than about 60 minutes from the time of adhesive set; said layer of cured adhesive bonding said load bearing attachment member to said first surface of said glass panel prior to installation of said assembly in the vehicle and without exposure of said bonded load bearing attachment member on said second surface of said panel. 2. The vehicular window assembly of claim 1 wherein said adhesive comprises an isocyanate component and a polyol component, and said rapid set characteristic is such that after mixing said isocyanate component and said polyol component, and after relatively promptly contacting said glass panel to said attachment member, said glass panel and said attachment member are held by said adhesive layer against movement resulting from weight of said panel and said attachment member, and held by said adhesive layer against movement resulting from application of a relatively slight force, within said time period in which said adhesive achieves a set. 3. The vehicular window assembly of claim 2 wherein said time period in which said adhesive achieves a set is about 90 seconds or less. 4. The vehicular window assembly of claim 3 wherein said time period in which said adhesive achieves a set is about 45 seconds or less. 5. The vehicular window assembly of claim 1 wherein said rapid cure characteristic is such that said adhesive cures in a time period of less than about 50 minutes. 6. The vehicular window assembly of claim 5 wherein said rapid cure characteristic is such that said adhesive cures in a time period of less than about 40 minutes. 7. The vehicular window assembly of claim 1 wherein said rapid cure characteristic is such that at least about 80% of the physical characteristics of the cured adhesive are obtained within about 60 minutes from the time of adhesive set. 8. The vehicular window assembly of claim 1 further comprising: a layer of at least one of an adhesive promoter and a primer disposed between said glass panel and said layer of adhesive. 9. The vehicular window assembly of claim 8 wherein said at least one of said adhesion promoter and said primer is selected from the group consisting of silane compounds, titanium coupling agents, zirconium coupling agents, and moisture-curable urethane prepolymers. 10. The vehicular window assembly of claim 9 wherein the thickness of said layer of at least one of said adhesion promoter and said primer is from about 0.01 mils to about 3.5 mils. 11. The vehicular window assembly of claim 10 wherein the thickness of said layer of at least one of said adhesion promoter and said primer is from about 0.05 mils to about 2 mils. 12. The vehicular window assembly of claim 11 wherein the thickness of said layer of at least one of said adhesion promoter and said primer is from about 0.1 mils to about 1.0 mils. 13. The vehicular window assembly of claim 1 further comprising: a glass frit layer disposed on said glass panel, said glass frit layer being disposed between said first surface of said glass panel and said layer of cured adhesive such that said layer of cured adhesive bonds said load bearing attachment member directly to said glass frit layer. 14. The vehicular window assembly of claim 1 wherein the thickness of said adhesive layer disposed between said attachment member and said glass panel is from about 0.01 mm to about 4.0 mm. 15. The vehicular window assembly of claim 14 wherein the thickness of said adhesive layer is from about 0.25 mm to about 2.0 mm. 16. The vehicular window assembly of claim 15 wherein the thickness of said adhesive layer is from about 0.5 mm to about 1.0 mm. 17. A bonded vehicular assembly suitable for use in a vehicle, said assembly comprising: a glass substrate having a first surface and an opposing second surface; a load-bearing attachment member comprising a material selected from the group consisting of metal, plastic, and combinations thereof, said attachment member being selected from the group consisting of mounting members, hinges, clevises, latches, lift brackets, division bars, positionable members, guide tracks, handles, guide pins, strut-mounting hardware, strikers, struts, power-mounting hardware, track members, rails, latch members, antennas, wiper mounts, sealing members, cosmetic articles, pin components, and hinge members; and said glass substrate and said load-bearings attachment member joined by an adhesive layer; said adhesive layer consisting essentially of a layer of a rapid set, rapid cure, two-component urethane adhesive disposed between and bonding said first surface of said glass substrate to said attachment member, and wherein said rapid set characteristic is such that said adhesive achieves a set within a time period of about 3 minutes or less from the time of initial disposition of said adhesive between said glass substrate and said attachment member, and wherein said rapid cure characteristic is such that said adhesive cures in a time period of less than about 60 minutes from the time of adhesive set, and wherein upon curing of said adhesive layer, a joint suitable for use on the vehicle is formed; said layer of cured adhesive bonding said load bearing attachment member to said first surface of said glass substrate prior to installation of said assembly in the vehicle and without exposure of said bonded load bearing attachment member on said second surface of said substrate. 18. The bonded vehicular assembly of claim 17 wherein said adhesive comprises: an isocyanate component; and a polyol component. 19. The bonded vehicular assembly of claim 18 wherein said polyol component includes a high amine density plural amine in an amount of from about 2% to about 20% by weight of said polyol component. 20. The bonded vehicular assembly of claim 18 wherein said adhesive further comprises: at least one filler agent in at least one of said isocyanate component and said polyol component, wherein said filler agent is in an amount of from about 15% to about 50% of the total weight of said polyol and isocyanate components. 21. The bonded vehicular assembly of claim 20 wherein said filler agent is in an amount of from about 20% to about 30% of the total weight of said polyol and said isocyanate components. 22. The bonded vehicular assembly of claim 20 wherein said filler agent is selected from the group consisting of silicates, silica, calcium carbonate, talc, and combinations thereof. 23. The bonded vehicular assembly of claim 18 wherein said isocyanate component comprises compounds with isocyanate functionality and said polyol component comprises compounds with hydroxy and/or amino functionality, and wherein the ratio of isocyanate functionality to hydroxy and amino functionality is from about 0.9 to about 2.0. 24. The bonded vehicular assembly of claim 17 further comprising a layer of at least one of an adhesion promoter and a primer disposed between said glass substrate and said layer of adhesive. 25. The bonded vehicular assembly of claim 24 wherein said at least one of said adhesion promoter and said primer is selected from the group consisting of silane compounds, titanium coupling agents, zirconium coupling agents, and moisture-curable urethane prepolymers. 26. The bonded vehicular window assembly of claim 25 wherein said assembly is a movable vehicular window assembly. 27. The movable bonded vehicular window assembly of claim 26 wherein said assembly further comprises: a glass frit layer disposed on said glass substrate, said glass frit layer being disposed between said first surface of said glass substrate and said layer of urethane adhesive such that said layer of urethane adhesive bonds said load bearing attachment member directly to said glass frit layer. 28. The bonded vehicular window assembly of claim 26 wherein said attachment member is a hinge having a first portion and a second portion that is movable with respect to said first portion, and wherein said first portion is bonded to said first surface of said glass substrate by said urethane adhesive layer disposed between and contacting said first portion and said glass substrate. 29. The bonded vehicular window assembly of claim 28 wherein said second portion of said hinge is affixed to a vehicular mounting surface. 30. A vehicular panel assembly suitable for use in a vehicle, said assembly comprising: a glass substrate having a first surface and an opposite second surface; at least one load-bearing attachment member affixed to said glass substrate and selected from the group consisting of mounting members, hinges, clevises, latches, lift brackets, division bars, positionable members, guide tracks, handles, guide pins, strut-mounting hardware, strikers, struts, power-mounting hardware, track members, rails, latch members, antennas, wiper mounts, sealing members, cosmetic articles, pin components, and hinge members; and said glass substrate and said load-bearing attachment member joined by an adhesive layer; said adhesive layer consisting essentially of a layer of a two-component urethane adhesive disposed between and bonding said at least one attachment member to said first surface of said glass substrate, said layer of adhesive cured to form a joint suitable for use on the vehicle, wherein said adhesive comprises an isocyanate component and a polyol component wherein said adhesive further includes an amine-based catalyst and achieves a set within about 3 minutes; said layer of cured adhesive bonding said load bearing attachment member to said first surface of said glass substrate prior to installation of said assembly in the vehicle and without exposure of said bonded load bearing attachment member on said second surface of said substrate. 31. The vehicular panel assembly of claim 30 wherein said isocyanate component comprises compounds with isocyanate functionality and said polyol component comprises a high amine density plural amine compound and compounds with hydroxyl and/or amino functionality, wherein the ratio of isocyanate functionality to hydroxy and/or amino functionality is from about 1.03 to about 1.4. 32. The vehicular panel assembly of claim 31 wherein said high amine density plural amine compound is in an amount of from about 2% to about 20% by weight of said polyol component. 33. The vehicular panel assembly of claim 30 wherein said adhesive further comprises at least one filler agent in at least one of said isocyanate component and said polyol component, in an amount of from about 15% to about 50% of the total weight of said polyol component and said isocyanate component. 34. The vehicular panel assembly of claim 30 further comprising a layer of at least one of an adhesion promoter and a primer disposed between said glass substrate and said layer of adhesive. 35. The vehicular panel assembly of claim 34 wherein said at least one of said adhesion promoter and said primer is selected from the group consisting of silane compounds, titanium coupling agents, zirconium coupling agents, and moisture-curable urethane prepolymers. 36. A method of forming a bonded vehicular assembly by adhering a load-bearing attachment member to a glass surface, said method comprising: providing a substrate having a first glass surface and an opposing second surface; providing an attachment member to be adhered to said first glass surface, said attachment member having a mounting surface; selecting said attachment member from the group consisting of mounting members, hinges, clevises, latches, lift brackets, division bars, positionable members, guide tracks, handles, guide pins, strut-mounting hardware, strikers, struts, power-mounting hardware, track members, rails, latch members, antennas, wiper mounts, sealing members, cosmetic articles, pin components, and hinge members; depositing a layer of an adhesive on at least one of said attachment member mounting surface and said first glass surface, said layer of adhesive consisting essentially of a rapid set, rapid cure, two-component urethane adhesive; positioning said attachment member and said substrate such that said adhesive layer is disposed between and contacting said attachment member mounting surface and at least a portion of said first glass surface of said substrate without exposure of said attachment member on said opposing second surface of said substrate; said positioning being achieved within about 3 minutes after said depositing step; and curing said adhesive layer, said cured adhesive layer bonding said attachment member to said first glass surface prior to installation of said assembly in the vehicle. 37. The method of claim 36 wherein said adhesive comprises an isocyanate component and a polyol component including a high amine density plural amine compound, and wherein said method further comprises, prior to said depositing said adhesive, a step of: mixing said isocyanate component and said polyol component. 38. The method of claim 37 wherein said high amine density plural amine compound is in an amount of from about 2% to about 20% by weight of said polyol component and said adhesive further comprises at least one filler agent in at least one of said isocyanate component and said polyol component, wherein said filler agent is in an amount of from about 15% to about 50% of the total weight of said polyol and isocyanate components. 39. The method of claim 37 wherein said isocyanate component comprises compounds with isocyanate functionality and said polyol component comprises compounds with hydroxy and/or amino functionality, and wherein the ratio of isocyanate functionality to hydroxy and amino functionality is from about 0.9 to about 2.0. 40. The method of claim 36 further comprising, prior to depositing said adhesive layer, a step of: depositing a layer of at least one of an adhesion promoter and a primer to at least one of said first glass surface and said attachment member mounting surface. 41. The method of claim 36 wherein the thickness of said adhesive layer disposed between said attachment member and at least a portion of said first glass surface is from about 0.01 mm to about 4.0 mm. 42. The method of claim 41 wherein the thickness of said adhesive layer is from about 0.25 mm to about 2.0 mm. 43. The method of claim 42 wherein the thickness of said adhesive layer is from about 0.5 mm to about 1.0 mm. 44. The method of claim 36 wherein said depositing step is performed by robotic deposition. 45. The method of claim 36 wherein said depositing step is performed by utilizing a dispense metering unit and a mixing unit. 46. The method of claim 45 wherein said mixing unit is a static mix tube in association with a sequential reverse static mixer. 47. The method of claim 45 including delivering said rapid set, rapid cure, two-component urethane adhesive through thermally controlled lines to said dispense metering unit. 48. The method of claim 36 wherein said curing step is accelerated by heating said adhesive. 49. The method of claim 48 wherein said heating is performed by a method selected from the group consisting of induction curing, infra red heating, and combinations thereof. 50. A method of forming a bonded vehicular assembly by adhering an attachment member to a glass substrate, said method comprising: providing a glass substrate having a first surface and an opposing second surface; providing a load-bearing attachment member to be adhered to said first surface of said glass substrate, said attachment member having a mounting surface; selecting said attachment member from the group consisting of mounting members, hinges, clevises, latches, lift brackets, division bars, positionable members, guide tracks, handles, guide pins, strut-mounting hardware, strikers, struts, power-mounting hardware, track members, rails, latch members, antennas, wiper mounts, sealing members, cosmetic articles, pin components, and hinge members; forming a frit layer on said first surface of said glass substrate; depositing a layer of an adhesive on at least one of said attachment member mounting surface and said frit layer, said layer of adhesive consisting essentially of a rapid set, rapid cure, two-component urethane adhesive; positioning said attachment member and said substrate such that said adhesive layer is disposed between and contacting said attachment member and at least a portion of said frit layer formed on said substrate without exposure of said attachment member on said second surface of said substrate, said positioning step being performed within about 3 minutes of said depositing step; and curing said adhesive layer, said cured adhesive layer bonding said attachment member to said first glass surface prior to installation of said assembly in the vehicle. 51. A moveable vehicular window assembly comprising: a glass panel having a first surface an opposing second surface and comprising a layer of frit disposed on said first surface; a load-bearing attachment member comprising a material selected from the group consisting of metal, plastic, and combinations thereof, said attachment member being selected from the group consisting of mounting members, hinges, clevises, latches, lift brackets, division bars, positionable members, guide tracks, handles, guide pins, strut-mounting hardware, strikers, struts, power-mounting hardware, track members, rails, latch members, antennas, wiper mounts, sealing members, cosmetic articles, pin components, hinge members, brake lights, gaskets and rearview mirrors; and said glass panel and said load-bearing attachment member joined by an adhesive layer; said adhesive layer consisting essentially of a layer of a rapid set, rapid cure, two-component urethane adhesive disposed between said layer of frit and said attachment member, wherein said adhesive comprises an isocyanate component and a polyol component, said layer of adhesive cured to form a joint suitable for use on a vehicle; wherein said rapid set characteristic is such that said adhesive achieves a set within a time period of about 3 minutes or less from the time of initial disposition of said adhesive layer between said layer of frit and said attachment member, and wherein said rapid cure characteristic is such that said adhesive cures in a time period of less than about 60 minutes from the time of adhesive set; said layer of cured adhesive bonding said load bearing attachment member to said layer of frit on said first surface of said glass panel prior to installation of said assembly in the vehicle and without exposure of said load bearing attachment member on said second surface of said panel. 52. The movable vehicular window assembly of claim 51 wherein said rapid set characteristic is such that after mixing said isocyanate component and said polyol component, and after relatively promptly contacting said layer of frit on said glass panel to said attachment member, said layer of frit on said glass panel and said attachment member are held by said adhesive layer against movement resulting from the weight of said panel and said attachment member, and held by said adhesive layer against movement resulting from application of a relatively slight force, within said time period in which said adhesive achieves a set. 53. The movable vehicular window assembly of claim 52 wherein said time period in which said adhesive achieves a set is about 90 seconds or less. 54. The movable vehicular window assembly of claim 53 wherein said time period in which said adhesive achieves a set is about 45 seconds or less. 55. The movable vehicular window assembly of claim 51 wherein said rapid cure characteristic is such that said adhesive cures in a time period of less than about 50 minutes. 56. The movable vehicular window assembly of claim 55 wherein said rapid cure characteristic is such that said adhesive cures in a time period of less than about 40 minutes. 57. The movable vehicular window assembly of claim 51 wherein said movable vehicular window assembly is a window assembly selected from the group consisting of a hinged window assembly, a sunroof, a door lift window, a liftgate, and a sliding window assembly. 58. The movable vehicular window assembly of claim 51 further comprising: a layer of at least one of an adhesive promoter and a primer disposed between said layer of frit on said glass panel and said layer of adhesive. 59. The movable vehicular window assembly of claim 58 wherein said at least one of said adhesion promoter and said primer is selected from the group consisting of silane compounds, titanium coupling agents, zirconium coupling agents, and moisture-curable urethane prepolymers. 60. The movable vehicular window assembly of claim 59 wherein the thickness of said layer of at least one of said adhesion promoter and said primer is from about 0.01 mils to about 3.5 mils. 61. The movable vehicular window assembly of claim 60 wherein the thickness of said layer of at least one of said adhesion promoter and said primer is from about 0.05 mils to about 2 mils. 62. The movable vehicular window assembly of claim 61 wherein the thickness of said layer of at least one of said adhesion promoter and said primer is from about 0.1 mils to about 1.0 mils. 63. The movable vehicular window assembly of claim 51 wherein the thickness of said adhesive layer disposed between said attachment member and said glass panel is from about 0.01 mm to about 4.0 mm. 64. The movable vehicular window assembly of claim 63 wherein the thickness of said adhesive layer is from about 0.25 mm to about 2.0 mm. 65. The movable vehicular window assembly of claim 64 wherein the thickness of said adhesive layer is from about 0.5 mm to about 1.0 mm. 66. A window assembly suitable for use in a vehicle, said assembly comprising: a glass panel having a first surface and an opposing second surface; a load-bearing attachment member adapted for attachment to said first surface of said glass panel and selected from the group consisting of mounting members, hinges, clevises, latches, lift brackets, division bars, positionable members, guide tracks, handles, guide pins, strut-mounting hardware, strikers, struts, power-mounting hardware, track members, rails, latch members, antennas, wiper mounts, sealing members, cosmetic articles, pin components, and hinge members; and said glass panel and said load-bearing attachment member joined by an adhesive layer; said adhesive layer consisting essentially of a layer of a rapid set, rapid cure, two-component urethane adhesive disposed between said first surface of said glass panel and said attachment member, wherein said adhesive comprises an isocyanate component and a polyol component, and wherein said adhesive is capable, upon curing, to form a bond that can withstand a tensile force of at least 5 lbs/in.sup.2, wherein said adhesive achieves a set within a time period of about 3 minutes or less, and includes an amine catalyst, said layer of adhesive bonding said load-bearing attachment member to said first surface of said glass panel prior to installation of said assembly in the vehicle and without exposure of said bonded load-bearing attachment member on said second surface of said panel. 67. A hinged vehicular window assembly for a vehicle suitable for use in a vehicle, said assembly comprising: a glass panel having a first surface and an opposing second surface and comprising a layer of glass frit disposed on said first surface; a hinged mounting member having a first portion bonded to said glass frit layer on said first surface of said glass panel by an adhesive layer consisting essentially of a rapid set, rapid cure, two-component urethane adhesive disposed between said glass flit layer on said first surface of said glass panel and said first portion, said adhesive having a cure time within about 60 minutes or less, and said adhesive layer cured to form a joint suitable for use on the vehicle, said hinged mounting member further having a second portion adapted to be affixed to a mounting surface, said urethane adhesive layer bonding said first portion of said hinged mounting member to said glass frit layer on said first surface of said glass panel prior to installation of said assembly in the vehicle and without exposure of said hinged mounting member on said second surface of said glass panel. 68. The hinged assembly of claim 67 wherein said adhesive comprises: an isocyanate component; and a polyol component including a high amine density plural amine in an amount of from about 2% to about 20% by weight of said polyol component. 69. The hinged assembly of claim 68 wherein said high amine density plural amine is in a concentration of from about 5% to about 10% by weight of said polyol component. 70. The hinged assembly of claim 68 wherein said isocyanate component comprises compounds with isocyanate functionality and said polyol component comprises compounds with hydroxy and/or amino functionality, and wherein the ratio of isocyanate functionality to hydroxy and amino functionality is from about 0.9 to about 2.0. 71. The hinged assembly of claim 68 wherein said adhesive further comprises at least one filler agent in at least one of said isocyanate component and said polyol component, wherein said filler agent is in an amount of from about 15% to about 50% of the total weight of said polyol and isocyanate components. 72. The hinged assembly of claim 67 further comprising: a layer of at least one of an adhesion promoter and a primer disposed between said glass frit layer on said first surface of said glass panel and said adhesive layer. 73. The hinged assembly of claim 72 wherein said adhesion promoter and said primer are selected from the group consisting of silane compounds, titanium coupling agents, zirconium coupling agents, and moisture-curable urethane prepolymers. 74. The hinged assembly of claim 73 wherein said layer of at least one of said adhesion promoter and said primer has a thickness of from about 0.01 mils to about 3.5 mils. 75. The hinged assembly of claim 74 wherein said thickness of said layer of at least one of said adhesion promoter and said primer is from about 0.05 mils to about 2 mils. 76. The hinged assembly of claim 75 wherein said thickness of said layer of at least one of said adhesion promoter and said primer is from about 0.1 mils to about 1.0 mils. 77. The hinged assembly of claim 67 wherein said hinged mounting member is formed from a material selected from the group consisting of metal, plastic, and combinations thereof. 78. The hinged assembly of claim 77 wherein said hinged mounting member bonded to said glass panel is able to withstand a tensile force of at least 500 psi exerted perpendicular to said plane of said glass panel without failure of said adhesive. 79. The hinged assembly of claim 67 wherein said adhesive layer has a thickness of from about 0.01 mm to about 4.0 mm. 80. The hinged assembly of claim 79 wherein said adhesive layer has a thickness of from about 0.25 mm to about 2.0 mm. 81. The hinged assembly of claim 80 wherein said adhesive layer has a thickness of from about 0.5 mm to about 1.0 mm. 82. The hinged assembly of claim 67 wherein said second portion of said hinged mounting member is affixed to a mounting surface of a vehicle selected from the group consisting of automobiles, trucks, vans, minivans, utility vehicles, motor homes, campers, trailers, buses, trolleys, trains, commuter vehicles, airplanes and boats. 83. A movable window assembly for a vehicle, said assembly comprising: a glass panel having a first surface and an opposing second surface; and a load-bearing attachment member bonded to first surface of said glass panel by a layer of adhesive consisting essentially of a rapid-set, rapid cure, two-component adhesive disposed between said attachment member and said first surface of said glass panel, said adhesive layer comprising an isocyanate component and a polyol component, said attachment member being selected from the group consisting of mounting components, hinges, clevises, latches, lift brackets, division bars, guide tracks, handles, guide pins, strut-mounting hardware, strikers, brake lights, power-mounting hardware, rails, gaskets, antennas, wiper mounts, cosmetic articles and rearview mirrors; wherein said rapid set characteristic is such that said adhesive achieves a set within a time period of about 3 minutes or less from the time of initial disposition of said adhesive layer between said glass panel and said attachment member, and wherein said rapid cure characteristic is such that said adhesive cures in a time period of less than about 60 minutes from the time of adhesive set; said adhesive layer bonding said load-bearing attachment member to said first surface of said glass panel prior to installation of said assembly in the vehicle and without exposure of said bonded load-bearing attachment member on said second surface of said glass panel. 84. The movable window assembly of claim 83 wherein said assembly is selected from the group consisting of hinged window assemblies, sunroofs, door lift windows, liftgates, and sliding window assemblies. 85. The movable window assembly of claim 83 wherein said adhesive disposed between and bonding said attachment member to said glass panel forms a layer having a thickness of from about 0.01 mm to about 4.0 mm. 86. The movable window assembly of claim 85 wherein said layer of adhesive has a thickness of from about 0.25 mm to about 2.0 mm. 87. The movable window assembly of claim 86 wherein said layer of adhesive has a thickness of from about 0.5 mm to about 1.0 mm. 88. The movable window assembly of claim 83 further comprising: a layer of at least one of an adhesion promoter and a primer disposed between said first surface of said glass panel and said adhesive layer. 89. The movable window assembly of claim 88 wherein said adhesion promoter and said primer are selected from the group consisting of silane compounds, titanium coupling agents, zirconium coupling agents, and moisture-curable urethane prepolymers. 90. The movable window assembly of claim 89 wherein said layer of at least one of said adhesion promoter and said primer has a thickness of from about 0.01 mils to about 3.5 mils. 91. The movable window assembly of claim 90 wherein said thickness of said layer of at least one of said adhesion promoter and said primer is from about 0.05 mils to about 2 mils. 92. The movable window assembly of claim 91 wherein said thickness of said layer of at least one of said adhesion promoter and said primer is from about 0.1 mils to about 1.0 mils. 93. The movable window assembly of claim 83 wherein said glass panel is selected from the group consisting of opaque or coated glass, privacy glass, glass having a layer of frit, tinted glass, solar tinted glass, multi-composite glass laminates, and combinations thereof. 94. The movable window assembly of claim 83 wherein said assembly further comprises: a frit layer disposed on said first surface of said glass panel, said frit layer being disposed between said first surface of said glass panel and said adhesive layer such that said adhesive layer bonds said load bearing member directly to said frit layer. 95. A positionable sunroof adapted and suitable for use in a vehicle, said sunroof comprising: a glass panel having a first surface and an opposing second surface; at least one load-bearing hinge attachment component having a first portion bonded directly to said first surface of said glass panel by a layer of adhesive and a second portion being adapted for attachment to a vehicle mounting surface; and said adhesive layer consisting essentially of a layer of a rapid set, rapid cure, two-component urethane adhesive disposed between a portion of said first surface of said glass panel and said first portion of said hinge attachment component, wherein said adhesive layer is cured thereby bonding said first portion of said hinge attachment component directly to said glass panel; wherein said rapid set characteristic is such that said adhesive achieves a set within a time period of about 3 minutes or less from the time of initial disposition of said adhesive layer between said glass panel and said hinge attachment component, and wherein said rapid cure characteristic is such that said adhesive cures in a time period of less than about 60 minutes from the time of adhesive set; said layer of adhesive bonding said hinge attachment component to said first surface of said glass panel prior to installation of said assembly in the vehicle and without exposure of said hinge attachment component on said second surface of said glass panel. 96. A movable door lift window assembly adapted and suitable for use in a vehicle, said door lift window assembly comprising: a glass panel having a first surface and an opposing second surface; at least one load-bearing lift bracket attachment member bonded directly to said first surface of said glass panel by a layer of adhesive consisting essentially of a rapid set, rapid cure, two-component urethane adhesive disposed between said first surface of said glass panel and said at least one lift bracket attachment member; wherein said rapid set characteristic is such that said adhesive achieves a set within a time period of about 3 minutes or less from the time of initial disposition of said adhesive layer between said glass panel and said lift bracket attachment member, and wherein said rapid cure characteristic is such that said adhesive cures in a time period of less than about 60 minutes from the time of adhesive set; said adhesive layer bonding said load-bearing lift bracket attachment member to said first surface of said glass panel prior to installation of said assembly in the vehicle and without exposure of said lift bracket attachment member on said second surface of said glass panel. 97. A liftgate window assembly adapted and suitable for use in a vehicle, said liftgate comprising: a glass panel having a first surface and an opposing second surface; and at least one load-bearing hinge attachment member having a first member bonded directly to said first surface of said glass panel by a layer of adhesive consisting essentially of a rapid set, rapid cure, two-component adhesive disposed between a portion of said first surface of said glass panel and said first member, said hinge further having a second member positionably movable with respect to said first member and adapted for attachment to a vehicle; wherein said rapid set characteristic is such that said adhesive achieves a set within a time period of about 3 minutes or less from the time of initial disposition of said adhesive layer between said first surface of said glass panel and said hinge attachment member, and wherein said rapid cure characteristic is such that said adhesive cures in a time period of less than about 60 minutes from the time of adhesive set; said adhesive layer bonding said load-bearing hinge attachment member to said first surface of said glass panel prior to installation of said assembly in the vehicle and without exposure of said hinge attachment member on said second surface of said glass panel. 98. A sliding window assembly adapted and suitable for use in a vehicle, said assembly comprising: a first glass panel having a first surface and an opposing second surface; at least one guide track bonded directly to said first surface of said first glass panel by a layer of adhesive consisting essentially of a rapid set, rapid cure, two-component urethane adhesive, said guide track having a channel configured to slidably receive a glass panel; and a second glass panel slidably disposed in said channel of said guide track; wherein said rapid set characteristic is such that said adhesive achieves a set within a time period of about 3 minutes or less from the time of initial disposition of said adhesive layer between said glass panel and said channel, and wherein said rapid cure characteristic is such that said adhesive cures in a time period of less than about 60 minutes from the time of adhesive set; said adhesive layer bonding said guide track to said first surface of said first glass panel prior to installation of said assembly in the vehicle and without exposure of said guide track on said second surface of said first glass panel. 99. The sliding window assembly of claim 98 wherein said first surface of said first glass panel has a pin component bonded to it by said adhesive layer, and said second glass panel has a latch component bonded to it by a second layer of said adhesive, wherein said latch component is adapted to releasably engage said pin component. 100. The sliding window assembly of claim 98 further comprising a third glass panel. 101. The sliding window assembly of claim 100 wherein said at least one guide track is bonded to said third glass panel by a third layer of said adhesive. 102. The sliding window assembly of claim 101 wherein said at least one guide track comprises: an upper guide track bonded by a portion of said adhesive layer to an upper edge of said first surface of said first glass panel and by said third layer of said adhesive to an upper edge of said third glass panel; and a lower guide track bonded by another portion of said adhesive layer to a lower edge of said first surface of said first glass panel and by a portion of said third layer of said adhesive to a lower edge of said third glass panel. 103. A vehicular window assembly suitable for use in a vehicle, said window assembly comprising: a glass panel having a first surface and an opposing second surface; a load-bearing attachment member selected from the group consisting of mounting members, hinges, clevises, latches, lift brackets, division bars, positionable members, guide tracks, handles, guide pins, strut-mounting hardware, strikers, struts, power-mounting hardware, track members, rails, latch members, antennas, wiper mounts, sealing members, cosmetic articles, pin components, and hinge members; and said glass panel and said load-bearing attachment member joined by an adhesive layer; said adhesive layer consisting essentially of a layer of a rapid set, rapid cure, two-component urethane adhesive disposed between said first surface of said glass panel and said attachment member, said adhesive comprising a mixture of an isocyanate component and a polyol component mixed prior to disposition on said glass panel, said layer of adhesive being cured such that said layer of cured adhesive bonds said load bearing attachment member to said first surface of said glass panel; wherein said rapid set characteristic is such that after mixing said isocyanate and polyol components, and after promptly contacting said attachment member with said layer of adhesive and said first surface of said glass panel, said adhesive sets whereby said attachment member and said glass panel are held by said adhesive against movement resulting from the weight of said attachment member on said panel, and wherein said rapid cure characteristic is such that said adhesive cures to bond said attachment member to said first surface of said glass panel in a time period of less than about 60 minutes from the time of adhesive set; said layer of cured adhesive bonding said load bearing attachment member to said first surface of said glass panel prior to installation of said assembly in the vehicle and without exposure of said attachment member on said second surface of said panel. 104. The bonded vehicular assembly of claim 103 wherein said polyol component includes a high amine density plural amine in an amount of from about 2% to about 20% by weight of said polyol component. 105. The bonded vehicular assembly of claim 103 wherein said adhesive further comprises: at least one filler agent in at least one of said isocyanate component and said polyol component, wherein said filler agent is in an amount of from about 15% to about 50% of the total weight of said polyol and isocyanate components. 106. The bonded vehicular assembly of claim 105 wherein said filler agent is in an amount of from about 20% to about 30% of the total weight of said polyol and said isocyanate components. 107. The bonded vehicular assembly of claim 105 wherein said filler agent is selected from the group consisting of silicates, silica, calcium carbonate, talc, and combinations thereof. 108. The bonded vehicular assembly of claim 103 wherein said isocyanate component comprises compounds with isocyanate functionality and said polyol component comprises compounds with hydroxy and/or amino functionality, and wherein the ratio of isocyanate functionality to hydroxy and amino functionality is from about 0.9 to about 2.0. 109. The bonded vehicular assembly of claim 108 wherein said ratio of isocyanate functionality to hydroxy and amine functionality is from about 1.03 to about 1.4. 110. The bonded vehicular assembly of claim 109 wherein said ratio of isocyanate functionality to hydroxy and amino functionality is from about 1.1 to about 1.3. 111. The bonded vehicular assembly of claim 104 wherein said high amine density plural amine is a compound having an amine to carbon ratio of from about 1.0 to about 0.25:1, wherein (i) the compound contains at least 3 amine groups except if said compound is aromatic then said compound contains at least 2 amine groups, and (ii) the compound contains from 2 to 24 carbon atoms. 112. The bonded vehicular assembly of claim 111 wherein said high amine density plural amine has a molecular weight of from about 115 to about 5000. 113. The bonded vehicular assembly of claim 111 wherein said high amine density plural amine comprises a reaction product of (i) at least one of pentaerythritol, glucose, and sucrose, and (ii) at least one member selected from the group consisting of ammonia and amino alkanes of the formula C.sub.x H.sub.n NH.sub.2, wherein x ranges from 1 to 20 and n is such that the alkane is saturated. 114. The bonded vehicular assembly of claim 103 further comprising a layer of at least one of an adhesion promoter and a primer disposed between said first surface of said glass panel and said layer of adhesive. 115. The bonded vehicular assembly of claim 114 wherein said at least one of said adhesion promoter and said primer is selected from the group consisting of silane compounds, titanium coupling agents, zirconium coupling agents, and moisture-curable urethane prepolymers. 116. The bonded vehicular window assembly of claim 115 wherein said assembly is a movable vehicular window assembly. 117. The bonded window assembly of claim 116 wherein said assembly further comprises a glass frit layer disposed on said first surface of said glass panel. 118. The bonded window assembly of claim 116 wherein said load bearing attachment member is a hinge, said hinge comprising a first portion and a second portion that is movable with respect to said first portion, and wherein said first portion is bonded to said first surface of said glass panel by said adhesive layer disposed between and contacting said first portion and said glass panel. 119. The bonded window assembly of claim 111 wherein said second portion of said hinge is affixed to a vehicular mounting surface. 120. A vehicular window assembly suitable for use in a vehicle, said window assembly comprising: a glass panel having a first surface and an opposing second surface and comprising a layer of glass frit disposed on said first surface; a load-bearing attachment member selected from the group consisting of mounting members, hinges, clevises, latches, lift brackets, division bars, positionable members, guide tracks, handles, guide pins, strut-mounting hardware, strikers, struts, power-mounting hardware, track members, rails, latch members, antennas, wiper mounts, sealing members, cosmetic articles, pin components and hinge members; and said load-bearing attachment member bonded to said layer of glass frit by a layer of adhesive consisting essentially of rapid set, rapid cure, two-component urethane adhesive disposed between said glass frit layer and said attachment member, said layer of adhesive being cured to form a joint suitable for use on a vehicle, said urethane adhesive being formed from an isocyanate component and a polyol component which are combined by mixing prior to disposition between said glass frit layer and said attachment member; said layer of cured adhesive bonding said load-bearing attachment member to said layer of glass frit on said glass panel prior to installation of said assembly in the vehicle and without exposure of said bonded load-bearing attachment member on said second surface of said panel; said glass panel having a weight of at least about 3 kilograms and an area of at least about 250 square inches. 121. The vehicular window assembly of claim 120 wherein said assembly is a movable window assembly. 122. The vehicular window assembly of claim 121 wherein said movable window assembly further comprises at least one hinge bonded to said glass panel. 123. The vehicular window assembly of claim 120 wherein said window assembly comprises a flush mounted glazing. 124. The vehicular window assembly of claim 120 wherein said glass panel weighs at least 5 kilograms. 125. The vehicular window assembly of claim 124 wherein said vehicle is one of an automobile, a truck, a van, a mini-van, and a utility vehicle. 