A rotary stage (26) is positionable in precise angular increments that are determined by a virtual absolute position encoder disk (106). The angular increments are determined to a 2,400 arc-second absolute resolution by a bar code scale (110) and to a 0.125 arc-second relative resolution by interpolating interference patterns generated by a diffraction grating-based incremental encoder scale (108). The position encoder may be considered a virtual absolute encoder because as little as 0.66 degrees of rotation is required to know the absolute angular position of the rotary stage. The bar code scale eliminates the need for stop bits and quiet zones, which results in increased bar code resolution. The preferred bar code format includes a continuously abutting series of 15-bar slot position bar code patterns positioned as a single track encircling the encoder disk. The first four bar slots of each pattern contain a fixed start code (132), and the remaining 11 bits contain a unique sector-identifying code (134) that does not match the start code.
Claims We claim: 1. An encoding apparatus for determining an absolute position of a movable member relative to a stationary member, comprising: an absolute encoder scale supported by a first one of the members, the absolute encoder scale including a continuous series of abutting N-bit bar code symbols, each bar code symbol including an M-bit start code that is the same for every bar code symbol and a N-M bit sector-identifying code that does not include the start code and is unique from every other sector-identifying code, and each sector-identifying code identifying an absolute reference datum position along the absolute encoder scale; a relative encoder scale supported by the first one of the members, the relative encoder scale including a diffraction grating illuminated by a monochromatic light source to produce an interference pattern having amplitude maxima and amplitude minima that identify relative positions along the relative encoder scale; a detector supported by a second one of the members sensing the bar code symbols and the interference pattern and generating respective absolute and relative encoding signals; memory storage locations that store the absolute reference data positions of the absolute encoder scale; and a decoder operatively associated with the memory storage locations to retrieve the stored absolute reference data positions corresponding to the sector-identifying codes in response to the absolute encoding signal to determine the absolute reference data positions along the absolute encoder scales, and the decoder responsive to the relative encoding signal for interpolating the relative positions between the amplitude maxima and amplitude minima to determine the absolute position of the movable member relative to the stationary member and to periodically sense and confirm the absolute position in response to the decoded absolute reference data positions. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 in which the detector is a photo-optical fixed-beam type. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 in which the absolute and relative encoding scales are flat and annular and are supported by an encoder disk that constitutes the movable member. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 in which the absolute reference data positions are spaced along the absolute encoder scale by an angle of about 2,400 arc-seconds. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 in which N=15. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 in which M=3. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 in which the sector-identifying codes are physically 11 bits long and have appended to them an imaginary logic-0 bit that makes the sector-identifying codes effectively 12 bits long. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 in which the sector-identifying codes include no more than M-1 adjacent logic-1 bits. 9. In an encoding apparatus for determining an absolute position of a movable member relative to a stationary member, the encoding apparatus including an absolute encoder scale and a relative encoder scale both of which supported by one of the movable and stationary members, a detector supported by the other one of the movable and stationary members and producing detector output signals in response to encoded information on the absolute and relative encoder scales, and a decoder responsive to the detector output signals to determine the absolute position of the movable member relative to the stationary member, a method of providing a virtual absolute position encoder having high encoding accuracy and resolution, comprising: encoding the absolute encoder scale with a bar code scale in a bar code format that includes a continuous series of abutting bar code patterns each having a set of multiple bar slot positions divided into first and second subsets, the first subset including a first number of bar code slots defining a common start code pattern for all of the bar code patterns included in the series and the second subset including a second number of bar code slots defining for each of the bar code patterns a sector-identifying code that is different from the sector-identifying codes of all others of the bar code patterns and that does not include the start code pattern in any group of first number of bar code slots; and providing, in operative association with the decoder, memory storage locations that store absolute angular positions of the absolute encoder scale, each of the absolute angular positions corresponding to a unique one of the sector-identifying codes for a conversion to a corresponding reference datum for use in decoding angular position information from the relative encoder scale. 10. The method of claim 9 in which the movable member comprises an encoder disk and the absolute encoder and relative encoder scales comprise concentric tracks on the encoder disk. 11. The method of claim 10 in which the encoder disk has a circumference and the absolute encoder and relative encoder scales comprise concentric tracks that encircle entirely the circumference of the encoder disk. 12. The method of claim 10, further comprising providing interpolation circuitry responsive to each reference datum to decode the angular position information from the relative encoder scale and thereby provide a signal indicative of the absolute position of the movable member. 13. The method of claim 12 in which the relative encoder scale comprises a diffraction grating, and further comprising directing light from a source of monochromatic light to illuminate the diffraction grating and thereby produce an interference pattern from which relative angular positions along the relative encoder scale can be derived. 14. The method of claim 10, further comprising a look-up table in which the memory storage locations reside. 