An injection molding machine of the present invention includes a first mold half having one of at least one mold cavity and at least one mold core and a rotatable turret block rotatable on an axis for rotating a plurality of movable mold halves thereof into alignment with the first mold half. Each of the movable mold halves include one of at least one mold cavity and at least one mold core matable with the first mold half for forming a mold for molding a molded article. The rotatable turret block is further for clamping the movable mold halves and the first mold half together. The machine further includes a mechanism for moving the rotatable turret block relative the first mold half a first injector for injecting melt into the at least one mold cavity.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An injection molding machine comprising: a first mold half having one of at least one mold cavity and at least one mold core; a rotatable turret means rotatable on an axis for rotating a plurality of movable mold halves thereof into alignment with said first mold half, each of said movable mold halves including one of at least one mold cavity and at least one mold core matable with said first mold half for forming a mold for molding a molded article, said rotatable turret means further clamping said movable mold halves and said first mold half together; means for moving said rotatable turret means relative said first mold half; a first injection means for injecting melt into said at least one mold cavity; and further including at least one means for performing at least one operation in addition to said molding, wherein said at least one means for performing comprises a blow molding station. 2. The injection molding machine according to claim 1, including a blow mold positioned adjacent each of said mold cores. 3. The injection molding machine according to claim 2, wherein said blow molding station includes a multicavity blow mold with blow mold cavity for each mold core. 4. The injection molding machine according to claim 3, wherein the multicavity blow mold is mounted on a platen which is reciprocated from a blowing position to an ejection position. 5. The injection molding machine according to claim 4, including means for moving said platen with the movement of said rotatable turret means relative to said first mold half. 6. The injection molding machine according to claim 4, wherein the platen is reciprocated by cylinders mounted on said platen. 7. The injection molding machine according to claim 4, wherein the platen is reciprocated by cylinders mounted on a fixed block. 