The position sensor (20) and method of the present invention allows detecting proper placement of substrate holders (25) in a processing apparatus (35), and can also be used to detect displacement of the substrates (70) within the substrate holder (25). The position sensor (20) comprises (a) an optical emitter (120) capable of emitting a light beam, (b) an optical sensor (125) capable of sensing the light beam emitted by the optical emitter (120), and (c) a light regulator (130) in a path (135) of the light beam that is capable of blocking the light beam from the optical sensor when the substrate holder (25) is improperly positioned in the process chamber (40).
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A position sensor for detecting proper placement of a substrate holder in a chamber, said position sensor comprising: (a) an optical emitter for emitting a light beam; (b) an optical sensor for sensing said light beam emitted by said optical emitter; and (c) a light regulator comprising a movable member having an aperture, said movable member actuated to move between a blocking position where said aperture is substantially nonaligned with said light beam from said optical emitter when said substrate holder is improperly positioned in said chamber and a transmitting position where said aperture is aligned with said light beam allowing said light beam to reach said optical sensor when said substrate holder is properly positioned in said chamber. 2. The position sensor of claim 1 wherein said movable member comprises rotatable means coupled to a receiving surface of said chamber, said rotatable means provided for rotating said aperture from said blocking position to said transmitting position. 3. The position sensor of claim 2 wherein said rotatable means comprises an actuator in a channel of said receiving surface of said chamber, said channel sized to hold an alignment guide of said substrate holder, wherein proper placement of said substrate holder on said receiving surface causes said alignment guide of said substrate holder to activate said actuator causing said aperture to rotate. 4. The position sensor of claim 1 wherein said optical emitter directs said light beam substantially adjacent to substrates in said substrate holder so that displacement of a substrate a predetermined distance out of said substrate holder, causes an edge of said substrate to block the light beam from said optical sensor. 5. The position sensor of claim 4 wherein said predetermined distance is at least about 0.25 inches. 6. The position sensor of claim 1 further comprising a placement indicator responsive to said optical sensor for indicating proper placement of said substrate holder. 7. The position sensor of claim 6 wherein said placement indicator comprises an on-mode and an off-mode, and wherein said placement indicator is in said on-mode when said optical sensor senses said beam of light, and is in said off-mode when said optical sensor does not sense said beam of light. 8. A position sensor for detecting proper placement of a substrate holder in a chamber, said position sensor comprising: (a) an optical emitter for emitting a light beam; (b) an optical sensor for sensing said light beam emitted by said optical emitter; and (c) a light regulator comprising a movable member having a reflector, said movable member actuated to move between a blocking position where said reflector reflects said light beam away from said optical sensor when said substrate holder is improperly positioned in said chamber and a transmitting position where said reflector reflects said light beam toward said optical sensor when said substrate holder is properly positioned in said chamber. 9. The position sensor of claim 8 wherein said movable member comprises rotatable means coupled to a receiving surface of said chamber, said rotatable means provided for rotating said reflector from said blocking position to said transmitting position. 10. The position sensor of claim 9 wherein said rotable means comprises an actuator in a channel of said receiving surface of said chamber, said channel sized to hold an alignment guide of said substrate holder, wherein proper placement of said substrate holder on said receiving surface causes said alignment guide of said substrate holder to activate said actuator causing said reflector to rotate. 11. The position sensor of claim 8 wherein said optical emitter directs said light beam substantially adjacent to substrates in said substrate holder so that displacement of a substrate a predetermined distance out of said substrate holder, causes an edge of said substrate to block the light beam from said optical sensor. 12. The position sensor of claim 8 further comprising a placement indicator responsive to said optical sensor for indicating proper placement of said substrate holder. 13. A position sensor for detecting proper placement of a substrate holder on a receiving surface in a chamber, said position sensor comprising: (a) an optical emitter for emitting a light beam; (b) an optical sensor for sensing said light beam emitted by said optical emitter; and (c) a light regulator comprising a movable member having rotatable means coupled to said receiving surface, said rotatable means capable of rotating said movable member between a blocking position that blocks said light beam from said optical sensor when said substrate holder is improperly positioned in said chamber and a transmitting position that allows said light beam to reach said optical sensor when said substrate holder is properly positioned in said chamber. 14. The position sensor of claim 13 wherein said rotatable means comprises an actuator in a channel of a receiving surface of said chamber, said channel sized to hold an alignment guide of said substrate holder, wherein proper placement of said substrate holder on said receiving surface causes said alignment guide of said substrate holder to activate said actuator causing said movable member to rotate. 15. The position sensor of claim 13 wherein said optical emitter directs said light beam substantially adjacent to substrates in said substrate holder so that displacement of a substrate a predetermined distance out of said substrate holder, causes an edge of said substrate to block the light beam from said optical sensor. 16. The position sensor of claim 13 further comprising a placement indicator responsive to said optical sensor for indicating proper placement of said substrate holder. 17. A position sensor for detecting proper placement of a substrate holder on a receiving surface in a chamber, said position sensor comprising: (a) aligning means for aligning said substrate holder in said chamber, said aligning means comprising a channel in said receiving surface in said chamber, said channel sized to hold an alignment guide of said substrate holder; (b) detecting means for detecting alignment of said substrate holder by said aligning means, said detecting means comprising (i) an optical source for generating a light beam, (ii) an optical sensor and (iii) a light regulator controlled to move between a blocking position when said substrate holder is improperly placed in said chamber and a transmitting position when said substrate holder is properly placed in said chamber; and (c) indicator means responsive to said detecting means for indicating proper placement of said substrate holder. 18. The position sensor of claim 17 wherein said light regulator comprises a movable member with an aperture therein, said movable member having (i) a blocking position in which said aperture is substantially nonaligned with said light beam, and (ii) a transmitting position in which said aperture is substantially aligned with said light beam allowing said light beam to reach said optical sensor. 19. The position sensor of claim 17 wherein said light regulator comprises a movable member having a reflector, said movable member having (i) a blocking position in which said light beam is reflected away from said optical sensor, and (ii) a transmitting position in which said reflector reflects said light beam toward said optical sensor. 20. The position sensor of claim 17 further comprising means for detecting displacement of a substrate in said substrate holder. 21. The position sensor of claim 20, wherein said means for detecting displacement of a substrate comprises an optical emitter positioned to direct said light beam substantially adjacent to said substrates in said substrate holder so that displacement of said substrate a predetermined distance out of said substrate holder causes an edge of said substrate to block said light beam from an optical sensor. 22. A position sensor for ensuring proper placement of a substrate holder on a receiving surface in a chamber, said receiving surface configured to align said substrate holder in said chamber, said position sensor comprising: (a) an optical emitter for emitting a light beam; (b) an optical sensor for detecting said light beam; (c) a light regulator capable of blocking said light beam from said optical sensor; and (d) an actuator for actuating said light regulator, said actuator coupled to said receiving surface of said chamber, and said actuator provided for moving said light regulator between (i) blocking positions that block said light beam when said substrate holder is improperly positioned in said chamber, and (ii) transmitting positions that transmit said light beam to said optical sensor when said substrate holder is properly positioned in said chamber. 23. The position sensor of claim 22 wherein said light regulator comprises a movable member having an aperture therein, and wherein (i) in said blocking position said actuator moves said movable member so that said aperture is substantially nonaligned with said light beam, and (ii) in said transmitting position said actuator moves said movable member so that said aperture is aligned with said light beam allowing said light beam to reach said optical sensor. 24. The position sensor of claim 22 wherein said light regulator comprises a movable reflector, and wherein (i) in said blocking position, said actuator moves said reflector to reflect said light beam away from said optical sensor, and (ii) in the transmitting position, said actuator moves said reflector to reflect said light beam toward said optical sensor. 25. The position sensor of claim 22 wherein said actuator comprises rotatable means coupled to said receiving surface in said chamber, said receiving surface comprising a channel sized to hold an alignment guide of said substrate holder, and wherein proper placement of said substrate holder on said receiving surface causes said alignment guide of said substrate holder to rotate said rotatable means to the transmitting position. 26. The position sensor of claim 22 wherein said optical emitter is positioned to direct said light beam substantially adjacent to said substrates in said substrate holder so that displacement of a substrate a predetermined distance out of said substrate holder, causes an edge of said substrate to block the light beam from said optical sensor. 27. The position sensor of claim 22 further comprising a placement indicator responsive to said optical sensor for indicating proper placement of said substrate holder. 28. The position sensor of claim 26 wherein said optical emitter is mounted in said chamber so that said light beam is directed substantially perpendicular to the peripheral edge of said substrates. 29. The position sensor of claim 26 wherein said optical emitter is positioned so the displacement of said edge of said substrate by a predetermined distance of at least about 0.25 inches out of said substrate holder blocks said light beam from said optical sensor. 30. The position sensor of claim 26 wherein said placement indicator comprises an on-mode and an off-mode, said placement indicator being in said on-mode when said optical sensor senses said beam of light, and in said off-mode when said optical sensor does not sense said beam of light. 31. The position sensor of claim 26 wherein said optical emitter is mounted in said chamber so that said light beam is directed substantially perpendicular to the peripheral edge of said substrates. 32. A method for using an optical system including (i) an optical emitter for emitting a light beam, (ii) an optical sensor for sensing said light beam emitted by said optical emitter, and (iii) a light regulator comprising an aperture or reflector in the path of said light beam, said light regulator actuated to move between a light blocking position and a light transmitting position, thereby detecting proper placement of a substrate holder on a receiving surface in a chamber, the method comprising the steps of placing said substrate holder on said receiving surface of said chamber to activate said light regulator to move between said light blocking position and the light transmitting position. 33. The method of claim 32 further comprising the step of detecting displacement of a substrate in said substrate holder. 34. The method of claim 32 comprising the step of directing said light beam substantially adjacent to said substrates in said substrate holder so that displacement of said substrate in said substrate holder a predetermined distance out of said substrate holder, causes an edge of said substrate to block said light beam from said optical sensor. 35. An apparatus for detecting proper placement of a substrate holder in a chamber, said apparatus comprising: (a) an optical emitter capable of emitting a light beam; (b) an optical sensor capable of sensing said light beam; (c) a light regulator having an aperture or reflector in the path of said light beam, said light regulator capable of moving between a light blocking position and a light transmitting position, to detect proper placement of a substrate holder on a receiving surface in a chamber; and (d) an alignment and actuating means comprising an alignment guide for aligning said substrate holder in said chamber and for moving said light regulator. 36. The position sensor of claim 35, wherein said optical emitter is positioned to direct said light beam substantially adjacent to said substrates in said substrate holder so that displacement of an edge of a substrate in said substrate holder, causes said substrate edge to block said light beam from said optical sensor. 