Method and apparatus for synthesizing biopolymers, such as polypeptides and polynucleotides. The apparatus includes plural reaction vessels in which subunit coupling to biopolymers in a particle suspension is carried out. The vessels are connected to common valving structure for use in mixing the suspension and removing suspension liquid. In one embodiment, a robotic arm in the apparatus is operable to transfer reaction solution to the reaction vessels, and to transfer particle suspensions from the reaction vessels to a mixing vessel and back to the reaction vessels. The method can be used to produce preferably equi-molar amounts of different-sequence biopolymers, such as polypeptides and polynucleotides.
Claims It is claimed: 1. A method for producing substantially equimolar amounts of polynucleotides, comprising the steps of distributing to each of a plurality of reaction vessels, a particle suspension composed of a suspension of solid-phase particles derivatized with particle-bound biopolymer terminal subunits, coupling a selected subunit to the particle-bound terminal subunits in each reaction vessel by successively adding to and removing from the particles in each vessel; (a) a reaction solution containing a selected subunit in a form effective to couple the subunit to the deprotected end groups, and (b) a suspension solution in which the particles are suspended, withdrawing from each vessel a suspension of the particles, mixing the withdrawn suspensions to form a new particle suspension mixture, and repeating said distributing, coupling, withdrawing, and mixing steps, wherein said terminal subunits bound to the particles are 5'-OH protected 5'-end terminal nucleotides, and said selected subunit added to each reaction vessel is an phosphoramidite-activated nucleotide protected at its 5'-OH group. 2. A method for use in synthesizing substantially equimolar amounts of oligonucleotides having different codons at one or more selected codon positions, comprising the steps of forming a particle-suspension mixture composed of a suspension of solid-phase particles derivatized with different terminal particle-bound biopolymer subunits, distributing the mixture into a plurality of separate reaction vessels, coupling different selected subunit to the particle-bound terminal subunits in each reaction vessel, mixing the suspensions in the plural reaction vessels to form a new particle suspension mixture composed of a suspension of solid-phase particles derivatized with different terminal particle-bound biopolymer subunits, and repeating said distributing, coupling, and mixing steps for each subunit position at which different selected subunits are desired, wherein said particle suspension mixture which is distributed into the plural reaction vessels contains substantially equimolar amounts of a derivatized nucleotide subunit. 3. The method of claim 2, for use in synthesizing polynucleotides with random coding sequences, wherein each subunit is a nucleotide or oligonucleotide, and said repeating is effective to produce polynucleotides containing at least about six codons. 4. The method of claim 3, for use in producing a coding sequence which encodes a polypeptide having a selected binding activity to a receptor, which further includes (a) inserting the synthesized polynucleotides into an expression vector, (b) expressing the polynucleotide sequences in a suitable expression system, (c) screening for expression products of the vectors for the selected binding activity, and (d) isolating a vector shows expression product has the desired binding activity. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the vector is a phage lambda vector, the polynucleotides are inserted into the coding sequence of a phage structural-protein gene, and said screening includes screening phage for binding to the receptor. 