A cartridge for containing mail. The cartridge is specially adapted for use in a method and apparatus for automatically stacking mail into cartridges in output compartments of a sorting machine, robotically transferring filled cartridges from the output compartments to a buffer shelf; and from the buffer shelf to a docking station of a cartridge unloader and automatic feeder to the input of the sorting machine, and for transferring empty cartridges from the docking station to either the buffer or the output compartments of the sorter, is provided.
Claims We claim: 1. A cartridge for holding a stack of flat articles, comprising: a container having a bottom, sidewalls, a back wall and an open front; a gate pivotally mounted to the sidewalls of said container, said gate pivotal between a first position for blocking the open front of said container to a second position to allow access to said container; and a longitudinally slidable stack support mounted to the bottom of said container along an axis perpendicular to the plane of said gate for supporting the back of a stack of flat articles during loading or unloading of the flat articles into or from the container. 2. A cartridge for holding a stack of flat articles, comprising: a container having a bottom, a sidewall, a back wall and an open front; a hold bar pivotally attached to the container for positioning against the stack of flat articles; a gate pivotally mounted to the sidewalls of said container, said gate pivotal between a first position for blocking the open front of said container to a second position to allow access to said container, said gate having an opening to permit entrance of the hold bar through said gate when in a closed position; and a longitudinally slidable stack support mounted to the bottom of said container for supporting the back of a stack of flat articles in the container. 3. A cartridge for holding a stack of flat articles, comprising: a container having a bottom, a sidewall, a back wall and an open front; a gate pivotally mounted to the sidewalls of said container, said gate pivotal between a first position for blocking the open front of said container to a second position to allow access to said container; a longitudinally slidable stack support mounted to the bottom of said container for supporting the back of a stack of flat articles in the container; a lock mounted to said container for selectively securing the position of said stack support in said container; and an externally actuable cam for disengaging said lock when positioning the container in a receiving dock and engaging said lock when removing the container from the receiving dock. 4. A cartridge for holding a stack of flat articles, comprising: a container having a bottom, a sidewall, a back wall and an open front; a gate pivotally mounted to the sidewalls of said container, said gate pivotal between a first position for blocking the open front of said container to a second position to allow access to said container; said gate including a cam follower for actuating said gate between an open and closed position by means of relative movement of said container between a fixed external cam on a receiving dock and said cam follower; and a longitudinally slidable stack support mounted to the bottom of said container for supporting the back of a stack of flat articles in the container. 5. A cartridge for holding a stack of flat articles as set forth in claim 2 wherein the opening in said gate comprises notches at the bottom of said gate. 6. A cartridge for holding a stack of flat articles as set forth in claim 1, further comprising means for resiliently urging said longitudinally slidable stack support against a stack of articles in said container. 7. A cartridge for holding a stack of flat articles as set forth in claim 1, further including a cam attached to said stack support, said cam actuating an external sensor to enable the determination of the position of said stack support in the container. 8. A cartridge for holding a stack of articles as set forth in claim 3, wherein said lock includes: a brake carriage having a brake member, and a supporting rod mounted to the bottom of said container and supporting said brake carriage, said supporting rod resiliently mounted to permit sideways motion thereof, thereby enabling sideways motion of said brake carriage. 9. A cartridge for holding a stack of flat articles as set forth in claim 4, wherein said cam follower includes a first cam and a second cam, said first cam positioned to open said gate to a first position and the second cam positioned to open said gate to a fully open position. 10. A cartridge for holding a stack of flat articles as set forth in claim 1, including means for latching said gate in a position to block the open front of said container. 