The work cell is divided into a plurality of calibration zones, and calibration is made with only one measured point in each zone. The calibration zones are set up such that the calibration error in each zone remains within an acceptable tolerance. Within each zone, calibration is preferably made according to a linear calibration algorithm. The method according to the invention includes the steps of storing a first database, of the coordinates of all the tube openings in the tube sheet coordinate system. Each coordinate of the first database is assigned to one of a plurality of calibration zones.
Claims We claim: 1. In a heat exchanger while out of service, having a substantially planar tube sheet which defines a multiplicity of laterally spaced tube openings each of which is centered at a coordinate on a tube sheet coordinate system having an origin on the tube sheet, and a robot under the automatic control of a computer and optionally under the remote manual control of an operator, the robot having a base fixed with respect to the tube sheet, an articulated arm for moving parallel to said tube sheet, and an end effector carried by the arm for sequential positioning in a robot coordinate system which is offset from the tube sheet coordinate system, to register sequentially with a plurality of selected tube openings, a method for calibrating the movement of the arm to account for environmental irregularity errors and robot translation and rotation errors comprising: (a) storing a database of the coordinates of all the tube openings in the tube sheet coordinate system; (b) assigning each coordinate of the database, to one of a plurality of calibration zones; (c) from measurements taken at a single tube opening in each of the plurality of calibration zones, converting said environment irregularity errors and robot translation and rotation errors into an equivalent robot coordinate offset which is unique to and remains constant within each calibration zone. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the calibration is performed at one opening in a first zone, the robot moves the tool according to kinematics equations recalculated according to said equivalent coordinate offset, for registry with and servicing of a plurality of other tube openings in said first zone, without recalibration, and the robot moves the tool to a second zone and is recalibrated at a second opening, in said second zone, and the robot moves the tool according to the recalibrated kinematics equations for registry with and servicing of a plurality of other tube openings in said second zone, without recalibration. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said single tube opening is a reference opening which has visually observable indicia thereat, uniquely identifying the position coordinates of the reference opening. 4. In a heat exchanger while out of service, having a substantially planar tube sheet which defines a multiplicity of laterally spaced tube openings each of which is centered at a coordinate on a tube sheet coordinate system and a robot under the automatic control of a computer and optionally under the remote manual control of an operator, the robot having a base fixed with respect to the tube sheet, an articulated arm for moving parallel to said tube sheet, and an end effector carried by the arm for sequential positioning in a robot coordinate system which is offset from the tube sheet coordinate system, to register sequentially with a plurality of selected tube openings, a method for controlling the movement of the arm comprising: (a) storing a first database, of the coordinates of all the tube openings in the tube sheet coordinate system; (b) assigning each coordinate of the first database, to one a plurality of calibration zones; (c) determining the position of the end effector in the tube sheet coordinate system; (d) selecting the coordinate in the tube sheet coordinate system, of a first target tube opening, to which the end effector will be repositioned by movement of the arm; (e) moving the arm automatically to reposition the end effector at the selected tube end according to a robot kinematics equation which quantitatively relates the tube sheet coordinate system to the robot coordinate system; (f) determining whether the end effector as repositioned in step (e) is deviated from direct registry with the first target tube opening; (g) if a deviation is determined in step (f), moving the arm differentially to move the end effector until the deviation is reduced within an acceptable tolerance; (h) measuring the differential movement of the end effector in step (g); (i) selecting the coordinate of a second target tube opening in the same calibration zone as the first target tube opening; (j) moving the arm automatically to reposition the end effector at the second selected tube opening according to a recalibrated robot kinematics equation which quantitatively relates the tube sheet coordinate system to the robot coordinate system as further offset by the differential movement measured in step (h). 5. The method of claim 4, wherein steps (e) through (j) are repeated in each of a plurality of calibration zones. 6. The method of claim 4, wherein the tube sheet coordinate system has an origin O and is orthogonal along axes X, Y; the robot coordinate system is orthogonal along axes X', Y', which are centered at original O' located at tube sheet coordinates (X.sub.o, y.sub.o), the kinematics equations of step (e) are the recalibrated kinematics equations of step (j) are L1, L2, L3, are the respective lengths of a robot arm having three links which make respective angles A1, A2, A3; x.sub.t, y.sub.t are the coordinates of the target opening in the tube sheet system before calibration; x.sub.c, y.sub.c are the coordinates of the target opening in the tube sheet system after calibration; and .DELTA.x.sub.m, .DELTA.y.sub.m are the differentials measured in step (h). 7. The method of claim 4, wherein the step (g) is performed by manually jogging a control device located outside the steam generator. 8. The method of claim 4, wherein the step (f) of determining the deviation, is performed at least in part by a multisensory system carried by the end effector. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein step (f) includes measuring one of force or torque imposed on the end effector resulting from actuating the entry of the tool into an opening. 10. The method of claim 4, wherein the calibration is performed at one opening in a first zone, the robot moves the tool according to the recalibrated kinematics equations for registry with and servicing of a plurality of other tube openings in said first zone, without recalibration, and the robot moves the tool to a second zone and is recalibrated at a second opening, in said second zone, and the robot moves the tool according to the recalibrated kinematics equations for registry with and servicing of a plurality of other tube openings in said second zone, without recalibration. 11. The method of claim 6, wherein the calibration is performed at one opening in a first zone, the robot moves the tool according to the recalibrated kinematics equations for registry with and servicing of a plurality of other tube openings in said first zone, without recalibration, and the robot moves the tool to a second zone and is recalibrated at a second opening, in said second zone, and the robot moves the tool according to the recalibrated kinematics equations for registry with and servicing of a plurality of other tube openings in said second zone, without recalibration. 12. The method of claim 4, wherein the first target tube opening is a reference opening which has visually observable indicia thereat, uniquely identifying the position coordinates of the reference opening. 13. The method of claim 6, wherein the first target tube opening is a reference opening which has visually observable indicia thereat, uniquely identifying the position coordinates of the reference opening. 