A robust control apparatus for controlling an object corresponding to a robust control theory. A control model generating unit generates an object to be controlled, such as a dynamics model of a robot. In this model, both an error in each of the true values of coefficient matrices and noise are considered. When a corrected partial input of a selective partial input is considered, the generated dynamics model can be treated as a standard probability system model. When the partial input is optimized corresponding to the robust quadratic optimizing criterion, an optimized partial input can be obtained. The object is controlled corresponding to the optimized partial input and the output of the control model generating unit. Thus, in consideration of both the modeling error and the influence of the random disturbances, the robust quadratic optimization can be performed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robust control apparatus corresponding to a robust control theory that is a control theory for permitting the use of an imperfect model, comprising: control model generating means for generating a dynamics model of an object to be controlled in consideration of inaccuracies of coefficient matrices and random disturbances; partial input optimizing means for optimizing a selective partial input of a control input of the dynamics model corresponding to the state of the object and a robust quadratic optimizing criterion; and control signal generating means for generating a control signal for the object corresponding to outputs of said control model generating means and said partial input optimizing means. 2. The robust control apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said partial input optimizing means is means for optimizing a selective partial input corresponding to the robust quadratic optimizing criterion that is a control criterion for accomplishing a first control scheme for decreasing the sum of the square of the selective partial input and the square of a tracking error, and a second control scheme for decreasing the quotient of which the sum of the square of the selective partial input and the square of the tracking error is divided by the square of a modeling error. 3. The robust control apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said partial input optimizing means is means corresponding to the object control criterion that is a criterion representing that a value including the quotient of which the sum of the square of the selective partial input and the square of the tracking error is divided by the square of a modeling error should be equal to or less than the square of a parameter .gamma. defining a robust level. 4. The robust control apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said partial input optimizing means is means corresponding to a stability condition that depends on a parameter .gamma. defining a robust level as a stability condition of a control system including said robust control apparatus. 5. The robust control apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising: first storing means for storing nominal value of a coefficient matrices of a dynamics model generated by said control model generating means. 6. The robust control apparatus according to claim 5, further comprising: second storing means for storing user designated parameters that are a desired track of the object, a parameter .gamma. for restricting a modeling error and defining a robust level, a weighting matrix Q to a tracking error in the control criterion, and a weighting matrix R to a partial input in the control criterion. 7. The robust control apparatus according to claim 6, further comprising: user designated parameter input means for receiving the user designated parameters from a user and storing them in said second storing means. 8. The robust control apparatus according to claim 6, further comprising: third storing means for storing a robust quadratic optimizing input function as the robust quadratic optimizing criterion, wherein said partial input optimizing means is means for optimizing the selective partial input according to the state of the object to be input through a sensor and the contents stored in said second storing means and said third storing means. 9. The robust control apparatus according to claim 6, wherein said control signal generating means is means for outputting a control signal to an actuator that generates a control torque for the object according to the output of said partial input optimizing means and the contents stored in said first storing means and said second storing means. 10. The robust control apparatus according to claim 9, wherein said control signal generating means includes the optimized selective partial input at the actuator, and outputs a control signal for generating a standard control torque for a (dynamic) stochastic control system. 11. The robust control apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the object is a multi-joint robot with n joints. 12. The robust control apparatus according to claim 11, wherein the coefficient matrices of the dynamics model of the robot are composed of an inertia matrix with a dimension of n.times.n, a matrix with a dimension of n.times.n for defining the influences of Coriolis and centrifugal force, and a column matrix with a dimension of n.times.1 for defining the influence of gravity. 13. The robust control apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said random disturbances are normal white noise. 14. A robust control method for controlling an object according to a robust control theory, including the steps of: determining a dynamics model of the object in consideration of both an error between a nominal value of a factor of the dynamics model and a true value thereof, and disturbances that affect the control of the object; optimizing a selective partial input of a control input for the dynamics model using a robust quadratic optimizing criterion; and generating a control signal for controlling the object according to the dynamics model and the optimized selective partial input. 15. The robust control method according to claim 14, wherein the optimizing step is performed by minimizing the sum of the square of the selective partial input and the square of a tracking error of the object, and minimizing the quotient of which the sum of the square of the selective partial input and the square of the tracking error is divided by the square of a modeling error. 16. The robust control method according to claim 14, wherein the optimizing step is performed by keeping the quotient of which the sum of the square of the selective partial input and the square of the tracking error of the object is divided by the square of a modeling error, to a predetermined value or less. 17. The robust control method according to claim 14, wherein the optimizing step includes determining a stability condition of the object according to a parameter that defines a robust level. 18. The robust control method according to claim 14, further including a step of: storing nominal values of coefficient matrices of the dynamics model in storing means. 19. The robust control method according to claim 18, further including a step of: storing a parameter for defining a target track of the object, a parameter for restricting a modeling error of the dynamics model, a parameter for representing a weighting matrix to a tracking error of the track of the object, and a parameter for representing a weighting matrix of the selective partial input as user designated parameters. 20. The robust control method according to claim 19, further including a step of: receiving the user designated parameters from the user and storing them in storing means. 21. The robust control method according to claim 19, further including a step of: storing a robust quadratic optimizing input function as the robust quadratic optimizing criterion in storing means, wherein said optimizing step is performed according to the state of the object input through a sensor, the nominal values of the coefficient matrices of the dynamics model, and the user designated parameters. 22. The robust control method according to claim 19, further including a step of: generating a control signal for an actuator that generates a control torque for the object, according to the optimized partial selective input, the nominal values of the coefficient matrices of the dynamics model, and the user designated parameters. 23. The robust control method according to claim 14, further including a step of: generating a control signal for generating a standard control torque in a (dynamic) stochastic control system for an actuator that generates a control torque for the object according to an optimized partial selective input. 24. The robust control method according to claim 14, wherein the object is a multi-joint robot with n joints. 25. The robust control method according to claim 24, wherein the coefficient matrices of the dynamics model of the robot include an inertia matrix with a dimension of n.times.n, a vector with a dimension of n for defining the influences of Coriolis and centrifugal force, and a vector with a dimension of n for defining the influence of gravity. 26. The robust control method according to claim 14, wherein the disturbances are normal white noise. 27. A robust control system for controlling an object according to a robust control theory, comprising the object and a control device comprising: control model generating means for determining a dynamics model of the object in consideration of an error between a nominal value of a factor of the dynamics model and a true value thereof; partial input optimizing means for optimizing a selective partial input of a control input for the dynamics model using a robust optimizing criterion; and control signal generating means for generating a control signal for controlling the object according to the dynamics model and the optimized selective partial input. 