A rotary clamp having a common plane mounting arrangement that provides a first planar surface for mounting the rotary clamp to a support member and a second planar surface for mounting a workpiece engaging means to the rotary clamp wherein the first and second planar surfaces lie in a common plane for simplifying the set up procedure of the rotary clamp. The first planar surface is formed on a housing of the rotary clamp, and the second planar surface is formed on a pivot pin of the rotary clamp. The first and second planar surfaces are spaced from one another to provide proper relief so that the workpiece engaging means may freely rotate without interference from the second planar surface. The pivot pin provides a large end portion seated within a recess of the housing that remains externally accessible with respect to the housing. A bearing means is provided for rotatably supporting the pivot pin end portion within the recess and for longitudinally supporting the pivot pin end portion against thrust forces along the longitudinal axis of the recess. The enlarged pivot pin end portion and bearing means provide added stability and durability. By being externally accessible with respect to the housing, the bearing means may be inspected and/or replaced without the need for disassembling the rotary clamp.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A rotary clamp supported by a supporting member and having a common plane mounting arrangement comprising: first means for mounting said rotary clamp to said supporting member including a first planar surface on said rotary clamp; means for engaging a workpiece; second means for mounting said workpiece engaging means to said rotary clamp including a second planar surface on said rotary clamp coplanar with said first planar surface for simplifying the set up procedure of said rotary clamp; and recess means, located between said first planar surface and said second planar surface of said rotary clamp, for spacing said first planar surface from said second planar surface. 2. The rotary clamp stated in claim 1, wherein said first mounting means comprises: said rotary clamp having a housing with said first planar surface formed thereon; and said housing having at least one aperture extending through said first planar surface for receiving at least one fastener for connecting said supporting member to said rotary clamp. 3. The rotary clamp stated in claim 1 wherein said workpiece engaging means comprises a clamp arm. 4. The rotary clamp stated in claim 1, wherein said second mounting means comprises: said rotary clamp having a pivot pin with said second planar surface formed thereon, and said pivot pin having at least one aperture extending through said second planar surface for receiving at least one fastener for coupling said workpiece engaging means to said pivot pin. 5. The rotary clamp stated in claim 1, wherein said first planar surface is spaced from said second planar surface. 6. A rotary clamp supported by a supporting member and having a common plane mounting arrangement comprising: a housing having a first planar surface for mounting said supporting member thereto and a recessed portion recessed relative to said first planar surface; a pivot pin partially disposed within said recessed portion of said housing, and said pivot pin having a second planar surface extending outwardly beyond said recessed portion wherein said second planar surface is coplanar with said first planar surface wherein said recessed portion lies between said first planar surface and said second planar surface; means, disposed within said housing, for providing rotary motion to said pivot pin; and means for engaging a workpiece wherein said workpiece engaging means is mounted to said second planar surface of said pivot pin for simplifying the set up procedure of said rotary clamp. 7. The rotary clamp stated in claim 6 wherein said first planar surface is spaced from said second planar surface. 8. The rotary clamp stated in claim 6, wherein said rotary motion providing means comprises: means for providing linear motion; and means for converting linear motion from said linear motion providing means into rotary motion of said pivot pin. 9. The rotary clamp stated in claim 6, further comprising: said housing having a longitudinal axis and an aperture extending through said housing along a transverse axis transverse to said longitudinal axis, and said housing having a cylindrical recess coaxially aligned with said aperture; bearing means, disposed within said recess, for movably supporting said pivot pin within said recess; said pivot pin having a body portion coupled to said rotary motion providing means within said housing and extending through said aperture of said housing into said recess of said housing; and said pivot pin having an end portion larger than and extending from said body portion of said pivot pin and disposed within said recess and externally accessible with respect to said housing. 10. The rotary clamp stated in claim 9, wherein said bearing means further comprises providing rotational support to said larger end portion of said pivot pin for rotational movement about said transverse axis. 11. The rotary clamp stated in claim 9, wherein said bearing means further comprises providing longitudinal thrust support to said larger end portion of said pivot pin along said transverse axis. 12. The rotary clamp stated in claim 8, wherein said means for providing linear motion comprises: a cylinder connected to said housing; a piston slidably disposed within said cylinder; a piston rod connected to said piston and projecting from said cylinder, and said housing having an elongated guide slot having a longitudinal axis for receiving said piston rod; and a rod end connected to said piston rod and slidably guided and received by said guide slot in said housing for providing linear movement. 13. The rotary clamp stated in claim 8, wherein said converting means comprises: a linkage member having one end pivotally connected to said linear motion providing means; and a lever arm connected to said pivot pin and having the other end of said linkage member pivotally connected to said lever arm. 14. A rotary clamp supported by a supporting member and having a common plane mounting arrangement comprising: housing having a first planar surface for mounting said supporting member and an outer wall recessed relative to said first planar surface, and said housing having a longitudinal axis and an aperture extending through said housing along a transverse axis transverse to and offset from said longitudinal axis and having a cylindrical recess coaxially aligned with said aperture and extending outwardly through said outer wall; a pivot pin disposed within said housing and having a body portion extending through said aperture and into said cylindrical recess of said housing; means, disposed within said housing, for providing rotational movement to said pivot pin; a bearing disposed along said inside diameter of said recess of said housing; said pivot pin having a larger end portion coupled to said body portion of said pivot pin and disposed concentrically within said bearing and said recess of said housing, and said end portion of said pivot pin having a cylindrical bearing surface for rotational engagement with said bearing, and a flange integral with and extending radially from said end portion of said pivot pin wherein said flange abuts a top surface of said bearing to support said end portion of said pivot pin from thrust forces along said transverse axis, and said larger end portion of said pivot pin having a second planar surface coplanar with said first planar surface wherein said outer wall of said housing lies between said first planar surface and said second planar surface; and a clamp arm connected to said second planar surface of said pivot pin. 15. The rotary clamp stated in claim 14, further comprising: said housing having a first planar surface for connecting said supporting member thereto; and said end portion of said pivot pin having a second planar surface wherein said clamp arm is connected thereto, and said second planar surface lying in a common plane with said first planar surface for simplifying the set up procedure of said clamp arm. 16. The rotary clamp stated in claim 15, further comprising said first planar surface spaced from said second planar surface. 17. The rotary clamp stated in claim 14, wherein said rotational movement providing means comprises: means for providing linear motion; and means for converting linear motion from said linear motion providing means into rotary motion of said pivot pin. 18. The rotary clamp stated in claim 17, wherein said means for providing linear motion comprises: a cylinder connected to said housing; a piston slidably disposed within said cylinder; a piston rod connected to said piston and projecting from said cylinder, and said housing having an elongated guide slot having a longitudinal axis for receiving said piston; and a rod end connected to said piston rod for linear movement, and said rod end slidably guided and received by said guide slot in said housing. 19. The rotary clamp stated in claim 17, wherein said converting means comprises: a linkage member having one end pivotally connected to said linear motion providing means; and a lever arm integral with and extending from said pivot pin and having the other end of said linkage member pivotally connected to said lever arm. 20. The rotary clamp stated in claim 14, wherein said bearing comprises a solid composite material softer than said end portion of said pivot pin so that said bearing wears in lieu of said end portion of said pivot pin. 21. A rotary clamp supported by a supporting member and having a common plane mounting arrangement comprising: a bifurcated enclosed housing having a longitudinal axis wherein each half of said housing is substantially similar and substantially symmetrical relative to said longitudinal axis wherein each half of said housing comprises: a first planar surface for mounting said supporting member thereto; said housing having an outer wall recessed from said first planar surface and an aperture extending therethrough along a transverse axis transverse of and offset from said longitudinal axis and having a cylindrical recess larger than and coaxially aligned with said aperture and externally accessible with respect to said housing; a pivot pin having a cylindrical body portion disposed within said housing and extending through said aperture into said recess; said pivot pin having a cylindrical end portion larger than and connected to said body portion of said pivot pin, and said end portion concentrically disposed within said recess wherein said end portion of said pivot pin remains externally accessible with respect to said housing; bearing support means, disposed concentrically within said recess, for rotationally and longitudinally supporting said end portion of said pivot pin about and along, respectively, said transverse axis; said end portion of said pivot pin having a second planar surface coplanar with said first planar surface wherein said outer recessed wall lies between said first planar surface and said second planar surface for simplifying the set up procedure of said rotary clamp; and a clamp arm connected to said second planar surface of said end portion of said pivot pin; and means, disposed within said housing, for providing rotational movement to said pivot pin. 22. The rotary clamp stated in claim 21, further comprising said first planar surface spaced from said second planar surface. 23. The rotary clamp stated in claim 19, further comprising: said bearing fabricated from a composite material; and said bearing surface fabricated from a metallic material having harder and stronger material characteristics than said composite material. 