The subject invention provides a parallel or closed loop mechanism for moving and positioning a member in space. The mechanism includes three branches each provided with at least two link members being serially connected together by a spherical elbow joint whereby the first and second link members are rotatable with respect to each other about any axis passing through a center of the first joint. The mechanism is provided with actuators for moving each branch and the first links of each branch are rigidly connected at an end portion thereof to the actuator means. The mechanism includes three revolute joints each defining a longitudinal axis of rotation. Each revolute joint is connected to an associated second link member so that the longitudinal axes of all third joints intersect at a point and the revolute joints are interconnected so that the three branches form three parallel or closed loops.
Claims Therefore what is claimed is: 1. A three degree of freedom mechanism for moving and positioning a member in space, comprising: a) at least three branches each provided with at least first and second link members, each of said first and second link members of each of said at least three branches being serially connected together by a spherical joint means, each spherical joint means having a center; and b) at least three revolute joints each defining an axis of rotation, said at least three revolute joints being connected to associated second link members so that said axes of rotation of said at least three revolute joints intersect at a point of intersection and said revolute joints being interconnected so that said at least three branches define at least three parallel closed loops. 2. The mechanism according to claim 1 wherein the distance from said point of intersection to each spherical joint means remains constant during movement of said at least three branches. 3. The mechanism according to claim 2 wherein said distance from said point of intersection to each spherical joint means is substantially equal. 4. The mechanism according to claim 3 wherein said spherical joint means define a plane of symmetry. 5. The mechanism according to claim 1 including sensor means for measuring the position of each of said at least three branches. 6. The mechanism according to claim 5 including manually engageable means connected to said point of intersection. 7. The mechanism according to claim 1 including stationary actuator means mounted on a base and operably connected for moving said at least three branches. 8. The mechanism according to claim 7 wherein said actuator means includes a separate actuator for each of said at least three branches, said first link member of each of said at least three branches being connected at an end portion thereof to one of said separate actuators. 9. The mechanism according to claim 8 wherein each of said spherical joint means serially connecting said first link member to said second link member is a ball and socket joint. 10. The mechanism according to claim 8 wherein each of said spherical joint means serially connecting said first link member to said second link member comprises three revolute joints connected in series with intersecting but non-parallel axes. 11. The mechanism according to claim 8 wherein each of said separate actuators is a rotary actuator and each of said first and second link members are substantially equal in length, each of said at least three joints being a revolute joint having a third link member extending along said axis of rotation and wherein said third link members are arranged in a mirror image of said connections of said first link members to said rotary actuators. 12. The mechanism according to claim 1 wherein said at least three joints is an even number of revolute joints equal to twice the number of branches with each second link member having an end portion thereof attached to a first number of said revolute joints, and a second number of said revolute joints being located in alternating relationship substantially between said first number of revolute joints and attached thereto by third link members, each revolute joint having an axis of rotation and said axes of rotation intersecting at said point of intersection. 13. The mechanism according to claim 12 including sensor means for measuring the position of each of said at least three branches. 14. The mechanism according to claim 13 including actuator means operably connected for moving each of said at least three branches. 15. The mechanism according to claim 13 wherein each said spherical joint means serially connecting said first link member to said second link member is a ball and socket joint. 16. The mechanism according to claim 13 wherein each of said spherical joint means serially connecting said first link member to said second link member comprises three revolute joints connected in series with intersecting but non-parallel axes. 17. The mechanism according to claim 12 including manually engageable means connected to one of said revolute joints. 18. A three degree of freedom mechanism for moving and positioning a member in space, comprising: a) at least three branches each provided with at least first and second link members being serially connected together by a spherical joint; b) at least three revolute joints each defining an axis of rotation, said at least three revolute joints being connected to associated second link members so that said axes of rotation of said at least three revolute joints intersect at a point of intersection, wherein the distance from said point of intersection to each spherical joint remains constant during movement of said at least three branches, said revolute joints being interconnected so that said at least three branches define at least three parallel closed loops; c) said at least three joints being an even number of revolute joints equal to twice the number of branches with each second link member having an end portion thereof attached to a first number of said at least three revolute joints, and a second number of said revolute joints being located in alternating relationship substantially between said first number of revolute joints and attached thereto by third link members, each of said second number of revolute joints having an axis of rotation and said axes of rotation intersecting at said point of intersection; and d) actuator means secured on a base and operably connected for moving each of said at least three branches. 19. The mechanism according to claim 18 wherein said actuator means includes a separate actuator for each of said at least three branches, said first link member of each branch being connected at an end portion thereof to one of said separate actuators. 20. The mechanism according to claim 19 wherein each of said actuators includes sensor means for measuring the position of each of said at least three branches. 21. The mechanism according to claim 20 including a computer connected to said sensor means. 22. The mechanism according to claim 19 including manually engageable means connected to said point of intersection. 23. The mechanism according to claim 19 including manually engageable means connected to one of said revolute joints. 