A drive train for transmitting torque produced by a motor to a load comprises a planetary gear arrangement mounted concentrically with respect to a tubular shaft. The planetary gear arrangement cooperates with a pair of driven gears which are also coaxial with the tubular shaft, the planetary gear arrangement and the pair of gears being located within an outer housing. The tubular shaft provides an unobstructed, large diameter passage through the drive train, the passage being available for the routing to a load connected to one of the driven gears of movable shafts, conduits or electrical conductors.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for transmitting a rotational motion from a drive shaft of a servo motor to a load, said apparatus comprising: a tubular shaft having an axis and at least in part defining an open ended, linear passage extending entirely through said apparatus for establishing a fluidic, mechanical or electrical communication with the load; planetary gear means being disposed generally concentrically with respect to said tubular shaft, said planetary gear means including: a planet carrier mounted for rotation about said tubular shaft; a plurality of planet wheels supported on said carrier; coupling means for coupling the drive shaft to said planetary gear means to cause rotation of said carrier and planet wheels; housing defining means extending at least partly around said planetary gear means whereby said planetary gear means is disposed between said housing defining means and said tubular shaft, said housing defining means being stationary relative to the servo motor; a first internal gear fixed to said housing defining means, said first internal gear being coaxial with said tubular shaft and being engaged by said plural planet wheels; and a second internal gear disposed axially behind the first internal gear between said housing defining means and said tubular shaft, said second internal gear being coaxial with said tubular shaft and being engaged and driven by said planet wheels and driving said load. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said tubular shaft is connected with said second internal gear. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said tubular shaft is connected with said housing defining means. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said drive shaft is a hollow shaft. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein said planet wheels are in direct engagement with said drive shaft. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said planet carrier is provided with a coupling gear which is in direct engagement with said drive shaft. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the servo motor is a ring-shaped motor disposed coaxially around said tubular shaft. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said servo motor is disposed within said housing defining means. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said servo motor is mounted on the exterior of said housing defining means. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising resolver means for providing output signals commensurate with the orientation and rotational speed of the load. 11. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said servo motor is provided with brake means selectively preventing rotation of said planetary gear means. 12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein said brake means provides a braking moment which exceeds the rated moment of said servo motor. 13. The apparatus of claim 11 further comprising axially and radially acting bearing means for supporting said second internal gear from said stationary housing defining means, and wherein said second internal gear rotates about said tubular shaft. 14. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: means supporting said housing defining means for rotation about a second axis which is angularly oriented with respect to the axis of said tubular shaft; and means for selectively causing rotation of said housing defining means about said second axis. 15. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the hollow shaft takes up a ball roller spindle, said second internal gear acting as a spindle nut for the ball roller spindle to provide a ball roller spindle drive. 16. Apparatus for use with a rotatable drive shaft of the type having a drive shaft gear affixed thereto, said apparatus imparting motion to a load during rotation of the drive shaft while simultaneously permitting the establishment of fluidic, mechanical or electrical communication with the load, said apparatus comprising: a tubular shaft having an axis and at least in part defining an open-ended, linear passage extending entirely through said apparatus; planetary gear means, said planetary gear means being disposed generally concentrically with respect to said tubular shaft, said planetary gear means including: a planet carrier which is in direct driving engagement with the drive shaft gear, said planet carrier being mounted for rotation about said tubular shaft; a plurality of non-coaxial planet wheels supported on said carrier; and coupling means for coupling the drive shaft to said carrier to cause rotation of said carrier planet wheels, said coupling means including a coupling gear which is in direct meshing engagement with the drive shaft gear, said coupling means not being in meshing engagement with said planet gears; stationary housing defining means extending at least partly around said planetary gear means whereby said planetary gear means is disposed between said housing defining means and said tubular shaft; a first internal gear fixed to said housing defining means, said first internal gear being coaxial with said tubular shaft and being engaged by each of said plural planet wheels; a second internal gear disposed between said housing defining means and said tubular shaft, said second internal gear being coaxial with said tubular shaft and being engaged and driven by each of said plural planet wheels; and means for connecting a load to said second gear. 17. Apparatus for use with a rotatable drive shaft of the type having a drive shaft gear affixed thereto, said apparatus imparting motion to a load during rotation of the drive shaft while simultaneously permitting the establishment of fluidic, mechanical or electrical communication with the load, said apparatus comprising: a tubular shaft having an axis and at least in part defining an open-ended linear passage extending entirely through said apparatus; planetary gear means, said planetary gear means being disposed generally concentrically with respect to said tubular shaft, said planetary gear means including: a planet carrier which is in direct driving engagement with the drive shaft gear, said planet carrier being mounted for rotation about said tubular shaft; and a plurality of planet wheels supported on said carrier, said planet wheels being in direct meshing engagement with the drive shaft gear to thereby cause rotation of said carrier and planet wheels during rotation of the drive shaft; stationary housing defining means extending at least partly around said planetary gear means whereby said planetary gear means is disposed between said housing defining means and said tubular shaft; a first internal gear fixed to said housing defining means, said first internal gear being coaxial with said tubular shaft and being engaged by said plural planet wheels; and a second internal gear disposed between said housing defining means and said tubular shaft, said second internal gear being coaxial with said tubular shaft and being engaged and driven by said planet wheels; and means for connecting a load to said second internal gear. 18. Apparatus for transmitting a rotational motion from a drive shaft to a load, said apparatus comprising: a tubular shaft having an axis and defining an open ended passage extending therethrough for establishing a fluidic, mechanical or electrical communication with the load; planetary gear means being disposed generally concentrically with respect to said tubular shaft, said planetary gear means comprising a five wheeled helical planetary gear means and including: a planet carrier mounted for rotation about said tubular shaft; five planet wheels supported on said carrier; coupling means for coupling the drive shaft to said planetary gear means to cause rotation of said carrier and planet wheels; housing defining means extending at least partly around said planetary gear means whereby said planetary gear means is disposed between said housing defining means and said tubular shaft; a first internal gear fixed to said housing defining means, said first internal gear being coaxial with said tubular shaft and being engaged by said plural planet wheels; and a second internal gear disposed axially behind the first internal gear between said housing defining means and said tubular shaft, said second internal gear being coaxial with said tubular shaft and being engaged and driven by said planet wheels and driving said load. 