A method and apparatus for making wire harness. The apparatus includes the use of a sequential wire processor that serially and sequentially fabricates circuits having terminal ends. The terminated circuits are transferred by a transfer means to an upstanding carousel provided with arrays of circuit-receiving clips. The transfer means receives terminated circuits from the sequential wire processor and places them on the clips of the carousel. The carousel is then moved to an assembly line and robotic station where robots remove the circuits from the clips of the carousel and place the terminated ends of the circuits in cavities of connectors strategically located on the assembly line. The robots have end effectors that physically insert the terminal ends into the connector cavities.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for making wire harness, comprising: a sequential wire processor for fabricating single wire circuits of finite lengths and opposed ends, and for providing at least one of each of said opposed ends with crimped terminals for subsequent insertion into connector cavities, a computer and software interfaced with the wire processor for controlling its circuit making and terminal crimping functions, a multi-sided carousel, means for transferring the circuits from said wire processor to the sides of said carousel, said transfer means including jaws that orient the crimped terminals for disposing said crimped terminals into clips provided on the sides of the carousel, said clips maintaining the orientation of the terminals provided by the transfer means, said computer being interfaced with components of the transfer means and carousel for controlling the transfer of the circuits from the transfer means to the carousel, and for controlling the carousel and clips in a manner that substantially fills the sides and clips of the carousel with circuits, and means permitting movement of the carousel from the transfer means to an inspection station, and from said station to a robotic station, said robotic station having two robots with respective end effectors for removing the circuits from the carousel and for transporting said circuits to a formboard containing thereon connectors having circuit receiving cavities, said robots and end effectors being effective to insert the circuit terminals into the cavities of the connectors, and to test insertion and retention of the terminals in the cavities. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 in which the computer is a personal computer. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 in which the computer is programmable for the purpose of making different wire harnesses. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 in which the sequential wire processor includes means for sensing defective terminal crimps, and apparatus in the transfer means for directing the defective circuits to a location separate from the carousel. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 in which the carousel has eight sides, and clips located on said sides in vertical alignment. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 including means for moving the sides of the carousel in a vertical direction relative to the transfer means such that an empty set of clips is presented to the transfer means for each circuit the transfer means receives from the sequential wire processor and transfers to the carousel. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 including means for rotating the carousel relative to the transfer means to present the sides of the carousel to the transfer means. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 including means for vertically moving the sides of the carousel relative to the robotic station such that the circuits located on the carousel are sequentially presented to the end effectors of the robots. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 in which the means for vertically moving the carousel sides includes a computer interfaced with two programmable controllers connected respectively to the two robots, and being effective to coordinate carousel movement with that of the two robots. 10. The apparatus of claim 1 including indexing means for rotating the carousel relative to the robotic station for sequential presentation of the respective carousel sides to the end effectors of the robots. 11. The apparatus of claim 1 including conveyor means for removing the formboard with circuits and connectors from the robotic station and for conveying another formboard with empty connectors to the robotic station. 