A processor for processing semiconductor articles, such as integrated circuit wafers, flat panel displays, semiconductor substrates, and data disks. The processor has an interface section which receives articles in article carriers. The interface section transfers the articles from carriers into processing arrays. A conveyor having an automated arm assembly moves article arrays to and between processing stations. The processing stations are accessed from an enclosed area adjoining the interface section.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for processing semiconductor articles, comprising: engaging plural contact members with an engagement head which is controllable to detach or engage said contact members; transferring a plurality of semiconductor articles from an article carrier to form a processing array supported by said plural contact members; moving the processing array to a processing station; installing said processing array in said processing station; processing said processing array within the processing station. 2. A method according to claim 1 wherein said transferring includes: extending a series of transfer head tangs into an article carrier; withdrawing articles from the article carrier. 3. A method according to claim 1 wherein said transferring includes extending a series of transfer head tangs with supported articles between said plural contact members. 4. A method according to claim 1 wherein said transferring includes: extending a series of transfer head tangs with supported articles between said plural contact members; displacing said transfer head tangs to transfer the articles onto the plural contact members. 5. A method according to claim 1 wherein said installing includes engaging said contact members with processing engagement features in said processing station. 6. A method according to claim 1 wherein said engaging includes controllably latching the engagement head with said plural contact members. 7. A method according to claim 1 wherein said installing includes controllably releasing at least one latch between the engagement head and said plural contact members. 8. A method according to claim 1 wherein: said engaging includes controllably latching the engagement head with said plural contact members; said installing includes controllably releasing at least one latch between the engagement head and said plural contact members. 9. A method according to claim 1 further comprising: removing said processing array from said processing station; installing said processing array in a second processing station. 10. A method according to claim 9 wherein said installing steps include controllably releasing at least one latch between the engagement head and said plural contact members. 11. A method for transferring semiconductor articles between an article carrier and a processing array, comprising: withdrawing plural articles from an article carrier using a transfer head upon which said plural articles are supported; engaging plural contact members with an engagement head which is controllable to detach or engage said contact members; meshing said plural articles supported upon said transfer head with said plural contact members to form a processing array. 12. A method according to claim 11 and further comprising extending a series of transfer head tangs into said article carrier. 13. A method according to claim 11 wherein said meshing includes extending a series of transfer head tangs with supported articles between said plural contact members. 14. A method according to claim 11 wherein said meshing includes: extending a series of transfer head tangs with supported articles between said plural contact members; displacing said transfer head tangs to transfer the articles onto the plural contact members. 15. A method according to claim 11 wherein said engaging includes controllably latching the engagement head with said plural contact members. 16. A method for forming semiconductor articles into a processing array, comprising: engaging plural contact members with an engagement head which is controllable to detach or engage said contact members; meshing plural semiconductor articles into said plural contact members to form a processing array. 17. A method according to claim 16 wherein said engaging includes controllably latching the engagement head with said plural contact members. 18. A method according to claim 16 wherein said engaging includes controllably latching engagement members forming a part of said engagement head with said plural contact members. 19. A method for forming semiconductor articles into a processing array, comprising: engaging plural contact members with an engagement head which is controllable to detach or engage said contact members; meshing plural semiconductor articles into said plural contact members to form a processing array; moving the processing array to a processing station; installing said processing array in said processing station; processing said processing array within the processing station. 20. A method according to claim 19 wherein said engaging includes controllably latching the engagement head with said plural contact members. 21. A method according to claim 19 wherein said engaging includes controllably latching engagement members forming a part of said engagement head with said plural contact members. 22. A method according to claim 19 wherein said installing includes engaging said contact members with processing engagement features in said processing station. 23. A method according to claim 19 wherein said installing includes controllably releasing at least one latch between the engagement head and said plural contact members. 24. A method according to claim 19 wherein: said engaging includes controllably latching the engagement head with said plural contact members; said installing includes controllably releasing at least one latch between the engagement head and said plural contact members. 25. A method according to claim 19 further comprising: removing said processing array from said processing station; installing said processing array in a second processing station. 26. A method according to claim 25 wherein said installing steps include controllably releasing at least one latch between the engagement head and said plural contact members. 