The present invention provides a remote plasma source mountable on a process chamber and connectable on one end to a gas inletting system and on the other end to a gas distribution system disposed in a process chamber. Preferably, a conventional microwave generator is utilized to deliver microwaves into a remote chamber to excite a gas passed therethrough into an excited state.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for exciting one or more gases outside of a processing chamber, comprising: (a) at least one gas inlet selectively connectable to a chamber gas feed; (b) at least one gas outlet; (c) an energy transparent conduit disposed between the gas inlet and the gas outlet; (d) a power source connected to deliver plasma-generating power to the conduit; and (e) a gas distribution assembly connected to the gas outlet for delivering the excited gases into the processing chamber, the gas distribution assembly comprising a gas passage that terminates in the processing chamber between a blocker plate having a central gas passage and a gas distribution plate having a plurality of gas distribution holes. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising an enclosure disposed about the conduit. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the power source is connected to deliver power into the enclosure. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein the power source is connected to the enclosure by a waveguide. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the gas passage terminates at an edge of the gas distribution plate. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein each gas inlet is connected to a tee that connects the gas inlet to a second processing chamber and to the chamber gas feed. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the apparatus is mounted on a lid of the processing chamber. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the power source is a microwave source. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein the microwave source is a conventional microwave generator. 10. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein the microwave generator delivers about 500 to about 1500 watts to the energy transparent conduit. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the pressure within the energy transparent conduit is maintained at about 0.5 to about 2.5 torr. 12. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the gas distribution assembly terminates within a a shower-head assembly disposed in the processing chamber. 13. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein the chamber gas feed is connected to a mixing filter disposed prior to the tee. 14. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a processing chamber having a side wall portion, a bottom portion and a top portion; the side wall portion defining at least one gas passage having a gas passage inlet disposed at the bottom portion and a gas passage outlet disposed at the top portion. 15. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein the top portion comprises a chamber lid having at least one opening adaptable to receive the gas distribution assembly. 16. The apparatus of claim 15 further comprising at least one gas line connecting the gas passage outlet at the top portion of the chamber and the gas inlet of the apparatus. 17. The apparatus of claim 14 further comprising a chamber plasma generator connected to deliver plasma-generating power to the chamber. 18. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a filter disposed between the gas outlet and the gas distribution assembly. 19. The apparatus of claim 18 wherein the filter comprises a porous ceramic material. 20. The apparatus of claim 19 wherein the porous ceramic material has a pore size between about 0.01 .mu.m and about 0.03 .mu.m. 21. The apparatus of claim 18 wherein the filter comprises Teflon. 