A system for automatically cooling and further processing chewing gum base materials is disclosed. The hot molten chewing gum base material is deposited in lined or coated pans, the pans are picked up by an industrial robot and placed into a pair of spiral cooling towers where the molten material is cooled and solidified. The same or a second industrial robot picks up the pans of cooled gum base material and transports them to a final staging and processing area. The pans of cooled gum base material are placed on a conveyor system or on pallets for further handling and processing.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for processing chewing gum base materials comprising the steps of: producing said gum base material in liquid form by a continuous extrusion processor; depositing said liquid gum base material into a plurality of containers; placing said containers into a cooling mechanism for a time and temperature sufficient to cool and solidify said gum base material, said cooling mechanism having a pair of adjacent spiral conveying devices in cooperative operative relationship with each other, a first conveying device transporting said containers in an upward spiral path while being subjected to cooling air and a second conveying device transporting said containers in a downward spiral path while also being subjected to cooling air; and moving said containers with cooled gum base material from said cooling apparatus to a staging area. 2. The method as set forth in claim 1 wherein said containers are placed into said cooling mechanism by a robotic mechanism. 3. The method as set forth in claim 1 wherein said containers with cooled gum base material are moved from said cooling mechanism to said staging area by a robotic mechanism. 4. The method as set forth in claim 1 further comprising the step of placing said containers with cooled gum base material on pallets in said staging area. 5. The method as set forth in claim 1 further comprising the step of placing said containers with cooled gum base material on a conveying mechanism in said staging area. 6. The method as set forth in claim 1 further comprising the step of placing a protective lining member in said containers prior to depositing therein of said liquid gum base material. 7. The method as set forth in claim 6 wherein said protective lining material is supplied automatically by at least a feeding mechanism for supplying sheets of plastic material. 8. The method as set forth in claim 1 further comprising the step of removing said cooled gum base material from said containers by a robotic mechanism. 9. The method as set forth in claim 8 further comprising removing said cooled gum base material by vacuum suction from said containers. 10. The method as set forth in claim 1 wherein said containers comprise metal pans and are lined with a plastic sheet material. 