A method and apparatus for measuring the concentration of mobile ions in the oxide layer of a semiconductor wafer from the contact potential shift caused by ion drift across the oxide that includes depositing charge (e.g., using a corona discharge device) on the surface of the oxide and heating the wafer to allow mobile ions in the oxide (especially Na.sup.+) to drift. The difference in the contact potential measured before and after heating provides an indication of the mobile ion concentration in the oxide layer.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for determining the mobile ion concentration within an oxide layer disposed on a surface of a semiconductor wafer, comprising: a) depositing charge on at least a portion of the surface of the oxide layer at a low temperature at which said mobile ions do not substantially move, b) measuring the contact potential on the surface of the oxide layer at said low temperature, c) heating the semiconductor wafer and oxide layer to a temperature sufficient to activate the drift of said mobile ions, d) measuring the shift in contact potential after said heating, and e) determining the mobile ion concentration within the oxide layer on the basis of the shift. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising: measuring the contact potential on a portion of said wafer without deposited charge, and prior to said heating, measuring the contact potential barrier on said portion without deposited charge after said heating, and determining the mobile ion concentration on the basis of the contact potential difference in said portion of the surface of the oxide layer with said deposited charge on the basis of the shift in contact potential difference corrected on the basis of changing the contact potential difference in said portion without deposited charge. 3. The method of claim 1 comprising: measuring the semiconductor surface potential barrier of said wafer before and after said heating, and determining the mobile ion concentration on the basis of said contact potential difference and the changes in said surface potential barrier before and after heating. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the charge deposited on said portion of the surface of the oxide layer in step a) has a first polarity, the method further comprising: depositing, charge of a second polarity, opposite of said first polarity, on said portion of the surface of the oxide layer to change the electric field in the oxide layer, and determining the mobile ion concentration on the basis of the contact potential differences determined with the charge of the first and second polarities. 5. The method of claim 4 comprising: measuring the shift in contact potential after depositing the charge of said first polarity, measuring the shift in contact potential after depositing charge of said second polarity, and determining the mobile ion concentration on the basis of the difference in the shift in contact potential. 6. The method of claim 1 comprising measuring said contact potential prior to heating while the wafer is at room temperature. 7. The method of claim 1 comprising cooling the semiconductor wafer to a temperature at which said mobile ions do not substantially move after said heating and before said measuring. 8. The method of claim 1 comprising: mapping the mobile ion concentration over a substantial area of said wafer. 9. The method of claim 1 comprising: depositing charge over a substantial area of a wafer while leaving portions of said wafer without deposited charge. 10. The method of claim 1 comprising: depositing said charge with a corona discharge. 11. The method of claim 1 comprising: measuring said contact potential with a vibrating Kelvin probe voltmeter. 12. The method of claim 1 comprising: measuring said contact potential with a Monroe-type sensor. 13. The method of claim 3 comprising: the semiconductor surface potential barrier by SPV measurement. 14. The method of claim 3 comprising measuring the semiconductor surface potential barrier by non-contact SPV. 15. A system for the measurement of mobile contaminant ion concentration in an oxide layer of a semiconductor wafer, comprising: a charge deposition device configured to deposit charge on the oxide layer of the wafer; a temperature stress device including a element for heating the wafer to a temperature sufficient to allow mobile ions to drift; and a measurement device configured to measure the contact potential on the surface of the oxide layer prior to and after heating of the water by said element of said temperature stress device. 16. The system of claim 15 wherein said charge deposition device is a corona discharge apparatus constructed to deposit charge over a substantial area of said wafer while leaving portions without deposited charge. 17. The system of claim 16 wherein said corona discharge apparatus extends across the width of said wafer and includes shield regions to leave said portions without said charge. 18. The system of claim 15 wherein said measurement device is a Kelvin probe voltmeter. 19. The system of claim 15 wherein said measurement device is a Monroe-type sensor. 20. The system of claim 15 wherein said temperature stress device includes a cooling element for cooling the wafer to a temperature at which said mobile ions do not substantially move. 21. The system of claim 15 further comprising a robotic handler configured to move the semiconductor wafer between the charge deposition device, temperature stress device, and measurement device. 22. The system of claim 21 further comprising a computer adapted to control the robotic handler and to transmit control signals to and receive data signals from the charge deposition device, temperature stress device, and measurement device. 23. The system of claim 15 further comprising a device for measuring the surface potential barrier. 24. The method of claim 1 wherein the depositing step includes depositing charge on only a portion of a free surface of the oxide layer. 