An injection molding machine of the present invention includes a first mold half having one of at least one mold cavity and at least one mold core and a rotatable turret block rotatable on an axis for rotating a plurality of movable mold halves thereof into alignment with the first mold half. Each of the movable mold halves include one of at least one mold cavity and at least one mold core matable with the first mold half for forming a mold for molding a molded article. The rotatable turret block is further for clamping the movable mold halves and the first mold half together. The machine further includes a mechanism for moving the rotatable turret block relative the first mold half a first injector for injecting melt into the at least one mold cavity.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A process for injection molding, comprising: providing an injection molding machine having only two platens and including a first platen carrying a first mold half having a central axis and one of at least one mold cavity and at least one mold core, and a second platen in association with said first platen, said second platen is a rotatable turret means rotatable on a central axis of rotation for rotating a plurality of movable second mold halves thereof into alignment with said first mold half, each of said movable mold halves including one of at least one mold cavity and at least one mold core; clamping a first of said movable second mold halves and said first mold half together to form a first mold with a first mold cavity for molding a molded article, including the step of moving said rotatable turret means relative said first mold half; and injecting melt from a first injection means into said first mold cavity to form a molded article; and separating said first of said movable second mold halves and said first mold half and rotating said rotatable turret on a central axis of rotation perpendicular to the central axis of the first mold half and clamping a second of said movable second mold halves and said first mold half together to form a second mold with a second mold cavity for forming a molded article, including the step of moving said rotatable turret means relative said first mold half. 2. The process according to claim 1, including the step of affixing said first mold half to a frame so that said first mold half is stationary and moving said rotatable turret means one of horizontally and vertically toward and away from said first mold half on said frame. 3. The process according to claim 2, including the step of guiding said rotatable turret means on said frame via tie bars. 4. The process according to claim 1, including ejecting molded articles from said mold via means for ejecting which comprise hydraulically actuated ejector pistons. 5. The process according to claim 4, including the step of positioning at least one of circuitry and control valves for operating said ejector pistons on said rotatable turret means. 6. The process according to claim 1, including providing an article molding area defined between said movable mold halves and said first mold half and an article removal area, locating said article removal area outside of said article molding area to allow for clear access to finished molded articles, and positioning a means for removing said articles for operation in said article removal area. 7. The process according to claim 1, including the step of co-injecting another type of melt into said mold cavity via a second injection means to form coinjection molded articles. 8. The process according to claim 2, further including longitudinally moving said rotatable turret on hardened ways toward and away from said first mold half. 9. The process according to claim 1, including rotating said rotatable turret means through arcuate sectors for moving each of said plurality of movable mold halves to at least one work station positioned at the beginning of at least one of said arcuate sectors. 10. The process according to claim 1, wherein: said rotatable turret means comprises a turret block including a plurality of faces for accommodating said plurality of movable mold halves, rotating said turret block on a horizontal axis, longitudinally moving said turret block toward and away from said first mold half. 11. The process according to claim 10, including the step of supporting said first mold half so that the face thereof lies on a horizontal plane parallel to a longitudinal axis of the machine base. 12. The process according to claim 10, including the step of moving said movable mold halves on a vertical plane relative to said first mold half. 13. The process according to claim 10, including the step of rotating said movable mold halves after longitudinally moving said turret block away from said first mold half. 14. The process according to claim 10, including extending an injection unit into said first platen which supports said first mold half. 15. The process according to claim 1, including the step of performing at least one operation in addition to said molding. 16. The process according to claim 15, including the step of temperature conditioning said molded articles after said molded articles are formed by a means for temperature conditioning positioned adjacent at least one of said movable mold halves. 17. The process according to claim 15, including the step of supplying liners to said mold cores for a subsequent overmolding process in said mold cavities for forming multi-layered molded articles. 18. The process according to claim 1, including clamping said mold halves via means for clamping including said turret means, and connecting tie bars to said means for clamping. 19. A process according to claim 10, including the step of blow molding said molded article at a blow molding station. 20. A process according to claim 1, including the step of injecting melt adjacent said injected molded article to form an injection molded article comprising at least two melt feedings. 21. A process for injection molding, comprising: providing an injection molding machine having only two platens and including a first platen carrying a first mold half having one of at least one mold cavity and at least one mold core; providing a second platen which is a rotatable turret means rotatable on a central axis of rotation and rotating said rotatable turret means to rotate a plurality of movable second mold halves thereof into alignment with said first mold half, each of said movable mold halves including one of at least one mold cavity and at least one mold core; clamping a first of said movable mold halves and said first mold half together to form a first mold with a first mold cavity for molding a molded article by said rotatable turret means, including the step of moving said rotatable turret means relative said first mold half; and injecting melt from a first injection means into said first mold cavity, affixing said first mold half to a frame so that said first mold half is stationary and moving said rotatable turret means one of horizontally and vertically toward and away from said first mold half on said frame, and guiding said rotatable turret means on said frame via tie bars. 22. The process according to claim 1, including the step of clamping a second of said movable second mold halves and said first mold half together to form a second mold with a second mold cavity for forming a molded article. 23. A process for injection molding machine, comprising: providing an injection molding machine having only two platens and including a first platen carrying a first mold half having a central axis and one of at least one mold cavity and at least one mold core, and a second platen in association with said first platen, said second platen is a rotatable turret means rotatable on a central axis of rotation for rotating a plurality of movable second mold halves thereof into alignment with said first mold half, each of said movable mold halves including one of at least one mold cavity and at least one mold core; clamping a first of said movable mold halves and said first mold half together to form a first mold with a first mold cavity for molding a molded article, including the step of moving said rotatable turret means relative said first mold half; and injecting melt from a first injection means into said first mold cavity. 24. A process according to claim 23, including the step of clamping a second of said movable second mold halves and said first mold half together to form a second mold with a second mold cavity for forming a molded article. 