A new method and apparatus for fabrication or alignment of fixtures, jigs and structures is disclosed. The invention uses target points on one or more details which are referenced to the overall structure via targets on the details. These targets are monitored by a TV camera unit which is alternatively interfaced to a display for the human operator or a robot to provide position data. The interface may include input from a CAD system which allows display on robot coordinates to be offset by design data of the structure or a part to be located on it. While mainly envisioned for assistance in constructing fixtures for automobile assembly, the disclosed invention is widely useable for all types of construction including aircraft, bridges, boats, buses, houses, buildings and the like. A means for improving resolution of automatically servoed camera based systems is also disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for determining position relative to an object, said apparatus comprising: an electro-optical sensor; a moving means for moving said sensor relative to the object; a triggering means for triggering a control signal as said sensor is being moved by said moving means when said sensor senses a fixed point on the object; and an encoder means for determining positional data related to the position of said sensor relative to the sensed point on the object in response to reception of said control signal. 2. Apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said electro-optical sensor comprises a triangulation optical sensor including a light source and a detector. 3. Apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein a plurality of said encoder means are utilized. 4. Apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said encoder means is a plurality of axis encoders, and wherein said sensor comprises a light source and light sensor array wherein the light source is pulsed. 5. Apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein at least one optical axis compensating means is provided for producing an output related to the deviation of a control axis of said sensor from a reference position, said axis compensation means including a light source and said light source being pulsed. 6. Apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said at least one encoder means comprises optical encoders for the x-, y- and z-axes of the moving means, each of said encoders including a light source, and wherein said sensor includes a light source, the encoder and sensor light sources being simultaneously pulsed to freeze the outputs of the optical encoders and the optical sensors. 7. Apparatus as claimed in claim 6 further comprising optical axis compensation means for compensating for a deviation of a control axis of said sensor from a reference position and including a light source, the light source of said optical axis compensation means being simultaneously pulsed along with said encoder and sensor light sources. 8. Apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said sensor includes a light source and a photodetector array. 9. Apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said encoder means determines positional data in a plurality of axes. 