A system for achieving a high degree of location and orientation accuracy and repeatability of a part, such as a semiconductor wafer, for storage of the part in a cassette or placement on a process tool while being able to grasp the part, while maintaining maximally repeatable location, orientation, and cleanliness, while moving it from one tool to another, such as a process tool to a cassette. This is accomplished by providing in one case a pattern of six grooves on the circumference of a part, typically spaced 60 angular degrees apart, and a pattern of three curved contact surfaces on a gripper plate and three curved contact surfaces on a tool plate, where the plates nest such that the three curved surfaces on the gripper plate would make contact with the sides of three of the grooves in the part, and when the gripper plate that is holding the part lowers the part onto the tool plate, the three curved surfaces on the tool plate would make contact with the sides of three of the other grooves in the part as the part is unloaded from the gripper plate and comes to rest on the tool plate. Thus at all times the part position is kinematically uniquely established and mathematically defined in space which provides a high degree of repeatability, and furthermore minimizes stresses placed on the part that would otherwise occur from the typical action of clamping-type gripping mechanisms. In the second case, where it is not feasible to put grooves in the parts, the same nesting plates would each have three sets of support units that each have orthogonal curved surfaces such that when a part rests on the support points, three of the support point curved surfaces support the weight of the part, and the other three orthogonal points restrain the lateral position, In either case, the plates can be stacked horizontally, or at an inclined angle.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for kinematically gripping and transferring a part having, in combination, nestable planar gripper and tool arms each having at least two spaced leaves for nesting and each respectively provided with a set of three equilaterally co-planar spaced curved contact surface elements, with the elements of the gripper arm circumferentially displaced 60.degree. from the corresponding elements of the tool arm; the part having six 60.degree.-spaced peripheral grooves; means for relatively laterally moving and lowering and raising the gripper arm for placing the part upon the gripper arm with the gripper arm set of elements contacting three of the plate grooves to hold the part and for relatively laterally moving and lowering and raising the gripper arm relative to the nesting tool arm to cause the tool arm set of elements to contact the other three of the part grooves so as to transport and transfer the part from the gripper arm to the tool arm, and when desired, to cause the gripper arm to pick up the part from the tool arm, all with the location of the part uniquely established and defined in space, thus enabling repeatability while minimizing imposing stresses on the part. 2. Apparatus as claimed in claim 1 and in which the curved contact surface elements are cones held by the respective arms and that each contact two points of each of the corresponding part grooves, providing six unique contact points for each set of three cones. 3. Apparatus as claimed in claim 2 and in which each cone is provided with a top safety device to keep the part from sliding off the cone upon jarring. 4. Apparatus as claimed in claim 2 and in which a radial clamp means is provided supplemental to each cone for applying a radial force to the part to clamp the same as during transfer. 5. Apparatus as claimed in claim 4 and in which each said radial clamp means comprises one of pneumatic, vacuum-operated, and electromagnetic clamp applying a radial force to the part. 6. Apparatus as claimed in claim 5 and in which said electromagnetic clamp comprises magnetic means displaced in a radial groove in the said cone. 7. Apparatus as claimed in claim 2 and in which the means for moving is provided operating the respective arms horizontally and when desired tilted at an angle to the horizontal. 8. Apparatus as claimed in claim 1 and in which each of the gripper arm and tool arm is provided with a further set of co-planar spaced curved contact surface elements disposed circumferentially at a greater diameter than the first-named set, for storage transfer and transfer of a larger part between them. 9. Apparatus as claimed in claim 1 and in which the gripper arm and tool arm plates are of U-shape with their respective sets of co-planar curved contact surface elements being conical elements protruding from the plates. 10. Apparatus as claimed in claim 1 where said combination includes a semiconductor wafer part. 11. Apparatus as claimed in claim 2 wherein said moving means supports said part held on said cones on its backside, thereby helping to minimize the bending stresses in said part during storage and transport. 12. Apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein there are provided multiple gripper and tool arms for storing multiple parts. 13. Apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said tool arm is attached to a process tool for processing said part. 14. Apparatus for kinematically holding a part while simultaneously kinematically picking up and transferring the part, having, in combination, a part the periphery of which is grooved at six points spaced 60.degree. angularly apart; gripper and tool planar plates each comprising at least two spaced leaves, said plates being relatively movable and interleavingly nestable with respective sets of three equilateral curved contact elements thereon spaced to correspond to the periphery of the part with the sets peripherally displaced 60.degree. from one another when the plates are interleaved, means for enabling the placing of the part upon the gripper plate with its set of contact elements contacting three of the grooves of the part to hold the part; and means for relatively moving the gripper and interleaving tool plates to transfer the part from the gripper plate to the tool plate with its set of contact elements contacting the remaining three grooves of the part, thus kinematically uniquely establishing and defining in space the position of the part with repeatability and with minimum stress imposed on the part. 15. Apparatus as claimed in claim 14 and in which the contact elements are conical, the interleaving gripper and tool plates are U-shaped, and the part and the periphery are round. 16. Apparatus as claimed in claim 14 and in which the moving means retransfers the part from the tool plate to the gripper plate and laterally separates the gripper plate from the tool plate. 17. A method of kinematically holding a part while simultaneously kinematically picking up and transferring the part, that comprises, grooving the periphery of the part at six points spaced 60.degree. angularly apart; providing a pair of relatively moveable and nestable interleaving planar plates with respective sets of three equilaterally curved contact elements thereon and spacing the sets to correspond to the periphery of the part but with the sets peripherally displaced 60.degree. from one another when the plates are nested; supporting the part upon one of the plates with its set of contact elements contacting three of the grooved points of the part to hold the part; moving the one plate relative to the other interleaving plate to transfer the part thereto with the set of contact elements of the other plate contacting the remaining three grooved points of the part, thus kinematically uniquely establishing and defining in space the position of the part with repeatability and with minimum stress imposed on the part. 18. A method as claimed in claim 17 and in which the curved contact elements are formed into conical shapes. 19. A method as claimed in claim 17 and in which the plates are each provided with further sets of similar curved contact elements spaced thereon to define a periphery of greater dimensions than the first-named periphery to accommodate the storage and transfer of a further part of a larger periphery than the first-named part. 20. A method as claimed in claim 17 and in which the periphery is circular. 21. Apparatus for holding a part while simultaneously picking up and transferring the part, having, in combination, gripper and tool planar plates with spaced leaves and relatively movable and interleavingly nestable with respective sets of three equilateral curved contact elements thereon spaced to correspond to the periphery of the part and protruding therefrom with the sets displaced 60.degree. from one another; means for enabling placing the part upon the gripper plate with its set of contact elements contacting and supporting the part and; for relatively moving the gripper and interleaving tool plates to transfer the part from the gripper plate to the tool plate with its set of contact elements contacting the part, thus establishing and defining in space the position of the part with minimum stress imposed on the part. 22. Apparatus as claimed in claim 21 and in which the part transfer is effected kinematically by the use of six peripheral grooves formed in the part at points spaced 60.degree. angularly apart and in which the gripper plate contact elements contact three of the part grooves and, upon transfer, the tool plate contact elements contact the remaining three part grooves. 23. Apparatus as claimed in claim 21 and in which the part transfer is effected quasi-kinematically, wherein the equilateral curved contact elements each comprise two substantially orthogonal curved surfaces for supporting both the underside and also the edge of the part, the curved surface for supporting the edge of the part comprising an actuator means for moving said curved surface for supporting the edge to clamp the edge. 24. Apparatus for quasi-kinematically holding parts on such devices as process tools or storage cassettes while allowing them to be quasi-kinematically gripped and transferred from one tool to another or from a storage device to a process tool, having, in combination, first and second plates having spaced leaves for interleaving, the first plate being provided with three sets of two substantially orthogonal curved surfaces, equilaterally spaced along the plate, means for enabling contacting the underside of a part with the sets of curved surfaces at three equilaterally spaced points each thereby establishing quasi-kinematic support contact and also contacting the edge of the part by at least two of the curved surfaces orthogonal to the curved surfaces contacting the underside of the part by actuators comprising said at least two curved surfaces, said actuators moving said at least two curved surfaces to engage the edge; the second plate interleavable with the first plate and having similar three sets of two substantially orthogonal curved surfaces; means for relatively moving the second plate up and under the part to engage the part and transfer it from the first plate to the curved contacting surfaces of the second plate, thereby achieving quasi-kinematic location before and after transfer. 25. Apparatus for kinematically holding a part while simultaneously kinematically picking up and transferring the part, having, in combination, a part the periphery of which is grooved at six points spaced 60.degree. angularly apart; a pair of relatively moveable and nestable planar plates with spaced leaves for interleaving with respective sets of three equilaterally curved contact elements thereon, with the sets spaced to correspond to the periphery of the part but with the sets peripherally displaced 60.degree. from one another when the plates are nested: the part being supported upon one of the plates with its set of contact elements contacting three of the grooved points of the part to hold the part; means connected with at least one of said plates for moving the same relative to the other interleaving plate to transfer the part thereto with the set of contact elements of the other plate contacting the remaining three grooved points of the part, thus kinematically uniquely establishing and defining in space the position of the part with repeatability and with minimum stress imposed on the part. 26. Apparatus as claimed in claim 25 and in which the curved contact elements are of conical shapes. 27. Apparatus as claimed in claim 25 and in which the plates are each provided with further sets of similar curved contact elements spaced thereon to define a periphery of greater dimensions than the first-named periphery to accommodate the storage and transfer of a further part of a larger periphery than the first-named part. 28. Apparatus as claimed in claim 25 and in which the periphery is circular. 