An apparatus for bonding semiconductor wafers firmly bonds the wafers to each other and can always lay the bonded wafers on a desired bonding plate. The bonding plates have a plurality of grooves formed on their respective surfaces to reduce the bond force between the wafers and the bonding plates of the apparatus, and to prevent the wafers from sliding off the plates due to an air cushion. An interval controlling pin projects from the surface of one of the bonding plates to reduce breakage of the wafers by maintaining an interval between the bonding plates as they are are rotated towards each other. An elastic pad portion is installed on one the bonding plates for providing an elastic force for the wafers placed on the bonding plates so that the wafers bond to each other properly when the bonding plates are further rotated towards each other.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for bonding semiconductor wafers, comprising: a stepping motor; a first roller and a second roller which share a same axis and rotate in opposing directions by said stepping motor; and a first bonding plate and a second bonding plate attached to and rotating with said first roller and said second roller, respectively, and on which wafers are placed, wherein a plurality of grooves are formed on respective surfaces of said first bonding plate and said second bonding plate on which the wafers are placed. 2. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1, said apparatus further comprising an interval controlling pin projecting from the surface of one of said first bonding plate and said second bonding plate for maintaining an interval between said bonding plates when said rollers are rotated in such a manner that said bonding plates are rotated towards each other. 3. An apparatus as claimed in claim 2, wherein said interval controlling pin has an adjustable length. 4. An apparatus as claimed in claim 3, wherein said adjustable length of said interval controlling pin corresponds to a thickness of the two bonded wafers. 5. An apparatus as claimed in claim 4, wherein said interval controlling pin is a screw structure. 6. An apparatus as claimed in claim 5, wherein said interval controlling pin is composed of a synthetic resin. 7. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1, said apparatus further comprising an elastic pad portion installed on one of said first bonding plate and said second bonding plate for providing an elastic force for the wafers placed on said bonding plates so that the wafers bond to each other properly when the first roller and the second roller are rotated in such a manner that said bonding plates are rotated towards each other. 8. An apparatus as claimed in claim 2, said apparatus further comprising an elastic pad portion installed on one of said first bonding plate and said second bonding plate for providing an elastic force for the wafers placed on said bonding plates so that the wafers bond to each other properly when the first roller and the second roller are rotated in such a manner that said bonding plates are rotated towards each other. 9. An apparatus as claimed in claim 7, said elastic pad portion comprising: a spring having a first end connected to one of said bonding plates; and a pad connected to a second end of said spring. 10. An apparatus as claimed in claim 9, wherein said pad is elastically biased by said spring, and said pad protrudes slightly past an inner surface of one of said first and second bonding plates. 11. An apparatus as claimed in claim 8, said elastic pad portion comprising: a spring having a first end connected to one of said bonding plates; and a pad connected to a second end of said spring. 12. An apparatus as claimed in claim 11, wherein said pad is elastically biased by said spring, and said pad protrudes slightly past an inner surface of one of said first and second bonding plates. 13. An apparatus for bonding semiconductor wafers, comprising: a stepping motor; a first driving shaft and a second driving shaft which are respectively connected to said stepping motor, share a same axis, and rotate in opposing directions; a first roller and a second roller which are fixed to and rotate with said first driving shaft and said second driving shaft, respectively; a third driving shaft installed between said first driving shaft and second driving shaft; a third roller and a fourth roller contacting said third driving shaft and which are installed between said first roller and said second roller, respectively; a fifth roller having a larger diameter than those of said first, second, third and fourth rollers, which is in contact with said third driving shaft between said third roller and said fourth roller; a first bonding plate attached to said first roller and said fourth roller and whereon a first wafer is placed; a second bonding plate attached to said second roller and said third roller and whereon a second wafer is placed; and a fixing pin for connecting said third roller to said fifth roller, such that said fifth roller rotates with said third roller. 14. An apparatus as claimed in claim 13, wherein each of said first bonding plate and said second bonding plate have a plurality of grooves on a surface thereof. 15. An apparatus as claimed in claim 13, said apparatus further comprising an elastic pad portion installed on one of said first bonding plate and said second bonding plate, for providing an elastic force for the first and second wafers placed on said bonding plates, whereby the wafers bond to each other properly when said first roller and said second roller are rotated in such a manner that said bonding plates are rotated towards each other. 16. An apparatus as claimed in claim 14, said apparatus further comprising an elastic pad portion installed on one of said first bonding plate and said second bonding plate, for providing an elastic force for the first and second wafers placed on said bonding plates, whereby the wafers bond to each other properly when said first roller and said second roller are rotated in such a manner that said bonding plates are rotated towards each other. 17. An apparatus as claimed in claim 15, said elastic pad portion comprising: a spring having a first end connected to one of said bonding plates; and a pad connected to a second end of said spring. 18. An apparatus as claimed in claim 17, wherein said pad is elastically biased by said spring, and said pad protrudes slightly past an inner surface of one of said bonding plates. 19. An apparatus as claimed in claim 16, said elastic pad portion comprising: a spring having a first end connected to one of said bonding plates; and a pad connected to a second end of said spring. 20. An apparatus as claimed in claim 19, wherein said pad is elastically biased by said spring, and said pad protrudes slightly past an inner surface of one of said bonding plates. 21. An apparatus as claimed in claim 15, said apparatus further comprising an interval controlling pin projecting from the surface of one of said first bonding plate and said second bonding plate for maintaining an interval between said bonding plates when said rollers are rotated in such a manner that said bonding plates are rotated towards each other. 22. An apparatus as claimed in claim 16, said apparatus further comprising an interval controlling pin projecting from the surface of one of said first bonding plate and said second bonding plate for maintaining an interval between said bonding plates when said rollers are rotated in such a manner that said bonding plates are rotated towards each other. 23. An apparatus for bonding semiconductor wafers, comprising: a stepping motor; a first roller and a second roller which share a same axis and rotate in opposing directions by said stepping motor; a first bonding plate and a second bonding plate attached to and rotating with said first roller and said second roller, respectively, and on which wafers are placed, wherein a plurality of grooves are formed on respective surfaces of said first bonding plate and said second bonding plate on which the wafers are placed; an interval controlling pin projecting from the surface of one of said first bonding plate and said second bonding plate for maintaining an interval between said bonding plates when said rollers are rotated in such a manner that said bonding plates are rotated towards each other; and an elastic pad portion installed on one of said first bonding plate and said second bonding plate for providing an elastic force for the wafers placed on said bonding plates so that the wafers bond to each other properly when the first roller and the second roller are rotated in such a manner that said bonding plates are further rotated towards each other, said elastic pad portion comprising a spring having a first end connected to one of said bonding plates and a pad connected to a second end of said spring, wherein said pad is elastically biased by said spring, and said pad protrudes slightly past an inner surface of one of said first and second bonding plates. 24. An apparatus for bonding semiconductor wafers, comprising: a stepping motor; a first driving shaft and a second driving shaft which are respectively connected to said stepping motor, share a same axis, and rotate in opposing directions; a first roller and a second roller which are fixed to and rotate with said first driving shaft and said second driving shaft, respectively; a third driving shaft installed between said first driving shaft and second driving shaft; a third roller and a fourth roller contacting said third driving shaft and which are installed between said first roller and said second roller, respectively; a fifth roller having a larger diameter than those of said first, second, third and fourth rollers, which is in contact with said third driving shaft between said third roller and said fourth roller; a first bonding plate attached to said first roller and said fourth roller and whereon a first wafer is placed; a second bonding plate attached to said second roller and said third roller and whereon a second wafer is placed, wherein each of said first bonding plate and said second bonding plate have a plurality of grooves on a surface thereof; a fixing pin for connecting said third roller to said fifth roller, such that said fifth roller rotates with said third roller; an interval controlling pin projecting from the surface of one of said first bonding plate and said second bonding plate for maintaining an interval between said bonding plates when said rollers are rotated in such a manner that said bonding plates are rotated towards each other; and an elastic pad portion installed on one of said first bonding plate and said second bonding plate, for providing an elastic force for the first and second wafers placed on said bonding plates, whereby the wafers bond to each other properly when said bonding plates are further rotated towards each other, said elastic pad portion comprising a spring having a first end connected to one of said bonding plates and a pad connected to a second end of said spring, wherein said pad is elastically biased by said spring, and said pad protrudes slightly past an inner surface of one of said bonding plates. 