A robotic arm utilizing two pulleys connected by two metallic drive bands wound in opposite directions and rotatably attached to the pulleys. The metallic drive bands may include multiple metal strips separated by a visco-elastic material. One end of one drive band is attached to the pulley by a pin. A positioning mechanism is provided to adjust the tension of the band. The positioning mechanism includes a retaining piece, a wedge piece and an adjustment piece. The retaining piece is laterally movable and has an attachment point to the metal band and a slanted face. The wedge piece is vertically-movable and has a face abutting the slanted face of the retaining piece. The adjustment piece attaches the wedge piece to the pulley and moves the wedge piece vertically.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic arm, comprising: a pulley located at a joint of said robotic arm; a metallic band; and a positioning mechanism attaching said metal band to said pulley, said positioning mechanism including i) a retaining piece movable along a first axis, said retaining piece having an attachment point connected to one end of said metallic band, said retaining piece having a slanted face, ii) a wedge piece movable along a second axis substantially perpendicular to the first axis, said wedge piece having a face abutting said slanted face, and iii) an adjustment piece to attach said wedge piece to said pulley and to move said wedge along said second axis. 2. The robotic arm of claim 1 wherein said metal band includes an aperture at one end thereof, and said attachment point includes a projection which fits through said aperture. 3. The robotic arm of claim 2 wherein said adjustment piece is a screw. 4. The robotic arm of claim 2 further comprising a retaining clip to hold said metal band on said projection. 5. A robotic arm comprising: a first pulley located at a first joint of said robotic arm and having a first cylindrical surface; a second pulley located at a second joint of said robotic arm and having a second cylindrical surface; a first drive band having one end pivotally attached to said first pulley at a first attachment point and free to pivot about a first axis normal to the first cylindrical surface, said first axis passing through said first attachment point, said first drive band having another end rotatably attached to said second pulley at a second attachment point and free to pivot about a second axis normal to the second cylindrical surface, said second axis passing through said second attachment point; and a second drive band having one end pivotally attached to said first pulley at a third attachment point and free to pivot about a third axis normal to the first cylindrical surface, said third axis passing through said third attachment point, said second drive band having another end rotatable attached to said second pulley at a fourth attachment point and free to pivot about a fourth axis normal to the second cylindrical surface, said fourth axis passing through said fourth attachment point. 6. The robotic arm of claim 5 wherein said first and second drive bands each include two apertures, and each of said pulleys includes projections to fit through said apertures. 7. The robotic arm of claim 6 further including a plurality of retaining clips to hold said drive bands on said projections. 8. The robotic arm of claim 5 wherein said first and second drive bands each include a laminar stack of a plurality of parallel metallic strips. 9. The robotic arm of claim 8 wherein said laminar stack includes a layer of visco-elastic material which separates said parallel metallic strips. 