A processor for processing integrated circuit wafers, semiconductor substrates, data disks and similar units requiring very low contamination levels. The processor has an interface section which receives wafers in standard wafer carriers. The interface section transfers the wafers from carriers onto novel trays for improved processing. The interface unit can hold multiple groups of multiple trays. A conveyor having an automated arm assembly moves wafers supported on a tray. The conveyor moves the trays from the interface along a track to several processing stations. The processing stations are accessed from an enclosed area adjoining the interface section.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for processing semiconductor articles using an automated semiconductor processing system, comprising: providing a substantially enclosed working space within a processing system enclosure forming a part of said semiconductor processing system; engaging a sealed container with a docking station forming a part of said semiconductor processing system; said container containing a batch of semiconductor articles held by a carrier; opening the container into fluid communication with the enclosed working space; moving the carrier containing the semiconductor articles from the container and into the enclosed working space; relaying the carrier to a transfer apparatus contained within the enclosed working space; transferring semiconductor articles from the carrier to a tray suitable for subsequent processing; said transferring including: positioning the carrier containing the semiconductor articles; moving the tray through an opening in the carrier; shifting semiconductor articles from the carrier to the tray; processing the semiconductor articles held upon the tray through at least one processing station. 2. A method according to claim 1 wherein said shifting includes lifting semiconductor articles from the carrier onto the tray. 3. A method according to claim 1 and further comprising placing a loaded tray at a loaded tray holding station. 4. A method according to claim 1 and further comprising storing unloaded trays within the enclosed working space for use in said transferring. 5. A method according to claim 1 and further comprising moving a first carriage from a carrier load position to a transfer position. 6. A method according to claim 1 and further comprising: storing unloaded trays upon a first carriage for use in said transferring; moving the first carriage from a carrier load position to a tray pick position; elevating a stored unloaded tray from the first carriage; moving the first carriage from the tray pick position to a transfer position wherein said first carriage is ready for said transferring. 7. A method according to claim 1 and further comprising: storing unloaded trays upon a first carriage for use in said transferring; moving the first carriage from a carrier load position to a tray pick position; elevating a stored unloaded tray from the first carriage onto an elevator; moving the first carriage from the tray pick position to a pass-through position; lowering a tray through a pass-through opening in the first carriage; moving the first carriage from the pass-through position to a transfer position wherein said first carriage is ready for said transferring. 8. A method according to claim 1 and further comprising: after said transferring, moving a carriage to an extended tray load position; placing a loaded tray at a loaded tray holding station upon said carriage. 9. A method according to claim 1 and further comprising: storing unloaded trays upon a first carriage for use in said transferring; moving the first carriage from a carrier load position to a tray pick position; elevating a stored unloaded tray from the first carriage onto an elevator; moving the first carriage from the tray pick position to a pass-through position; lowering a tray on said elevator through a pass-through opening in the first carriage; moving the first carriage from the pass-through position to a transfer position wherein said first carriage is ready for said transferring; after said transferring, moving a second carriage to an extended tray load position; placing a loaded tray at a loaded tray holding station upon said second carriage. 10. A method for processing semiconductor articles using an automated semiconductor processing system, comprising: providing a substantially enclosed working space within a processing system enclosure forming a part of said semiconductor processing system; engaging a sealed container with a docking station forming a part of said semiconductor processing system; said container containing a batch of semiconductor articles held by a carrier; opening the container into fluid communication with the enclosed working space; moving the carrier containing the semiconductor articles from the container and into the enclosed working space; relaying the carrier to a transfer apparatus contained within the enclosed working space; storing unloaded trays upon a first carriage; moving the first carriage to a tray pick position; elevating a stored unloaded tray from the first carriage; moving the first carriage from the tray pick position to a transfer position; transferring semiconductor articles from the carrier to the tray; processing the semiconductor articles held upon the tray through at least one processing station. 11. A method according to claim 10 and further comprising: moving the first carriage from the tray pick position to a pass-through position; lowering a tray through a pass-through opening in the first carriage; moving the first carriage from the pass-through position to the transfer position. 12. A method according to claim 10 wherein: after said transferring, moving a carriage to an extended tray load position; placing a loaded tray at a loaded tray holding station upon said carriage. 13. A method according to claim 10 and further comprising: moving the first carriage from the tray pick position to a pass-through position; lowering a tray through a pass-through opening in the first carriage; moving the first carriage from the pass-through position to the transfer position; after said transferring, moving a second carriage to an extended tray load position; placing a loaded tray at a loaded tray holding station upon said second carriage. 14. A method for processing semiconductor articles using an automated semiconductor processing system, comprising: providing a substantially enclosed working space within a processing system enclosure forming a part of said semiconductor processing system; providing a batch of semiconductor articles supported within a carrier; moving the carrier containing the batch of semiconductor articles into the enclosed working space; transferring semiconductor articles from the carrier to a tray suitable for subsequent processing; said transferring including: positioning the carrier containing the semiconductor articles; moving the tray through an opening in the carrier to remove the batch of semiconductor articles therefrom; processing the semiconductor articles held upon the tray through at least one processing station. 15. A method according to claim 14 wherein said step of moving the tray includes lifting semiconductor articles from the carrier onto the tray. 16. A method according to claim 14 and further comprising placing a loaded tray at a loaded tray holding station. 17. A method according to claim 14 and further comprising storing unloaded trays within the enclosed working space for use in said transferring. 18. A method according to claim 14 and further comprising moving a first carriage from a carrier load position to a transfer position. 19. A method according to claim 14 and further comprising: storing unloaded trays upon a first carriage for use in said transferring; moving the first carriage from a carrier load position to a tray pick position; elevating a stored unloaded tray from the first carriage; moving the first carriage from the tray pick position to a transfer position wherein said first carriage is ready for said transferring. 20. A method according to claim 14 and further comprising: storing unloaded trays upon a first carriage for use in said transferring; moving the first carriage from a carrier load position to a tray pick position; elevating a stored unloaded tray from the first carriage onto an elevator; moving the first carriage from the tray pick position to a pass-through position; lowering a tray through a pass-through opening in the first carriage; moving the first carriage from the pass-through position to a transfer position wherein said first carriage is ready for said transferring. 21. A method according to claim 14 and further comprising: after said transferring, moving a carriage to an extended tray load position; placing a loaded tray at a loaded tray holding station upon said carriage. 22. A method according to claim 14 and further comprising: storing unloaded trays upon a first carriage for use in said transferring; moving the first carriage from a carrier load position to a tray pick position; elevating a stored unloaded tray from the first carriage onto an elevator; moving the first carriage from the tray pick position to a pass-through position; lowering a tray on said elevator through a pass-through opening in the first carriage; moving the first carriage from the pass-through position to a transfer position wherein said first carriage is ready for said transferring; after said transferring, moving a second carriage to an extended tray load position; placing a loaded tray at a loaded tray holding station upon said second carriage. 