The implementation of smart materials (shape-memory alloys (SMA) or piezoceramics) as integral actuating devices for single degree-of-freedom (DOF) hinges, thereby providing mobility as well as actuation to a wide range of mechanisms used in industrial, automotive and aircraft systems. A single DOF hinge is used in which smart materials are used both for actuation and for performance enhancement. The hinge consists of a tang and clevis, two conical inserts, one push block, one bolt and nut, and two washers. Assembly takes place by first putting the push block inside the clevis and putting the tang in place, then inserting the cones, inserting a bolt in the cones and finally tightening the bolt in this arrangement together with the nut to a specified torque. The amount of torque applied is related to the amount of preload in the undisturbed configuration of the hinge and the expansion of the conical inserts required to initiate rotation of the hinge. The smart material of the conical inserts is used to provide rotational mobility to the hinge. Applying a current causes the conical inserts, which are fabricated out of a smart material, to expand, thereby creating a gap between the conical inserts and the clevis. The existence of the free-play caused by the gap allows the clevis to rotate about the hinge's rotational axis. Once the hinge rotation is complete, the free-play in the hinge is eliminated by restoring the smart material of the conical inserts to the original (undisturbed) configuration, thereby pre-loading the hinge components.
Claims I claim: 1. A hinge comprising: a clevis including at least one through hole, a tang having a through hole, an insert extending into said at least one through hole of said clevis and said through hole of said tang, and a heating element secured to said insert, said clevis including a push block engaging said tang, said insert being made of a smart material for fixing a position of said clevis with respect to said tang in a first configuration of said insert, said insert changing to a second configuration by excitation of said insert due to energerization of said heating element so as to allow said clevis and said tang to move to a different position with respect to each other. 2. A hinge as claimed in claim 1, wherein said push block is a smart material connected to a heating element. 3. A hinge as claimed in claim 2, wherein said smart material is a shape-memory alloy. 4. A hinge as claimed in claim 2, wherein said smart material is a piezoceramic. 5. A hinge comprising: a clevis having two arms, each of said two arms including a through hole, a tang having a through hole, a recess in said clevis, a push block located in said recess, said push block being a smart material, said tang being located between said two arms of said clevis and engaging said push block, a heating element secured to said push block, and a bolt connecting said clevis and said tang so that a position of said tang is movable upon heating of said push block. 6. A hinge as claimed in claim 5, wherein an insert is located in each said through hole of said arm and extends into said through hole of said tang. 7. A hinge as claimed in claim 6, wherein said insert is a smart material with a heating element connected to said insert for allowing a change of position of said tang with respect to said insert. 8. A hinge as claimed in claim 5, wherein said smart material is a shape-memory alloy. 9. A hinge as claimed in claim 5, wherein said smart material is a piezoceramic. 10. A locking mechanism comprising: a tang, a clevis having a block engaging said tang to lock said tang in a fixed position with respect to said clevis, a smart material engaging said block and biasing said block into engagement with said clevis, said smart material being movable to overcome the bias of said block toward said tang to allow said tang to move from said fixed position with respect to said clevis, and a heating element providing an energerization force to said smart material for moving of said block away from said tang. 11. A locking mechanism as claimed in claim 12, wherein said push block is a plunger slidably mounted in said clevis and biased to lock said tang in said fixed position. 12. A locking mechanism as claimed in claim 11, wherein said smart material overcomes said bias of said push block to move said push block away from said tang so as to allow said tang to move with respect to said clevis. 13. A hinge comprising: a clevis including at least one through hole, a tang having a through hole, an insert extending into said at least one through hole of said clevis and said through hole of said tang, said insert being conically-shaped, and a heating element secured to said insert, said insert being made of a smart material for fixing a position of said clevis with respect to said tang in a first configuration of said insert, said insert changing to a second configuration by excitation of said insert due to energerization of said heating element so as to allow said clevis and said tang to move to a different position with respect to each other. 14. A hinge comprising: a clevis including at least one through hole, a tang having a through hole, an insert extending into said at least one through hole of said clevis and said through hole of said tang, said insert including a through hole and a bolt extending through said clevis, said tang and said insert, and a heating element secured to said insert, said insert being made of a smart material for fixing a position of said clevis with respect to said tang in a first configuration of said insert, said insert changing to a second configuration by excitation of said insert due to energerization of said heating element so as to allow said clevis and said tang to move to a different position with respect to each other. 15. A hinge comprising: a clevis including two arms with each arm including a through hole, a tang having a through hole, an insert extending into each said through hole of said clevis and said through hole of said tang, and said tang being positioned between said two arms of said clevis, with a bolt extending through said two arms, said two inserts and said tang, a heating element secured to each said insert, said inserts being made of a smart material for fixing a position of said clevis with respect to said tang in a first configuration of said inserts, said inserts changing to a second configuration by excitation of said inserts due to energerization of said heating element so as to allow said clevis and said tang to move to a different position with respect to each other. 16. A hinge comprising: a first part including at least one through hole, a second part having at least one through hole, a first smart material member extending into said at least one through hole of said first part and into said at least one through hole of said second part, and a second smart material member extending between said first part and said second part, a heating element secured to said first smart material member and said second smart material member, said first smart material member arresting a position of said first part with respect to said second part in a first configuration of said first smart material member and allowing movement between said first part and said second part in a second configuration, said second smart material member moving said first part with respect to said second part when said first smart material member is in said second configuration. 17. A hinge comprising: a clevis including at least one through hole, a tang having a through hole, an insert extending into said at least one through hole of said clevis and said through hole of said tang, and a heating element secured to said insert, said clevis including a push block engaging said tang, said push block being made of a smart material, said insert being made of a smart material for fixing a position of said clevis with respect to said tang in a first configuration of said insert, said insert changing to a second configuration by excitation of said insert due to energerization of said heating element so as to allow one of said clevis and said tang to move to a different position with respect to each other and said push block moving said one of said clevis and said tang to said different position by energerization of said push block. 