A semiconductor processing system for wafers or other semiconductor articles. The system uses an interface section at an end of the machine accessible from the clean room. A plurality of processing stations are arranged away from the clean room interface. A transfer subsystem removes wafers from supporting carriers, and positions both the wafers and carriers onto a carrousel which is used as an inventory storage. Wafers are shuttled between the inventory and processing stations by a robotic conveyor which is oriented to move toward and away from the interface end. The system processes the wafers without wafer carriers.
Claims We claim: 1. A semiconductor processor for processing semiconductor articles, comprising: an enclosure for providing a substantially enclosed work space therewithin; at least one carrousel mounted within the enclosure for holding semiconductor articles thereon; at least one article transfer for transferring articles from an article carrier for support upon said at least one carrousel; a plurality of processing stations; said processing stations having access openings which open to the work space to allow installation and removal of articles relative to said processing stations; at least one conveyor for conveying said articles to and from said plurality of processing stations and said at least one carrousel. 2. A semiconductor processor according to claim 1 wherein said at least one carrousel includes a plurality of article supports arranged thereon for holding the semiconductor articles. 3. A semiconductor processor according to claim 1 wherein said at least one carrousel includes a plurality of article supports arranged thereon for holding the semiconductor articles in batches of multiple articles which are conveyed by said conveyor. 4. A semiconductor processor according to claim 1 wherein said at least one carrousel includes: a plurality of article supports arranged thereon for holding the semiconductor articles; a plurality of carrier supports arranged thereon for holding the article carriers. 5. A semiconductor processor according to claim 1 wherein: a) said at least one carrousel includes: a plurality of article supports arranged thereon for directly engaging and holding the semiconductor articles; a plurality of carrier supports arranged thereon for holding the article carriers; b) said at least one conveyor includes at least one engagement head having engagement head article supports which directly engage and simultaneously move a batch including plural semiconductor articles between the plurality of article supports on the at least one carrousel, and the plurality of processing stations. 6. A semiconductor processor according to claim 1 wherein said at least one conveyor includes at least one engagement head having article supports which directly engage the semiconductor articles. 7. A semiconductor processor according to claim 1 wherein said conveyor includes a conveyor tram carriage movably mounted upon a frame. 8. A semiconductor processor according to claim 1 wherein said conveyor includes a mechanical arm assembly; said mechanical arm assembly having: a conveyor tram carriage movably mounted upon a frame; an upper arm portion mounted upon said conveyor tram carriage for pivotal motion at a shoulder pivot; a lower arm portion connected to the upper arm portion for pivotal motion at an elbow pivot; a hand portion connected to the lower arm portion for pivotal motion at a wrist pivot; an engagement head connected to the hand portion. 9. A semiconductor processor according to claim 1 wherein said plurality of processing stations includes at least one centrifugal processing station. 10. A semiconductor processor according to claim 1 wherein said plurality of processing stations includes at least one centrifugal processing station having an access opening with a processing closure mounted to controllably open and close the access opening. 11. A semiconductor processor for processing semiconductor articles, comprising: an enclosure for providing a substantially enclosed work space therewithin; at least one carrousel mounted within the enclosure for holding semiconductor articles thereon; at least one processing station; said at least one processing station having at least one access opening which opens to the work space to allow installation and removal of articles relative to said at least one processing station; at least one conveyor for conveying said articles to and from said at least one processing station and said at least one carrousel; wherein said at least one carrousel includes a plurality of article supports arranged thereon for holding the semiconductor articles in batches of multiple articles which are conveyed by said conveyor. 12. A semiconductor processor according to claim 11 wherein said at least one carrousel includes: a plurality of carrier supports arranged thereon for holding the article carriers. 13. A semiconductor processor according to claim 11 wherein: a) said at least one carrousel includes: a plurality of carrier supports arranged thereon for holding the article carriers; b) said at least one conveyor includes at least one engagement head having engagement head article supports which directly engage and simultaneously move a batch including plural semiconductor articles between the plurality of article supports on the at least one carrousel, and the plurality of processing stations. 14. A semiconductor processor according to claim 11 wherein said at least one conveyor includes at least one engagement head having article supports which directly engage the semiconductor articles. 15. A semiconductor processor according to claim 11 wherein said conveyor includes a conveyor tram carriage movably mounted upon a frame. 16. A semiconductor processor according to claim 11 wherein said conveyor includes a mechanical arm assembly; said mechanical arm assembly having: a conveyor tram carriage movably mounted upon a frame; an upper arm portion mounted upon said conveyor tram carriage for pivotal motion at a shoulder pivot; a lower arm portion connected to the upper arm portion for pivotal motion at an elbow pivot; a hand portion connected to the lower arm portion for pivotal motion at a wrist pivot; an engagement head connected to the hand portion. 17. A semiconductor processor according to claim 11 wherein said at least one processing station includes at least one centrifugal processing station. 18. A semiconductor processor according to claim 11 wherein said at least one processing station includes at least one centrifugal processing station having an access opening with a processing closure mounted to controllably open and close the access opening. 19. A semiconductor processor for processing semiconductor articles, comprising: a frame; an enclosure for providing a substantially enclosed work space therewithin; at least one carrousel mounted within the enclosure for holding semiconductor articles thereon; at least one processing station; said at least one processing station having at least one access opening which opens to the work space to allow installation and removal of articles relative to said at least one processing station; at least one conveyor for conveying said articles to and from said at least one processing station and said at least one carrousel; a semiconductor article transfer for transferring semiconductor articles from an article carrier to said at least one carrousel, comprising: at least one first carriage mounted upon said frame for movement relative thereto, said first carriage having features for supporting at least one article carrier thereon; at least one second carriage mounted upon said frame for movement relative thereto, said second carriage having features for supporting at least one article thereon; said at least one first carriage and said at least one second carriage being mounted so as to allow the at least one second carriage to move relative to the at least one first carriage to remove or reinstall articles relative to an article carrier supported by the at least one first carriage. 20. A semiconductor processor according to claim 19 wherein said at least one carrousel includes a plurality of article supports arranged thereon for holding the semiconductor articles. 21. A semiconductor processor according to claim 19 wherein said at least one carrousel includes a plurality of article supports arranged thereon for holding the semiconductor articles in batches of multiple articles which are conveyed by said conveyor. 22. A semiconductor processor according to claim 19 wherein said at least one carrousel includes: a plurality of article supports arranged thereon for holding the semiconductor articles; a plurality of carrier supports arranged thereon for holding the article carriers. 23. A semiconductor processor according to claim 19 wherein: a) said at least one carrousel includes: a plurality of article supports arranged thereon for directly engaging and holding the semiconductor articles; a plurality of carrier supports arranged thereon for holding the article carriers; b) said at least one conveyor includes at least one engagement head having engagement head article supports which directly engage and simultaneously move a batch including plural semiconductor articles between the plurality of article supports on the at least one carrousel, and the plurality of processing stations. 24. A semiconductor processor according to claim 19 wherein said at least one conveyor includes at least one engagement head having article supports which directly engage the semiconductor articles. 25. A semiconductor processor according to claim 19 wherein said conveyor includes a conveyor tram carriage movably mounted upon a frame. 26. A semiconductor processor according to claim 19 wherein said conveyor includes a mechanical arm assembly; said mechanical arm assembly having: a conveyor tram carriage movably mounted upon a frame; an upper arm portion mounted upon said conveyor tram carriage for pivotal motion at a shoulder pivot; a lower arm portion connected to the upper arm portion for pivotal motion at an elbow pivot; a hand portion connected to the lower arm portion for pivotal motion at a wrist pivot; an engagement head connected to the hand portion. 27. A semiconductor processor according to claim 19 wherein said at least one processing station includes at least one centrifugal processing station. 28. A semiconductor processor according to claim 19 wherein said at least one processing station includes at least one centrifugal processing station having an access opening with a processing closure mounted to controllably open and close the access opening. 29. A semiconductor article transfer according to claim 19 wherein at least portions of said at least one second carriage is extendible through portions of said at least one first carriage to lift semiconductor articles from the article carrier. 30. A semiconductor article transfer according to claim 19 wherein there are a plurality of first and second carriages. 31. A semiconductor article transfer according to claim 19 and further comprising a lateral stage having movable portions upon which the at least one first carriage and the at least one second carriage are mounted to allow lateral movement thereof. 32. A semiconductor article transfer according to claim 19 and further comprising a lateral stage having movable portions upon which the at least one first carriage and the at least one second carriage are mounted to allow lateral movement thereof; wherein said at least one first carriage and said at least one second carriage are constructed to move the article carriers and semiconductor articles upwardly or downwardly. 