A method and apparatus for accurately positioning parts precisely in a predetermined location, including a frame having a part receiving zone on which said parts are placed for movement to the predetermined location. Two positioners are mounted on linear bearings connected to the frame and are connected to a cable for opposed motion toward and away from the part on the receiving zone under control of the cable. The cable is trained around a four pulleys mounted on said frame and connected to a cable cylinder. The cable passes axially through cylinder and connects to a piston on the centerline of the piston. Movement of the piston in one direction in the cylinder is operative to move the cable and the attached positioners toward each other to center the part. Movement of the piston in the opposite direction moves the positioners away from each other to release the part.
Claims Obviously, numerous modifications and variations of the preferred embodiment of the invention will occur to those skilled in the art in view of this disclosure. Accordingly, it is expressly to be understood that these variations and modifications, and the equivalents thereof, may be practiced while remaining within the spirit and scope of the claims, wherein I claim: 1. An apparatus for accurately positioning parts precisely in a predetermined location, comprising: a frame having a pan receiving zone on which said pans are placed and a plurality of pulleys mounted on said frame; a cable trained around said pulleys; two positioners mounted on said frame and connected to said cable for opposed motion toward and away from said part receiving zone under control of said cable; and a motive device coupled to said cable and operative to move said cable in one direction to move said positioners toward each other to center said part, and in the opposite direction to move said positioners away form each other to release said part, said motive device including an air cylinder coupled to said cable, said air cylinder including a piston connected to said cable and said cable extending through said cylinder and through seals at both ends of said cylinder. 2. An apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein: said plurality of pulleys include four pulleys in a linear arrangement, and wherein said cable is arranged around said four pulleys in two adjacent loops in a figure "8" configuration, each loop being arranged around two of said four pulleys and having an upper run and a lower run; and each of said positioners is connected to said cable on the same run of each of said loops. 3. An apparatus as defined in claim 1, further comprising: connectors for connecting said cable to said positioners; and a guide means connected to each of said positioners and to said frame for guiding said positioners along a predetermined path toward and away from said part. 4. An apparatus as defined in claim 3, wherein: said guide means includes a linear bearing attached to each of said positioners, and a rail fastened to said frame with which each of said linear bearings is engaged. 5. An apparatus as defined in claim 4, wherein: said plurality of pulleys include four pulleys in a linear arrangement, and wherein said cable is arranged around said four pulleys in two adjacent loops in a figure "8" configuration, each loop being arranged around two of said four pulleys and having an upper run and a lower run; each of said positioners is connected to said cable on an upper run of each of said loops; and said air cylinder is at a slight angle to said rail to enable said upper run of each of said loops to lie parallel to said rail. 6. An apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein: said positioners each include a roller on the end of a spring loaded arm pinned to a base having a ramp surface ending in an abutting surface facing said receiving zone, with said roller positioned over said ramp surface; whereby, when said positioners close on said part, said ramp surfaces cam said part up off said receiving zone to a reference position centered between said abutting surfaces, and said rollers hold said part down against said ramp surfaces while said air cylinder holds said abutting surfaces against said part, thereby centering said part between said abutting surfaces. 7. A method of accurately positioning parts precisely in a predetermined location and orientation, comprising: placing a part against a reference surface on a base; energizing an actuator to move a cable in one direction along its length around a plurality of pulleys; moving a pair of positioners in opposite directions toward said part attached to said cable, by moving said cable; engaging opposite sides of said part with said positioners and camming said part up along a ramp surface on each of said positioners and engaging opposite ends of said part with an abutment on each of said positioners to lift said part to a reference position and center said part between said positioners; gripping said part while in said centered position; and energizing said actuator to move said cable along its length, in the direction opposite said one direction, to move said positioners apart and release said part. 8. A method as defined in claim 7, wherein said gripping comprises: holding said part down against said ramp surface and holding said abutments against said opposite ends of said part with a biasing force to prevent inadvertent movement away from said predetermined location and orientation. 9. A method as defined in claim 7, wherein: said energizing includes applying air pressure on one side of an air piston in a cylinder; and exerting force on said cable with said piston. 10. A method as defined in claim 9, wherein: exerting said force by said piston on said cable axially along said cable by a connection of said cable to said piston at the axial center of said piston. 11. A method as defined in claim 7, wherein said energizing includes the step of: moving said cable along a figure-8 path of travel around said pulleys. 12. A cable-operated opposed motion device, comprising: a cable actuator attached to a base, said cable actuator having a cylinder and a piston disposed coaxially in said cylinder; a first pair of pulleys, one at each end of said cylinder; and a cable trained around both pulleys and connected to said piston along said axial center of said piston; a second pair of pulleys attached to said base approximately in line with said first pair of pulleys; said cable trained around both pulleys of said second pair and crossed between said two pairs of pulleys in a FIG. 8 configuration; two carriages, one each connected to the same run of cable between said first and second pair of pulleys; whereby pressurizing said cylinder on one side of said piston moves said piston and said cable in one direction axially in said cylinder, moving said carriages toward each other; and pressurizing said cylinder on the other side of said piston moves said piston and said cable in the opposite direction axially in said cylinder, moving said carriages away from each other. 