An improved optical inspection system for detecting flaws on a diffractive surface containing surface patterns includes: an ultraviolet illumination means for illuminating a region on the diffractive surface to generate a scattered intensity distribution in response to either a flaw or a surface pattern; means for detecting the intensity level of the scattered intensity distribution at a plurality of locations about the diffractive surface; means for establishing a minimum detected intensity level; means, responsive to the minimum detected intensity level, for indicating the absence of a flaw on the illuminated region of the diffractive surface when the minimum detected intensity level is below a threshold intensity level and for indicating the presence of a flaw on the illuminated region of the diffractive surface when the minimum detected intensity level exceeds the threshold intensity level; and means for moving the diffractive surface to generate a scan pattern on the diffractive surface to inspect the entire surface.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An improved optical inspection system for detecting flaws on a diffractive surface containing surface patterns, comprising: an ultraviolet illumination means for illuminating a region on the diffractive surface with a stationary ultraviolet beam to generate a scattered intensity distribution in response to either a flaw or a surface pattern; means for detecting the intensity level of said scattered intensity distribution at a plurality of locations about the diffractive surface; means, responsive to said means for detecting, for establishing a minimum detected intensity level; means, responsive to said minimum detected intensity level, for indicating the absence of a flaw on the illuminated region of the diffractive surface when said minimum detected intensity level is below a threshold intensity level and for indicating the presence of a flaw on the illuminated region of the diffractive surface when said minimum detected intensity level exceeds said threshold intensity level; and means for moving the diffractive surface to generate a scan pattern on the diffractive surface to inspect the surface; said means for moving includes means for positioning the diffractive surface in a first position with respect to said ultraviolet illumination means for conducting a first inspection of the diffractive surface and for positioning the diffractive surface in a second position with respect to said ultraviolet illumination means for conducting a second inspection of the diffractive surface to insure full inspection of the surface. 2. The improved optical inspection system of claim 1 in which said ultraviolet illumination means includes an ultraviolet laser which provides an ultraviolet laser beam for illuminating the diffractive surface. 3. The improved optical inspection system of claim 2 in which said ultraviolet laser is a stationary ultraviolet laser. 4. The improved optical inspection system of claim 2 in which said ultraviolet laser projects an elliptical beam spot on the diffractive surface. 5. The improved optical inspection system of claim 2 in which said ultraviolet laser beam impinges on the diffractive surface at an angle of approximately 60.degree. from normal to the surface. 6. The improved optical inspection system of claim 2 in which said means for moving includes means for rotating and translating the diffractive surface to establish a spiral trace including a plurality of revolutions of said ultraviolet laser beam on the diffractive surface. 7. The improved optical inspection system of claim 6 in which the beam width is at least as large as the beam trace pitch to ensure inspection of the regions between revolutions of the trace. 8. The improved optical inspection system of claim 7 in which said beam trace pitch is no greater than approximately 3 micrometers. 9. The improved optical inspection system of claim 1 in which said means for illuminating includes reflective means for directing and focusing the illumination on the diffractive surface. 10. The improved optical inspection system of claim 9 in which said reflective means includes a mirror. 11. The improved optical inspection system of claim 10 in which said mirror is an off-axis parabolic mirror. 12. The improved optical inspection system of claim 1 in which said means for detecting includes a first detector at a first location proximate the diffractive surface for detecting the intensity level of said scattered intensity distribution at said first location and a second detector at a second location proximate the diffractive surface for detecting the intensity level of said scattered intensity distribution at said second location. 13. The improved optical inspection system of claim 1 in which said means for detecting are positioned at locations about the diffractive surface where the intensity level of the scattered intensity distribution from the surface pattern is expected to be below said threshold intensity level. 14. The improved optical inspection system of claim 1 further including means, responsive to said minimum detected intensity level, for determining flaw size. 15. The improved optical inspection system of claim 14 in which said means for moving includes encoder means for determining the position of the illuminated region on the diffractive surface. 16. The improved optical inspection system of claim 15 further including means, responsive to said means for indicating and said means for determining the position of the illuminated region, for storing the locations of the flaws detected. 17. The improved optical inspection system of claim 16 further including means for determining the regions on the diffractive surface covered by a pellicle frame and the regions on the diffractive surface external of said pellicle frame. 18. The improved optical inspection system of claim 17 further including means, responsive to said means for determining the regions on the diffractive surface covered by the pellicle frame and the regions on the diffractive surface external of said pellicle frame, for discarding information from said means for detecting at said regions on the diffractive surface. 19. The improved optical inspection system of claim 15 further including means, responsive to said means for determining flaw size and said means for determining the position of the illuminated region on the surface, for storing the location and size of the flaws detected. 20. The improved optical inspection system of claim 19 further including means for displaying the locations of the flaws detected. 21. An improved optical inspection method for detecting flaws on a diffractive surface containing surface patterns, comprising: illuminating a region on the diffractive surface with ultraviolet illumination to generate a scattered intensity distribution in response to either a flaw or a surface pattern, said ultraviolet illuminating said region with a stationary ultraviolet beam; detecting the intensity level of said scattered intensity distribution at a plurality of locations about the diffractive surface; establishing a minimum detected intensity level; indicating the absence of a flaw on the illuminated region of the diffractive surface when said minimum detected intensity level is below a threshold level and the presence of a flaw on the illuminated region of the diffractive surface when said minimum detected intensity level exceeds said threshold intensity level; positioning the diffractive surface in a first position with respect to said ultraviolet illumination; moving the diffractive surface to generate a first scan pattern on the diffractive surface; positioning the diffractive surface in a second position with respect to said ultraviolet illumination; and moving the diffractive surface to generate a second scan pattern on the diffractive surface to insure full inspection of the surface. 22. The improved optical inspection method of claim 21 in which the step of illuminating includes providing an ultraviolet laser beam to the diffractive surface. 23. The improved optical inspection method of claim 22 in which the step of providing an ultraviolet laser beam includes providing a stationary ultraviolet laser beam. 24. The improved optical inspection method of claim 22 in which the step of providing an ultraviolet laser beam includes projecting an elliptical beam spot onto the diffractive surface. 25. The improved optical inspection method of claim 22 in which the step of providing an ultraviolet laser beam includes directing the ultraviolet laser beam to the surface at an angle of approximately 60.degree. from normal to the surface. 26. The improved optical inspection method of claim 22 in which the step of moving includes rotating and translating the diffractive surface to establish a spiral trace with a plurality of revolutions of said ultraviolet laser beam on the diffractive surface. 27. The improved optical inspection method of claim 26 in which the step of rotating and translating includes overlapping each said revolution of said spiral trace with adjacent revolutions to insure inspection of the regions between each revolution. 28. The improved optical inspection method of claim 26 in which the step of rotating and translating includes spacing said revolutions no greater than approximately 3 micrometers apart. 29. The improved optical inspection method of claim 21 in which the step of detecting includes detecting the intensity level of said scattered intensity distribution at a first location proximate the diffractive surface and detecting the intensity level of said scattered intensity distribution at a second location proximate the diffractive surface. 30. The improved optical inspection method of claim 21 in which the step of detecting includes detecting the intensity level of said scattered intensity distribution at locations about the diffractive surface where the intensity level of the scattered intensity distribution from the surface pattern is expected to be below said threshold intensity level. 31. The improved optical inspection method of claim 21 further including determining flaw size. 32. The improved optical inspection method of claim 31 in which the step of moving includes determining the position of the illuminated region on the diffractive surface. 33. The improved optical inspection method of claim 32 further including storing the locations of the flaws detected. 34. The improved optical inspection method of claim 33 further including displaying the locations of the flaws detected. 35. The improved optical inspection method of claim 33 further including determining the regions on the diffractive surface covered by a pellicle frame and the regions on the diffractive surface external of said pellicle frame. 36. The improved optical inspection method of claim 35 in which the step of determining the regions on the diffractive surface covered by the pellicle frame and the regions on the diffractive surface external of said pellicle frame includes discarding detected intensity levels from said regions on the diffractive surface. 37. The improved optical inspection method of claim 32 further including storing the locations and sizes of the flaws detected. 38. An improved optical inspection system for detecting flaws on a diffractive surface containing surface patterns, comprising: an ultraviolet illumination means for illuminating a region on the diffractive surface to generate a scattered intensity distribution in response to either a flaw or a surface pattern; means for detecting the intensity level of said scattered intensity distribution at a plurality of locations about the diffractive surface; means, responsive to said means for detecting, for establishing a minimum detected intensity level; means, responsive to said minimum detected intensity level, for indicating the absence of a flaw on the illuminated region of the diffractive surface when said minimum detected intensity level is below a threshold intensity level and for indicating the presence of a flaw on the illuminated region of the diffractive surface when said minimum detected intensity level exceeds said threshold intensity level; means for moving the diffractive surface to generate a scan pattern on the diffractive surface to inspect the diffractive surface; and means for determining the regions on the diffractive surface covered by a pellicle frame and the regions on the diffractive surface external of said pellicle frame. 39. The improved optical inspection system of claim 38 further including means, responsive to said means for determining the regions on the diffractive surface covered by the pellicle frame and the regions on the diffractive surface external of said pellicle frame, for discarding information from said means for detecting at said regions on the diffractive surface. 40. An improved optical inspection method for detecting flaws on a diffractive surface containing surface patterns, comprising: illuminating a region on the diffractive surface with ultraviolet illumination to generate a scattered intensity distribution in response to either a flaw or a surface pattern; detecting the intensity level of said scattered intensity distribution at a plurality of locations about the diffractive surface; establishing a minimum detected intensity level; indicating the absence of a flaw on the illuminated region of the diffractive surface when said minimum detected intensity level is below a threshold level and the presence a flaw on the illuminated region of the diffractive surface when said minimum detected intensity level exceeds said threshold intensity level; moving the diffractive surface to generate a scan pattern on the diffractive surface to inspect the diffractive surface; and determining the regions on the diffractive surface covered by a pellicle frame and the regions on the diffractive surface external of said pellicle frame. 41. The improved optical inspection method of claim 40 in which the step of determining the regions on the diffractive surface covered by the pellicle frame and the regions on the diffractive surface external of said pellicle frame includes discarding detected intensity levels from said regions on the diffractive surface. 