An implement for automatically milking animals, such as cows, comprising a robotic mechanism, two computers each having a display screen and keyboard, the implement having a plurality of exchangeable parts provided with signalling means to transmit information when an exchangeable part is malfunctioning, the signalling means also identifying the malfunctioning part on one of the display screens of a computer. An emergency electrical battery is provided at an individual parlor containing the implement for providing electrical power in the event of failure of the main power, a computer provided for closing down non-vital functions in the event of such power failure or of malfunctioning of the part or parts concerned. The set of teat cups which are automatically installed and removed from the farm animal being milked can also be individually installed manually on the animal's teats, and a second set of teat cups for similar manual installation and removal is also provided, including conduits for pulsating the teat cups connected to a vacuum source, and for conveying milk received in the teat cups to a receptacle.
Claims Having thus disclosed my invention, what I claim as new and to be secured by Letters Patent of the United States is: 1. An implement for automatically milking an animal, such as a cow, which comprises: a milking robot, said milking robot comprising milking means that include a plurality of cups for receiving the animal's teats positioning means for automatically attaching and removing said cups to and from the animal's teats, and pulsation means for pulsating said cups and conduit means for withdrawing milk from the animal's teats when said cups are receiving milk therefrom; a computer, including a display screen, a plurality of exchangeable parts comprising said milking means and said cups in said milking means, signalling means for each said exchangeable part for signalling when such corresponding exchangeable part is malfunctioning, said computer receiving a signal transmitted from each said signalling means when the corresponding part is malfunctioning, said display screen manifesting which said part of said exchangeable parts is malfunctioning. 2. An implement in accordance with claim 1, wherein said computer includes a memory, said signalling means transmitting a unique information signal to said memory for each said exchangeable part that is malfunctioning. 3. An implement in accordance with claim 1, comprising a rapidly releasable coupling which releasably couples at least one of said exchangeable parts to the remainder of the implement. 4. An implement in accordance with claim 1, comprising selection means including a panel, a plurality of switches in said panel, said switches controlling said exchangeable parts for selectively placing them in operation or taking them from operation. 5. An implement for automatically milking an animal, such as a cow, comprising a plurality of exchangeable parts, which comprise: teat cups for receiving the animal's teats; positioning means operable to attach and remove said teat cups from said animal's teat; milking means for pulsating said teat cups and withdrawing milk from the animal's teats when said teat cups are received thereon; and cleansing and rinsing means for cleaning and rinsing said milking means when said teat cups are not received by the animal's teats; and the implement further comprising: rapid release couplings connecting each of said exchangeable parts to the remainder of the implement. 6. An implement in accordance with claim 5, comprising a computer having a display means and a memory, each of said exchangeable parts being provided with signalling means for separately signalling when each of said exchangeable parts malfunctions, each of said exchangeable parts being identified by indicia applied thereto, such as letters or figures, said indicia means being stored in said computer's memory, said memory depicting on said display means a diagram of said exchangeable parts, said diagram identifying said exchangeable parts therein by the same indicia that is applied on the corresponding said exchangeable part. 7. An implement in accordance with claim 6, associated with a service department, communication means interconnecting said signalling means for each said interchangeable part with said service department and also identifying the implement at said service department, whereby said service department receives information from said computer when one of said exchangeable parts has malfunctioned identifying the specific interchangeable part and the implement on which it is installed. 8. An implement in accordance with claim 7, wherein said signalling means are arranged in a hierarchy which distinguishes more serious malfunctions from less serious malfunctions. 9. An implement in accordance with claim 8, wherein said signalling means for the more serious malfunctions comprise lamp means for radiating red electromagnetic emissions incorporated in said signalling means and indicating the seriousness of any malfunction which said signalling means detects. 10. An implement in accordance with claim 8 wherein means for generating a sound is incorporated in said signalling means, said sound controlled by said signalling means to indicate the seriousness of the malfunction detected by said signalling means. 11. An implement in accordance with claim 6, comprising a communication line from said computer, and a second display screen connected thereto, said second display screen manifesting essentially the same display as said first mentioned display screen, and being located at a place remote from said first mentioned display screen. 12. An implement in accordance with claim 6, wherein the indicia for each of said exchangeable parts comprises numbers. 13. An implement in accordance with claim 5, comprising a plurality of readily detachable circuit boards, at least one of said circuit boards being associated with each said exchangeable part, said memory including the circuit of each of said circuit boards, said circuit of each said circuit board being depictable on said display screen, said signalling means signalling said computer whenever one of said circuit boards is malfunctioning and identifying such malfunction on the depiction of said circuit board depicted on said display screen. 14. An implement in accordance with claim 5, wherein said rapid release coupling comprises a locking pin having a handle. 15. An implement in accordance with claim 5, wherein said rapid release coupling comprises a bayonet catch. 16. An implement in accordance with claim 5, wherein said rapid release coupling comprises a clamp. 17. An implement in accordance with claim 5, comprising at least ten said exchangeable parts. 18. An implement in accordance with claim 5, wherein the majority of said exchangeable parts comprise mechanical components of the implement. 19. An implement in accordance with claim 5, wherein said exchangeable parts comprise sensors and a laser device for determining the position of each of the animal's teats which is to be milked. 20. An implement in accordance with claim 5, wherein said exchangeable parts comprise circuits including electronic components. 21. An implement in accordance with claim 5, which further comprises a milking robot which carries said teat cups, a first computer and a second computer, said first computer controlling said milking robot. 22. An implement in accordance with claim 21, wherein said second computer identifies and provides data concerning the animal being milked. 23. An implement in accordance with claim 22, wherein said first computer and said second computer operate substantially independent of each other. 24. An implement in accordance with claim 23, comprising at least one modem, said modem interconnecting at least one of said computers with a communicating system for communicating information from said one computer to a location remote from the implement. 25. An implement in accordance with claim 5, comprising a milking robot, a teat cup carrier member mounted on said milking robot, said teat cup carrier member carrying said teat cups, said teat cup carrier member comprising a sensor connected to send a signal to said computer if said teat cup carrier member contacts a floor under said milking robot. 26. An implement in accordance with claim 5, comprising switching means and a further set of teat cups connected to said switching means, said switching means providing for switching from an automatically operated milking operation to a manual operation. 