A method and apparatus for processing and assembling a plurality of small parts weighing under five pounds using a robot employing a rotatable pallet for holding an array of small parts. Said rotatable pallet being held in place on the robot wrist head, which moves the pallet through a plurality of stationary work-stations located within the operating envelope of the robot, and rotates the pallet at each work-station to index the pallet and to present it to the work-station for an operation on a specific part or parts. Said robot participates in the work-station tasks by moving the rotatable pallet in the X, Y, and Z directions as needed. Movable data pins are used to indicate conditions of individual parts in nests, and of the pallet taken as a whole.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for performing work-station processes in a robot work cell, the work cell comprising a plurality of processing work-stations disposed within a work envelope of a robot, the method comprising the steps of: a. providing said robot with a wrist joint rotatable in a horizontal plane and a pallet gripping robot end effector mounted to said wrist joint; b. providing a circular pallet containing a plurality of work-pieces in a plurality of nests disposed in a circular array around said pallet, said pallet including a bar code thereon to identify said pallet and the work-pieces in said work-piece nests; c. gripping said circular pallet with said end effector; d. selecting a sequence of operations to be performed on selected work-pieces within said circular pallet; e. moving said circular pallet among selected work-stations based on said selected sequence of operations; f. at each selected work-station, performing an operation on said selected said work-pieces; g. indexing between selected work-pieces at said selected work-stations primarily by rotating and moving said circular pallet through rotation and horizontal motion of the robot end effector; and h. repeating steps (d) through (g) for all selected work-stations and all selected work-pieces. 2. A method in accordance with claim 1 further comprising the steps of: a. removing a work-piece from a work-piece nest of said circular pallet; b. reorienting said work-piece by means not attached to said robot end effector; and c. replacing said work-piece back into said work-piece nest. 3. A method in accordance with claim 1 further comprising the steps of: a. removing a work-piece from a work-piece nest of said circular pallet; and b. placing said work-piece into a different work-piece nest. 4. A method in accordance with claim 1 further comprising the steps of: a. providing a bar code reader at one of said selected work stations, said bar code reader being in communication with a factory computer data base system; and b. reading said bar code with said bar code reader when said circular pallet is moved to said selected work-station to thereby associate the identity and condition of said work-pieces in said nests in said circular pallet with corresponding identities and conditions in said data base system. 5. A method for performing work-station processes in a robot work cell, the work cell comprising a plurality of processing work-stations disposed within a work envelope of a robot, the method comprising the steps of: a. providing said robot with a wrist joint rotatable in a horizontal plane and a pallet gripping robot end effector mounted to said wrist joint; b. providing a rotatable pallet containing a plurality of work-pieces in a plurality of nests disposed in an array around said pallet, said pallet including an identifying means thereon to identify said pallet and the work-pieces in said work-piece nests; c. gripping said rotatable pallet with said end effector; d. selecting a sequence of operations to be performed on selected work-pieces within said rotatable pallet; e. moving said rotatable pallet among selected work-stations based on said selected sequence of operations; f. at each selected work-station, performing an operation on said selected said work-pieces; g. indexing between selected work-pieces at said selected work-stations primarily by rotating and moving said rotatable pallet through rotation and horizontal motion of the robot end effector; and h. repeating steps (d) through (g) for all selected work-stations and all selected work-pieces. 6. A method in accordance with claim 5 further comprising the steps of: a. removing a work-piece from a work-piece nest of said rotatable pallet; b. reorienting said work-piece by means not attached to said robot end effector; and c. replacing said work-piece back into said work-piece nest. 7. A method in accordance with claim 5 further comprising the steps of: a. removing a work-piece from a work-piece nest of said rotatable pallet; and b. placing said work-piece into a different work-piece nest. 8. A method in accordance with claim 5 further comprising the steps of: a. providing an identifying reader means at one of said selected work stations, the identifying reader means being in communication with a factory computer data base system; and b. reading said identifying means with said identifying reader means when said rotatable pallet is moved to said selected work-station to thereby associate the identity and condition of said work-pieces in said nests in said rotatable pallet with corresponding identities and conditions in said data base system. 9. A method in accordance with claim 5 wherein said rotatable pallet is rectangular. 10. A method in accordance with claim 5 wherein said rotatable pallet is non-circular. 