The methods and devices of the invention include an encoder, an endoscopic robotic instrument, and an encoder/robotic instrument interface. A preferred embodiment of the encoder has a chest/shoulder plate provided with telescoping tubes and joints. Each joint is provided with a direct drive potentiometer to monitor movement and provide a corresponding signal. The chest plate is preferably adaptable to a large range of human chest sizes and the telescopic segments are strapped to the arms of the practitioner at the elbows. A pistol grip is provided at the wrist end of the telescopic segments. According to the presently preferred embodiment, the encoder encodes flexion and rotation at the shoulder, elbow and wrist of each arm in addition to gripping at each hand. The encoding device is coupled to a circuit which operates a servo system. The servo system includes a series of servo motors. A series of pulleys corresponding to the number of servo motors are arranged in a housing. The robotic instrument preferably comprises two arms mounted at the distal end of a multi-lumen tube. Each arm has rotational and flexional joints corresponding to the shoulder, elbow, and wrist of the practitioner. Tendons are coupled to the pulleys of the servo motors and are fed through the multi-lumen tube to the joints of the two arms.
Claims We claim: 1. An endoscopic surgical instrument for use by a medical practitioner to perform an endoscopic procedure at a surgical site within a body of a patient, said instrument comprising: a) encoder means for encoding movements of a first arm of the practitioner; b) controller means coupled to said encoder means for translating the movements of the first arm of the practitioner into a transmissible signal; c) drive means coupled to said controller means for generating mechanical energy in response to said transmissible signal; and d) a first robotic arm having a plurality of joints, locatable within the body, and having a first end effector, wherein said drive means is coupled to said first robotic arm for transmitting mechanical energy to said first robotic arm to follow at least some of the movements of the first arm of the practitioner. 2. An endoscopic surgical instrument according to claim 1, further comprising: e) visual feedback means for providing a visual image of the surgical site to the practitioner. 3. An endoscopic surgical instrument according to claim 1, further comprising: e) a second robotic arm having a plurality of joints, locatable within the body, and having a second end effector, wherein said encoder means encodes movements a second arm of the practitioner, said controller means translates the movements of the second arm of the practitioner into a transmissible signal, and said drive means is coupled to said second robotic arm for transmitting mechanical energy to said second robotic arm to follow at least some of the movements of the second arm of the practitioner. 4. An endoscopic surgical instrument according to claim 1, wherein: said first robotic arm has at least two rotational joints and at least two flexional joints. 5. An endoscopic surgical instrument according to claim 3, wherein: said first and second robotic arms each have at least two rotational joints and at least two flexional joints. 6. An endoscopic surgical instrument according to claim 1, wherein: said first robotic arm includes at least four of i) a shoulder rotational joint which replicates shoulder rotation of a respective arm of the practitioner; ii) a shoulder flexional joint which replicates shoulder flexion of a respective arm of the practitioner; iii) an upper arm rotational joint which replicates upper arm rotation of a respective arm of the practitioner; iv) an elbow flexional joint which replicates elbow flexion of a respective arm of the practitioner; v) a wrist rotational joint which replicates wrist rotation of a respective arm of the practitioner; and vi) a wrist flexional joint which replicates wrist flexion of a respective arm of the practitioner. 7. An endoscopic surgical instrument according to claim 3, wherein: said first and second robotic arms each includes at least four of i) a shoulder rotational joint which replicates shoulder rotation of a respective arm of the practitioner; ii) a shoulder flexional joint which replicates shoulder flexion of a respective arm of the practitioner; iii) an upper arm rotational joint which replicates upper arm rotation of a respective arm of the practitioner; iv) an elbow flexional joint which replicates elbow flexion of a respective arm of the practitioner; v) a wrist rotational joint which replicates wrist rotation of a respective arm of the practitioner; and vi) a wrist flexional joint which replicates wrist flexion of a respective arm of the practitioner. 8. An endoscopic surgical instrument according to claim 1, wherein: said first end effector is a gripper, said encoder means includes a first pistol grip, and said gripper closes in response to said pistol grip. 9. An endoscopic surgical instrument according to claim 3, wherein: said first and second end effectors are grippers, said encoder means includes first and second pistol grips, and said grippers close in response to said pistol grips. 10. An endoscopic surgical instrument according to claim 1, wherein: said encoder means comprises an exoskeleton having a plurality of joints, and a plurality of transducers coupled to said joints for encoding relative movement of said joints, said exoskeleton being attachable to the first arm of the practitioner so that movement of the first arm of the practitioner is tracked by said exoskeleton and encoded by said transducers. 11. An endoscopic surgical instrument according to claim 3, wherein: said encoder means comprises an exoskeleton having a plurality of joints, and a plurality of transducers coupled to said joints for encoding relative movement of said joints, said exoskeleton being attachable to the first and second arm of the practitioner so that movement of the first and second arms of the practitioner is tracked by said exoskeleton and encoded by said transducers. 12. An endoscopic surgical instrument according to claim 10, wherein: said transducers include potentiometers and said drive means include servo motors. 13. An endoscopic surgical instrument according to claim 12, wherein: at least some of said drive means are coupled to said first robotic arm by flexible tendons. 14. An endoscopic surgical instrument according to claim 11, wherein: said transducers include potentiometers and said drive means include servo motors. 15. An endoscopic surgical instrument according to claim 14, wherein: at least some of said drive means are coupled to said first and second robotic arms by flexible tendons. 