A data processing device includes a circuit having status conditions wherein a particular set of the status conditions can occur in operation of the circuit. An instruction register operates to hold a branch instruction conditional on a particular set of the status conditions. A decoder is connected to the instruction register and the circuit. A program counter is coupled to the decoder wherein the decoder is operable to enter a branch address into the program counter in response to the branch instruction when the particular set of the status conditions of the circuit are present. Other data processing devices, systems and methods are also disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A data processing device or system, comprising: a status register for containing values; an instruction pipeline operable to hold more than one instruction in an order to be executed, including a conditioning instruction and one or more conditioned instructions; wherein said conditioning instruction controls execution of said conditioned instructions as a function of values in said status register; a decoder connected to said instruction pipeline and said status register for decoding said conditioning instruction; and a control circuit responsive to said decoder to cause execution of said one or more conditioned instructions if a particular status condition of said conditioning instruction is present, or to cause said one or more conditioned instructions to be replaced by a null operation if said particular status condition of said conditioning instruction is not present. 2. A data processing device or system as in claim 1, wherein said conditioning instruction includes, a branch field for controlling branching of said one or more conditioned instructions and for avoiding branching over a subsequent instruction or series of instructions within said pipeline while said conditioning instruction executes; and a logical field for containing values for logical testing against values in said status register and wherein a result from logical testing of said logical field determines operations of said branch field. 3. A data processing device or system as in claim 1, wherein each of said one or more conditioned instructions includes a branch, a call, a return, or CPU instruction or series of instructions. 4. A data processing device or system as in claim 1, wherein said conditioning instruction includes, a first field for controlling execution of said one or more conditioned instructions and for avoiding branching over a subsequent instruction or series of instructions within said pipeline while said conditioning instruction executes; and a logical field for containing values for logical testing against values in said status register and wherein a result from logical testing of said logical field determines operations of said first field. 5. The data processing device or system of claim 1, further comprising, an electronic computation unit connected to said instruction pipeline. 6. The data processing device or system of claim 5, wherein said electronic computation unit is connected to an accumulator or a register for accumulation. 7. The data processing device or system of claim 5, further comprising, a video output circuit connected to said electronic computation unit, and a video display connected to said video output circuit. 8. The data processing device or system of claim 1, wherein said conditioning instruction includes locations for holding bits representative of status conditions. 9. The data processing device or system of claim 8, wherein said status conditions include contents relating to a predetermined value, overflow, and carry. 10. The data processing device or system of claim 1, wherein said conditioning instruction includes locations for holding masking bits. 11. The data processing device or system of claim 1, further comprising, an accumulator connected to said control circuit, and wherein said conditioning instruction includes locations for holding bits representative of status conditions. 12. The data processing device or system of claim 11, wherein said decoder includes circuitry for decoding predetermined locations corresponding to said status conditions. 13. The data processing device or system of claim 12, wherein said decoder further includes circuitry for decoding predetermined mask locations corresponding to said status conditions to selectively respond to certain ones of said conditions. 14. The data processing device or system of claim 11, wherein said decoder includes circuitry for decoding predetermined mask locations corresponding to said status conditions to selectively respond to certain ones of said conditions. 15. The data processing device or system of claim 1, further comprising, a memory for storing instructions at different addresses, an electronic computation unit connected to said instruction pipeline and to said decoder and wherein a particular set of status conditions may occur during the operation of said electronic computation unit, an address generator connected to said decoder for generating addresses in said memory in an incremental sequence and initiating successive transfers of the instructions at said addresses to said instruction pipeline, and wherein said decoder includes circuitry for decoding predetermined locations corresponding to said status conditions of said conditioning instruction and for signaling said address generator to supply an address that departs from said incremental sequence when a particular set of status conditions of said electronic computation unit are present. 16. The data processing device or system of claim 1, further comprising, an accumulator connected to said control circuit, and wherein said conditioning instruction includes locations for holding bits representative of status conditions of said accumulator. 17. A data processing device or system, comprising: an instruction pipeline operable to hold more than one instruction in an order to be executed, including a conditioning instruction and one or more conditioned instructions, and wherein said conditioning instruction controls execution of said conditioned instructions as a function of status conditions corresponding to status conditions occurring during operation of said device or system, a decoder connected to said instruction pipeline for decoding said conditioning instruction, and a control circuit responsive to said decoder to cause execution of said one or more conditioned instructions if a particular status condition of said conditioning instruction is present, or to cause said one or more conditioned instructions to be replaced by a null operation if said particular status condition of said conditioning instruction is not present. 