The electrical power supply cables (shunt cables) of a robotic welding machine are continuously monitored during welding operations to determine cable fatigue resulting from mechanical flexing and high electrical current flow. Increases in cable resistance, being representative of a fatigued cable, are determined by measuring voltage across the cables. When a threshold voltage level or threshold voltage increase is reached, a monitor outputs a signal alerting plant personnel of the fatigued cable. The alert signal may further provide plant personnel with a predetermined time to cold weld failure of the fatigued cable, allowing plant personnel to schedule replacement of the fatigued cable during production breaks or scheduled downtime. In one embodiment, robotic welders and associated cable monitors are networked to a centralized computer to identify and isolate fatigued cables.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A monitor for substantially continuously determining the operating condition of a shunt cable providing an electrical voltage and current to the weld tips of a welding machine, the monitor comprising: a plurality of electrical conductors connected to the shunt cable, producing electrical signals corresponding to voltage across the shunt cable; and a monitor unit for receiving the electrical signals, determining a shunt cable voltage across the shunt cable, comparing the shunt cable voltage to a first predetermined voltage threshold, and producing a first signal indicating cable fatigue when the shunt cable voltage exceeds the first predetermined voltage threshold. 2. The monitor of claim 1, wherein said first signal is an alert signal corresponding to a predetermined time to shunt cable failure. 3. The monitor of claim 1, wherein said first signal is a failure signal indicating the occurrence of a shunt cable failure resulting in insufficient current flow to the weld tips. 4. The monitor of claim 1, wherein said monitor unit further comprises a monitor unit for comparing the shunt cable voltage to a second predetermined voltage threshold that is greater than said first predetermined voltage threshold, producing a second signal indicating cable fatigue when the shunt cable voltage exceeds the second predetermined voltage threshold, wherein said first signal is an alert signal corresponding to a predetermined time to shunt cable failure and said second signal is a failure signal indicating the occurrence of a shunt cable failure resulting in insufficient current flow to the weld tips. 5. A system for monitoring the operating condition of robotic welding machine shunt cables, the system comprising: a plurality of robotic welding machines, each of said welding machine comprising: a pair of welding tips; a pair of shunt cables connected to said pair of welding tips for delivering an electrical voltage and current to said welding tips; and an electrical power source for providing said electrical voltage and current to said pair of shunt cables; a plurality of electrical conductors connected to each pair of shunt cables, producing electrical signals corresponding to voltages across each of the shunt cables; and a monitoring network connected to said plurality of electrical conductors, receiving said electrical signals, determining shunt cable voltages across each of said shunt cables, comparing the shunt cable voltages to a first predetermined voltage threshold, and producing a first signal corresponding to cable fatigue when at least one of said shunt cable voltages exceeds the first predetermined voltage threshold. 6. The system of claim 5, wherein said first signal is an alert signal corresponding to a predetermined time to shunt cable failure. 7. The system of claim 5, wherein said first signal is a failure signal indicating the occurrence of a shunt cable failure resulting in insufficient current flow to the weld tips. 8. The system of claim 5, wherein said monitoring network further comprises a monitoring network for comparing the shunt cable voltage to a second predetermined voltage threshold that is greater than said first predetermined voltage threshold, producing a second signal indicating cable fatigue when the shunt cable voltage exceeds the second predetermined threshold, wherein said first signal is an alert signal corresponding to a predetermined time to shunt cable failure and said second signal is a failure signal indicating the occurrence of a shunt cable failure resulting in insufficient current flow to the weld tips. 9. The system of claim 5, wherein said monitoring network comprises: a plurality of monitors, each of said monitors connected to unique ones of said electrical conductors, receiving the electrical signals of said unique ones of said electrical conductors, determining shunt cable voltages corresponding to the electrical signals, comparing the shunt cable voltages to predetermined thresholds, and producing the first signal corresponding to cable fatigue when a shunt cable voltage exceeds a predetermined voltage threshold; a plurality of monitoring units, each of said monitoring units connected to a unique one of said monitors for receiving and outputting said first signal; and a computer connected to said plurality of monitoring units for receiving first signals and providing to an operator an indication of cable fatigue when one or more first signals are received by said computer. 10. The system of claim 9, wherein said electrical power source of each welding machine further comprises a transformer, each of said monitors connected to unique ones of the transformers to determine whether said transformer is producing an electrical output, wherein said monitors determine a shunt cable voltage only when a transformer produces an electrical output. 11. A method of determining fatigue in a shunt cable for a welding machine, the method comprising the steps of: determining a shunt cable voltage across the shunt cable substantially continuously at least while the welding machine is welding; comparing said shunt cable voltage to a first predetermined voltage threshold; and producing a first signal corresponding to cable fatigue when the shunt cable voltage exceeds the first predetermined voltage threshold. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein said producing step further comprises producing a first signal corresponding to a predetermined time to shunt cable failure. 13. The method of claim 11, wherein said producing step further comprises producing a first signal indicating the occurrence of a shunt cable failure resulting in insufficient current flow to the welding machine. 14. The method of claim 11, further comprising the step of comparing said shunt cable voltage to a second predetermined voltage threshold that is greater than the first predetermined voltage threshold, wherein said first signal is an alert signal corresponding to a predetermined time to shunt cable failure and said second signal is a failure signal indicating the occurrence of a shunt cable failure resulting in insufficient current flow to the weld tips. 15. The method of claim 11, wherein said predetermined threshold is determined by: trending said shunt cable voltage over time to produce an average shunt cable voltage; and calculating a predetermined percentage of the average shunt cable voltage to produce the first predetermined voltage threshold. 16. A method of predicting the failure of any one or more of a plurality of shunt cables for a network of robotic welding machines, the method comprising the steps of: determining shunt cable voltages across each of the shunt cables substantially continuously during operation of the welding machines; comparing each shunt cable voltage to a predetermined voltage threshold; and producing a signal corresponding to cable fatigue when a shunt cable voltage exceeds a predetermined voltage threshold. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein said producing step further comprises producing a signal corresponding to a predetermined time to shunt cable failure when a shunt cable voltage exceeds a predetermined voltage threshold. 18. The method of claim 16, further comprising identifying which of the shunt cables has a shunt cable voltage exceeding the predetermined voltage threshold. 