An apparatus and method which provides a suitable location for multiple, simultaneous synthesis of compounds. The apparatus consists of: a reservoir block having a plurality of wells; a plurality of reaction tubes, usually gas dispersion tubes, having filters on their lower ends; a holder block, having a plurality of apertures; and a manifold, which my have ports to allow introduction/maintenance of a controlled environment. The manifold top wall has apertures and a detachable plate with identical apertures. The apparatus is constructed from materials which will accommodate heating, cooling, agitation, or corrosive reagents. Gaskets are placed between the components. Rods or clamps are provided for fastening the components together. Apparatus operation involves placing the filters on the lower ends of the reaction tubes in the reservoir block wells, and the upper ends passing through the holder block apertures and into the manifold. The apparatus provides in excess of 1 mg of each product with structural knowledge and control over each compound. The apparatus can be adapted to manual, semiautomatic or fully automatic performance. Using the apparatus a series of building blocks are covalently attached to a solid support. These building blocks are then modified by covalently adding additional different building blocks or chemically modifying some existing functionality until the penultimate structure is achieved. This is then cleaved from the solid support by another chemical reaction into the solution within the well yielding an array of newly synthesized individual compounds, which after postreaction modification, if necessary, are suitable for testing for activity.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus for multiple, simultaneous synthesis of compounds comprising: a plurality of reaction tubes, each reaction tube having an upper end and a lower end, said lower ends each having a filter device, a reservoir member having means for receiving the filter devices on the lower ends of said plurality of reaction tubes, a holder member removably located adjacent to the reservoir member having a plurality of apertures for supporting said plurality of reaction tubes, and a manifold member having a central cavity for enclosing the upper ends of said plurality of reaction tubes, said filter devices each having a lower portion, annular side surface portions and a hollow cavity therein. 2. The apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein said filter devices each comprise cup-shaped or hollow cavity fritted glass filters. 3. The apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein said hollow cavities of said filter devices have an inside diameter of from 1-24 mm. 4. The apparatus as set forth in claim 3 wherein said inside diameter is about 5 mm. 5. An apparatus for multiple, simultaneous synthesis of compounds, comprising: a plurality of reaction tubes, each reaction tube having an upper end and a lower end, a filter member positioned on said lower end of each of said reaction tubes, said filter members each having a hollow cavity therein; a reservoir member having at least one reaction well for receiving said lower end of each reaction tube and said filter member; a holder member removably located adjacent to the reservoir member, said holder member having a plurality of apertures for holding said plurality of reaction tubes therein, a manifold member located adjacent said holder member, said manifold enclosing said upper ends of said plurality of reaction tubes; a means for providing a seal between said holder member and said reservoir member; a means for providing a seal between said holder member and said manifold member; and means for releasably fastening together said manifold member, said holder member and said reservoir member. 6. The apparatus as set forth in claim 5 wherein said filter member comprises a fritted glass filter. 7. The apparatus as set forth in claim 5 wherein said filter members have an inside diameter of from 1-24 mm. 8. The apparatus as set forth in claim 7 wherein said filter member has an inside diameter of about 5 mm. 9. The apparatus as set forth in claim 7 wherein said filter member is substantially cylindrical in shape. 10. The apparatus as set forth in claim 9 wherein said filter member has an inside diameter of from 1-24 mm. 11. The apparatus as set forth in claim 5 wherein said filter member has a hollow cylindrical portion and a closed end portion. 