A scanning system inspects elements, such as ICs, continuously by positioning a second tray containing elements to be inspected adjacent a scan bed in which the elements in a first tray are being scanned. Immediately upon completion of scanning of elements in the first tray, scanning begins on elements in the second tray. During scanning of the second tray, the first tray is off loaded, and a third tray replaces the first tray. The cycle is repeated continuously. Since transport and scanning operations take place simultaneously, transport delay is reduced substantially, as compared to the serial system of the prior art. When the transport, positioning, and off loading operations consume substantially less time than the scanning operation, a fresh tray of elements always awaits scanning upon completion of scanning of elements in a tray. In one embodiment, first and second scan beds are elevated above a conveyor, thereby permitting incoming and outgoing trays to pass on the conveyor below the scan beds without interference with the trays elevated in the scan beds. A replace operation, either on-line or off-line, replaces defective elements detected in the scanned trays with known-good elements, whereby the output of the apparatus is 100 percent known-good elements. An embodiment in which transport and positioning takes longer than the scanning operation, thereby requiring a delay in scanning, is disclosed. This latter embodiment, although it does not provide continuous scanning, nevertheless reduces cycle time by virtue of parallel operation of scanning and transport functions.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for scanning elements in a plurality of pocketed trays, comprising: an optical sensor; said optical sensor being of a type movable in a pattern for scanning said elements; first means for moving a first pocketed tray of said plurality of pocketed trays into an operable position with said optical sensor; and second means for moving a second pocketed tray of said plurality of pocketed trays toward a position adjacent said first pocketed tray while said optical sensor is performing said pattern over said first pocketed tray, such that said optical sensor begins scanning said second pocketed tray at said position adjacent with reduced transport delay. 2. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said position adjacent includes a horizontally adjacent position. 3. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said position adjacent includes a vertically adjacent position. 4. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein: said first and second means for moving includes a conveyor; said operable position being a first scan bed; and said position adjacent being a second scan bed horizontally adjacent said first scan bed. 5. Apparatus according to claim 4, further comprising: means for permitting either one of said first and second pocketed trays on said conveyor to pass the other thereof in its scan bed, whereby a pocketed tray on said conveyor is enabled to reach its scan bed, and a scan-completed pocketed tray on said conveyor is permitted to pass along said conveyor to be off loaded without interference therebetween. 6. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said transport delay is zero. 7. Apparatus for scanning elements in pocketed trays, comprising: first means for positioning a first pocketed tray of said pocketed trays in a first scan bed; means for scanning said elements in said first pocketed tray; second means for positioning a second pocketed tray of said pocketed trays in a second scan bed adjacent said first scan bed while said scanning is being performed; means for beginning scanning of elements in said second pocketed tray in said second scan bed upon completion of said scanning said elements in said first pocketed tray, such that transport delay between scanning said elements in said first and second pocketed trays is reduced; means for transporting a scan-completed pocketed tray to an off-load position; and said first and second means for positioning including means for avoiding interference between a pocketed tray in transit to its scan bed and a pocketed tray in its scan bed, and between a pocketed tray on its way to said off-load position and a pocketed tray in its scan bed. 8. Apparatus according to claim 7, further comprising: replace means, upstream of said off-load position; and said replace means including means removing all detected defective elements in said pocketed tray, and replacing all removed elements with known-good elements, whereby an output of said apparatus includes 100 percent good elements. 9. Apparatus according to claim 8, wherein a cycle time of said replace means is no more than a cycle time for scanning a pocketed tray, whereby said scanning and replace means operation can be performed as a continuous operation, without delay of either operation waiting for the other. 10. Apparatus for continuous scanning of elements in pocketed trays, comprising: means for positioning a first pocketed tray of said pocketed trays in a first scan bed; means for scanning elements in said first pocketed tray; means for positioning a second pocketed tray of said pocketed trays in a second scan bed, while scanning is being performed on said first pocketed tray; means for immediately beginning scanning elements in said second pocketed tray after completion of scanning elements in said first pocketed tray; means for transporting said first pocketed tray to an off-load position while scanning of said second pocketed tray is being performed; means for positioning a third pocketed tray in said first scan bed before completion of scanning of elements in said second pocketed tray, whereby scanning of said elements in said third pocketed tray is enabled to begin immediately upon completion of scanning of elements in said second pocketed tray; and means for transporting said second pocketed tray to said off-load position while scanning of said third pocketed tray is being performed, such that continuous scanning without transport delay is enabled. 