A picker for a computer information storage library. The computer information storage library includes at least one computer information drive, storage locations for data cartridges, a picker and a transport mechanism. The picker includes a sleeve for holding a cartridge and a moveable thumb. The transport mechanism provides displacement in two orthogonal dimensions for the picker. The moveable thumb provides displacement in a third dimension orthogonal to the movement of the transport mechanism. Data cartridges include two openings in a bottom surface. The thumb includes fixed fingers with bent tips that engage the openings in the bottom surface of the data cartridges. Data cartridges are removed from a drive or storage by hooking the tips of the fingers into the data cartridge openings, and then moving the thumb relative to the sleeve to pull the cartridge into the sleeve. The picker also includes a rigid thumb for pushing a data cartridge out of the sleeve and into a drive or into a storage location. In addition, data cartridge drives of interest have a cartridge alignment and spindle engagement mechanism that is activated mechanically by a handle on the front of the drive. The picker also includes a handle manipulation spring that is used to raise and lower the handle on the drive.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A picker for a data cartridge, the data cartridge having a bottom surface with first and second openings in the bottom surface, the picker comprising: a thumb that is moveable, the thumb adapted to push the data cartridge into a storage location; first and second fingers, rigidly attached to the thumb, the first and second fingers being flexible but not actively moved relative to the thumb, the first and second fingers corresponding to the first and second openings respectively, each finger having a tip adapted to hook into its corresponding opening; and the thumb adapted so that it can be moved to cause the first and second fingers to pull on the first and second openings, thereby extracting the data cartridge from the storage location without gripping the cartridge. 2. The picker of claim 1, the picker mounted on a carriage that can be moved vertically, the picker further adapted for use with a drive for the data cartridge, the drive including a handle, the handle having a raised position and a lowered position, such that the data cartridge may be inserted into the drive or extracted from the drive only when the handle is in the raised position, the picker further comprising: a handle manipulation spring, rigidly attached to the thumb, so that when the handle manipulation spring is positioned below the handle when the handle is in the lowered position, and the thumb is moved vertically, the handle manipulation spring forces the handle to the raised position. 