A system and method detects obstacles in a road being traveled by a vehicle. Edge points of the road are calculated from known road data. A series of scan lines are made of the road ahead of the vehicle to obtain an image plane of the road ahead of the vehicle. The calculated edge points are projected into the image plane to determine the left and right edge points of each scan line in the image plane. Each scan line is processed to locate any discontinuities between the left and right edge points, where the discontinuities correspond to objects in the road.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A computer based method of detecting an object in a road, said computer based method adapted for use with a land based vehicle, said computer based method comprising the steps of: (1) determining a stopping distance of the vehicle; (2) scanning the road ahead of the vehicle to obtain an image plane of the road, said image plane comprised of scan lines, said scan lines including range information; (3) selecting those scan lines in said image plane that include range information indicating distances that are beyond said stopping distance; (4) projecting left and right edge points of the road into said image plane; and (5) processing said selected scan lines to detect obstacles between said left and right edge points. 2. A computer based system for detecting an object in a road, said computer based system adapted for use with a land based vehicle, said computer based system comprising the steps of: means for determining a stopping distance of the vehicle; means for scanning the road ahead of the vehicle to obtain an image plane of the road, said image plane comprised of scan lines, said scan lines including range information, means for selecting those scan lines in said image plane that include range information means for projecting left and right edge points of the road into said image plane; and means for processing said selected lines to detect obstacles between said left and right edge points. 3. A computer based method of detecting an object, said computer based method adapted for use with a land based vehicle, said computer based method comprising the steps of: (1) finding edge points of a road from stored road data; (2) projecting said edge points onto a road image made of scan lines; (3) determining a left edge point and a right edge point of each scan line in said image; (4) modeling road height by processing scan line data between said left and right edge points; and (5) comparing the modeled road height of step (4) with expected road height to detect deviations indicative of an obstacle. 4. The computer based method of detecting an object of claim 3, whereinsaid step of modeling road height comprises the steps of: (a) finding center points of said road for each scan line; (b) determining the height of said center points; (c) fitting a third order profile to said center points; and (d) performing thresholding on height data. 5. A computer based system for detecting an object, said computer based system adapted for use with a land based vehicle, said computer based system comprising: (1) means for finding edge points of a road from stored road data; (2) means for projecting said edge points onto a road image made of scan lines; (3) means for determining a left edge point and a right edge point of each scan line in said image; (4) means for modeling road height by processing scan line data between said left and right edge points; and (5) means for comparing the modeled road height from (4) with expected road height to detect deviations indicative of an obstacle. 6. The computer based system for detecting an object of claim 5, wherein said means for modeling road height comprises: (a) means for finding center points of said road for each scan line; (b) means for determining the height of said center points; (c) means for fitting a third order profile to said center points; and (d) means for performing thresholding on height data. 7. A method for detecting an object in a road ahead of a vehicle, the method comprising the steps of: calculating edge points of the road from stored road data; constructing an image plane comprised of a plurality of scan lines, each scan line including range information at various points along each scan line; projecting said calculated edge points into said image plane; determining a left edge point and a right edge point for each scan line in said image plane using said projected edge points, said left and right edge points corresponding to left and right edges of the road; and detecting a discontinuity in said range information along each scan line between said left and right edge points thereby detecting the object ahead of the vehicle. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein said step of constructing an image plane comprises the step of: constructing said image plane comprised of said plurality of scan lines, each scan line including range information to positions located on the road in front of the vehicle at various points along each scan line. 9. The method of claim 7, further comprising the step of: modeling the road using said range information in said scan line between said left edge point and said right edge point with an equation. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein said step of modeling further comprises modeling the road based on road parameters including at least one of road crown, road tilt, and road height. 11. The method of claim 9, where said step of modeling further comprises modeling the road with a third order polynomial equation based on road parameters including road crown, road tilt, and road height. 12. A system for detecting an object in a road ahead of a vehicle, the system comprising: means for calculating edge points of the road from stored road data; means for constructing an image plane comprised of a plurality of scan lines, each scan line including range information at various points along each scan line; means for projecting said calculated edge points into said image plane; means for determining a left edge point and a right edge point for each scan line in said image plane using said projected edge points, said left and right edge points corresponding to left and right edges of the road; and means for detecting a discontinuity in said range information along each scan line between said left and right edge points thereby detecting the object ahead of the vehicle. 13. The system of claim 12, wherein said range information includes range information to positions located on the road in front of the vehicle. 14. The system of claim 12, further comprising the step of: modeling the road using said range information in said scan line between said left edge point and said right edge point with an equation. 15. The system of claim 14, wherein said means for modeling further comprises means for modeling the road based on road parameters including at least one of road crown, road tilt, and road height. 16. The system of claim 14, where said step of modeling further comprises modeling the road with a third order polynomial equation based on road parameters including road crown, road tilt, and road height. 