A system (400) for positioning and navigating an autonomous vehicle (310) allows the vehicle (310) to travel between locations. Position information (432) is derived from global positioning system satellites (200, 202, 204, and 206) or other sources (624) when the satellites (200, 202, 204, and 206) are not in the view of the vehicle (310). Navigation of the vehicle (310) is obtained using the position information (432), route information (414), obstacle detection and avoidance data (416), and on board vehicle data (908 and 910).
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for enabling a vehicle to track a preset path comprising: means for executing vehicle commands that cause the vehicle to attempt to follow the preset path; means for periodically calculating errors in following the preset path; and means for adjusting said vehicle commands based on said calculated errors to reduce said calculated errors, wherein said means for adjusting includes means for constructing a smooth path back to the preset path using a quintic polynomial. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein said means for adjusting further comprises means for compensating for vehicle response characteristics, said vehicle response characteristics including latency of vehicle control commands, system response delay and vehicle dynamics. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein said vehicle dynamics includes vehicle-ground interaction, slip angle and under/over steering. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein said means for adjusting further comprises means for compensating for sensing and actuation timing characteristics of said system. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein said means for adjusting further comprises means for varying a look-ahead distance based on a speed of travel of said vehicle. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein said means for adjusting further comprises means for adjusting control of the vehicle using an optimal control system. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein said vehicle commands include steering control aspects and speed control aspects, and wherein said means for executing comprises: means for executing said steering control aspects; and means for executing said speed control aspects, wherein steering and speed control of the vehicle are decoupled. 8. A method for enabling a vehicle to track a preset path comprising the steps of: executing vehicle commands that cause the vehicle to attempt to follow the preset path; periodically calculating errors in following the preset path; and adjusting said vehicle commands based on said calculated errors to reduce said calculated errors, wherein said step of adjusting includes the step of constructing a smooth path back to the preset path using a quintic polynomial. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein said step of adjusting further comprises the step of compensating for vehicle response characteristics, said vehicle response characteristics including latency of vehicle control commands, system response delay and vehicle dynamics. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein said vehicle dynamics includes vehicle-ground interaction, slip angle and under/over steering. 11. The method of claim 8, wherein said step of adjusting further comprises the step of compensating for sensing and actuation timing characteristics of said system. 12. The method of claim 8, wherein said step of adjusting further comprises the step of varying a look-ahead distance based on a speed of travel of said vehicle. 13. The method of claim 8, wherein said step of adjusting further comprises the step of adjusting control of the vehicle using an optimal control system. 14. The method of claim 8, wherein said vehicle commands include steering control aspects and speed control aspects, and wherein said step of executing comprises the steps of: executing said steering control aspects, and executing said speed control aspects, wherein steering and speed control of the vehicle are decoupled. 