A substrate having a photonic device mounted thereon with a working portion that is operably connected to at least one electrical lead. A molded optical portion having a surface for light signal to enter and to exit is formed that encapsulates the substrate, the photonic device, and a portion of the first and second electrical lead. An optical connector is formed to plug into the molded optical portion to connect a fiber bundle thereto and the optical portion is electrically connected to an interconnect module.
Claims We claim: 1. An interconnect module comprising: an interconnect substrate having a plurality of electrical traces; standard electronic components mounted and operably connected to the plurality of electrical traces on the interconnect substrate; an electrical lead operably connected to the plurality of electrical traces on the interconnect substrate for inputting and outputting electrical signals to the plurality of electrical traces on the interconnect substrate; an electrical contact having an exposed surface, the exposed surface of the electrical contact being frictionally detachably affixed to a photonic device to operably couple the photonic device to the electrical contact, as well as the electrical contact being operably connected to the plurality of electrical traces; and a molded portion having a surface and an end surface, the molded portion encapsulates the interconnect substrate, the standard electronic components, and a portion of the electrical lead, the end surface having a portion thereof removed, thereby allowing the exposed portion of the electrical contact to be frictionally detachably affixed to the photonic device. 2. An interconnect module as claimed in claim 1 wherein the electrical lead is a lead on a lead frame. 3. An interconnect module as claimed in claim 1 wherein the portion removed from the end surface of the molded portion is shaped as a slot. 4. An interconnect module as claimed in claim 1 wherein the portion removed from the molded portion is shaped as a groove. 5. An interconnect module as claimed in claim 1 wherein the standard electronic components are integrated circuits. 6. An optical interconnect system comprising: an optical interconnect module including an interconnect substrate having a plurality of electrical traces, an electrical circuit for electrical signal manipulation operably connected to the interconnect substrate by the plurality of electrical traces, a means for inputting and outputting electrical signals from the interconnect substrate operably connected to the interconnect substrate, a molded portion having a first surface and an end surface that encapsulates the interconnect substrate, the electrical circuit, and a portion of the means for outputting electrical signals, the end surface having a portion removed to expose an electrical contact with the electrical contact being operably connected to the interconnect substrate; a detachable optical interface unit including a substrate, an optoelectronic device having a first surface and a second surface with the first surface having a working portion of the optoelectronic device and the second surface mounted to the substrate, a first electrical lead and a second electrical lead operable connected to the optoelectronic device, the first electrical lead and the second electrical lead extend away from the substrate, the first electrical lead frictionally detachably affixed to the electrical contact; and an optical connector having a plurality of optical fibers, an alignment guide, and a coupling surface, wherein the plurality of optical fiber are cross-sectionally exposed on the coupling surface of the optical connector, and wherein the coupling surface of the optical connector is operably coupled to the detachable optical interface unit. 