An apparatus, method and purge concentrate are capable of purging water-based and non-water-based paints and other coatings from automated and manual equipment using non-VOC containing aqueous purge solutions. Purge solutions of the invention contain water, detergent builder and wetting agents. The solution is maintained at a selected concentration and at a selected elevated temperature range by continuously recirculating the solution through the automated coating equipment. For manual equipment the solution is set at the correct concentration and maintained at the correct temperature range. For an automated system, spent purge solutions can be reconditioned and recirculated to avoid waste.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for purging coating equipment, comprising: purge concentrate supply means for supplying an aqueous purge concentrate; dilution water supply means for supplying dilution water; a purge solution tank connected to the purge concentrate and dilution water supply means, for containing a purge solution; solution proportioning means connected to the purge solution tank for forming the purge solution contained in the purge solution tank, the purge solution being a solution of purge concentrate and dilution water at a selected concentration range; heating means for maintain the purge solution in the purge solution tank, within a selected temperature range; purge solution supply mean for supplying the purge solution at the selected concentration range and within the selected temperature range, to the coating equipment for purging the coating equipment and to form spent solution containing purged coating; and conditioning means connected to the dilution water supply means and connected for receiving the spent solution from the coating equipment, the conditioning means conditioning the spent solution by removing purged coating from the spent solution to form the dilution water for the dilution water supply means. 2. An apparatus according to claim 1, including, in combination, an aqueous purge concentrate to be supplied by the purge concentrate supply means, the purge concentrate being a non-VOC, water-based concentrate, containing about 70%-90% water, about 1%-20% detergent builder and about 0.01% -7% wetting agent. 3. An apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the detergent builder comprises a silicate. 4. An apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the detergent builder comprises an amine. 5. An apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the detergent builder comprises from about 1%-20% by weight sodium silicate. 6. An apparatus according to claim 5, including an organic acid. 7. An apparatus according to claim 6, wherein the wetting agent comprises a modified ethoxylated surfactant present in an amount of about 1%-5% by weight. 8. An apparatus according to claim 5, including a sulfonate. 9. An apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the detergent builder comprises mono ethanol amine present in an about of about 3%-8% by weight. 10. An apparatus according to claim 1, including, a purge solution return line connected to the purge solution tank for returning purge solution that has been circulated to the coating equipment and that is within the selected temperature range and at the selected concentration range. 11. An apparatus according to claim 10, wherein the conditioning means includes a dump line for receiving the spent solution from the coating equipment, a neutralizing tank connected to the dump line for receiving spent solution from the dump line and filter means for filtering purged coating out of the spent solution to form the dilution water. 12. An apparatus according to claim 11, wherein the filter means comprises a bag filter between the dump line and the neutralizing tank and at least one filter in the dilution water supply, the dilution water supply means being connected between the neutralizing tank and the purge solution tank. 13. An apparatus according to claim 11, including an overflow line connected to the neutralizing tank for receiving overflow liquid from the neutralizing tank for evaporation means connected to the overflow line for evaporating overflow liquid from the neutralizing tank. 14. An apparatus according to claim 13, wherein the evaporation means comprises in evaporation tank, agitation and heating means in the evaporation tank for agitating and heating liquid in the evaporation tank, and air circulation means over the evaporation tank for removing evaporated liquid from the tank. 15. An apparatus according to claim 11, including acid supply means connected to the neutralizing tank for measuring a pH of liquid in the neutralizing tank and for supplying acid for adjusting the pH of the liquid in the neutralizing tank to a selected level. 16. An apparatus according to claim 15, including, in combination, an aqueous purge concentrate to be supplied by the purge concentrate supply means, the purge concentrate being a non-VOC, water-based concentrate, containing about 70%-90% water, about 1%-20% detergent builder and about 0.01%-7% wetting agent. 