A hybrid differential transmission for converting two parallel inputs to two orthogonal outputs. The hybrid differential transmission includes two input shafts, an internal structure assembly which includes two ring pulleys, one each driven by an input shaft, an outer structure assembly rotatably mounted to the internal structure assembly and an output pulley assembly which is secured to the outer structure assembly. The output pulley assembly includes two output pulleys each of which are driven by one the ring pulleys.
Claims I claim: 1. A hybrid differential transmission for changing input motions to output motions changing the axes of rotation, said hybrid differential transmission comprising: a first and second input shaft; an internal structure assembly including a first and second ring pulleys rotatably mounted therein, each of said first and second ring pulleys driven by said first and second input shafts, respectively; an outer structure assembly rotatably mounted to said internal structure assembly; and an output pulley assembly mounted to said outer structure and including a first and second output pulley being driven by said first and second ring pulleys, respectively. 2. The hybrid differential transmission of claim 1 wherein said first and second ring pulleys are driven by said first and second input shafts respectively, via a pinion mounted to each of said first and second input shafts. 3. The hybrid differential transmission of claim 1 further including two cables one each being wrapped around each of said first and second ring pulleys and each of said first and second output pulleys such that when said first and second inputs shafts are rotated, said first and second output pulleys rotate. 4. The hybrid differential transmission of claim 3 wherein said outer structure assembly includes two outer structure plates oppositely disposed, each of said outer structure plates carrying two idle pulleys, each of said cables being routed over said idle pulleys and each of said first and second output pulleys. 5. The hybrid differential transmission of claim 1 wherein said output pulley assembly further includes a link mount positioned between said first and second output pulleys and to which said first and second output pulleys are secured, said link mount providing a mounting location for a link. 6. The hybrid differential transmission of claim 1 wherein said internal structure assembly further includes an internal structure and two bell caps each secured to opposing ends of said internal structure, each of said first and second ring pulleys being rotatably mounted between opposing ends of said internal structure and one of said bell caps, said outer structure assembly being rotatably mounted to opposing ends of said bell caps. 7. The hybrid differential transmission of claim 1 wherein said internal structure assembly defines at least one passage therethrough. 8. The hybrid differential transmission of claim 1 wherein said first and second input shafts provide a dual load path such that a load applied to said first and second output pulleys is shared by said first and second input shafts. 9. A hybrid differential transmission for changing input motions to output motions changing the axes of rotation, said hybrid differential transmission comprising: a first and second input shaft; an internal structure assembly including a first and second ring pulleys rotatably mounted therein, each of said first and second ring pulleys driven by said first and second input shafts, respectively, said internal structure assembly defining a passage therethrough; an outer structure assembly rotatably mounted to said internal structure assembly; and an output pulley assembly mounted to said outer structure and including a first and second output pulley being driven by said first and second ring pulleys, respectively, said first and second input shafts providing a dual load path such that a load applied to said first and second output pulleys is shared by said first and second input shafts. 10. The hybrid differential transmission of claim 9 wherein said first and second ring pulleys are driven by said first and second input shafts respectively, via a pinion mounted to each of said first and second input shafts. 11. The hybrid differential transmission of claim 9 further including two cables one each being wrapped around each of said first and second ring pulleys and each of said first and second output pulleys such that when said first and second inputs shafts are rotated, said first and second output pulleys rotate. 12. The hybrid differential transmission of claim 11 wherein said outer structure assembly includes two outer structure plates oppositely disposed, each of said outer structure plates carrying two idle pulleys, each of said cables being routed over said idle pulleys and each of said first and second output pulleys. 13. The hybrid differential transmission of claim 9 wherein said output pulley assembly further includes a link mount positioned between said first and second output pulleys and to which said first and second output pulleys are secured, said link mount providing a mounting location for a link. 14. The hybrid differential transmission of claim 9 wherein said internal structure assembly further includes an internal structure and two bell caps each secured to opposing ends of said internal structure, each of said first and second ring pulleys being rotatably mounted between opposing ends of said internal structure and one of said bell caps, said outer structure assembly being rotatably mounted to opposing ends of said bell caps. 15. A hybrid differential transmission for changing input motions to output motions changing the axes of rotation, said hybrid differential transmission comprising: a first and second input shaft each defining a pinion secured thereto; an internal structure assembly including a first and second ring pulleys rotatably mounted therein, each of said first and second ring pulleys driven by said pinion secured to each of said first and second input shafts, respectively, said internal structure assembly defining a passage therethrough; an outer structure assembly rotatably mounted to said internal structure assembly; and an output pulley assembly mounted to said outer structure and including a first and second output pulley being driven by said first and second ring pulleys, respectively, via two cables one each wrapped around each said first and second ring pulleys and each of said first and second output pulleys, said first and second input shafts providing a dual load path such that a load applied to said first and second output pulleys is shared by said first and second input shafts. 16. The hybrid differential transmission of claim 15 wherein said outer structure assembly includes two outer structure plates oppositely disposed, each of said outer structure plates carrying two idle pulleys, each of said cables being routed over said idle pulleys and each of said first and second output pulleys. 17. The hybrid differential transmission of claim 15 wherein said output pulley assembly further includes a link mount positioned between said first and second output pulleys and to which said first and second output pulleys are secured, said link mount providing a mounting location for a link. 18. The hybrid differential transmission of claim 15 wherein said internal structure assembly further includes an internal structure and two bell caps each secured to opposing ends of said internal structure, each of said first and second ring pulleys being rotatably mounted between opposing ends of said internal structure and one of said bell caps, said outer structure assembly being rotatably mounted to opposing ends of said bell caps. 