The invention is directed to a system and method for releasably holding a surgical instrument (14), such as an endoscopic instrument configured for delivery through a small percutaneous penetration in a patient. The instrument comprises an elongate shaft (100) with a pair of mounting pins (116) laterally extending from the shaft between its proximal and distal ends. An instrument holder comprises a support having a central bore (202) and an axially extending slot (204) for receiving the instrument shaft and the mounting pins. A pair of locking slots (206) are cut into the support transversely to and in communication with the axial slot so that the mounting pins can be rotated within the locking slots. The instrument support further includes a latch assembly for automatically locking the mounting pins within the locking slots to releasably couple the instrument to the instrument holder. With this twist-lock motion, the surgeon can rapidly engage and disengage various instruments from the holder during a surgical procedure, such as open surgery, laparoscopy or thoracoscopy.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A device for use in releasably holding a surgical instrument comprising a shaft, said shaft having a mounting means, said mounting means being affixed to and forming a protrusion extending radially from said shaft, said device comprising: a body with first and second ends and an axial passage therebetween for receiving said shaft, said body defining a first shaped hole in said first end in communication with said axial passage for receiving said protrusion, and a second shaped hole, transverse to and in communication with the first hole, between the first and second ends of the body, the second hole being sized to receive said shaft and said protrusion such that said protrusion can be rotated within said second hole; a latch assembly having a latch movably disposed within said body between a first position, where said protrusion freely rotates within said second hole, and a second position, where said latch at least partially blocks rotation of said protrusion within said second hole to thereby prevent said protrusion from rotating into alignment with said first hole; means for releasing said latch assembly so that said protrusion can be rotated within said second hole into alignment with said first hole, thereby releasing the instrument from the body; and a ball detent partially disposed within said second shaped hole for indicating when said protrusion has been rotated through said second shaped hole to a location that will allow said latch assembly to move into said second position to thereby lock said protrusion within said second shaped hole. 2. The device of claim 1 wherein said latch assembly further comprises a spring for biasing said latch into said second position. 3. The device of claim 2 wherein said releasing means comprises a button, coupled to said latch and positioned exterior to said body, for moving said latch from said second position to said first position thereby allowing said protrusion to rotate into alignment with said first hole such that said instrument can be released from said body. 4. The device of claim 1 wherein the first hole extends through the body from the first end to the second end. 5. The device of claim 1 wherein said second hole is oriented substantially perpendicular to said first hole. 6. The device of claim 1 wherein said protrusion of said instrument comprises an arm extending outward from said shaft, said first hole comprising an axially extending slot sized to receive said arm. 7. The device of claim 6 wherein said second hole is a slot having a first portion in communication with said axially extending slot for receiving said arm and a second portion extending circumferentially from said first portion to allow rotation of said arm within said second hole thereby locking said arm with respect to said axially extending slot. 8. The device of claim 1 wherein said protrusion of said instrument is a pair of opposing arms extending outward from said shaft, said first hole comprising an axially extending slot extending on opposite sides of said bore to receive said arms. 9. The device of claim 1 wherein the device includes an instrument holder and a controllable drive, said body being rotatably coupled to said instrument holder and operatively coupled to said drive such that said drive causes rotation of said body and said instrument therewith relative to said instrument holder. 10. A surgical instrument comprising: an elongate shaft having a proximal end, a distal end, a mechanical coupling therebetween and at least one axially extending slot communicating with said inner lumen; an end effector coupled to the distal end for engaging tissue; mounting means affixed to and having a protrusion laterally extending from said shaft between the proximal and distal ends for releasably holding the instrument; and a movable actuator mounted to the shaft and operatively coupled to the end effector for manipulating the end effector, the actuator including at least one actuator pin for cooperating with an external driver to controllably move the actuator, the actuator pin being spaced from and axially movable with respect to the mounting means; wherein said shaft includes an inner lumen extending from said distal end to a point intermediate said distal and proximal ends, said actuator including a linkage disposed within said inner lumen, wherein said actuator pin is coupled to and laterally extends from said linkage through said axially extending slot, said actuator pin being adapted to engage an interface on the external driver for releasably coupling said actuator to the external driver. 11. The instrument of claim 10 wherein said coupling means is axially displaceable, and wherein axial displacement of said coupling means operates the end effector. 12. The instrument of claim 10 wherein said protrusion includes at least one mounting pin laterally extending from said shaft, said mounting pin being adapted to engage an interface on an instrument holder for releasably coupling said shaft to said instrument holder. 13. The instrument of claim 10 wherein said end effector includes first and second jaws movable between an open position where the jaws are disposed apart and a closed position where the jaws are disposed closer together. 14. The instrument of claim 13 wherein said actuator further includes a hinge connecting said linkage to said first and second jaws such that axial movement of said actuator pin causes said jaws to move between the open and closed positions, said instrument further including means for biasing said jaws towards the closed position. 15. The instrument of claim 10 wherein said shaft includes a pair of opposed axially extending slots and said actuator includes a pair of opposed actuator pins laterally extending through said slots. 16. The instrument of claim 10 wherein said mounting means includes a pair of opposed mounting pins laterally extending from said shaft. 17. A method for releasably holding a surgical instrument having a shaft with a proximal end, a distal end and a mounting means affixed to and having a protrusion extending from the shaft between the proximal and distal ends, the method comprising the steps of: providing an instrument support having a central bore and a first hole in communication with said bore; sliding the shaft through the bore of the support such that the protrusion slides through the first hole; aligning the protrusion with a second hole transverse to and in communication with the first hole; rotating the protrusion through the second hole and out of the first hole so as to prevent further axial movement of the shaft through the bore thereby coupling the instrument to the support; and providing an actuator driver having a central bore and a first hole in communication therewith; and sliding a pair of actuator pins laterally extending from the instrument shaft through the first hole. 18. The method of claim 17 further comprising the step of locking the protrusion within the second hole so as to lock the instrument, thereby preventing rotation of the instrument to the support. 19. The method of claim 17 wherein the sliding step includes sliding a pair of opposing mounting pins laterally extending from the instrument shaft through an axially extending slot in the support. 20. The method of claim 17 wherein the aligning step further includes aligning the actuator pins with a second hole in the actuator driver transverse to and in communication with the first hole. 21. The method of claim 20 wherein the rotating step further includes rotating the actuator pins through the second hole to lock the actuator pins with respect to the first hole. 22. The method of claim 21 further comprising the step of axially moving the actuator pins relative to the mounting pins with the actuator driver to thereby operate an end effector on the distal end of the shaft. 23. The method of claim 22 wherein the actuator and mounting pins are simultaneously slid into the first holes and rotated into the second holes of the support and the actuator driver, respectively. 