A tool change device for manipulators, which have a rotary connection for fluidic supply lines of the tool. The rotary connection comprises a fixed part and a rotary part, whose contact plane is directed at right angles to the power take-off axis of rotation of the manipulator. The rotary and fixed parts have ring channels, which are arranged in concentric circles around the power take-off axis of rotation and open into cross channels. The rotary and fixed parts are flatly in contact with one another and are held together in the housing of the manipulator-side coupling part along the power take-off axis of rotation in an adjustable tensioning connection.
Claims I claim: 1. A tool change device for robotic manipulators, comprising: a rotary connection for fluidic supply lines of the tool, the rotary connection including a fixed part and a rotary part; one of said fixed part and said rotary part including ring channels connected to cross channels of said fixed part and said rotary part, said fixed part and said rotary part defining a contact plane directed at right angles to a power take-off axis of rotation of said manipulator, said ring channels being arranged in concentric circles around said power take-off axis of rotation, said fixed part and said rotary part having flat surfaces in contact at said contact plane; a housing of said manipulator-side coupling part, said fixed part and said rotary part being disposed in said housing, said housing defining an adjustable tensioning connection with said rotary part and said fixed part disposed therein, for holding said fixed part and said rotary part together along said power take-off axis of rotation. 2. A tool change device according to claim 1, wherein said housing includes two housing parts which surround said rotary connection in a tong-like manner. 3. A tool change device according to claim 1, further comprising a screw connection and a spacer holding said housing parts connected to one another. 4. A tool change device according to claim 1, further comprising a radial thrust bearing, said housing parts including radially projecting housing flanges, said fixed part being mounted on said housing flanges via said radial thrust bearing. 5. A tool change device according to claim 1, further comprising a support element arranged between said fixed part and said rotary part and a seal disposed adjacent to said support element. 6. A tool change device according to claim 5, wherein said support element is formed as an outer sliding ring. 