An automated storage system uses a pass-through picker assembly interposed between a storage device and a plurality of storage cells, wherein the pass-through picker assembly is mounted on an accessor and incorporates independently operating fore and aft grippers driven by a single motor. The fore and aft grippers are tandemly mounted such that the fore gripper can be aligned to one of a plurality of storage cartridges located with the storage cells, and the aft gripper can be aligned with a storage slot of the storage device. The pass-through picker design allows the fore gripper to grasp a storage cartridge, feed the cartridge through to the aft gripper, release, and then allow the aft gripper to grip and pass the storage cartridge to the storage slot. In this way, a special priority cell of the storage cells, directly across from the storage slot, can very quickly pass a priority storage cartridge directly to the storage device without moving the pass-through picker assembly.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A picker assembly for transporting a storage medium from a storage cell to a storage device and vice versa, the picker assembly comprising: a mounting channel; a fore gripper mounted parallel to said mounting channel; an aft gripper mounted parallel to said mounting channel and tandem to said fore gripper; a cam motor; a cam drive train for coupling a rotation of said cam motor to said fore and aft grippers for closing said fore gripper and opening said aft gripper when said cam motor is rotated to a first position, for closing said aft gripper and opening said fore gripper when said cam motor is rotated to a second position, and for opening both said fore and aft grippers when said cam motor is rotated to a third position; and a translation motor coupled to said fore and aft grippers for translating the storage medium from said fore gripper to said aft gripper when said translation motor is rotated in a first direction, and for translating the storage medium from said aft gripper to said fore gripper when said translation motor is rotated in a second direction. 2. The picker assembly according to claim 1 wherein said cam drive train couples the rotation of said cam motor to said fore and aft grippers such that said fore gripper opens and closes independently of said aft gripper. 3. The picker assembly according to claim 1 further comprising a belt drive train coupled to said translation motor for translating the storage medium between said fore and aft grippers. 4. The picker assembly according to claim 1 further comprising an accessor for mounting said picker mechanism thereon, said accessor mechanism moving said picker assembly in a direction parallel to the storage device and the storage cell. 5. The picker assembly according to claim 4 further comprising a sensor for signalling said picker assembly that the storage medium is located in said mounting channel within both fore and aft grippers. 6. The picker assembly according to claim 5 wherein said picker assembly responds to said sensor signal by directing the rotation of said cam motor to a different position. 7. An automated storage system for randomly selecting one storage medium from a plurality of storage media and transporting the selected storage medium therefrom, said automated storage system comprising: a storage device for receiving the selected storage medium for processing data thereto; a plurality of storage cells for storing the plurality of storage media therein, said plurality of storage cells located across from and substantially parallel to said storage device, the storage media being oriented in said plurality of storage cells for direct transport to said storage device; a pass-through picker mechanism, having first and second grippers mounted in tandem such that said first gripper has access to said storage media in said plurality of storage cells, and said second gripper has access to said storage device, a translation drive to move the selected storage medium relative to said first and second grippers thereby passing the selected storage medium therebetween, said first and second grippers each having open and closed positions, said first and second grippers maintaining either opposite open and closed positions or concurrent open positions; and an accessor positioned for carrying said pass-through picker mechanism and moving said pass-through picker mechanism between said plurality of storage cells and said storage device. 8. The automated storage system according to claim 7 further comprising a motor coupled for opening and closing said first and second grippers. 9. The automated storage system according to claim 7 wherein the storage media are magnetic tape cartridges. 10. The automated storage system according to claim 7 wherein said storage media are optical disks. 