A method and apparatus for fabrication or alignment of fixtures, jigs and structures is disclosed. The invention uses target points on one or more details which are referenced to the overall structure via targets on the details. These targets are monitored by a TV camera unit which is alternatively interfaced to a display for the human operator or a robot to provide position data. The interface may include input from a CAD system which allows display on robot coordinates to be offset by design data of the structure or a part to be located on it. While mainly envisioned for assistance in constructing fixtures for automobile assembly, the disclosed invention is widely useable for all types of construction including aircraft, bridges, boats, buses, houses, buildings and the like. A means for improving resolution of automatically servoed camera based systems is also disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of providing a fixture having a base and a plurality of locating members for holding an object in a predetermined position in the fixture comprising the steps of: providing said locating members on the fixture; and positioning at least one of said locating members in an object-holding position to hold the object in the predetermined position, said step of positioning the locating members comprising the steps of: (a) positioning the locating member in a first position relative to said base, (b) automatically sensing data relating to the first position of the locating member, (c) automatically comparing the sensed first position of the locating member with the predetermined object-holding position of the locating member to produce a comparison, (d) automatically generating instructions, utilizing the comparison, for repositioning the locating member from the first position to the predetermined object-holding position, and (e) moving the locating member to a second position pursuant to the instructions in order to position the locating member at the predetermined object-holding position. 2. A method of providing a fixture as claimed in claim 1, wherein said step of positioning the locating member further includes the steps of: (f) automatically sensing data relating to the position of the locating member in the second position, (g) automatically comparing the sensed second position of the locating member with the predetermined object-holding position of the locating member to produce a second comparison, (h) determining from the second comparison whether the locating member is at the predetermined object-holding position; and (i) if the locating member is not at the predetermined object-holding position, repeating the moving step (e), the automatically sensing step (f), the automatically comparing step (g), and the determining step (h) for as many additional positions of the locating member as necessary until the locating member is in the predetermined object-holding position. 3. A method of providing a fixture as claimed in claim 1, and further including the step of sensing positions of reference. 4. A method of :providing a fixture as claimed in claim 1, wherein said positioning step includes automatically moving at least one of said object locating members. 5. A method of providing a fixture as claimed in claim 1, wherein said automatically comparing step (c) includes the step of deriving the predetermined object-holding position from a CAD data base of the object to be held in the fixture. 6. A method of providing a fixture as claimed in claim 1, wherein said automatically generating step (d) includes displaying movements required for repositioning the locating member to an operator. 7. A method of providing a fixture as claimed in claim 1, wherein at least one of said plurality of locating members is a device for working on the held object, and further including the step of working on the held object after the locating members are positioned. 8. A method of providing a fixture as claimed in claim 1, wherein said steps (a) through (e) for the locating member are performed in multiple degrees of freedom. 9. An apparatus for providing a fixture for holding an object in a predetermined position comprising: a fixture base; a plurality of locating members attached to said base, which are contacted by the object when the object is in the predetermined position; a positioning means for positioning at least one locating member in a first position; a sensing means for automatically sensing data relating to the first position of the locating member; a comparing means for automatically comparing the sensed first position of the locating member with a predetermined object-holding position of the locating member to produce a comparison; and a generating means for automatically generating instructions, utilizing the comparison, for repositioning the locating member with said positioning means from the first position to a second position pursuant to the instructions in order to position the locating member at the predetermined object-holding position and to form the fixture. 10. An apparatus for providing a fixture as claimed in claim 9 and further including a control means for causing: said sensing means to sense the second position of the locating member; said comparing means to automatically compare the sensed second position of the locating member with the predetermined object-holding position of the locating member to produce a second comparison; a determining means to determine from the second comparison whether the locating member is at the predetermined object-holding position; and if the locating member is not at the predetermined object-holding position, said generating means to automatically generate instructions, using the second comparison, for repositioning the locating member from the second position to a third position pursuant to the instructions. 11. An apparatus for providing a fixture as claimed in claim 9 and further including a sensing means for sensing positions of reference. 12. An apparatus for providing a fixture as claimed in claim 10, and further including at least one second locating member on the fixture base, and wherein said control means also controls the positioning of the second locating member with said positioning means, said sensing means, said comparing means, and said generating means. 13. An apparatus for providing a fixture as claimed in claim 9 wherein said comparing means includes a deriving means for deriving the predetermined object-holding position from a CAD data base of the object to be held in the fixture. 14. An apparatus for providing a fixture as claimed in claim 9 wherein said generating means includes a displaying means for displaying movements required for repositioning the locating member to an operator. 15. An apparatus for providing a fixture as claimed in claim 12 wherein the at least one second locating member is a working means for working on the held object after the locating members are positioned. 16. An apparatus for providing a fixture as claimed in claim 9 wherein said positioning means, said sensing means, said comparing means and said generating means operate in multiple degrees of freedom. 17. An apparatus for providing a fixture as claimed in claim 9 and further including an attaching means for securing the locating member when the locating member is in the predetermined object-holding position. 18. A method of providing a fixture having a locating member for holding an object in a predetermined position in the fixture comprising the steps of: providing a locating member of the fixture; positioning said locating member such that it is positioned in an object-holding position to hold the object in the predetermined position, the locating member having at least one fixed target positioned with respect thereto which is capable of being optically sensed, said step of positioning the locating member comprising the steps of: (a) positioning the locating member in a first position, (b) automatically sensing the position of the at least one target of the locating member when the locating member is in the first position, (c) automatically comparing the sensed position of the at least one target of the locating member in the at least one target to produce a comparison, the reference position being the position at which the at least one target will be when the locating member is in the predetermined object-holding position, (d) automatically generating instructions, utilizing the comparison, for repositioning the locating member from the first position to the predetermined object-holding position, and (e) moving the locating member to a second position pursuant to the instructions in order to position the locating member at the predetermined object-holding position; and securing the locating member in the object-holding position. 19. A method of providing a fixture as claimed in claim 18 wherein said step of positioning the locating member further includes the steps of: (f) automatically sensing the position of the at least one target when the locating member is in the second position, (g) automatically comparing the sensed position of the at least one target of the locating member in the second position with the predetermined reference position of the at least one target to produce a second comparison, (h) determining from the second comparison whether the locating member is at the predetermined object-holding position, and (i) if the locating member is not at the predetermined object-holding position, repeating the moving step (e), the automatically sensing step (f), the automatically comparing step (g) and the determining step (h) for as many addition positions of the locating member as necessary until the locating member is in the predetermined object-holding position. 20. A method of providing a fixture as claimed in claim 18 wherein there are a plurality of the targets positioned on the locating member, and wherein said sensing step (b) senses the plurality of targets and said comparing step (c) compares the sensed positions of the plurality of targets with reference positions thereof. 21. A method of providing a fixture as claimed in claim 18 and further including the step of sensing positions of reference. 22. A method of providing a fixture as claimed in claim 21 wherein said sensing of positions of reference step includes the viewing of an optically visible feature. 23. A method of providing a fixture as claimed in claim 18 and further including the performing of said steps (a) through (e) for at least one additional locating member and associated predetermined object-holding position. 24. A method of providing a fixture as claimed in claim 18 wherein said automatically comparing step (c) includes the step of deriving the predetermined reference position and object-holding position from a CAD data base of the object to be held in the fixture. 25. A method of providing a fixture as claimed in claim 18 wherein said automatically generating step (d) includes displaying movements required for repositioning the locating member to an operator. 26. A method of providing a fixture as claimed in claim 23 wherein the at least one additional locating member is a device for working on the held object, and further including the step of working on the held object after the locating members are positioned. 27. A method of providing a fixture as claimed in claim 18 wherein said steps (a) through (e) for the at least one target and locating member are performed in multiple degrees of freedom. 28. A method of providing a fixture as claimed in claim 18 wherein said sensing step includes the step of positioning the target for viewing from multiple directions. 29. A method of providing a fixture as claimed in claim 18 wherein said sensing step includes the step of viewing the target with at least one TV camera. 30. A method of providing a fixture as claimed in claim 23 and further including the step of coding the target of each associated locating member differently so that the locating member can be identified with the coded target. 31. An apparatus for providing a fixture for holding an object in a predetermined position comprising: a fixture base; a plurality of locating members attached to said base which are contacted by the object when the object is in the predetermined position; at least one target positioned with respect to at least one locating member which is capable of being optically sensed; a positioning means for positioning the locating member in a first position; a sensing means for automatically sensing the position of the at least one target of the locating member when the locating member is in the first position; a comparing means for automatically comparing the sensed position of the at least one target of the locating member in the first position with a predetermined reference position of the at least one target to produce a comparison, the reference position being the position at which the at least one target will be when the locating member is in the predetermined object-holding position; a generating means for automatically generating instructions, utilizing the comparison, for repositioning the locating member with said positioning means from the first position to a second position pursuant to the instruction in order to position the locating member at the predetermined object-holding position; and a securing means for securing the locating member in the object-holding position to form the fixture. 32. An apparatus for providing a fixture as claimed in claim 31 and further including a control means for causing: said sensing means to sense the position of the at least one target when the locating member is in the second position; said comparing means to automatically compare the sensed position of the at least one target of the locating member in the second position with the predetermined reference position of the at least one target to produce a second comparison; a determining means to determine from the second comparison whether the locating member is at the predetermined object-holding position; and if the locating member is not at the predetermined object-holding position, said generating means to automatically generate instructions, using the second comparison, for repositioning the locating member from the second position to a third position pursuant to the instructions. 33. An apparatus for providing a fixture as claimed in claim 31 wherein there are a plurality of the targets positioned on the locating member, wherein said sensing means senses the plurality of targets, and wherein said comparing means compares the sensed positions of the plurality of targets with reference positions thereof. 34. An apparatus for providing a fixture as claimed in claim 31 and further including a sensing means for sensing positions of reference. 35. An apparatus for providing a fixture as claimed in claim 34 wherein said sensing means for sensing positions of reference includes a viewing means for viewing of an optically visible feature. 36. An apparatus for providing a fixture as claimed in claim 32 and further including at least one second locating member with a target positioned in relation to the second locating member, and wherein said control means also controls the positioning of the second locating member relative to said support member with said positioning means, said sensing means, said comparing means and said generating means. 37. An apparatus for providing a fixture as claimed in claim 31 wherein said comparing means includes a deriving means for deriving the predetermined reference position and object-holding position from a CAD data base of the object to be held in the fixture. 38. An apparatus for providing a fixture as claimed in claim 31 wherein said generating means includes a displaying means for displaying movements required for repositioning the locating member to an operator. 39. An apparatus for providing a fixture as claimed in claim 36 wherein the at least one second locating member is a working means for working on the held object after the locating members are positioned. 40. An apparatus for providing a fixture as claimed in claim 31 wherein said positioning means, said sensing means, said comparing means and said generating means for the at least one target and locating member operate in multiple degrees of freedom. 41. An apparatus for providing a fixture as claimed in claim 31 wherein the targets are positioned for viewing from multiple directions. 42. An apparatus for providing a fixture as claimed in claim 31 wherein said sensing means includes at least one TV camera for viewing the target. 43. An apparatus for providing a fixture as claimed in claim 36 wherein the target of each associated locating member is differently coded so that the locating member can be identified with the coded target. 