A method of, and apparatus for, a robotic filter weighing system for weighing filters stored in sample holders which includes a sample cabinet which holds a carousel having a plurality of filter samples contained in a like plurality of sample holders and in which a robotic system is used for removing in turn each of the sample holders and sequentially placing each of the sample holders in a filter extraction station for removing the filter from its respective holder. The robot system then moves the extracted filter to a weighing system which calculates the weight of the particulate matter contained on the filter and then replaces the filter in its sample holder and replaces the sample holder back in the sample cabinet.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for operating a robotic filter weighing system for weighing filters stored in sample holders, comprising the steps of: selecting a sample holder containing a filter from a sample cabinet having a rotatable sample holder carousel; moving said selected sample holder to a filter extraction station using a robotic system; extracting the filter from said sample holder at said filter extraction station; moving said extracted filter to a weighing station using said robotic system; weighing said extracted filter at said weighing station to obtain a weight value; replacing said extracted filter back into said selected sample holder using said robotic system; and replacing said selected sample holder containing said weighed filter back in its place in said sample cabinet. 2. The method of claim 1, further including the step of discharging any static electrical charge present on said extracted filter. 3. The method of claim 1, further including the step of storing said weight value. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said weight value is stored in a digital data processing computer device. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said weighing step is performed a plurality of times on said extracted filter. 6. The method of claim 5, further including the step of comparing the results of the plurality of weighings of said extracted filter in order to determine whether all of the weight values obtained are within a predetermined amount of each other. 7. The method of claim 1, further including the step of uniquely identifying said sample holders using a digital code. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein said step of uniquely identifying said sample holders is performed prior to selecting said sample holder from said sample cabinet. 9. A method of operating a robotic filter weighing system for the unattended weighing of filters containing particulate samples, said filters being stored in sample holders, comprising the steps of: providing a plurality of processing stations in different locations adjacent to each other for performing a different process for the weighing of each of a plurality of filters contained in a like plurality of sample holders to determine the weight of said particulate samples on each of said plurality of filters; using a robotic system for removing in turn each of said plurality of sample holders each containing a filter carrying a particulate sample which is to be weighed from a sample cabinet containing said plurality of sample holders and for removing each of said filters from its sample holder for moving said filter to each of said processing stations in a predetermined sequence such that the weight of a particulate sample on each of said plurality of filters is obtained; and said robotic system further returning each of said filters to its sample holder and each of said plurality of sample holders to said sample cabinet after said weight of said particulate sample has been obtained. 10. The method of claim 9, further including the step of determining whether said robotic system has removed a sample holder from said sample cabinet. 11. The method of claim 9, wherein each of said plurality of processing stations is controlled independently of each other under direction of a digital data processor. 12. The method of claim 9, further including the step of discharging any static electricity present in said filter after said step of extracting. 13. The method of claim 9, further including the step of rotating said plurality of sample holders within said sample cabinet in a predetermined manner such that said robotic weighing system systematically weighs each of said plurality of filters in turn. 14. The method of claim 9, further including the step of uniquely identifying each of said plurality of sample holders. 15. The method of claim 9, further including the step of weighing said extracted filter a predetermined number of times after said extraction step. 16. A robotic filter weighing system for weighing particulate samples collected on filters, each of said filters being contained in a separate sample holder, comprising: a storage system for holding a plurality of sample holders; a filter extraction system for extracting each filter from its respective sample holder; a weighing system for weighing said extracted filter in order to determine the weight of said particulate samples on said extracted filter; and a robotic system for removing one of said plurality of sample holders from said storage system and moving it sequentially to said extraction system where said filter is extracted and then to said weighing system where said weight of said particulate samples is obtained. 17. The robotic filter weighing system of claim 16, further including a static electricity discharge system for discharging any static electricity charge held by said extracted filter before said filter is placed in said weighing system. 18. The robotic filter weighing system of claim 16, further including means for reading a bar code on said sample holder. 19. The robotic filter weighing system of claim 18, further including a digital data processor for receiving data from said weighing system and said bar code reading system. 20. A method for operating a robotic weighing system for weighing samples contained in sample holders, comprising the steps of: selecting a sample holder from a sample cabinet; moving said selected sample holder to a sample extraction station using a robotic system; extracting said sample from said sample holder at said extraction station and moving said extracted sample to a weighing station using said robotic system; and weighing said extracted sample to obtain a weight value. 21. The method of claim 20, further including the step of replacing said extracted sample back into said selected sample holder using said robotic system. 22. The method of claim 21, further including the step replacing said selected sample holder containing said weighed sample back in said sample cabinet. 23. The method of claim 20, further including the step of storing said weight value. 24. The method of claim 20, wherein said weight value is stored in a digital data processing computer device. 25. The method of claim 20, wherein said weighing step is performed a plurality of times on said extracted sample. 26. The method of claim 25, further including the step of comparing the results of the plurality of weighings of said extracted sample in order to determine whether all of the weight values obtained are within a predetermined amount of each other. 27. The method of claim 20, further including the step of uniquely identifying said sample holders using a digital code. 28. The method of claim 27, wherein said step of uniquely identifying said sample holders is performed prior to selecting said sample holder from said sample cabinet. 29. A method of operating a robotic weighing system for the unattended weighing of samples, said samples being stored in sample holders, comprising the steps of: providing a plurality of processing stations in different locations adjacent to each other for performing a different process for the weighing of each of a plurality of samples contained in a like plurality of sample holders to determine the weight of said samples; using a robotic system for removing in turn each of said plurality of sample holders each containing a sample which is to be weighed from a sample cabinet containing said plurality of sample holders and for extracting each of said samples from its sample holder and for moving each of said samples to each of said processing stations in a predetermined sequence such that the weight of each of said samples is obtained; and said robotic system further returning each of said samples to its sample holder and each of said plurality of sample holders to said sample cabinet after said weight of said sample has been obtained. 30. The method of claim 29, further including the step of determining whether said robotic system has removed a sample holder from said sample cabinet. 31. The method of claim 29, wherein each of said plurality of processing stations is controlled independently of each other under direction of a digital data processor. 32. The method of claim 29, further including the step of rotating said plurality of sample holders within said sample cabinet in a predetermined manner such that said robotic weighing system systematically weighs each of said plurality of samples in turn. 33. The method of claim 29, further including the step of uniquely identifying each of said plurality of sample holders. 34. The method of claim 29, further including the step of weighing said extracted samples a predetermined number of times after said extraction step. 35. A robotic weighing system for weighing samples, each of said samples being contained in a separate sample holder, comprising: a storage system for holding a plurality of sample holders; a sample extraction system for extracting each sample from its respective sample holder; a weighing system for weighing said extracted sample in order to determine the weight of said sample; and a robotic system for removing one of said plurality of sample holders from said storage system and moving it sequentially to said sample extraction system where said sample is extracted and then to said weighing system where said weight of said sample is obtained. 36. The robotic weighing system of claim 35, further including means for reading a bar code on said sample holder. 37. The robotic weighing system of claim 36, further including a digital data processor for receiving data from said weighing system and said bar code reading system. 