A direct drive robot motor may be used for the arms, legs, eyes and fingers of a robot. The motor comprises a rotor, having a permanent magnet, and a tubular arm portion, which is integral with the rotor and extends outwardly through a slot in a stator body. The stator body is wound with an aluminum coil and has a tubular extension to link it with the arm of another direct drive motor.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A modular direct drive motor comprising a. a rotor having i. at least one permanent magnet; ii. a tubular portion which holds the permanent magnet; iii. an arm which extends perpendicularly outwardly from the tubular portion; and b. a stator having i. a body member with a casing wall; ii. at least one electromagnetic coil wound around the body member; iii. an opening in the casing wall; iv. a shaft means for rotatably connecting the stator to the rotor; and c. a first linkage means on the body member and a second linkage means on the arm for attaching the motor between two other motors with an arbitrary twist angle. 2. The motor as in claim 1 wherein the coil is of aluminum wire. 3. The motor as in claim 2 wherein the wire is rectangular in cross-section. 4. The motor as in claim 1 wherein the arm is tubular and has a free end adapted to be inserted into a tubular linkage device on another stator. 5. The motor as in claim 1 wherein at least one aluminum coil is wound around the stator body member and the coil is wound with aluminum wire in the range 28-32 AWG. 6. The motor as in claim 1 wherein the tubular portion and the arm of the rotor are formed integrally of epoxy impregnated fiberglass. 7. The motor as in claim 1 wherein the stator body is formed of epoxy impregnated fiberglass. 8. The motor as in claim 1 wherein the opening in the casing wall of the stator is a key-hole like opening, and where the diameter of the larger end of the opening is wider than the diameter of the tubular portion of the rotor by 3%-10%, and the diameter of the smaller remainder of the opening is wider than the diameter of the arm of the rotor by 3%-10%. 9. The motor as in claim 1 wherein a number of the permanent magnets in the tubular portion of the rotor is four. 10. The motor as in claim 1 wherein the opening of the stator is about 90.degree. wide. 11. The motor as in claim 1 wherein the coils wound around the stator are perpendicular to the center of the opening of the stator. 12. The motor as in claim 1 and comprising a. the stator having two parallel vertical walls and b. a hole in the center of each of the two vertical walls; c. a hole in the center of the tubular portion of the rotor; and d. the shaft means is a metal shaft secured into said holes and freely rotatable in the holes of the vertical walls of the stator. 13. The motor as in claim 1 wherein the arm of the rotor is at the center of the opening when power is not applied to the coils. 14. The motor as in claim 1 wherein the body member is shaped like a hollow disk with parallel side walls and a ring-like wall joining the side walls and having the opening therein. 15. The motor as in claim 1 wherein the linkage means between motors includes a. an extension arm of the rotor; b. a tubular bushing which extends outwardly from the ring-like wall of the stator; c. a pin securing the arm of the rotor to a tubular bushing of the stator of another motor. 16. The motor as in claim 13 wherein the tubular bushing is attached to the ring-like wall of the stator which is 180.degree. from the center of the opening of the stator. 17. A modular direct drive motor comprising a. a rotor having i. at least one permanent magnet; ii. a tubular portion which holds the permanent magnet; iii. an arm which extends perpendicularly outwardly from the tubular portion; and b. a stator having i. a body member with a casing wall; ii. at least one electromagnetic aluminum wire coil wound around the body member; iii. an opening in the casing wall; iv. a shaft means for rotatably connecting the stator to the rotor; c. a first linkage means on the body member and a second linkage means on the arm for attaching the motor between two other motors. 18. The motor as in claim 17 wherein the wire is rectangular in cross-section. 19. The motor as in claim 17 wherein the arm is tubular and has a free end adapted to be inserted into a tubular linkage device on another stator. 20. The motor as in claim 17 wherein at least two aluminum coils are wound around the stator body member and the coils are wound with aluminum wire in the range 28-32 AWG. 21. The motor as in claim 17 wherein the tubular portion and the arm of the rotor and the stator body are formed of epoxy impregnated fiberglass. 22. The motor as in claim 17 wherein the opening in the casing wall of the stator is a key-hole link opening, and wherein the diameter of the larger end of the opening is wider than the diameter of the tubular portion of the rotor by 3%-10%, and the diameter of the smaller remainder of the opening is wider than the diameter of the arm of the rotor by 3%-10%. 23. The motor as in claim 17 wherein a number of the permanent magnets in the tubular portion of the rotor is four. 24. The motor as in claim 17 wherein the opening of the stator is about 90.degree. wide. 25. The motor as in claim 17 wherein the coils wound around the stator are perpendicular to the center of the opening of the stator. 26. The motor as in claim 17 and comprising a. the stator having two parallel vertical walls and b. a hole in the center of each of the two vertical walls; c. a hole in the center of the tubular portion of the rotor; and d. a shaft means is a metal shaft secured into said holes and freely rotatable in the holes of the vertical walls of the stator. 27. The motor as in claim 17 wherein the arm of the rotor is at the center of the opening when power is not applied to the coils. 28. The motor as in claim 17 wherein the body member is shaped like a hollow disk with parallel side walls and a ring-like wall joining the side walls and having the opening therein. 