A system and method for packaging a plurality of substantially rigid sheet-like members. The system includes apparatus for carrying out the method steps of applying a liquified material to a selected location on a surface of each of the plurality of sheet-like members, cooling the liquified material to form a removable solid element adhering to the selected location on the surface, and stacking the plurality of sheet-like members for packaging such that the solid elements act as interleaving spacers therebetween protecting the sheet-like members from handling and shipping damage.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for preparing a plurality of substantially rigid sheet-like members for packaging, the method comprising: a. applying a liquified material to a plurality of selected locations on a surface of a first sheet-like member; b. cooling the liquified material to form a removable solid element adhering to each of the selected locations on the surface; and c. stacking a second sheet-like member against the first sheet-like member for packaging such that the solid elements act as interleaving spacers therebetween protecting the sheet-like members from handling and shipping damage. 2. The method according to claim 1 wherein said step a. comprises: identifying a portion of the surface of the first sheet-like member requiring protection as the selected location; and providing an applicator for dispensing the liquified material onto the selected location. 3. The method according to claim 1 wherein said step a. includes providing a programmable material dispensing robot for dispensing the liquified material onto the selected location. 4. The method according to claim 1 wherein said step b. comprises exposing the liquified material to ambient air for a selected period of time. 5. The method according to claim 1 wherein the solid elements are moisture resistant. 6. The method according to claim 1 wherein the solid elements are bio-degradable. 7. The method according to claim 1 wherein the liquified material is a plastic material. 8. The method according to claim 1 wherein the liquified material is formed as a foam. 9. The method according to claim 8 wherein the foam has selectable thickness and density properties. 10. The method according to claim 1 wherein the sheet-like members are glass sheets. 11. The method according to claim 1 including repeating said steps a. through c. for a plurality of sheet-like members in sequence. 12. The method according to claim 1 including performing said steps a. and b. for a plurality of sheet-like members and then performing said step c. for the plurality of sheet-like members. 13. The method according to claim 1 wherein the solid elements are removable from the surface of each of the sheet-like members and are formed of a material which can be converted to pellet-like particles for forming the liquified material. 14. A system for preparing a plurality of substantially rigid sheet-like members for packaging comprising: means for transporting each of a plurality of sheet-like members to a work position; means for applying a liquified material to a selected location on a surface of each of the plurality of sheet-like members at said work position; and means for cooling said liquified material to form a removable solid element adhering to said selected location on said surface whereby said solid elements act as interleaving spacers between adjacent ones of said sheet-like members when stacked together protecting said sheet-like members from handling and shipping damage. 15. The system according to claim 14 wherein said means for transporting is a conveyor. 16. The system according to claim 15 wherein said means for cooling is said conveyor transporting the sheet-like members away from said means for applying and exposing said liquified material to ambient air for a selected period of time. 17. The system according to claim 14 wherein said means for applying said liquified material includes means for identifying a portion of said surface of said sheet-like members requiring protection as said selected location and means for dispensing said liquified material onto said selected location. 18. The system according to claim 14 wherein said means for applying said liquified material includes a programmable material dispensing robot. 19. The system according to claim 14 wherein said liquified material is a plastic material. 20. The system according to claim 14 wherein said liquified material is formed of a foam having selectable thickness and density properties. 21. The system according to claim 14 wherein said solid elements are removable from said surface of each of said sheet-like members and are formed of a material which can be converted into pellet-like particles for forming the liquified material. 22. The system according to claim 14 wherein said plurality of sheet-like members are glass sheets. 