A method and apparatus for processing and assembling a plurality of small parts weighing under five pounds using a robot employing a rotatable pallet for holding an array of small parts. Said rotatable pallet being held in place on the robot wrist head, which moves the pallet through a plurality of stationary work-stations located within the operating envelope of the robot, and rotates the pallet at each work-station to index the pallet and to present it to the work-station for an operation on a specific part or parts. Said robot participates in the work-station tasks by moving the rotatable pallet in the X, Y, and Z directions as needed. Movable data pins are used to indicate conditions of individual parts in nests, and of the pallet taken as a whole.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus, comprising: a. a robot having a head, a negative pressure source, and a negative pressure port located in a robot end effector mounting flange; b. a robot end effector having a body with a central cavity, a flexible seal, a flexible seal seat, and a protruding dowel pin mating to a similarly disposed hole in a rotatable pallet; c. said negative pressure port supplying negative pressure to said central cavity of said robot end effector: and d. said negative pressure in said cavity of said robot end effector holding said rotatable pallet against said robot effector end, where said rotatable pallet supports multiple workpieces. 2. An apparatus, comprising: a. a robot having a head, a negative pressure source and a negative pressure port located in a robot end effector mounting flange; b. a rotatable pallet having a disposed hole and supporting multiple workpieces; c. a robot end effector having a body with a cavity, a seal, a seal seat, and a protruding pin mating to said disposed hole on said rotatable pallet; and d. said negative pressure port supplying negative pressure to said cavity of said robot end effector, where the negative pressure in said cavity holds said rotatable pallet against said robot end effector. 3. An apparatus, comprising: a. a robot having a head, a negative pressure source and a negative pressure port located in a robot end effector mounting flange; b. a pallet having a hole; c. an end effector having a cavity, a seal, a seal seat, and a pin mating to said hole on said pallet; and d. said negative pressure port supplying negative pressure to said cavity of said end effector, where the negative pressure in said cavity holds said pallet against said end effector. 