There is provided a method for sample introduction into a gas chromatograph for performing sample analysis, in which a sample is introduced into a removable sample container, the container is placed in a sample introduction device, the device with said container is inserted into a gas chromatograph injector, and the sample is then vaporized for effecting analysis thereof by the gas chromatograph. The non-volatile residues of the sample retained in the container after vaporization and are removed with the container prior to performing the next analysis. There is also provided a method for direct sample introduction into a mass spectrometer for performing sample analysis, in which a sample is loaded into a sample container, the container with the sample is introduced into the injector of a gas chromatograph connected to a mass spectrometer through a capillary column, the injector is heated to a temperature sufficient to vaporize the sample to produce a flow of compounds which are swept to the mass spectrometer by a carrier gas, and the container is removed from the injector prior to performing the next analysis. Devices for introducing samples into a gas chromatograph for analyzing said sample are also described and claimed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for sample introduction into a gas chromatograph for performing sample analysis, comprising: introducing a sample into a removable sample container; placing said container in a sample introduction device; inserting said device with said container into a gas chromatograph injector; vaporizing the sample in the gas chromatograph injector for effecting analysis of said sample; sweeping said vaporized sample through a column by a carrier gas, and detecting said sample with a detector connected to the gas chromatograph through said column. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein said detector is a mass spectrometer. 3. The method according to claim 1, wherein said gas chromatograph injector and said column are heated to temperatures sufficient to vaporize said sample to produce a flow of compounds which are swept to said detector by said carrier gas at a rate which enables the continuous analysis of said sample by said detector. 4. The method according to claim 1, wherein the vaporized sample is swept by a carrier gas through said gas chromatograph injector into a column while causing non-volatile residues of said sample to be retained in said sample container. 5. The method according to claim 1, wherein said column serves as a transfer line for the transfer of said sample from said gas chromatograph injector to said detector without sample separation in time. 6. The method according to claim 1, wherein said sample is vaporized and introduced into the gas chromatograph column for its separation in time. 7. The method according to claim 5, wherein said column is a capillary column. 8. The method according to claim 6, wherein said gas chromatograph column is a capillary column. 9. The method according to claim 1, wherein the injector of said gas chromatograph is also alternatively used for conventional syringe-based solvent dispensing sample injection. 10. The method according to claim 1, wherein said sample container is a disposable test tube or vial. 11. The method according to claim 1, wherein said container is recyclable. 12. The method according to claim 10, where said test tube is placed with its sample entrance facing upwards. 13. The method according to claim 1, wherein said sample container is an open-ended capillary. 14. The method according to claim 1, wherein said gas chromatograph injector is a standard injector adjusted to accept a sample container of a large size. 15. The method according to claim 1, further comprising the step of introducing into said container an additional material, to promote a desirable internal chemical reaction such as derivatization. 16. The method according to claim 1, wherein said sample material is dissolved in a solvent and said solvent is evaporated from said removable sample container before its introduction into the injector. 17. The method according to claim 1, wherein the temperature of said gas chromatograph injector is kept constant or time programmed. 18. The method according to claim 1, wherein the carrier gas flow rate through said gas chromatograph injector and column is kept constant or time programmed. 19. The method according to claim 1, wherein a carrier gas propelled through the gas chromatograph injector substantially enter the column of said chromatograph in its entirety. 20. The method according to claim 1, wherein a carrier gas propelled through the gas chromatograph injector is split in a time-programmed manner, prior to its entering said column. 21. The method according to claim 2, wherein said gas chromatograph is interfaced with said mass spectrometer detector through a high gas flow rate supersonic expansion. 22. The method according to claim 1, wherein said sample container is removed after the sample vaporization and the injector is plugged, prior to performing analysis. 23. The method according to claim 1, wherein said sample introduction device is removed without said sample container, prior to performing the analysis. 24. The method according to claim 1, wherein said sample container is removed at the termination of the analysis. 25. The method according to claim 1, wherein said sample introduction device is manually manipulated and introduced into the gas chromatograph injector. 26. The method according to claim 1, wherein said sample introduction device with said container is introduced and/or removed by an automated autosampler. 27. The method according to claim 1, wherein said sample is carried in a removable open-ended capillary sample container and introduced into the gas chromatograph injector through its septum or another inlet, without performing liquid injection. 28. The method according to claim 27, wherein said capillary sample container is removably mounted on a syringe serving to retain said sample and to suck a measured amount of sample into said capillary. 29. The method according to claim 27, wherein said capillary sample container is inverted relative to its sample loading end from its orientation when mounted in a syringe or another holder, before introduction into the gas chromatograph. 30. The method according to claim 1, wherein said sample is a solution in a container and said solution is slowly pumped into another solution container through an open-ended capillary sample container. 31. A method employing a device for sample introduction into a gas chromatograph for analyzing said sample in accordance with the method of claim 1, comprising: means for coupling a sample introduction device, having means for carrying a removable sample container into a gas chromatography injector; means for sealing the sample introduction device and said means for coupling to each other; means for vaporizing the sample for affecting its analysis; means for transferring vapor of said sample by sweeping it with a carrier gas into a detector, and detector means for the detection of said sample. 32. The method as claimed in claim 31, further comprising means for removing said sample container prior to performing the next analysis. 33. The method according to claim 31, wherein said injector and means for vaporizing said sample is a standard gas chromatograph injector also usable for conventional syringe-based solvent dispensing sample injection. 34. The method according to claim 31, wherein said detector means is a mass spectrometer. 35. The method according to claim 31, wherein said detector is a standard detector, for the optimization and/or calibration of the response of that detector. 36. The method according to claim 31, wherein said means for carrying a removable sample container is a needle-like syringe like means for pumping a measurable amount of sample, that further includes means for coupling and removing an open-ended capillary that serves as a removable sample container, and means for retaining said sample in its container while inserted into the gas chromatograph injector. 37. The method according to claim 31, wherein said sample container is equipped with a glass or quartz wool filter. 38. The method according to claim 31, wherein said gas chromatograph includes a capillary column as the means for transferring the vapor of said sample, and said capillary column is short, for achieving a shorter response time and a faster analysis. 39. The method according to claim 31, wherein said material of which said sample introduction device is made, is passivated or coated with fused silica for surface deactivation. 40. The method according to claim 31, wherein said removable sample container is a small glass or quartz test tube vial. 41. The method according to claim 31, wherein said sample container is made of a section of a standard open tubular fused silica capillary column, coated outside with a thin layer as used for gas chromatography transfer lines and without inside adsorption layer coating. 42. The method according to claim 31, wherein, said sample container is made of a section of a standard open tubular fused silica capillary column, coated outside with a thin layer of plastic or metal used for gas chromatography separation, and with a selection of internal surface coating with adsorbing materials. 