A system and method for processing data storage mediums (DSMs) that are not stored in an automated data storage library on medium drive devices that are part of the library. An input station used to add DSMs is enabled to serve as an input and output window for transient data storage mediums (TDSMs) so that DSMs are not dislodged from the storage bins. An operator may automatically place the library's robotic picker in a "TDSM mount mode" when an attached host processor requests one or more data volumes stored on one or more TDSMs. A library-manager controller can be automatically configured to interact with the library's robotic pickers to transfer a TDSM from the input/output station to a device, such as a tape drive within the library. The library manager controller is automatically configured to ignore the machine readable external label of a TDSM so that it is not necessary to place such a label on a TDSM. The controller can notify the operator when processing of the data volume is complete and return the TDSM to the input/output station for ejection from the library. By employing this system and method existing hardware of an automated library system is employed to achieve processing of TDSMs without the need for a drive device outside of the library to process the TDSM data volumes.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for servicing a host processor request to process one or more data volumes stored on one or more respective requested unmounted transient data storage mediums (TDSMs) in a storage library including one or more storage bins, each bin for storing a data storage medium (DSM) therein, the DSM having an attached machine readable label containing information related to the DSM, the storage library also including one or more storage medium drives and a robotic picker for transferring a DSM between any storage bin and any medium drive, the storage library having an input station for adding one or more DSMs to the storage library, the robotic picker having an information sensing device for automatically reading the machine readable label, the storage library further having a library controller and an operator display, electronic memory coupled with the control unit, the control unit in communication with the operator display and the host processor, the method comprising the machine-executed steps of: (a) determining if the one or more requested unmounted TDSMs are positioned at the input station for being transferred by the picker; (b) disabling the information sensing device such that if a condition exists wherein a machine readable label is attached to the one or more requested unmounted TDSMs then the label is not automatically read; (c) in response to determining if the one or more requested unmounted TDSMs are positioned at the input station, commanding the picker to transfer a TDSM selected from the one or more TDSMs at the input station to a selected medium drive; (d) mounting the TDSM on the selected medium drive; (e) sending a signal to indicate that the mounting of the TDSM on the selected medium drive is completed; (f) processing the data volume stored on the TDSM to satisfy the host processor request; and (g) commanding the picker to transfer the TDSM from the selected medium drive to the input station. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the signal of step 1(e) is sent to an operator display. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the signal of step 1(e) is sent to the host processor. 4. The method of claim 1, and further comprising the steps of: determining if there are any remaining TDSMs of the one or more requested unmounted TDSMs positioned at the input station having an unprocessed data volume; and repeating steps 1(c) through 1(f) until there are no more remaining TDSMs positioned at the input station having an unprocessed data volume, unless a signal is sent to the control unit to indicate that the request to process one or more data volumes stored on one or more respective unmounted TDSMs is interrupted. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the signal sent to the control unit to indicate that the request to process one or more data volumes stored on one or more respective requested unmounted TDSMs is generated by the host processor. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the signal sent to the control unit to indicate that the request to process one or more data volumes stored on one or more respective requested unmounted TDSMs is interrupted is generated by the selection of an interrupt choice field presented on the operator display. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the step 1(a) is preceded by sending a signal to the operator display to indicate that the one or more TDSMs are to be positioned at the input station. 8. The method of claim 6, wherein the step of sending a signal to the operator display to indicate that the one or more TDSMs are to be positioned at the input station is preceded by the selection of a first displayed mode choice field on the operator display, the first displayed mode choice field indicating that the control unit will be placed in an automatic mode to command the picker to transfer and mount TDSMs. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein upon the completion of the step of processing the data volume stored on the TDSM, the operator display is presented with a signal indicating that the operator may select a second displayed mode choice field, the second displayed mode choice field designating that the automatic mode to command the picker to transfer and mount TDSMs is to be terminated. 10. The method of claim 9, and further comprising the step of commanding the automatic picker to remove any remaining TDSM from the selected medium drive and to return the remaining TDSM to the input station upon selection of the second display mode choice field designating that the automatic mode to command the picker to transfer and mount TDSMs is to be terminated. 11. The method of claim 4, wherein the step of repeating steps 1(b) through 1(f) until there are no more remaining TDSMs positioned at the input station having an unprocessed data volume is followed by the step of sending a signal to the operator display to indicate that other TDSMs may be positioned at the input station to replace the one or more requested unmounted TDSMs storing a processed data volume. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the selected medium drive corresponds to a device address sent to the control unit. 13. The method of claim 4, wherein the step 1(a) is preceded by sending a signal to the operator display to indicate that the one or more TDSMs are to be positioned at the input station. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the step of sending a signal to the operator display to indicate that the one or more TDSMs are to be positioned at the input station is preceded by the selection of a first displayed mode choice field on the operator display, the first displayed mode choice field indicating that the control unit will be place in an automatic mode to command the picker to transfer and mount TDSMs. 15. The method of claim 13, wherein upon the completion of the step of processing the data volume stored on the TDSM, the operator display is presented with a signal indicating that the operator may select a second displayed mode choice field, the second displayed mode choice field designating that the automatic mode to command the picker to transfer and mount TDSMs is to be terminated. 16. The method of claim 14, and further comprising the step of commanding the automatic picker to remove any remaining TDSM from the selected medium drive and to return the remaining TDSM to the input station upon selection of the second display mode choice field designating that the automatic mode to command the picker to transfer and mount TDSMs is to be terminated. 17. A method for servicing a host processor request to process one or more data volumes stored on one or more respective requested unmounted transient data storage mediums (TDSMs) in a storage library including one or more storage bins, each bin for storing a data storage medium (DSM) therein, the DSM having an attached machine readable label containing information related to the DSM, the storage library also including one or more storage medium drives and a robotic picker for transferring a DSM between any storage bin and any medium drive, the storage library having an input station for adding one or more DSMs to the storage library, the robotic picker having an information sensing device for automatically reading the machine readable label, the storage library further having a control unit and an operator display, electronic memory coupled with the control unit, the control unit in communication with the operator display and the host processor, the method comprising the machine-executed steps of: (a) determining if the one or more requested unmounted TDSMs are positioned at the input station for being transferred by the picker; (b) disabling the information sensing device such that if a condition exists wherein a machine readable label is attached to the one or more requested unmounted TDSMs then the label is not automatically read; (c) in response to determining if the one or more requested unmounted TDSMs are positioned at the input station, commanding the picker to transfer a TDSM selected from the one or more TDSMs at the input station to a selected medium drive; (d) mounting the TDSM on the selected medium drive; (e) sending a signal to an operator display to indicate that the mounting of the TDSM on the selected medium drive is completed; (f) processing the data volume stored on the TDSM to satisfy the host processor request; (g) commanding the picker to transfer the TDSM from the selected medium drive to the input station; (h) determining if there are any remaining TDSMs of the one or more requested unmounted TDSMs positioned at the input station having an unprocessed data volume; (i) repeating steps (c) through (g) until there are no more remaining TDSMs positioned at the input station having an unprocessed data volume, unless a signal is sent to the control unit to indicate that the request to process one or more data volumes stored on one or more respective unmounted TDSMs is interrupted; and (j) sending a signal to indicate that other requested TDSMs having unprocessed data volumes may be positioned at the input station to replace the TDSMs, each having a processed data volume. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein the signal of step 16(j) is sent to the operator display. 19. The method of claim 17, wherein the signal of step 16(j) is sent to the host processor. 20. The method of claim 17, wherein the signal sent to the control unit to indicate that the request to process one or more data volumes stored on one or more respective requested unmounted TDSMs is interrupted is generated by the host processor. 21. The method of claim 20, wherein the signal sent to the control unit to indicate that the request to process one or more data volumes stored on one or more respective requested unmounted TDSMs is interrupted is generated by the selection of an interrupt choice field presented on the operator display. 22. An automated storage library in communication with a host processor, having the ability to process one or more transient data storage mediums (TDSMs) stored outside of the storage library, comprising: one or more storage medium drives; a plurality of data storage mediums (DSMs) wherein each DSM has a machine readable label containing information related to the DSM; a plurality of data storage bins, each bin for storing a data storage medium (DSM) therein; a picker for transferring a volume between any drive of the one or more storage medium drives and any storage bin; a control unit having electronic memory and being in communication with the host processor; an operator display in communication with the control unit; one or more transient data storage mediums (TDSMs) stored outside of the storage library, each TDSM having a data volume stored therein; an input station for adding one or more DSMs to the storage library; an information sensing device coupled with the input station for automatically reading the label on the one or more DSMs; host processor request servicing means coupled to the control unit for servicing a host processor request; the host processor request servicing means including means for processing one or more data volumes stored on one or more respective requested unmounted TDSMs by: determining if the one or more requested unmounted TDSMs are positioned at the input station for being transferred by the picker; disabling the information sensing device such that if a condition exists wherein a machine readable label is attached to the one or more requested unmounted TDSMs then the label is not automatically read; in response to determining if the one or more requested unmounted TDSMs are positioned at the input station, commanding the picker to transfer a TDSM selected from the one or more TDSMs at the input station to a selected medium drive; mounting the TDSM on the selected medium drive; sending a signal to indicate that the mounting of the TDSM on the selected medium drive is completed; processing the data volume stored on the TDSM to satisfy the host processor request; and commanding the picker to transfer the TDSM from the selected medium drive to the input station. 23. The automated storage library of claim 22, wherein the signal sent to indicate the mounting of the TDSM on the selected medium drive is completed is sent to an operator display. 24. The automated storage library of claim 22, wherein the signal sent to indicate the mounting of the TDSM on the selected medium drive is completed is sent to a host processor. 25. The automated storage library of claim 22, wherein the servicing means coupled to the control unit further comprises: means for determining if there are any remaining TDSMs of the one or more requested unmounted TDSMs positioned at the input station having an unprocessed data volume; and the means for processing one or more data volumes stored on one or more respective requested unmounted TDSMs allowing continued processing of the one or more data volumes stored on one or more respective requested TDSMs until there are no more remaining TDSMs positioned at the input station having an unprocessed data volume, unless a signal is sent to the control unit to indicate that the request to process one or more data volumes stored on one or more respective unmounted TDSMs is interrupted. 26. The automated storage library of claim 25, wherein the signal sent to the control unit to indicate that the request to process one or more data volumes stored on one or more respective requested unmounted TDSMs is generated by the host processor. 27. The automated storage library of claim 26, wherein the signal sent to the control unit to indicate that the request to process one or more data volumes stored on one or more respective requested unmounted TDSMs is generated by the selection of an interrupt choice field presented on the operator display. 28. The automated storage library of claim 22, wherein the determining if the one or more requested unmounted TDSMs are positioned at the input station for transferring by the picker is preceded by sending a signal to the operator display to indicate that the one or more TDSMs are to be positioned at the input station. 29. The automated storage library of claim 28, wherein the sending of a signal to the operator display to indicate that the one or more TDSMs are to be positioned at the input station is preceded by the selection of a first displayed mode choice field on the operator display, the first displayed mode choice field indicating that the control unit will be place in an automatic mode to command the picker to transfer and mount TDSMs. 30. The automated storage library of claim 29, wherein upon the completion of the processing of the data volume stored on the TDSM, the operator display is presented with a signal indicating that the operator may select a second displayed mode choice field, the second displayed mode choice field designating that the automatic mode to command the picker to transfer and mount TDSMs is to be terminated. 31. The automated storage library of claim 30, wherein the servicing means coupled to the control unit further comprises: means for commanding the automatic picker to remove any remaining TDSM from the selected medium drive and to return the remaining TDSM to the input station upon selection of the second display mode choice field designating that the automatic mode to command the picker to transfer and mount TDSMs is to be terminated. 32. The automated storage library of claim 25, wherein the continued processing until there are no more remaining TDSMs positioned at the input station having an unprocessed data volume is followed by sending a signal to the operator display to indicate that other TDSMs may be positioned at the input station to replace the one or more requested unmounted TDSMs storing a processed data volume. 33. The automated storage library of claim 22, wherein the selected medium drive corresponds to a device address sent to the control unit. 34. A library control device for servicing a host processor request to process one or more data volumes stored on one or more respective requested unmounted transient data storage mediums (TDSMs) in a storage library including one or more storage bins, each bin for storing a data storage medium (DSM) therein, the DSM having an attached readable label containing information related to the DSM, the storage library also including one or more storage medium drives and a robotic picker for mounting a DSM on a medium drive, the storage library having an input station for adding one or more DSMs to the storage library, the robotic picker having an information sensing device for automatically reading the machine readable label, the storage library further having an operator display, electronic memory coupled with the control unit, the control unit in communication with the operator display and the host processor, the library control device comprising: electronic memory; a control processor coupled with the electronic memory; the control processor including a command module in communication with the robotic picker, the control processor further in communication with the operator display and the host processor; a sensing device in communication with the control processor, the sensing device having a first capability of generating a TDSM mount signal in response to determining if TDSMs are positioned at the input station; the command module capable of responding to the TDSM mount signal by issuing a first command to the picker to mount a TDSM selected from the one or more TDSMs at the input station on a selected medium drive, and by disabling the information sensing device such that if a condition exists wherein a machine readable label is attached to the one or more requested unmounted TDSMs then the label is not automatically read; an operator display signal generator capable of generating a first signal to be displayed on the operator display indicating that the mounting of the TDSM on the selected medium drive is completed; and the command module having a first capability of responding to a signal that the host processing request has been satisfied by issuing a second command to the picker to transfer the TDSM from the selected medium drive to the input station. 35. The library control device of claim 34, and further comprising: the sensing device having a second capability of determining if there are any remaining TDSMs of the one or more requested unmounted TDSMs positioned at the input station having an unprocessed data volume; and the command module having a second capability of issuing commands to the picker to transfer any remaining TDSMs positioned at the input station until there are no more remaining TDSMs positioned at the input station having an unprocessed data volume, unless a signal is sent to the control unit to indicate that the request to process one or more data volumes stored on one or more respective unmounted TDSMs is interrupted. 36. The library control device of claim 35, wherein the signal sent to the control unit to indicate that the request to process one or more data volumes stored on one or more respective requested unmounted TDSMs is interrupted is generated by the host processor. 37. The library control device of claim 36, wherein the signal sent to the control unit to indicate that the request to process one or more data volumes stored on one or more respective requested unmounted TDSMs is interrupted is generated by an interaction with the library control device. 38. The library control device of claim 34, wherein the selected medium drive corresponds to a device address sent to the control unit. 39. A library control device for servicing a host processor request to process one or more data volumes stored on one or more respective requested unmounted transient data storage mediums (TDSMs) in a storage library including one or more storage bins, each bin for storing a data storage medium (DSM) therein, the DSM having an attached readable label containing information related to the DSM, the storage library also including one or more storage medium drives and a robotic picker for mounting a DSM on a medium drive, the storage library having an input station for adding one or more DSMs to the storage library, the robotic picker having an information sensing device for automatically reading the machine readable label, the storage library further having an operator display, electronic memory coupled with the control unit, the control unit in communication with the operator display and the host processor, the library control device comprising: electronic memory; a control processor coupled with the electronic memory; the control processor including a command module in communication with the robotic picker, the control processor further in communication with the operator display and the host processor; a sensing device in communication with the control processor, the sensing device having a first capability of generating a TDSM mount signal in response to determining if TDSMs are positioned at the input station; the command module capable of responding to the TDSM mount signal by issuing a first command to the picker to mount a TDSM selected from the one or more TDSMs at the input station on a selected medium drive, and by disabling the information sensing device such that if a condition exists wherein a machine readable label is attached to the one or more requested unmounted TDSMs then the label is not automatically read; a host processor signal generator capable of generating a first signal to be received by the host processor indicating that the mounting of the TDSM on the selected medium drive is completed; and the command module having a first capability of responding to a signal that the host processing request has been satisfied by issuing a second command to the picker to transfer the TDSM from the selected medium drive to the input station. 40. The library control device of claim 39, and further comprising: the sensing device having a second capability of determining if there are any remaining TDSMs of the one or more requested unmounted TDSMs positioned at the input station having an unprocessed data volume; and the command module having a second capability of issuing commands to the picker to transfer any remaining TDSMs positioned at the input station until there are no more remaining TDSMs positioned at the input station having an unprocessed data volume, unless a signal is sent to the control unit to indicate that the request to process one or more data volumes stored on one or more respective unmounted TDSMs is interrupted. 41. The library control device of claim 40, wherein the signal sent to the control unit to indicate that the request to process one or more data volumes stored on one or more respective requested unmounted TDSMs is interrupted is generated by the host processor. 42. The library control device of claim 41, wherein the signal sent to the control unit to indicate that the request to process one or more data volumes stored on one or more respective requested unmounted TDSMs is interrupted is generated by an interaction with the library control device. 43. The library control device of claim 35, wherein the selected medium drive corresponds to a device address sent to the control unit. 