A multilayered suspension having a slider end and a termination end, the suspension being suitable for use in an information storage system slider-suspension assembly is provided. The suspension comprising a conductive lead structure having at least one conductor line contained in a patterned conductive layer formed over one or more layers. The conductive lead structure being suitable on the slider end for connection to transducer leads of a slider, and on the termination end for connection to arm-electronics termination pads. The suspension further comprises a fixture, formed from one or more layers, being substantially in the same plane as the termination end of the conductive lead structure and having one or more anchor tabs laminated to a layer of the conductive lead structure. The fixture being suitable for aligning the conductor lines to the termination pads by rotating the termination end of the conductive lead structure in the plane of the termination end.
Claims I claim: 1. A method for fabricating an actuator arm assembly, the method comprising the steps of: attaching a multilayered suspension to an actuator arm; aligning a termination end of a conductive lead structure extending from the suspension by manipulating a fixture attached to the conductive lead structure in a plane of the termination end until conductor lines contained in the conductive lead structure are properly placed over termination pads located on the actuator arm; terminating the conductor lines to the termination pads; and detaching the fixture from the conductive lead structure. 2. A method according to claim 1, wherein the fixture has one or more anchor tabs laminated to a layer of the conductive lead structure, and further wherein the step of detaching includes delaminating at least one layer of the anchor tab from a layer of the conductive lead structure. 3. A method according to claim 2, wherein at least one anchor tab is a flexible anchor tab formed from one or more layers near the termination end. 4. A method according to claim 3, wherein two anchor tabs are spaced such that a first tab will buckle and a second tab will be in tension when a rotational force is applied to the fixture in a first direction, and wherein the first tab will be in tension and the second tab will buckle when a rotational force is applied to the fixture in a second direction. 5. A method according to claim 1, wherein the fixture includes a hook arm extending along the termination end of the conductive lead structure, the hook arm being removably attached to an end of each conductor line, and further wherein each conductor line is connected to the hook arm in a fixed and spaced relationship. 6. A method according to claim 5, the hook arm having an inside edge, wherein the step of detaching the fixture from the conductive lead structure includes the step of rotating the hook arm such that each conductor line within the conductive lead structure is parted by the inside edge. 7. A method according to claim 1, the fixture including at least one anchor tab connecting the fixture to the conductive lead structure, said at least one anchor tab having an area of reduced cross-section, wherein said step of detaching the fixture from the conductive lead structure includes the step of parting said at least one anchor tab at said area of reduced cross-section. 8. A method according to claim 1, wherein the fixture has at least one hole therethrough, and wherein the step of aligning a termination end of conductive lead structure includes the step of manipulating the fixture utilizing said at least one hole. 