A passive ammunition magazine includes a plurality of cells arranged in rows for accommodating projectiles in vertical, base-down orientations on cell base supports. Each cell includes a pair of vertically spaced locking members mounted at one side of the cell for pivotal movement between lower release positions and upper locking positions with cradle-shaped forward edges frictionally engaging the projectile body. An operator, linked to the locking members, is acted upon by a projectile-supporting foot of an upload/download transfer mechanism to produce the locking member pivotal movements. In their locking positions, the locking members are oriented at angles less than 45.degree. relative to horizontal, and, in response to upward motion of the projectile, pivot upwardly to wedge the projectile against fixed backing members positioned at the opposite side of the cell.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An ammunition magazine including a plurality of cells, each cell accommodating a projectile with a projectile axis in substantial coincidence with a cell centerline, each cell comprising: a cradle member having a free end arcuately shaped in substantial conformance with a peripheral surface of the projectile, the cradle member mounted in laterally offset relation with the cell centerline for movement between a cell-open position and a cell-closed position with the arcuately shaped free end in cradling relation to the projectile peripheral surface; means mounting the cradle member for pivotal movement about an axis normal to the cell centerline between the cell-open and cell-closed positions; and an operator linked to move the cradle member between the cell-open and cell-closed positions in response to actuation by a projectile upload/download transfer mechanism. 2. The ammunition magazine defined in claim 1, wherein each cell further includes a backing member positioned in laterally offset relation to and on an opposite side of the cell centerline from the cradle member, such that, while in the cell-closed position with the free end frictionally engaging the projectile peripheral surface, the cradle member pivots beyond the cell-closed position in response to cell-dislodging motion of the projectile to wedge the projectile against the backing member. 3. The ammunition magazine defined in claim 2, wherein the cell centerline is vertically oriented and each cell further includes a support upon which the projectile rests in vertical, base-down orientation, and wherein the cradle member in the cell-closed position assumes an angular orientation of less than 45.degree. to horizontal and pivots beyond the cell-closed position toward the horizontal in response to upward cell-dislodging motion of the projectile. 4. An ammunition magazine including a plurality of cells for respectively accommodating projectiles in vertical, base down orientations, each cell comprising: a support on which a projectile base may rest; a backing member positioned at one side of the cell proximate a body of the projectile base support; a locking member located at an opposite side of the cell from the backing member and mounted for pivotal movement between a lower release position and an upper locking position, the locking member, when in the locking position, frictionally engaging the projectile body and acting to wedge the projectile against the backing member in response to upward motion of the projectile; and an operator linked to pivot the locking member between the release and locking positions. wherein the pivotal motion of the locking member from the release position to the locking position is in a direction toward the projectile, and the locking member assumes an angular orientation in the locking position of less than 45.degree. relative to horizontal. 5. The ammunition magazine defined in claim 4, wherein the locking member is mounted for pivotal movement about a horizontal axis. 6. The ammunition magazine defined in claim 4, wherein the locking member includes a free end configured to frictionally engage the projectile body at multiple, circumferential locations. 7. The ammunition magazine defined in claim 4, wherein the locking member includes a free end of a cradle configuration so as to frictionally engage the projectile body along a circumferentially extending, essentially continuous contact line. 8. The ammunition magazine defined in claim 4, wherein each said cell includes a pair of horizontally spaced posts for pivotally mounting therebetween a vertically spaced pair of the locking members linked to the operator. 9. The ammunition magazine defined in claim 4, wherein the operator includes means accommodating engagement with a projectile transfer apparatus operative to motivate movements of the operator between open and closed-cell orientations and corresponding pivotal movements of the locking member between the release and locking positions. 10. The ammunition magazine defined in claim 9, wherein each cell further includes means for releasably detenting the operator in either of said open or closed-cell orientations in the absence of operative engagement of the operator by the projectile transfer apparatus. 11. The ammunition magazine defined in claim 10, wherein said detenting means includes a spring acting to exert a resilient position-detenting force on the locking member. 12. The ammunition magazine defined in claim 11, wherein said detenting means further includes a cam fixed on a pivotal mounting shaft for the locking member, the spring acting against the cam to exert the resilient position-detenting force on the locking member. 13. The ammunition magazine defined in claim 11, wherein the detenting means further includes a linkage interconnecting the operator and the locking member, the linkage including a toggle that assumes an overcentered condition when the operator is moved to the open-cell orientation established by a stop, the resilient position-detenting force of the spring acting to releasably detain the overcentered condition of the toggle and the operator biased against the stop. 14. An ammunition storage and retrieval apparatus comprising, in combination: a magazine including a plurality of cells for accommodating projectiles in vertical, base-down orientations, each cell including: a support on which a projectile base may rest; a fixed backing member positioned at one side of the cell proximate a body of the projectile while resting on the base support; a locking member located at an opposite side of the cell and mounted for pivotal movement about a horizontal axis between a lower release position and an upper locking position, the locking member, when in the locking position, frictionally engaging the projectile body and acting to wedge the projectile against the backing member in response to upward motion of the projectile; and an operator linked to pivot the locking member between the release and locking positions; and a traversing upload/download head including: a gripper having opposed fingers mounted for pivotal movements in closing directions to grip a projectile and in opening directions to release the projectile, a toggle linkage interconnecting the opposed fingers and including a toggle pin, a first cam follower connected with the toggle pin, a foot movable between an upper position supporting the projectile in elevated relation to the cell support and a lower position below the cell support, the foot including a toe engagable with the cell operator and a second cam follower, and a cam engaging the first and second cam follower and driven by the upload/download head to coordinate the opening and closing directional movements of the gripper fingers with vertical movements of the foot between the upper and lower positions, whereby the locking member is controllably pivoted by the operator into the locking position in response to downward movement of the foot and is controllably pivoted into the release position in response to upward movement of the foot. 