A parts feeder conveys parts to a selection zone viewed by a vision system, which selects parts having an orientation allowing them to be gripped and transferred from the conveyor. Non-selected parts are conveyed from the selection zone to a hopper for recirculation to the selection zone. The parts are tumbled between successive passes through the selection zone and eventually assume orientations allowing them to be gripped. The gripper has rotatable finger pads which can be either driven or passively rotated.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A parts feeder, comprising: a transport system for receiving parts and transporting the parts to a selection zone at which a selector analyzes parts in the selection zone and selects parts according to the analysis; and a recirculator that receives non-selected parts from the transport system and recirculates the received parts for receipt and subsequent transport by said transport system through said selection zone, said recirculator being operative to induce the recirculated parts to assume different orientations and/or relative positions during transport for subsequent passes through said selection zone; said recirculator comprising a parts-receptor that moves along a transfer path extending from a location at which the parts-receptor receives non-selected parts from the transport system to a region in which the parts-receptor discharges the received non-selected parts, said transfer path comprising two curved end portions, wherein said parts-receptor is positioned under the transport system when said parts-receptor is at the non-selected parts receiving location. 2. The parts feeder of claim 1, wherein the recirculator tumbles at least some of the recirculated non-selected parts onto the transport system so that non-selected parts are repeatedly recirculated through said selection zone in random orientations and relative positions until the non-selected parts are selected. 3. The parts feeder of claim 2, wherein the transport system includes at least one part-transporting conveyor, and the recirculator includes a hopper, displaceable between a first position and orientation for receiving non-selected parts conveyed by said at least one conveyor from said selection zone, and a second position and orientation for tumbling received non-selected parts onto said at least one conveyor. 4. The parts feeder of claim 3, wherein the recirculator further comprises a controllable hopper displacement system operative to control how many received non-selected parts are tumbled onto said at least one conveyor. 5. The parts feeder of claim 1, wherein said selector comprises means for analyzing the orientation of parts and selecting parts according to their orientation. 6. The parts feeder of claim 1, wherein said transporter system comprise first and second conveyors, at least one of the first and second conveyors having a textured surface tending to prevent parts from moving on the surface. 7. The parts feeder of claim 1, wherein the recirculator comprises at least one curved guide to guide the parts-receptor along the transfer path. 8. The parts feeder of claim 1, further comprising a parts-receptor actuator that controls the amount of non-selected parts discharged by said parts-receptor. 9. The parts feeder of claim 1, wherein said recirculator comprises a guide member for said parts-receptor, said guide member extending from said part-receiving location to said part-discharging region of said transfer path and having at least one curved end portion defining said at least one curved end portion of said transfer path. 10. The parts feeder of claim 1, wherein said selector comprises a gripper for rotating and translating the parts. 11. The parts feeder of claim 10, wherein the gripper comprises rotating finger pads for gripping and rotating the parts about an axis of rotation of at least one of the finger pads. 12. The parts feeder of claim 11, wherein the gripper comprises drive means for driving at least one of the finger pads. 13. The parts feeder of claim 12, wherein the drive means comprises a motor. 14. The parts feeder of claim 13, further comprising means for monitoring the torque of the motor. 15. The parts feeder of claim 14, wherein the torque monitoring means further comprises means for computing torques applied to a gripped part. 16. The parts feeder of claim 15, wherein the torque monitoring means guides the gripper based on the computed torques. 17. The parts feeder of claim 14, wherein the drive means comprises an encoder for detecting the rotational position of an output shaft of the motor, the parts feeder further comprising means for computing when a part contacts another part based on the monitored motor torque. 18. The parts feeder of claim 13, wherein the motor comprises a servo motor. 19. The parts feeder of claim 13, wherein the motor comprises a stepper motor. 20. The parts feeder of claim 13, wherein the drive means comprises a transmission comprising: at least two drums at least one band wrapped around the drums. 21. The parts feeder of claim 20, wherein the at least one band has two ends respectively fastened to the drums. 22. The parts feeder of claim 11, wherein the rotational axis is spaced from a part support surface no farther than a distance equal to the distance from the center of the part to said support surface when a part is initially gripped by the gripper. 