A system for printing social expression cards includes both a database preparation system and a plurality of remote card printing systems. The database preparation system uses a scanner to input images from a plurality of cards, or a computer software program to create a plurality of images for use in card designs. A high resolution print image and a lower resolution display image are created from each of these images. A card description database defines the layout of each card in terms of its component images and their locations on the card. The database preparation system can also build a menu database defining a structure of menu screens to query the user to select a desired category of cards. A list of card names is linked to each category in the menu database. These databases and image files are then copied onto removable data storage media for distribution to each of the card printing systems. A typical card printing system has a display, a color printer, input means (e.g. a keyboard or trackball), data storage means for reading the removable data storage media, and a computer processor. The processor uses the menu database to prompt the customer to select a desired category of cards.
Claims We claim: 1. A system for printing social expression cards comprising: a database preparation computer system having: (a) means for inputing graphic images for each of said cards; (b) means for creating a high-resolution print image for each of said images; (c) means for creating a lower-resolution display image for each of said images; (d) means for creating a card description database defining the layout of each card in terms of its component images and their locations on the card; (e) data storage means for creating multiple copies of said card description database, print images, and display image files on removable data storage media; and at least one card printing system having: (a) a display; (b) a printer; (c) input means; (d) data storage means for reading said removable data storage media; and (e) processor means for using said card description database to selectively retrieve display images of cards from said data storage means and display said display images on said display; allowing a user to select a desired card via said input means; retrieving print images for said selected card from said data storage means; and printing said print images on said printer. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein said data storage means comprises a CD-ROM. 3. The system of claim 1 wherein said data storage means comprises a hard disk drive. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein said card description database further comprises information defining any text appearing on each card. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein said card description database further comprises information on fields that can be personalized for each card. 6. The system of claim 1 wherein said database preparation computer system further comprises means for creating a menu database for querying the card printing system user for a plurality of special occasion parameters and linking cards to said special occasion parameters; wherein said menu database is copied on said removable storage media; and wherein the sequence of menus and the cards displayed for the user by said card printing system is controlled by said menu database. 7. The system of claim 1 wherein said printer reproduces color images by means of dots of a predetermined set of colors and black, and wherein said print images are stored in a dithered format in which said print images are reduced to patterns of said colors and black. 