The present invention relates, in general, to a process of enzymatically synthesizing nucleic acids containing nucleotides that are resistant to degradation. The invention further relates to methods of utilizing such nucleic acids in DNA and RNA amplification and sequencing, gene therapy and molecular detection protocols.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of sequencing a nucleic acid comprising: i) A) enzymatically amplifying said nucleic acid in the presence of (a) nucleotides required to effect said amplification, which nucleotides, once incorporated into a product of said amplification, are susceptable to enzymatic degradation by an exonuclease specific for one end of said product of said amplification, and (b) an .alpha.-P-borano-substituted nucleotide that is selectively incorporated into said product of said amplification in lieu of one of said nucleotides of (a), which .alpha.-P-borano-substituted nucleotide, once incorporated into said product of said amplification, is resistant to enzymatic degradation by said exonuclease, and B) repeating said enzymatic amplification, each repeat being carried out in the presence of a .alpha.-P-substituted nucleotide, each of which .alpha.-P-borano-substituted nucleotides is selectively incorporated into said product of said amplification in lieu of a different one of said nucleotides of (a), each of said third and fourth modified .alpha.-P-borano-substituted nucleotides being resistant to enzymatic degradation by said exonuclease once incorporated into said product of said amplification; ii) treating the products of said amplification of step (i) with said exonuclease so that digestion fragments are produced terminating at the sites of incorporation of said .alpha.-P-borano-substituted nucleotides; iii) separating the fragments resulting from the treatment of step (ii) and detecting the position of each of said .alpha.-P-borano-substituted nucleotides in the products of said amplification. 2. The method according to claim 1 wherein said amplification is effected by polymerase chain reaction. 3. The method according to claim 1 wherein said treatment of step (ii) is effected using exonuclease III. 4. The method according to claim 1 wherein said separation of step (iii) is effected by gel electrophoresis. 5. The method according to claim 1 wherein said .alpha.-P-borano-substituted nucleotides are 2'-deoxynucleoside 5'-.alpha.-borano-triphosphates. 6. The method according to claim 1 wherein said treatment of step (ii) is effected using a 3' to 5' exonuclease. 7. A method of sequencing a nucleic acid comprising: i) A) enzymatically amplifying said nucleic acid in the presence of (a) nucleotides required to effect said amplification, which nucleotides, once incorporated into a product of said amplification, are susceptable to enzymatic degradation by an exonuclease specific for one end of said product of said amplification, and (b) an .alpha.-P-borano-substituted nucleotide that is selectively incorporated into said product of said amplification in lieu of one of said nucleotides of (a), which .alpha.-P-borano-substituted nucleotide, once incorporated into said product of said amplification, is resistant to enzymatic degradation by said exonuclease, and B) repeating said enzymatic amplification, each repeat being carried out in the presence of a .alpha.-P-borano-substituted nucleotide, each of which .alpha.-P-borano-substituted nucleotides is selectively incorporated into said product of said amplification in lieu of a different one of said nucleotides of (a), each of said .alpha.-P-borano-substituted nucleotides being resistant to enzymatic degradation by said exonuclease once incorporated into said product of said amplification; ii) degrading, by using an exonuclease, the products of said amplification of step (i) containing said .alpha.-P-borano-substituted nucleotides from one end thereof so that resulting fragment patterns reveal the position of each of said .alpha.-P-borano-substituted nucleotides in the products of said amplification. 8. The method according to claim 7 wherein said exonuclease is a 3'exonuclease. 9. The method according to claim 7 wherein said exonuclease is a 5'exonuclease. 10. The method according to claim 7 wherein said products of step (i) are fragmented prior to step (ii). 11. The method according to claim 7 wherein said products of step (i) are greater than 1 kilobase in length. 12. The method according to claim 7 wherein said amplification is effected by polymerase chain reaction. 13. The method according to claim 7 wherein said .alpha.-P-borano-substituted nucleotide is a 2'deoxynucleoside 5'-.alpha.-borano-triphosphate. 14. A method of bidirectionally sequencing a double-stranded nucleic acid comprising: i) enzymatically amplifying each strand of said nucleic acid in the presence of (a) nucleotides required to effect said amplification, which nucleotides, once incorporated into a product of said amplification, are susceptible to enzymatic degradation by an exonuclease specific for one end of said product of said amplification, and (b) an .alpha.-P-borano-substituted nucleotide that is selectively incorporated into said product of said amplification in lieu of one of said nucleotides of (a), which .alpha.-P-borano-substituted nucleotide, once incorporated into said product of said amplification, is resistant to enzymatic degradation by said exonuclease, and repeating said enzymatic amplification, each repeat being carried out in the presence of a .alpha.-P-borano-substituted nucleotide, each of which .alpha.-P-borano-substituted nucleotides is selectively incorporated into said product of said amplification in lieu of a different one of said nucleotides of (a), each of said .alpha.-P-borano-substituted nucleotides being resistant to enzymatic degradation by said exonuclease once incorporated into said product of said amplification; wherein said enzymatic amplification is effected using a first primer complementary to a first strand of said nucleic acid, said first primer being linked at the 5' end thereof to a first member of a binding pair, and a second primer complementary to a second strand of said nucleic acid, ii) contacting the products of said step (i) with a solid support having a second member of said binding pair linked thereto and under conditions such that products of said step (i) either linked to said first member of said binding pair or hybridized to products of step (i) linked to said first member of said binding pair, complex with said second member of said binding pair bound to said solid support; iii) digesting the complex resulting from step (ii) with an exonuclease specific for one end of said products of said amplification, said digestions terminating at the sites of incorporation of said .alpha.-P-borano-substituted nucleotides; iv) denaturing the digests resulting from step (iii); v) separating fragments resulting from the denaturation of step (iv) and detecting the position of each of said .alpha.-P-borano-substituted nucleotides in the products of said amplification. 15. The method according to claim 14 wherein said wherein said .alpha.-P-borano-substituted nucleotide is a 2'-deoxynucleoside 5'-.alpha.-borano-triphosphate. 