A slide positioning and holding device includes a base, a number of first bearing members defining a bearing surface for slidably engaging a first edge of the slide, at least one second bearing member for slidably engaging a second edge of the slide generally perpendicular to the first edge, and first and second arms for contact with third and fourth edges, respectively, of the slide to urge the first and second edges of the slide into contact with the bearing members.
Claims We claim: 1. A slide positioning and holding device, comprising: a base movable relative to a viewing apparatus between a first position wherein the slide is viewable by the viewing apparatus and a second position; a plurality of first bearing members defining a bearing surface for slidably engaging a first edge of the slide; at least one second bearing member for slidably engaging a second edge of the slide generally perpendicular to the first slide edge; and, first and second arms for contact with third and fourth edges, respectively, of the slide to urge the first and second edges of the slide into contact with the bearing members when the base is in the first position; wherein at least one of the arms is caused to move out of contact with the slide by an element fixed relative to the viewing apparatus when the base is moved toward the second position. 2. The device of claim 1, wherein the base includes vacuum ports on a surface confronting the slide for maintaining the slide in position on the base. 3. The device of claim 1, wherein the arms are biased to urge the slide toward the bearing members. 4. The device of claim 1, each of the arms being rotatably mounted to the base at a point between an end of each arm for contact with the slide and a distal end. 5. The device of claim 4, wherein the base is mounted to a movable stage. 6. The device of claim 1, wherein the base is mounted to a movable stage. 7. The device of claim 1, wherein the base is part of a movable stage. 8. The device of claim 1, wherein the second position is at a location which permits automated placement of the slide on the base. 9. A device for holding a slide in a known position relative to a viewing apparatus, comprising: a base movable relative to the viewing apparatus; at least two bearing members arranged on the base for constraining the slide in two generally perpendicular directions; and first and second arms, each having a contacting end for contacting an edge of the slide to urge the slide toward the bearing members, each of the arms being rotatably mounted to the base at a point between the contacting end and a distal end and at least one of the arms being operable to contact a projection fixed relative to the viewing apparatus to cause the arms to rotate away from contact with the slide as the base is moved to a position away from the field of view of the viewing apparatus. 10. The device of claim 9, wherein the base includes vacuum ports on a surface confronting the slide for maintaining the slide in position on the base. 11. The device of claim 9, wherein the arms are biased to urge the slide toward the bearing members. 12. The device of claim 9, wherein the base is mounted to a movable stage. 13. The device of claim 9, wherein the base is part of a movable stage. 14. The device of claim 9, wherein the base includes a opening facilitating the automated placement of the slide on the base. 15. The device of claim 9, wherein the viewing apparatus is a microscope. 16. The device of claim 9, wherein the viewing apparatus is a scanning laser. 17. The device of claim 9, the arms being operable to rotate to urge said slide towards said bearing members as the base is moved to a position in the field of view of the viewing apparatus. 18. The device of claim 17, wherein one of the arms contacts the slide and urges it towards a bearing member constraining the slide in one direction before the other arm contacts the slide and urges it towards a bearing member constraining the slide in the other direction. 19. A slide positioning and holding device, comprising: a base movable relative to a viewing apparatus between a first position wherein the slide is viewable by the viewing apparatus and a second position; a plurality of bearing members for constraining the slide in two generally perpendicular directions; and an arm for urging the slide toward at least one of the bearing members holding it in place when the base in the first position; wherein the arm is caused to move out of contact with the slide by an element fixed relative to the viewing apparatus when the base is moved toward the second position. 20. The device of claim 19, wherein the arm is biased towards at least one of the bearing members. 21. The device of claim 19, wherein the arm is not in contact with the fixed element when the base is in the first position. 22. The device of claim 19, wherein the arm is in contact with the fixed element when the base is in the second position. 23. The device of claim 19, wherein the base is adapted to permit automated placement of the slide on the base. 