A robot for performing a working operation on a surface. The robot comprises a frame which supports a pair of parallel tracks. An endless link chain is mounted for travel on each track and each chain is driven by an independent motor mounted on the frame. Each track is provided with at least two recesses with each recess having an open side facing the respective chain. A series of vacuum cups are mounted on each chain and are adapted to engage the surface to be traversed. A first series of ports connect a first recess of each track and a first group of vacuum cups on each chain, while a second series of ports communicate between the second recess of each track and a second group of vacuum cups. A source of vacuum is connected to the recesses and acts through the ports to the respective vacuum cups to enable the vacuum cups to grip the surface. In a preferred manner of use, the robot is employed with a laser tracking system in the non-destructive inspection of an aircraft.
Claims I claim: 1. A method for non-destructive inspection of an aircraft, comprising the steps of positioning a robot on the outer surface of an aircraft, mounting a surface sensor for movement on the robot and positioning the sensor in contact with the outer surface of the aircraft, maintaining the interior of the aircraft at a first pressure, moving the robot in a selected path of travel over said surface with said sensor riding on said surface and moving relative to said robot, tracking the movement of said sensor to provide a first continuous measurement of the spatial coordinates of said sensor, pressurizing the interior of the aircraft to a pressure greater than said first pressure, repeating the steps of moving the robot and tracking the movement of the sensor to provide a second continuous measurement of the spatial coordinates of the sensor, and comparing the first measurement with the second measurement to determine whether the spatial coordinates at any selected location on said aircraft outer surface are outside of a given tolerance. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of mounting the sensor for movement comprises mounting the sensor for movement on the robot in a direction normal to the direction of travel of the robot. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the first pressure is atmospheric pressure and the second pressure is above atmospheric pressure. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of tracking the sensor comprises mounting a retro reflector on the sensor, directing an incident laser beam from a laser tracking unit toward the retro reflector, reflecting the beam from the retro reflector back toward the laser tracking unit, and comparing the incident beam with the reflected beam to provide a measurement of the spatial coordinates. 5. The method of claim 1, and including the step of biasing the sensor into contact with said outer surface. 6. A method for non-destructive inspection of an aircraft, comprising the steps of positioning a robot on a surface of an aircraft, mounting a surface sensor for movement on the robot and positioning the sensor in contact with the surface of the aircraft, maintaining the interior of the aircraft at a first pressure, moving the robot in a selected path of travel over said surface with said sensor riding on said surface and moving relative to said robot, directing an incident laser beam from a laser generating unit located a remote location relative to said robot toward a retro-reflector mounted on the sensor, reflecting the laser beam from the retro-reflector back toward the laser generating unit, comparing the incident beam with the reflected beam to provide a first measurement of spatial coordinates of the sensor, subjecting the interior of the aircraft to a second pressure different from said first pressure, repeating the steps of moving the robot and tracking the movement of the sensor to provide a second continuous measurement of the spatial coordinates of the sensor, and comparing the first measurement with the second measurement to determine whether the spatial coordinates at any selected location on said aircraft surface are outside of a given tolerance. 