A Group Exchange Port (GXP) is disclosed which provides an organized technique for passing control of live objects (e.g.; a telephone call, a robotic arm, flying aircraft, etc.) from a first application operating on and processing the object to a second such application. In accordance with the invention, a Group Exchange Port is provided where buyer applications register there willingness to accept control of the system and sellers may "advertise" an object for sale. When a suitable buyer (i.e.; one that has the proper resources for servicing and controlling the active system) is found, control of the object is passed from the seller to the buyer. Importantly, the GXP requires that control of the object always be maintained by one and only one application, that control not be passed to an application which cannot properly service and/or control the system, and that an application presently controlling the system does not relinquish such control until a new application accepts such control. The technique allows loosely coupled applications to work with the same object.
Claims We claim: 1. In a communication system, a method of passing a telephone call requiring control from a first application, denoted a seller, presently having full access to and control of said telephone call, to a second application, denoted a buyer, through a Group Exchange Protocol (GXP), each of said buyer and seller having one or more hardware and software resources, the method comprising the steps of: registering at least one buyer with the GXP, thereby informing the GXP that the at least one buyer is available for accepting control of or access to said telephone call to be passed; passing to said buyer information indicative of hardware and software resources required for control of or access to said call; and granting said control of or access to said buyer only if said information indicates that said buyer possesses said required hardware and software. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of communicating a message to the GXP indicating that the seller has a telephone call to be passed to a buyer prior to said step of passing. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein said telephone call includes an associated group of parameters. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein commands received from a user prior to said step of granting are stored and passed to said buyer when control of or access to said telephone call is granted. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein said granting step includes the step of passing control of said telephone call. 6. The method of claim 5 further comprising the step of changing the parameters and resources associated with said call prior to said step of granting but subsequent to said step of communicating. 7. The method of claim 4 further comprising the steps of: maintaining a list of conditions under which said step of granting should not be permitted even if said buyer possesses said hardware and software resources; and examining said list prior to said step of granting; and preventing said step of granting in response to said step of examining indicating that said conditions are met. 8. The method of claim 4 further comprising the step of notifying the seller, prior to said step of granting, if said buyer possesses said required hardware and software. 9. In a communication system, a method of passing control of a telephone call having an associated group of parameters and resources from a first application, denoted a seller, presently having full access to said telephone call, to a second application, denoted a buyer, through a plurality of group exchange protocols (GXP), the method comprising the steps of: registering at least one buyer with said plurality of GXPs, thereby informing the GXPs that the at least one buyer is available for accepting the telephone call to be passed said step of registering including the step of changing, as necessary, the group of parameters and resources; communicating a message to the GXPS indicating that the seller has a telephone call to be passed to a buyer; examining the associated group to determine if said buyer includes resources sufficient to control said call; if so, determining that said buyer is to be granted control of said telephone call; granting said control to said buyer only after said steps of examining and determining indicate that said buyer is capable of accepting control of said telephone call, said step of changing occurring prior to the step of granting but subsequent to the step of communicating. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein said step of registering comprises the step of checking to see if any of said communicated messages indicates that a telephone call to be passed is suitable for said buyer registering. 11. The method of claim 9 wherein said step of communicating comprises the step of checking to see if any of said registered buyers are suitable for accepting said telephone call. 12. The method of claim 10 wherein said step of communicating comprises the step of checking to see if any of said registered buyers are suitable for accepting said telephone call. 13. A Group Exchange Port (GXP) apparatus for passing a communications session from a first application, denoted a seller, presently having access to said communications session, to a second application, denoted a buyer, said apparatus comprising: means for registering at least one buyer with the GXP, thereby informing the GXP that the at least one buyer is available for accepting the communications session to be passed; means for receiving information indicative of whether said buyer possesses hardware and software required to manage said communications session, and for determining that said buyer is to gain access to said communications session; means for passing access to said communications session from said seller to said buyer only after said means for receiving and determining indicates that said buyer is capable of accepting said communications session. 14. Apparatus of claim 13 further comprising means for communicating, to the GXP, a message indicating that the seller has a communications session to be passed to a buyer. 15. Apparatus of claim 14 wherein said communications session includes an associated group of parameters. 16. Apparatus of claim 15 wherein commands received from a user prior to passing access are stored and passed to said buyer when control of or access to said telephone call is granted. 17. Apparatus of claim 16 wherein said means for determining includes means for examining the group to ascertain whether or not said buyer is capable of accepting the call. 18. Apparatus of claim 17 wherein said means for passing includes the means for passing control of said communications session. 19. Apparatus of claim 18 further comprising means for changing the parameters and resources associated with said call prior to granting access thereto. 20. Apparatus of claim 16 further comprising: means for maintaining a list of conditions under which passing should not be permitted; and means for examining said list prior to passing; and means for preventing passing by said means for passing in response to an indication that said conditions are met. 21. A Group Exchange Port apparatus for passing control of a telephone call having an associated group of parameters and resources from a first application denoted a seller, presently having control of said telephone call, to a second application, denoted a buyer, said apparatus comprising: means for registering at least one buyer with a plurality of GXPs, thereby informing the GXPs that the at least one buyer is available for accepting control of the telephone call; means for communicating to the GXPs a message indicating that the seller has a telephone call to be passed to a buyer; means for determining that said buyer is to accept control of said telephone call by examining the group; means for passing control of said telephone call from said seller to said buyer only after said means for determining indicates that said buyer is capable of accepting control of said telephone call; means for storing commands received from a user and for passing said commands to said buyer when said means for passing passes control of said telephone call; and means for changing parameters and resources associated with the call prior to passing control but subsequent to communicating said message. 22. Apparatus of claim 21 wherein said means for registering comprises means for checking to see if any of said communicated message indicates that a telephone call to be passed is suitable for said buyer registering. 23. Apparatus of claim 22 wherein said means for communicating comprises means for checking to see if any of said registered buyer are suitable for accepting said telephone call. 24. Apparatus of claim 21 wherein said means for communicating comprises means for checking to see if any of said registered buyer are suitable for accepting said telephone call. 