A manufacturing system for individually processing semiconductor wafers through a plurality of processing stations. The system has a plurality of processing stations, a multilevel track system that interfaces with the processing stations, and guided transport vehicles that operate on the track system to move individual wafers in wafer carriers between the stations. The carriers have a storage memory that contains the required process sequence and the capability to remember the completed process steps.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of manufacturing semiconductor devices in a production line having (a) a plurality of semiconductor wafer processing stations, (b) a multilevel track system associated with the processing stations, (c) a plurality of guided transport vehicles adapted to operate independently on said multilevel tracks and each of which carries a wafer carrier between said processing stations, (d) a plurality of wafer carriers, each adapted to support and enclose a single wafer, and (e) a stocker station having a wafer carrier loading area where unprocessed wafers are introduced into the system, and a wafer carrier unloading area where processed wafers are removed from the system, each of said processing stations having (1) a transport vehicle buffer having a load zone and an unload zone, (2) a wafer carrier buffer, (3) a wafer carrier handling means adjusted to transfer wafer carriers between transport vehicles and said wafer carrier buffer, and (4) a wafer handling means to move wafers between the wafer carriers and a wafer processing apparatus at each of said processing stations, the method comprising the steps of: loading a process sequence into an information storage memory on each wafer carrier, and a wafer onto the wafer carrier; loading the wafer carrier, at the stocker station wafer carrier loading area, onto a transport vehicle; moving the transport vehicle along the multilevel track system to a designated processing station in response to the information contained in the process sequence stored in the information storage memory; unloading the wafer carrier at the designated processing station; performing a designated process at the designated processing station; altering the process sequence of the wafer carrier, to indicate the designated process step performed at the designated processing station has been completed; loading the wafer carrier onto one of the transport vehicles; moving the one transport vehicle to a next processing station in response to the altered process sequence in the wafer carrier; repeating the method steps contained in the process sequence until the process sequence steps in the wafer carrier are completed; moving the wafer carriers along the multilevel track system to the stocker station; and unloading the wafer carrier at the stocker station wafer carrier unloading area. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein each track in said multilevel track system is enclosed and a filter means is provided to maintain a clean environment in the enclosed tracks. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein each track in said multilevel track system is open. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein said moving the transport vehicle along the multilevel track system comprises moving the transport vehicle through an interbay system of multilevel tracks, transferring said wafer carriers by a transfer system adjacent to said interbay system, and further transferring said wafer carriers from said transfer system to a bay system of multilevel tracks. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein said transfer system has a multilevel storage means for wafer carriers at the interface of each interbay track system and bay track system, and robotic transfer means to move wafer carriers to and from vehicles on all track levels of said interbay system and bay systems, and said multilevel storage means. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein said stocker station is located adjacent to and accessible to said interbay system. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein said loading the wafer carrier onto the transport vehicle comprises moving said wafer carriers from said stocker station to a wafer carrier storage means, by a first robotic transfer means, and further moving said wafer carriers from said wafer carrier storage means to vehicles by a second robotic transfer means. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein a single wafer carrier is transported to each processing station and individually processed. 