A seal assembly for the perimeter of a window of an automotive vehicle that has an elongated support channel extending around the window perimeter and an elongated continuous tubular sealing member. The elongated continuous tubular sealing member is wound at least twice around the perimeter in overlapping relation with itself and secured in the channel to provide an inner seal and an outer seal with a transition length therebetween, the ends of the elongated continuous tubular sealing member being positioned proximate to and abutting the transition length.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A seal assembly for installation between a flange on a vehicle and a window for sealing a perimeter of the window against the vehicle comprising: an elongated support channel extending proximate with said window perimeter of the vehicle; and an elongated continuous tubular sealing member secured within said channel and extending around said channel at least twice in overlapping relation with itself to provide an inner seal and an outer seal with a transition portion therebetween, said elongated continuous tubular sealing member having a first and second end each positioned proximate to and abutting said transition portion. 2. The seal assembly of claim 1 wherein said elongated continuous tubular sealing member is extended around said channel in overlapping relation with itself to provide an inner seal, a middle seal and an outer seal. 3. The seal assembly of claim 1 wherein said elongated continuous tubular sealing member is cut at degree .THETA. which corresponds to an angle the elongated continuous tubular sealing member is bent to traverse from the inner seal to the outer seal creating the transition portion, said transition portion having abutting surfaces for each end of said elongated continuous tubular sealing member. 4. The seal assembly of claim 1 wherein said elongated continuous tubular sealing member is comprised of an elastomeric material. 5. The seal assembly of claim 1 wherein said support channel is comprised of a polymeric material. 6. The seal assembly of claim 1 wherein said elongated continuous tubular sealing member is adhesively mounted to said support channel by means of a dual sided adhesive tape. 