A stage assembly for a substrate processing system including a cassette support assembly for receiving and supporting a cassette and an actuation and support assembly for supporting and moving the cassette and cassette support assembly between a loading position and a processing position. The processing position provides convenient and efficient access by a central processing system, and the loading position preferably places each cassette closer to, and aligned with, a front panel of the processing system for convenient access by an operator. The actuator and support assembly preferably includes a frame assembly and a rotating plate pivotally mounted to the frame assembly, where the cassette support assembly is mounted to the rotating plate for pivoting relative to the frame assembly. An actuator assembly mounted to the frame assembly flits the cassette support assembly between the loading and processing positions. A shaft assembly pivotally mounts the cassette support assembly to the rotating plate. An adjustable linkage assembly is mounted between the frame assembly and the shaft assembly, so that the cassette support assembly is rotated or swiveled by an adjustable amount between the loading and processing positions.
Claims We claim: 1. A stage assembly for a substrate processing system which processes at least one substrate inserted within a cassette, comprising: a cassette support assembly for receiving and supporting a cassette; and an actuation and support assembly for supporting and moving said cassette support assembly between a loading position for loading and unloading cassettes and a processing position to enable access of substrates within the cassette by a processing system, said actuation and support assembly comprising: a frame assembly; a rotating plate pivotally mounted to said frame assembly and mounted to said cassette support assembly for rotating said cassette support assembly relative to said frame assembly; a motor bracket pivotally mounted to said frame assembly; an actuator motor mounted to said motor bracket; a connecting rod pivotally mounted to said rotating plate and interfacing said actuator motor, wherein said actuator motor applies thrust force to said connecting rod for tilting said cassette support assembly between said loading and processing positions; a crank arm mounted to said rotating plate; and a clamp mounted to said connecting rod and pivotally mounted to said crank arm. 2. The stage assembly of claim 1, wherein the cassette includes a back side and a bottom side, wherein said cassette support assembly comprises: a back plate for interfacing the back side of the cassette; and a stage locator plate mounted to said back plate for interfacing the bottom side of the cassette. 3. The stage assembly of claim 2, wherein said cassette comprises a box-like structure, and wherein said back plate has one end mounted orthogonally to one end of said stage locator plate to form an L-shaped cassette support assembly. 4. The stage assembly of claim 1, wherein said connecting rod comprises a lead screw, and wherein said actuator motor comprises a linear actuator motor for applying thrust force to said lead screw. 5. The stage assembly of claim 1, wherein said frame assembly comprises: a base frame having an upper end and a lower end; bearings mounted on said base frame near said lower end for pivotally mounting said actuator assembly; a bearing block assembly having a first end and a second end, said second end orthogonally mounted to said upper end of said base frame; and a bearing assembly mounted to said second end of said bearing block assembly for pivotally mounting said cassette support assembly. 6. The stage assembly of claim 5, wherein said bearing block assembly comprises: first and second end times; and a frame plate orthogonally mounted between said first and second end frames. 7. The stage assembly of claim 6, wherein said bearing assembly comprises: a first bearing mounted to said first end frame; a second bearing mounted to said second end frame; and a shaft pivotally mounted between said first and second bearings, wherein said rotating plate is mounted to said shaft for allowing pivoting of said cassette support assembly relative to said frame assembly. 8. The stage assembly of claim 1, further comprising: a shaft assembly for pivotally mounting said cassette support assembly to said rotating plate allowing swivel movement of said cassette support assembly relative to said rotating plate; and a linkage assembly mounted between said frame assembly and said shaft assembly; wherein said cassette support assembly is further rotated a predetermined amount relative to said rotating plate between said loading and processing positions when said actuator assembly applies force. 9. The stage assembly of claim 8, wherein said shaft assembly comprises: a gear blank and shaft mounted to said cassette support assembly; and a bearing mounted to said rotating plate for rotatably interfacing said gear blank and shaft. 10. The stage assembly of claim 8, wherein said linkage assembly comprises: a first ball joint mounted to said shaft assembly; a second ball joint mounted to said frame assembly; and a linkage arm coupled between said first and second ball joints. 11. The stage assembly of claim 10, further comprising: said second ball joint mounted to said frame assembly at a predetermined location; and said linkage arm being telescopically adjustable for adjusting its length; wherein said predetermined amount of rotation of said cassette support assembly relative to said rotating plate is adjustable based on said predetermined location of said second ball joint and the length of said linkage arm. 12. The stage assembly of claim 1, wherein the substrate processing system includes a station frame supporting a central robot and a from panel, further comprising: said stage assembly for mounting to the station frame to enable said actuator and support assembly to tilt and swivel said cassette support assembly between said processing position to allow access of substrates within the cassette by the central robot, and said loading position for allowing convenient access to load and unload the cassette from said front panel. 13. The stage assembly of claim 12, the cassette having an open face for inserting, removing and providing access of substrates inserted within, wherein the cassette open face directly faces the central robot while said cassette support assembly is in said processing position, and wherein the cassette open face has an upper end aligned parallel with the from panel while said cassette support assembly is in said loading position. 14. A substrate processing system for processing substrates within a plurality of cassettes, comprising: a station frame; a processing system mounted to said station frame; a front panel located on one end of said station frame; and a plurality of stages mounted to said station frame, each comprising: a cassette support assembly that receives and supports a corresponding cassette; and an actuation and support assembly that supports said cassette support assembly and that translates said cassette support assembly between a corresponding one of a plurality of loading positions for loading and unloading said corresponding cassette and a corresponding one of a plurality of processing positions to enable access of the substrates from said corresponding cassette by said processing system, and during translation, said actuation and support assembly rotates said cassette support assembly relative to a first axis and tilts said cassette support assembly relative to a second axis, orthogonal to said first axis; wherein said actuation and support assembly of each of said plurality of stages aligns a corresponding cassette support assembly in parallel with said front panel when in a corresponding one of said plurality of loading positions. 15. The substrate processing system of claim 14, wherein each cassette includes an open face for inserting and accessing substrates inserted therein, comprising: a first stage for receiving and supporting a first cassette and a second stage for receiving and supporting a second cassette, said first and second stages mounted to said station frame between said processing system and said front panel; and wherein said actuation and support assembly of said first and second stages each move the respective first and second cassettes to align their respective open faces towards said processing system in corresponding ones of said plurality of processing positions and position said respective first and second cassettes to be aligned with and near said front panel in corresponding ones of said plurality of loading positions. 16. The substrate processing system of claim 14, wherein each cassette includes an open face for inserting and accessing substrates inserted therein, comprising: at least four stages, each for receiving and supporting a corresponding cassette, said at least four stages mounted to said station frame at respective locations forming a semicircle around said processing system and between said processing system and said front panel; and wherein said actuation and support assembly of said at least four stages each move the respective cassettes to align theft respective open faces towards said processing system in corresponding ones of said plurality of processing positions and position said respective cassettes to be aligned with and near said front panel in corresponding ones of said plurality of loading positions. 17. The substrate processing system of claim 16, wherein said at least four stages includes: two inner stages mounted on either side of an orthogonal between said processing system and said front panel, wherein the respective open faces of the cassettes loaded on said two inner stages are aligned at 30 degrees relative to said front panel while in said corresponding ones of said plurality of processing positions; and two outer stages mounted on either side of said processing system, wherein respective open faces of the cassettes loaded on said outer inner stages each are aligned at 90 degrees relative to said front panel while in said corresponding ones of said plurality of processing positions; wherein said actuation and support assemblies of said two inner and two outer assemblies position the open faces of the respective cassettes to tilt upwards and to be aligned with said front panel in said corresponding ones of said plurality of loading positions. 18. A method of positioning a plurality of substrate cassettes relative to a processing station including a central processing system and a front panel, comprising the steps of: positioning each cassette into one of a plurality of tangential processing positions to enable the central processing system to access substrates within each cassette; and moving each cassette towards the front panel to a corresponding one of a plurality of loading positions each in parallel alignment with the front panel by simultaneously translating, rotating relative to a first axis and tilting relative to a second axis, orthogonal to said first axis each cassette for allowing convenient loading and unloading of the plurality of cassettes from the front panel. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein said positioning step comprises the step of: positioning a face of each cassette at a tangential position relative to the central processing system. 20. The method of claim 18, wherein said moving step further comprises the steps of: tilting a face of each cassette upwards; and aligning an upper end of each cassette parallel with the front panel. 