Apparatus and method for remotely positioning a probe, such as an examination or repair probe, in a tubular member. The tubular member may be a nuclear steam generator heat transfer tube to be examined or repaired by the probe. The probe is connected to a conduit which supports the probe as the probe advances along the inner diameter of the tube to the location of the tube requiring examination or repair. The conduit has a portion thereof wound about a take-up reel. As the probe and conduit advance in the tube, it unwinds from about the take-up reel. However, as the conduit unwinds from about the take-up reel, it may tend to develop a "kinked", twisted or contorted region therein inducing torsional stress in the conduit. Such torsional stress may be severe enough to break the conduit. The apparatus of the invention includes a gripper capable of gripping the conduit and also includes a rotator connected to the gripper for rotating both the gripper and the conduit gripped thereby. As the rotator rotates the gripper, the gripper and a portion of the conduit simultaneously rotate for removing the contorted region, so that the torsional stress induced in the conduit is relieved.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for remotely positioning an extended conduit into a remote radioactive environment, the conduit having a contorted region therein inducing torsional stress in the conduit, the conduit having a probe connected thereto, comprising: (a) means for remotely extending the conduit into the environment; (b) mechanized means engaging the conduit for relieving the torsional stress induced in the conduit; (c) sensory means connected to the conduit for automatically identifying the torsional stress induced in the conduit, said sensory means generating an output signal in response to the torsional stress sensed thereby; and (d) means responsive to the output signal for operating said mechanized means to relieve the torsional stress. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said mechanized means comprises: (a) gripper means for gripping the conduit; and (b) rotation means connected to said gripper means for rotating said gripper means and the conduit gripped thereby, so that the conduit is rotated as said gripper means rotates and so that the torsional stress is relieved as the conduit is rotated. 3. An apparatus for remotely positioning an extended conduit in a tubular member disposed in a remote radioactive environment, the conduit having a contorted region therein inducing torsional stress in the conduit, the conduit having a probe connected thereto comprising: (a) gripper means for gripping the conduit; (b) rotating means connected to said gripper means for rotating said gripper means and the conduit gripped thereby, so that the conduit is rotated as said gripper means rotates and so that the torsional stress is relieved as the conduit is rotated; (c) sensory means connected to the conduit for automatically identifying the torsional stress induced in the conduit, said sensory means generating an output signal in response to the torsional stress sensed thereby; and (d) means responsive to the output signal for operating said mechanized means to relieve the torsional stress. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, further comprising alignment means connected to the probe for aligning the probe with the tubular member. 5. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the probe is a laser welding probe for use on corroded areas of the tubular member. 6. The apparatus of claim 3, further comprising conduit drive means engaging the conduit for driving the conduit in the tubular member. 7. An apparatus for remotely positioning an extended conduit in a tubular member disposed in a remote radioactive environment, the conduit having a first portion turned in a first direction and a second portion turned in a second direction opposite the first direction, the first portion and the second portion defining a contorted region therebetween inducing torsional stress in the conduit, the conduit having a probe connected thereto, the apparatus comprising: (a) gripper means for gripping the first portion of the conduit; (b) rotating means connected to said gripper means for rotating said gripper means and the conduit gripped thereby to rotate the first portion of the conduit in the second direction, so that the torsional stress is relieved as the first portion of the conduit is rotated; (c) sensory means connected to the conduit for automatically identifying the torsional stress induced in the conduit, said sensory means generating an output signal in response to the torsional stress sensed thereby; and (d) means responsive to the output signal for operating said gripper means and said rotating means to relieve the torsional stress. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, where said gripper is a collapsible bladder. 9. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein said rotation means is a pulley assembly surrounding said gripper means. 10. The apparatus of claim 7, further comprising alignment means connected to the probe for aligning the probe with the tubular member. 11. The apparatus of claim 7, further comprising conduit drive means engaging the conduit for driving the conduit and the probe connected thereto in the tubular member. 12. An apparatus for remotely positioning an extended conduit in a tube disposed in a remote radioactive environment, the conduit having a first portion turned in a first direction and a second portion turned in a second direction opposite the first direction, the first portion and the second portion defining a contorted region therebetween inducing torsional stress in the conduit, the conduit having a probe connected thereto, the apparatus comprising: (a) a baseplate; (b) a gripper connected to said baseplate for gripping the first portion of the conduit; (c) a rotator connected to said baseplate and said gripper for rotating said gripper and the conduit gripped thereby to rotate the first portion of the conduit in the second direction, so that the torsion stress is relieved as the first portion of the conduit is rotated in the second direction; (d) sensory means connected to the conduit for automatically identifying the torsional stress induced in the conduit, said sensory means generating an output signal in response to the torsional stress sensed thereby; and (e) means responsive to the output signal for operating said gripper and said rotator to relieve the torsional stress. 13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein said gripper is a collapsible bladder. 14. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein said rotator is a piston-activated pulley assembly surrounding said gripper. 15. The apparatus of claim 12, further comprising an alignment mechanism connected to the probe for aligning the probe with the tube. 16. The apparatus of claim 12, further comprising a conduit driver engaging the conduit for driving the conduit and the probe connected thereto in the tube. 17. For use in a nuclear heat exchanger having a plurality of heat transfer tubes disposed therein, an apparatus for remotely positioning an extended flexible conduit in a predetermined one of the tubes, the conduit having a first portion turned in a first direction and a second portion turned in a second direction opposite the first direction, the first portion and the second portion defining a contorted region therebetween inducing torsional stress in the conduit, the conduit having a probe connected thereto, the apparatus comprising: (a) a baseplate disposed adjacent the tube; (b) a rotatable gripper connected to said baseplate for rotatably gripping the first portion of the conduit, said gripper including a resilient collapsible bladder capable of gripping the first portion of the conduit; (c) a rotator connected to said baseplate and to said gripper for rotating said gripper and the conduit gripped thereby to rotate the first portion of the conduit in the second direction, so that the torsional stress is relieved as the first portion of the conduit is rotated in the second direction, said rotator including: (i) a piston-driven pulley surrounding said gripper; (ii) a cord engaging said pulley for rotating said pulley, so that said bladder and the first portion of the conduit gripped thereby rotate as said pulley rotates, said cord having an end; and (iii) a movable piston connected to the end of said cord for pulling the end of said cord, so that said pulley rotates said bladder and the first portion of the conduit in the second direction as the end of the cord is pulley by said piston; (d) an alignment mechanism connected to the probe for aligning the probe concentrically with the tube; and (e) a conduit driver engaging the conduit for driving the conduit and the probe connected thereto in the tube. 18. The apparatus of claim 17, further comprising a remotely operated robot connected to said baseplate for positioning said baseplate adjacent the tube. 19. The apparatus of claim 17, further comprising: (a) sensory means connected to the conduit for automatically identifying the torsional stress induced in the conduit, said sensory means generating an output signal in response to the torsional stress sensed thereby; and (b) means responsive to the output signal for operating said gripper and said rotator to relieve the torsional stress. 20. A method for remotely positioning an extended conduit in a tubular member disposed in a radioactive environment, the conduit defining a contorted region therein inducing torsional stress in the conduit, the conduit having a probe connected thereto, comprising the steps of: (a) gripping the conduit with a gripper; (b) relieving the torsional stress in the conduit by rotating the conduit with a rotator connected to the gripper; (c) automatically sensing the torsional stress induced in the conduit by operating a sensor connected to the conduit, the sensor generating an output signal in response to the torsional stress sensed by said sensor; and (d) relieving the torsional stress by operating the gripper and the rotator in response to the output signal. 21. The method of claim 20, further comprising the step of aligning the probe with the tubular member by operating an alignment mechanism connected to the probe. 22. The method of claim 20, further comprising the step of driving the conduit in the tube by operating a conduit driver engaging the conduit. 23. The method of claim 20, further comprising the step of supplying the conduit from a reel on which it is wound to a compact form, the conduit having a laser welding probe connected thereto for use on corroded areas of the tubular member. 24. In a nuclear heat exchanger having a plurality of heat transfer tubes disposed therein, a method for remotely positioning an extended flexible conduit in a predetermined one of the tubes, the conduit having a first portion turned in a first direction and a second portion turned in a second direction opposite the first direction, the first portion and the second portion defining a contorted region therebetween inducing torsional stress in the conduit, the conduit having a probe connected thereto, the method comprising the steps of: (a) disposing a baseplate adjacent the tube; (b) gripping the first portion of the conduit with a rotatable gripper connected to the baseplate, the gripper including a resilient collapsible bladder capable of engaging the first portion of the conduit; (c) relieving the torsional stress in the conduit by rotating the first portion of the conduit in the second direction to remove the contorted region; (d) aligning the probe concentrically with the tube by operating an alignment mechanism connected to the probe; and (e) driving the conduit and the probe connected thereto in the tube by operating a conduit driver engaging the conduit. 25. The method of claim 24, further comprising the step of positioning the frame adjacent the tube by remotely operating a robot connected to the baseplate. 26. The method of claim 24, further comprising the steps of: (a) automatically sensing the torsional stress induced in the conduit by operating a sensor connected to the conduit, the sensor generating an output signal in response to the torsional stress sensed by said sensor; and (b) relieving the torsional stress by operating the gripper and the rotator in response to the output signal. 