A method and apparatus for degating plastic parts from a runner system wherein the parts are automatically and precisely positioned for accurate reproducible degating and pick-up.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of severing a molded part from a runner at a mold gate/part interface comprising: bringing the runner having molded parts attached at a gate region into close association with a movable degating fixture having a cutting nest to hold the part, the nest having an access passage throat through which the mold gate and part extend and having a first and second opposing cutting edges positioned on a first and second side of the mold gate/part interface; engaging positioning pins to contact an outer surface of the runner and supplying force sufficient to flex the runner inwardly toward the movable degating fixture; moving the degating fixture in a direction to locate the part vertically over the nest; engaging a first clamp to vertically clamp the part in the nest; engaging a second clamp to supply horizontal force to further orient the part in the nest; engaging said cutting edges such that the edges are brought into motion toward each other and through the mold gate/part interface to a predetermined stop position; and cleanly severing the part from the runner. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of retrieving the severed part from a predictable location in the nest through a repeatably automated means. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein the automated means is an automated robot arm. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the cutting edges are heated. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the cutting edges have integral knife stops to insure contact of the opposed cutting edges. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the part is made from a thermoplastic material. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein the part is made from a thermoset material. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein the cutting edges are beveled knife blades, said knife blades meeting to create an angle of about 180 degrees across the area of the joined blades closest to the part. 9. An apparatus for severing a molded part from a runner at a mold gate/part interface comprising: a means for bringing the runner having parts attached at a mold gate into close association with a movable degating fixture having a nest for the part to be severed while said part is attached to said runner, the nest having an access passage throat through which the mold gate and part extend; a means for engaging positioning pins to contact an outer surface of the runner; a means for moving the positioning pins in a direction such that force is applied to the runner and the runner is flexed against the fixture to a predetermined position with the mold gate/part interface positioned above the access passage throat and the part positioned above the nest; a means for depressing the runner and part to a height such that the part rests inside the nest with the mold gate/part interface located at the access passage throat; a means for locating a first and second opposed cutting edges positioned on a first and second side of the gate; and a means for engaging said first and second cutting edges such that the cutting edges are brought into motion toward each other and through the mold gate/part interface to a predetermined stop position such that the part is cleanly severed from the runner. 10. An apparatus for severing a molded part from a runner at a mold gate/part interface comprising: an automated mechanism for bringing the runner having parts attached at a mold gate into close association with a movable degating fixture having a nest for the part, the nest having an access passage throat through which a portion of the mold gate and part extend and having a first and second opposing heated cutting edges positioned on a first and second side of the mold gate; a gripper for engaging positioning pins to an outer surface of the runner causing the runners to be flexed; a drive mechanism for moving the degating fixture in a direction to locate the part vertically over the nest; a first clamp for vertically depressing the runner into a cutting position and orienting the part in the nest; a second clamp for supplying horizontal force to orient the part against the access passage throat in the nest; and a two-bladed cutting mechanism for moving said first and second opposing cutting edges toward each other and through the mold gate/part interface to a predetermined stop position to cleanly sever the part from the runner. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the cutting edges are beveled knife blades, said knife blades meeting to create an angle of about 180 degrees across the area of the joined blades closest to the part. 12. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the automated mechanism is a robot arm. 13. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the cutting edges are heated. 14. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the cutting edges have integral knife stops to insure contact of the opposed cutting edges. 15. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the part is made from a thermoplastic material. 16. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the part is made from a thermoset material. 