The system and method includes a manipulator for manipulating a surgical instrument relative to a patient's body and, a position sensor for sensing the position of the surgical instrument relative to the patient's body. The manipulator can be manually or computer actuated and can have brakes to limit movement. In a preferred embodiment, orthogonal only motion between members of the manipulator is provided. The position sensor includes beacons connected to the patient and manipulator or surgical instrument and, a three dimensional beacon sensor adapted to sense the location and position of the beacons. Redundant joint sensors on the manipulator may also be provided. The system and method uses a computer to actively interact with the surgeon and can use various different input and output devices and modes.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for manipulating movement of a surgical instrument, the system comprising: an apparatus having a plurality of motion joints, the apparatus being adapted for manual only driven motion and adapted to have the surgical instrument connected thereto; a computer controlled brake located at at least one of the motion joints of the apparatus; a computer connected to the brake for selectively actuating the brake upon an occurrence of a predetermined event; and means for signaling the computer of the occurrence of the predetermined event. 2. A system as in claim 1 wherein the computer controlled brake is adapted to apply a variable resistance. 3. A system as in claim 2 wherein the means for signaling includes a voice activated system. 4. A system as in claim 2 wherein the means for signaling includes means for optically sensing a position of a beacon. 5. A system as in claim 4 wherein the means for sensing includes redundant sensors at the motion joints in the apparatus. 6. A system as in claim 4 wherein the means for sensing includes at least one beacon connected to the apparatus and a sensor adapted to sense the three dimensional location of the beacon. 7. A system for manipulating movement of a surgical instrument, the system comprising: an apparatus adapted to have the surgical instrument connected thereto, the apparatus having a motion joint adapted to be only manually moved by a user; a computer controlled brake located at the joint; and means for selectively actuating the computer controlled brake. 8. A system as in claim 7 wherein the computer controlled brake and means for selectivity actuating the brake are adapted to apply a variable resistance to motion at the joint. 9. A system as in claim 7 wherein the means for selectively actuating the computer controlled brake includes a computer and a signal for signaling the computer. 