Apparatus (10) and methods are disclosed for loading a camera frame (100) for subsequent inclusion in a single-use camera, the camera frame including an exposure opening (102), a chamber (104) on one side of the exposure opening for receiving a light-tight film cartridge (18) enclosing a spool (19) to which is attached a trailing end of a filmstrip (36), and a chamber (108) on an opposite side of the exposure opening for receiving a scroll (268) formed from the filmstrip. The apparatus may include a device (28) for holding a cartridge; a mechanism (32, 34) for withdrawing a leading end (38) of a filmstrip from a cartridge; a mechanism (68-78; 190-192) for positioning a retainer cap near a free end of a scrolling quill, the retainer cap including abutment means for engaging an end of a scroll to prevent clock-springing and means for permitting the filmstrip to pass the abutment means during formation of a scroll; a mechanism (60-66; 300-320) for engaging a leading end around a scrolling quill (56,256-262); a mechanism (48-54; 58, 270-284) for removing the scrolling quill from a scroll; and a mechanism (86-98; 120-178; 120'-170', 180, 182) for installing a cartridge into the first receiving chamber and a scroll and retainer cap into the second receiving chamber, whereby a portion of a filmstrip will extend across the exposure opening between a cartridge and a scroll. Corresponding methods are disclosed.
Claims Having thus described our invention in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to make and use it, we claim as new and desire to secure Letters Patent for: 1. A method for loading a camera frame for subsequent inclusion in a single-use camera, the camera frame including an exposure opening, first means on one side of the exposure opening for receiving a light-tight film cartridge enclosing a spool to which is attached a trailing end of a filmstrip, and second means on an opposite side of the exposure opening for receiving a scroll formed from the filmstrip, the method comprising steps of: withdrawing a leading end of the filmstrip from the cartridge; positioning a retainer cap near a free end of a scrolling quill, the retainer cap including abutment means for engaging an end of a scroll to prevent clock-springing and means for permitting the filmstrip to pass the abutment means during formation of a scroll; passing the leading end through the means for permitting; winding the leading end around a scrolling quill and into the retainer cap; continuing the winding to form the filmstrip into a scroll of film around the scrolling quill, an end of the scroll being within the end cap, while leaving the trailing end attached to the spool within the cartridge; after winding the scroll, removing the scrolling quill from the scroll; and after removing the scrolling quill, installing the cartridge into the first means for receiving, and the scroll and retainer cap into the second means for receiving, whereby a portion of the filmstrip extends across the exposure opening between the cartridge and the scroll. 2. A method according to claim 1, wherein the cartridge is a thrust cartridge and the withdrawing step comprises thrusting the leading end into engagement with the scrolling quill. 3. A method according to claim 1, wherein the leading end extends from the cartridge and the withdrawing step comprises gripping and moving the leading end into engagement with the scrolling quill. 4. A method according to claim 1, further comprising a step of: while removing the scrolling quill, gripping the scroll and retainer cap to prevent telescoping of the scroll. 5. A method according to claim 4, further comprising a step, after the installing, of releasing the cartridge, scroll and retainer cap to remain in the frame. 6. A method according to claim 1, wherein the scrolling quill applies vacuum to the leading end during winding of the scroll, further comprising steps of: prior to removing the scrolling quill, releasing the vacuum and applying positive air pressure from the scrolling quill against the scroll; and reversing rotation of the scrolling quill to release the scroll from the quill. 7. A method according to claim 6, further comprising a step of: while removing the scrolling quill, gripping the scroll and end cap to prevent telescoping of the scroll. 8. A method according to claim 7, further comprising a step, after the installing, of releasing the cartridge, scroll and retainer cap to remain in the frame. 9. Apparatus for loading a camera frame for subsequent inclusion in a single-use camera, the camera frame including an exposure opening, first means on one side of the exposure opening for receiving a light-tight film cartridge enclosing a spool to which is attached a trailing end of a filmstrip, and second means on an opposite side of the exposure opening for receiving a scroll formed from the filmstrip, the apparatus comprising: means for holding a cartridge; means for withdrawing a leading end of a filmstrip from a cartridge; means for positioning a retainer cap near a free end of a scrolling quill, the retainer cap including abutment means for engaging an end of a scroll to prevent clock-springing and means for permitting the filmstrip to pass the abutment means during formation of a scroll; means for engaging a leading end around a scrolling quill; means for rotating the scrolling quill to wind a scroll; means for removing the scrolling quill from a scroll; and means for installing a cartridge into the first means for receiving, and a scroll and retainer cap into the second means for receiving, whereby a portion of a filmstrip will extend across the exposure opening between a cartridge and a scroll. 10. Apparatus according to claim 9, wherein the cartridge is a thrust cartridge and the means for withdrawing rotates a spool within a cartridge to thrust a leading to the scrolling quill. 11. Apparatus according to claim 9, wherein a cartridge has a leading end extended therefrom; and the means for withdrawing grips and moves a leading end to the scrolling quill. 12. Apparatus according to claim 9, further comprising means for gripping a scroll and retainer cap to prevent telescoping of a scroll during removal of the scrolling quill. 13. Apparatus according to claim 12, further comprising means for stripping a scroll and retainer cap from the means for gripping, whereby a scroll and retainer cap remain in the frame after installation. 14. Apparatus according to claim 9, wherein the scrolling quill applies vacuum to a leading end during winding of a scroll, further comprising: means for releasing the vacuum and applying positive air pressure from the scrolling quill against a scroll; and means for reversing rotation of the scrolling quill to release a scroll from the quill. 15. Apparatus according to claim 14, wherein the means for installing further comprises: means for gripping a scroll and end cap to prevent telescoping of a scroll during removal of the scrolling quill. 16. Apparatus according to claim 15, wherein the means for installing further comprises: means for stripping a scroll and retainer cap from the means for gripping, whereby a scroll and retainer cap remain in a frame after installation. 17. Apparatus according to claim 9, wherein the means for engaging comprises: means for guiding a leading end around the scrolling quill; and means for applying vacuum through the scrolling quill to cinch a leading end thereto. 18. Apparatus according to claim 17, further comprising: a filmstrip guide track extended from the means for holding toward the scrolling quill. 19. Apparatus according to claim 17, further comprising means for moving the means for guiding away from the scrolling quill after a leading end has become cinched thereto. 20. Apparatus according to claim 17, wherein the means for guiding comprises: a pair of guide members pivotably mounted near the scrolling quill, each guide member comprising an elongated recess for partially surrounding the scrolling quill; an entrance slot between the guide members for receiving a leading end; and means for moving the guide members away from the scrolling quill after a leading end has become cinched thereto. 21. Apparatus according to claim 20, wherein one of the guide members comprises a filmstrip guide track for directing a leading end to the entrance slot. 22. Apparatus according to claim 9, further comprising: means for applying vacuum to a leading end during winding of a scroll; and the means for removing the scrolling quill comprises: means for releasing the vacuum; and means for applying positive air pressure from the scrolling quill against a scroll; means for reversing rotation of the scrolling quill to release a scroll from the quill; and means for withdrawing the scrolling quill from a scroll after the application of positive air pressure and reversal of rotation. 23. Apparatus according to claim 9, wherein the means for installing comprises: a frame; means supported by the frame for engaging a second, opposite end of a scroll; means supported by the frame for supporting the means for applying a retainer cap to a first end of a scroll, whereby a scroll and retainer cap may be gripped between the means for engaging and the means for applying; means supported by the frame for holding a cartridge during installing into a camera frame; and means for stripping a scroll and retainer cap from between the means for engaging and the means for applying, whereby a scroll and end cap remain in a camera frame after installation. 24. Apparatus according to claim 23, further comprising means for retaining a spool within a cartridge against further rotation after completion of a scroll. 25. Apparatus according to claim 23, further comprising means for moving the means for engaging and the means for applying toward or away from each other to engage or release the scroll. 26. Apparatus according to claim 23, wherein the means for applying comprises a vacuum pickup for holding a retainer cap, further comprising: a source of retainer caps; means for receiving individual retainer caps from the source; and means for moving the means for receiving to deliver a retainer cap to the vacuum pickup. 27. A tool for installing a light-tight film cartridge and a scroll of film into a camera frame including an exposure opening, first means on one side of the exposure opening for receiving the cartridge and second means on an opposite side of the exposure opening for receiving the scroll, the tool comprising: a frame; means supported by the frame for positioning a retainer cap near a free end of a scrolling quill, the retainer cap including abutment means for engaging an end of a scroll to prevent clock-springing and means for permitting the filmstrip to pass the abutment means during formation of a scroll; means supported by the frame for engaging a second, opposite end of a scroll, whereby a scroll and retainer cap may be gripped between the means for engaging and the means for positioning; means supported by the frame for holding a cartridge during installing into a camera frame; and means for stripping a scroll and retainer cap from between the means for engaging and the means for positioning, whereby a scroll and end cap remain in a camera frame after installation. 28. Apparatus according to claim 27, further comprising means supported by the frame for retaining a spool within a cartridge against rotation. 29. Apparatus according to claim 27, further comprising means for moving the means for engaging and the means for applying toward or away from each other to engage or release a retainer cap and scroll. 