A control system for a dynamic legged running machine, with improvements to improve stability by preventing or limiting foot slippage. The transverse force applied to a foot in contact with the ground is limited to a value below that at which slipping would occur. A method of operating a three-jointed leg is also provided so that balance and slip control is improved. Applications include legged mechanical robots and simulations of legged machines, animals, or humans.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for the dynamic simulation of a running creature, said system comprising data structures defining physical properties of rigid members of said creature, said rigid members including a body and an articulated leg of said creature, and defining an environment for said creature, said environment including a surface to receive said articulated leg of said creature; a dynamics simulator defining actuation of said articulated leg with respect to said body and equations of motion of said rigid members of said articulated leg including simulated contact of said articulated leg with said surface, said simulator, responsive to said data structures defining said physical properties of said creature and defining said environment, incrementally determining positions and velocities of said rigid members of said articulated leg and simulated interaction between said surface and said articulated leg upon simulated running by said creature; a control system interacting with said dynamics simulator for determining a simulated transverse force of said articulated leg with respect to and in contact with said surface for simulated running by said creature, said control system having means for limiting said transverse force when said leg contacts said surface so that said leg avoids slipping on said surface; a graphics system for incrementally generating a image of said creature including said articulated leg; and means responsive to said graphics system for displaying said image; whereby a realistic dynamic simulation of said running creature is created. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein actuation of said articulated leg with respect to said body and equations of motion of said rigid members of said articulated leg defined by said dynamics simulator includes rotation of said articulated leg about said body; and said control system determines simulated torque to simulate rotation of said articulated leg about said axis for simulated running by said creature, said control system having means for limiting said torque when said leg contacts said terrain surface so that said leg avoids slipping on said terrain surface. 3. The system of claim 2 wherein said simulated torque limiting means is responsive to a simulated coefficient of friction between said articulated leg and said surface, a simulated vertical force of said leg upon said surface, a length of said articulated leg from said torque axis, and an angle of said surface with respect to said leg. 4. The system of claim 3 wherein said simulated torque limiting means operates to substantially follow the equations and where T.sub.b is the simulated torque, K the simulated coefficient of friction, F.sub.h the simulated vertical force of said foot upon said terrain surface, L length of distance of said leg from said torque axis, and .theta. angle of said surface with respect to said leg. 5. A method for the dynamic simulation of a running creature, said method comprising defining physical properties of members of said creature, said members including a body and an articulated leg of said creature; defining an environment for said creature, said environment including a surface to receive said articulated leg of said creature; actuating said articulated leg with respect to said body and equations of motion of said members of said articulated leg including simulated contact of said articulated leg with said surface, responsive to said defined physical properties of said creature and said environment, including incrementally determining positions and velocities of said members of said articulated leg and simulated interaction between said surface and said articulated leg upon simulated running by said creature; determining a simulated transverse force of said articulated leg with respect to and in contact with said surface for simulated running by said creature; limiting said transverse force when said leg contacts said surface so that said leg avoids slipping on said surface; incrementally generating a image of said creature including said articulated leg; and displaying said image; whereby a realistic dynamic simulation of said running creature is created. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein actuating said articulated leg with respect to said body and equations of motion of said members of said articulated leg defined by said dynamics simulator includes rotating of said articulated leg about said body; determining simulated torque to simulate rotation of said articulated leg about said axis for simulated running by said creature; and limiting said torque when said leg contacts said terrain surface so that said leg avoids slipping on said terrain surface. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein said simulated torque limiting step is responsive to a simulated coefficient of friction between said articulated leg and said surface, a simulated vertical force of said leg upon said surface, a length of said articulated leg from said torque axis, and an angle of said surface with respect to said leg. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein said simulated torque limiting step operates to substantially follow the equations and where T.sub.b is the simulated torque, K the simulated coefficient of friction, F.sub.h the simulated vertical force of said foot upon said terrain surface, L the length of said leg from said torque axis, and .theta. angle of said surface with respect to said leg. 9. A method of simulating the movement of an articulated leg of a creature on a terrain surface, said creature having a body attached to said articulated leg, said articulated leg having a foot, said method comprising positioning said foot on said terrain surface; determining a simulated thrust force exerted against said terrain surface by said articulated leg; simulating and controlling a rotational moment applied by said leg to said body from said simulated thrust force; and simulating and minimizing a transverse force applied between said foot and said terrain surface to avoid slip therebetween. 10. A method of simulating the movement of a legged creature, comprising defining physical properties of members of said creature, said members including a body and an articulated leg of said creature, said articulated leg having first, second and third joints and first, second and third leg members, said first joint joining said first leg member defining one end of said articulated leg to said body, said second joint joining said first member to said second member, and said third joint joining said second member to said third member defining a second end of said articulated leg; defining an environment for said creature, said environment including a surface to receive said articulated leg of said creature; simulating actuation of said articulated leg with respect to said body and equations of motion of said members of said articulated leg responsive to said defined physical properties of said creature and said environment to incrementally determine positions and velocities of said members of said articulated leg, including constraining said first, second, and third joints to operate as if said end of said third member were an end of a leg rod, said rod coupled to a rotating balance joint, said rotating balance joint capable of sliding along a track fixed to said robot body so that the operations of positioning said rotating balance joint along said track, rotating said balance joint, and moving said rod with respect to said balance joint emulates movement of an articulated leg realistically; incrementally generating an image of said creature including said articulated leg; and displaying said image; whereby a realistic movement of said leg with respect to said creature body is achieved. 11. The method of claim 10 further comprising the step of simulating said first, second and third joints to respectively correspond to hip, knee and ankle joints for said articulated leg. 12. The method of claim 10 further comprising the step of determining a simulated transverse force of said articulated leg with respect to and in contact with said surface; and wherein in said constraining substep, said positioning, rotating, and moving operations limit said transverse force when said leg contacts said surface so that said leg avoids slipping on said surface. 13. The method of claim 10 wherein in said constraining substep, said positioning, rotating, and moving operations adjust a moment applied to said body by said articulated leg to balance said body. 14. A robot capable of running across a terrain surface, said robot comprising a body; at least one articulated leg, said articulated leg having a foot for contacting said terrain surface, said articulated leg coupled to said body; means for applying a transverse force by said foot in contact with said terrain surface; means for limiting said transverse force by said applying means when said foot contacts said terrain surface so that said foot avoids slipping on said terrain surface; whereby said robot can run on a difficult terrain surface. 15. The robot of claim 14 wherein said applying means applies a torque on said articulated leg to rotate said leg with respect to said body about an axis; and said limiting means limits said torque by said applying means when said foot contacts said terrain surface so that said foot avoids slipping on said terrain surface. 16. The robot of claim 15 wherein said torque limiting means is responsive to a determined coefficient of friction between said foot and said terrain surface, a vertical force of said foot upon said terrain surface, a length between said foot and said torque axis, and an angle of said terrain surface with respect to said leg. 17. The robot of claim 16 further comprising means for determining said coefficient of friction between said foot and said terrain surface. 18. The robot of claim 16 wherein said torque limiting means substantially follows the equations and where T.sub.b is the torque, K the coefficient of friction, F.sub.h the vertical force of said foot upon said terrain surface, L the length of said foot from said torque axis, and .theta. angle of said terrain surface with respect to said leg. 19. A method of operating a robot having a body, at least one articulated leg, said articulated leg having first, second and third members, said third member for contacting a terrain surface, said first member coupled to said body by a first joint, said second joint joining said first member to said second member, and said third joint joining said second member to said third member having an end removed from said third joint, and actuators of said first, second and third joints, said method comprising constraining said first, second, and third joints to operate as if said end of said third member were an end of a leg rod, said rod coupled to a rotating balance joint, said rotating balance joint capable of sliding along a track fixed to said robot body so that the operations of positioning said rotating balance joint along said track, rotating said balance joint, and moving said rod with respect to said balance joint, minimize a transverse force of said third member with respect to said terrain and adjust a moment applied to said body by said articulated leg to balance said body. 20. The method of claim 19 further comprising the steps of operating said first, second and third joints to apply a transverse force by said third member in contact with said terrain surface; and limiting said transverse force when said foot contacts said terrain surface so that said foot avoids slipping on said terrain surface. 21. The method of claim 19 further comprising the step of simulating said first, second and third joints to respectively correspond to hip, knee and ankle joints for said articulated leg. 22. A method of operating the movement of an articulated leg of a robot on a terrain surface, said robot having a body attached to said articulated leg, said articulated leg having a foot, said method comprising positioning said foot on said terrain surface; determining a thrust force exerted against said terrain surface by said articulated leg; controlling a rotational moment applied by said leg to said body from said thrust force; and minimizing a transverse force applied between said foot and said terrain surface to avoid slip therebetween. 