A collision avoidance technique is provided in an automated semiconductor wafer processing system, wherein a magnet or magnetic strip is incorporated into each boat or carrier used to hold and transport the semiconductor wafers during the IC fabrication process. Additionally, a magnetic field sensing device is incorporated into the robotic arm of the system for sensing the presence of magnetic fields generated by the magnet(s) incorporated into the boats and/or carriers. Using this system, it is possible for the automated system controller to determine whether an imminent collision is about to occur by monitoring changes in the detected magnetic field. In this way, collisions between one boat/carrier and a second boat/carrier may be anticipated and avoided without relying upon physical contact between the two objects in order to detect collision.
Claims It is claimed: 1. An automated system for processing of semiconductor wafers through a plurality of wafer fabrication processing stations for manufacturing integrated circuits, the plurality of processing stations including a first and a second processing station, said system comprising: a portable housing device for holding and transporting a plurality of semiconductor wafers during processing of said wafers; a robotic arm releasably engagable with said housing device for transporting said housing device and said wafers from a first processing station to a second processing station, said robotic arm including collision detection means for detecting the physical proximity of said housing device to said robotic arm and for detecting and avoiding imminent collisions of an obstacle with said housing device before physical contact is made between said housing device and said obstacle, wherein said collision detection means includes magnetic field monitoring means for monitoring a magnetic field surrounding said housing device and for providing a collision avoidance signal when predetermined changes in said magnetic field are detected; and a programmable controller means in communication with said robotic arm for controlling physical movements and positions of said robot arm, said controller means including means responsive to said collision avoidance signal for suspending movement of said robotic arm in order to avoid said detected imminent collision of said housing device with said obstacle. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein said robotic arm includes a magnetic field proximity sensor hermetically sealed within a portion of said robotic arm. 3. The system of claim 1 wherein said housing device includes at least one magnet hermetically sealed within a portion of said housing device. 4. The system of claim 3 wherein each of said objects includes at least one magnet hermetically sealed within a portion of said object. 5. The system of claim 1 wherein said magnetic field monitoring means further provides a proximity signal for indicating whether said housing is within close physical proximity to said robotic arm, and wherein said controller means is responsive to said proximity signal for controlling physical movements and positions of said robot arm. 6. The system of claim 1 further including a carrier for holding and transporting a plurality of semiconductor housing devices, wherein said carrier includes at least one magnet hermetically sealed with a portion of said carrier. 7. The system of claim 1 wherein said magnetic field monitoring means has a sensitivity range of about 61 centimeters. 8. The system of claim 1 wherein said magnetic field monitoring means includes means for adjusting a sensitivity of said monitoring means to a desired sensitivity range. 9. The system of claim 8 wherein said sensitivity range is from about 10 centimeters to about 65 centimeters. 10. The system of claim 5 wherein said magnetic field monitoring means further provides a second proximity signal for indicating whether said carrier is within close physical proximity to said robotic arm, and wherein said controller means is responsive to said second proximity signal for controlling physical movements and positions of said robot arm. 11. An automated system for processing of semiconductor wafers through a plurality of wafer fabrication processing stations for manufacturing integrated circuits, said system comprising at least one portable housing device for holding and transporting a plurality of semiconductor wafers during processing of said wafers, wherein said at least one housing device includes at least one magnet hermetically sealed within a portion of said housing for avoiding imminent collisions between said housing device and another object. 12. An automated system for processing of semiconductor wafers through a plurality of wafer fabrication processing stations for manufacturing integrated circuits, said system comprising at least one portable a carrier for holding and transporting a plurality of semiconductor housing devices, each of said housing devices holding and transporting a plurality of semiconductor wafers during processing of said wafers, wherein said at least one carrier includes at least one magnet hermetically sealed within a portion of said carrier for avoiding imminent collisions between said carrier and another object. 13. A method for processing of semiconductor wafers through a plurality of wafer fabrication processing stations for manufacturing integrated circuits, said system including a robotic arm having a magnetic field monitoring device, a housing device for carrying and transporting a plurality of semiconductor wafers, and a controller for automatically controlling movements and positions of the robotic arm, said method comprising the steps of: (a) positioning said robotic arm to grasp said housing device, and thereafter grasping said housing device; (b) determining the presence of said housing device by sensing the presence of a magnetic field near said robotic arm; (c) measuring characteristics of said magnetic field in order to establish a first magnetic field profile; (d) moving said housing device to a new destination; and (e) continually monitoring characteristics of said magnetic field during transportation of said housing device, and comparing said monitored characteristics to said first profile in order to detect changes in the characteristics of said magnetic field. 14. The method of claim 13 further including the step of suspending motion of said robotic arm if non-anticipated changes are detected in said monitored magnetic field. 15. The method of claim 14 further including the step of issuing a collision avoidance warning signal to a user of said system when non-anticipated changes are detected in said monitored magnetic field. 16. The method of claim 13 further including the step of automatically adjusting a sensitivity of said magnetic field monitoring device to a predetermined range during a specific wafer processing task. 