A method and system for wear testing a seat by simulating human seating movement utilizing a robot and a robotic human body simulator mounted at a distal end of an arm thereof wherein a seat back surface as well as a seat bottom surface are wear tested without the need of video tape interpretation by a user of the system. Measured data is obtained by measuring 3-D locations of parts of a human during ingress of the human onto a calibration seat and egress of the human from the calibration seat. The measured data represents locations of the parts of the human. A control program is generated on the measured data by transforming the measured data to control program targets. Load and/or pressure feedback is provided for control program verification. The simulator includes a plurality of drives which receive drive control signals from a robot controller for moving a trunk and thigh parts of the simulator relative to and independent of one another to test wear characteristics of the seat bottom surface and the seat back surface of the seat under test for a plurality of cycles.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for wear testing a seat by simulating human seating activity, the system comprising: a robot including an arm having a distal end and at least one arm drive for moving the arm; a robotic human body simulator connected to the distal end of the arm for wear testing a seat bottom surface and a seat back surface of the seat under test, the simulator including: thighs adapted to engage the seat bottom surface; a trunk pivotally connected to the thighs and adapted to engage the seat bottom surface and the seat back surface; and a plurality of simulator drives for moving the trunk and thighs relative to and independent of one another; and a controller coupled to the at least one arm drive and the plurality of simulator drives and programmed with a control program to generate drive control signals so that the at least one arm drive and the plurality of simulator drives independently move the arm and the thighs and trunk of the simulator, respectively, repeatedly between a withdrawn position and a seat surface engaging position to test wear characteristics of the seat bottom surface and the seat back surface for a plurality of cycles. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein the controller stores force exertion data representative of forces exerted on a calibration seat by a human during actual human seating activity and wherein the system further comprises a force measuring device coupled to the controller to generate signals indicative of forces applied to the simulator during the wear testing, the controller processing the signals and the force exertion data to verify the control program. 3. The system of claim 2 wherein the signals are also indicative of moments applied to the simulator during the wear testing. 4. The system of claim 3 wherein the force measuring device is a transducer coupled to the simulator at the distal end of the arm and having six degrees of freedom. 5. The system of claim 4 wherein the transducer is a load cell. 6. A robotic human body simulator for wear testing a seat, the simulator comprising: thighs adapted to engage a seat bottom surface; a trunk pivotally connected to the thighs and adapted to engage the seat bottom surface and a seat back surface; and a plurality of simulator drives adapted to receive drive control signals for moving the trunk and thighs relative to and independent of one another to test wear characteristics of the seat bottom surface and the seat back surface for a plurality of cycles. 7. The simulator of claim 6 wherein the trunk includes a back and buttocks pivotally connected to the back and wherein one of the plurality of drives moves the back relative to and independent of the buttocks. 8. The simulator of claim 7 wherein each of the thighs is pivotally connected to the buttocks and wherein each of the thighs is moved by another one of the plurality of drives relative to and independent of the buttocks. 