A processor for processing semiconductor articles, such as integrated circuit wafers, flat panel displays, semiconductor substrates, and data disks. The processor has an interface section which receives articles in article carriers. The interface section transfers the articles from carriers into processing arrays. A conveyor having an automated arm assembly moves article arrays to and between processing stations. The processing stations are accessed from an enclosed area adjoining the interface section.
Claims We claim: 1. A semiconductor processor for processing semiconductor articles comprising: an enclosure for providing a substantially enclosed work space therewithin; a plurality of contact members for contacting the semiconductor articles and positioning the articles in an article processing array; a transfer for transferring articles from an article carrier into said article processing array; a plurality of processing stations; said processing stations having access openings which open to the work space to allow installation and removal of articles relative to said processing stations; a conveyor for conveying said article array to and from said plurality of processing stations. 2. A semiconductor processor according to claim 1 wherein said conveyor detachably and controllably engages said contact members. 3. A semiconductor processor according to claim 1 wherein said contact members have contact faces which include a series of spacer elements. 4. A semiconductor processor according to claim 1 wherein said conveyor includes an engagement head with engagement members which engage with conveyor engagement features formed upon said contact members. 5. A semiconductor processor according to claim 1 wherein said conveyor includes an engagement head with engagement members which engage with said contact members; and further comprising at least one latch for latching at least one contact member to said engagement head. 6. A semiconductor processor according to claim 1 wherein said conveyor includes an engagement head with engagement members which engage with said contact members; said engagement members including at least one latch for latching at least one contact member to said engagement head. 7. A semiconductor processor according to claim 1 wherein said processing stations have processor engagement features which engage with the contact members when an article processing array is in the processing station. 8. A semiconductor processor according to claim 1 wherein: said processing stations have processor engagement features which engage with the contact members when an article processing array is in the processing station said conveyor includes an engagement head with engagement members which engage with conveyor engagement features formed upon said contact members. 9. A semiconductor processor according to claim 1 wherein said processing stations include: a rotor mounted for rotation; processor engagement features upon said rotor which engage with the contact members when an article processing array is in the processing station. 10. A semiconductor processor according to claim 1 and further comprising an article carrier docking station for attaching the article carrier to the processor. 11. A semiconductor processor according to claim 1 wherein said transfer includes a carriage which is movable. 12. A semiconductor processor according to claim 1 wherein said transfer includes a carriage having a transfer head thereon which is movable laterally and to achieve different elevations. 13. A semiconductor processor according to claim 1 wherein said transfer includes a carriage having a plurality of transfer tangs which are interpositioned between the articles during transfer. 14. A semiconductor processor according to claim 1 wherein said transfer includes a carriage having a transfer head thereon which is movable laterally and to achieve different elevations, said transfer head also comprising a plurality of transfer tangs which are interpositioned between the articles during transfer. 15. A semiconductor processor according to claim 1 and further comprising at least one contact member storage for holding contact members for engagement by the conveyor. 16. A semiconductor processor according to claim 1 wherein said conveyor includes a mechanical arm assembly with a hand portion that mounts an engagement head. 17. A semiconductor processor according to claim 1 wherein said conveyor includes a mechanical arm assembly; said mechanical arm assembly having: an upper arm portion; a lower arm portion connected to the upper arm portion; a hand portion connected to the lower arm portion, said hand portion mounting an engagement head. 18. A semiconductor processor according to claim 1 wherein said conveyor includes a conveyor tram carriage movably mounted upon a frame. 19. A semiconductor processor according to claim 1 wherein said conveyor includes a mechanical arm assembly; said mechanical arm assembly having: a conveyor tram carriage movably mounted upon a frame; an upper arm portion mounted upon said conveyor tram carriage for pivotal motion at a shoulder pivot; a lower arm portion connected to the upper arm portion for pivotal motion at an elbow pivot; a hand portion connected to the lower arm portion for pivotal motion at a wrist pivot; an engagement head connected to the hand portion. 20. A semiconductor processor according to claim 1 wherein said plurality of processing stations includes at least one centrifugal processing station. 21. A semiconductor processor according to claim 1 wherein said plurality of processing stations includes at least one centrifugal processing station having an access opening with a processing closure mounted to controllably open and close the access opening. 22. A semiconductor processor according to claim 1 wherein said plurality of processing stations includes at least one processing station having an access opening with a processing closure mounted for controlled upward and downward action; said processing closure serving to controllably close and open the access opening. 23. A semiconductor processor according to claim 1 wherein said plurality of processing stations includes at least one centrifugal processing station having an access opening with a processing closure mounted for controlled upward and downward action; said processing closure serving to controllably close and open the access opening. 24. A semiconductor processor for processing semiconductor articles comprising: an enclosure for providing a substantially enclosed work space therewithin; a plurality of contact members for contacting the semiconductor articles and positioning the articles in an article processing array; an engagement head; said engagement head being controllable to engage or detach from said contact members; at least one processing station; said at least one processing station having an access opening which opens to the work space to allow installation and removal of articles relative to said processing stations. 25. A semiconductor processor according to claim 24 wherein said at least one processing station includes processor engagement features which engage with the contact members when an article processing array is in the processing station. 26. A semiconductor processor according to claim 24 wherein there are a plurality of processing stations. 27. A semiconductor processor according to claim 24 wherein there are a plurality of processing stations each having processing station receivers for receiving an article processing array by supporting said plurality of contact members. 28. A semiconductor processor according to claim 24 wherein said contact members have contact faces which include a series of spacer elements. 29. A semiconductor processor according to claim 24 wherein said engagement head includes engagement members which engage with said contact members; and further comprising at least one latch for latching at least one contact member to said engagement head. 30. A semiconductor processor according to claim 24 wherein said engagement head includes plural engagement members which engage with said contact members; said engagement members including at least one latch for latching at least one contact member to said engagement head. 31. A semiconductor processor according to claim 24 wherein said at least one processing station includes: a rotor mounted for rotation; processor engagement features upon said rotor which engage with the contact members when an article processing array is in the processing station. 32. A semiconductor processor according to claim 24 and further comprising at least one contact member storage for holding contact members for engagement by the engagement head. 33. A semiconductor processor according to claim 24 wherein said engagement head is supported upon a conveyor which includes a mechanical arm assembly; said mechanical arm assembly having: an upper arm portion; a lower arm portion connected to the upper arm portion; a hand portion connected to the lower arm portion, said hand portion mounting an engagement head. 34. A semiconductor processor according to claim 24 wherein said at least one processing station includes at least one processing station having an access opening with a processing closure mounted for controlled upward and downward action; said processing closure serving to controllably close and open the access opening. 35. A semiconductor processor according to claim 24 wherein said at least one processing station includes at least one centrifugal processing station having an access opening with a processing closure mounted for controlled upward and downward action; said processing closure serving to controllably close and open the access opening. 36. A semiconductor processor for processing semiconductor articles comprising: a plurality of contact members for contacting the semiconductor articles and positioning the articles in an article processing array; an engagement head; said engagement head being controllable to engage or detach from said contact members; at least one processing station; said at least one processing station having processor engagement features which engage with the contact members when an article processing array is in the processing station; said contact members being constructed to allow simultaneous engagement with said engagement head and said processor engagement features. 37. A semiconductor processor according to claim 36 wherein there are a plurality of processing stations. 38. A semiconductor processor according to claim 36 wherein said contact members have contact faces which include a series of spacer elements. 39. A semiconductor processor according to claim 36 wherein said engagement head includes engagement members which engage with said contact members; and further comprising at least one latch for latching at least one contact member to said engagement head. 40. A semiconductor processor according to claim 36 wherein said engagement head includes plural engagement members which engage with said contact members; said engagement members including at least one latch for latching at least one contact member to said engagement head. 41. A semiconductor processor according to claim 36 wherein said at least one processing station includes: a rotor mounted for rotation; processor engagement features upon said rotor which engage with the contact members when an article processing array is in the processing station. 42. A semiconductor processor according to claim 36 and further comprising at least one contact member storage for holding contact members for engagement by the engagement head. 43. A semiconductor processor according to claim 36 wherein said engagement head is supported upon a conveyor which includes a mechanical arm assembly; said mechanical arm assembly having: an upper arm portion; a lower arm portion connected to the upper arm portion; a hand portion connected to the lower arm portion, said hand portion mounting an engagement head. 44. A semiconductor processor according to claim 36 wherein said at least one processing station includes at least one processing station having an access opening with a processing closure mounted for controlled upward and downward action; said processing closure serving to controllably close and open the access opening. 45. A semiconductor processor according to claim 36 wherein said at least one processing station includes at least one centrifugal processing station having an access opening with a processing closure mounted for controlled upward and downward action; said processing closure serving to controllably close and open the access opening. 