A paint gun cleaner includes a spray unit mounted in an enclosure in spaced relation to an opening in the enclosure through which the paint gun to be cleaned is inserted. A ring shaped spray unit combines a solvent dispenser, which may be either a solvent knife generating a curtain of solvent in the central opening of the spray unit or a plurality of nozzles directing solvent onto the paint gun, with an air knife positioned between the solvent dispenser and the enclosure opening. The air knife directs air flow radially and axially inward to prevent escape of solvent, and to recirculate air mixed with solvent around the sides of the spray unit and through the space between the spray unit and enclosure opening to reduce the amount of ambient air which is drawn into and which must be separated from the solvent and dissolved paint before discharge. An interconnection between the air knife and solvent dispenser interjects solvent into the air knife during cleaning to keep the air knife from being clogged with paint, and provides for discharge of air through both the air knife and solvent dispenser when the solvent supply is interrupted for drying the paint gun after cleaning.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for cleaning a paint gun comprising: an enclosure having an opening for insertion of said paint gun; solvent dispensing means within said enclosure for selectively dispensing solvent onto said paint gun inserted through said opening; air knife means between said solvent dispensing means and said opening for generating a curtain of air preventing escape of solvent through said opening; and means introducing solvent into said curtain of air as well as into said solvent spray means. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said means introducing solvent into said curtain of air comprises means interconnecting said solvent dispensing means and said air knife means. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said solvent dispensing means includes means for selectively terminating flow of solvent to said solvent dispensing means and wherein said means interconnecting said solvent dispensing means and said air knife means comprises means which directs air from said air knife means to said solvent spray means for discharging said air through said solvent dispensing means when solvent flow is terminated. 4. Apparatus for cleaning a paint gun comprising: an enclosure having an opening for insertion of said paint gun; solvent dispensing means within said enclosure for selectively dispensing solvent on said paint gun when inserted into said enclosure; air knife means adjacent said opening for generating a curtain of air preventing solvent from escaping from said enclosure; and means selectively directing air to said solvent dispensing means for discharge when said solvent dispensing means is not discharging solvent. 5. Apparatus for cleaning a paint gun comprising: an enclosure having an opening for insertion of said paint gun; air knife means for generating an air curtain; means supporting said air knife means within said enclosure in alignment with said opening and with a space between said air knife means and said opening, said air knife means comprising means directing said air curtain with an axial component inward away from said opening which recirculates air within said enclosure through said space; and solvent dispensing means within said enclosure and inward of said air knife means from said opening selectively dispensing solvent onto said paint gun. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 adapted for use in a paint booth having a floor, said enclosure comprising a top wall defining said opening, said enclosure being mounted in said floor with said top wall substantially flush with said floor. 7. Apparatus for cleaning a paint gun comprising: an enclosure having an opening for insertion of said paint gun; and a spray unit mounted in said enclosure with a central opening in said spray unit aligned with said opening in said enclosure and into which said paint gun is inserted, said spray unit having a first circumferentially extending passage, first discharge means providing for discharge from said first circumferentially extending passage into said central opening, a second circumferentially extending passage, second discharge means providing for discharge from said second circumferentially extending passage into said central opening, said first discharge means being between said second discharge means and said opening in said enclosure; and means introducing pressurized air into said first circumferentially extending passage for discharge into said central opening through said first discharge means, and means introducing pressurized solvent into said second circumferentially extending passage for discharge into said central opening through said second discharge means. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein said spray unit includes a metering passage interconnecting said first and second circumferentially extending passages. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein said first discharge means comprises means defining a substantially continuous first circumferential slot extending around said central opening. 10. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein said second discharge means comprises means forming a second circumferential slot extending substantially around said central opening. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein said spray unit comprises a body member having a central opening and a first circumferential groove in a first axial face of said body member forming said first circumferentially extending passage, said first discharge means comprises a planar member with a central opening and means offsetting said planar member from said first face of said body member between said first circumferential groove and said opening to form said first circumferential slot. 12. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein said body member has a second circumferential groove in a second axial face forming said second circumferentially extending passage, said second discharge means comprises a second planar member with a central opening and means offsetting said second planar member from said second face of the body member between said second circumferential groove and said opening to form said second continuous slot. 13. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein said first face of said body member is chamfered adjacent said opening to direct said air curtain away from said opening in said enclosure. 14. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein said second discharge means comprises nozzles and means connecting said nozzles to said second circumferentially extending passage. 15. A method of cleaning a paint gun comprising the steps of: inserting said paint gun into an enclosure through an opening in the enclosure; providing first discharge means in said enclosure and discharging air from said first discharge means to form a curtain of air across said opening in said enclosure; providing second discharge means in said enclosure spaced from said opening in the enclosure by said first discharge means and directing solvent at said paint gun through said second discharge means to clean said paint gun, said curtain of air preventing escape of solvent through said opening; and mixing solvent with said air discharged from said first discharge means to prevent said first discharge means from being contaminated. 16. The method of claim 15 including terminating discharging solvent from both said first and second discharge means and instead discharging air from both said first and second discharge means to dry said paint gun. 