The disclosure relates to a gripper arm for use in conjunction with a robotic arm for gripping a tool wherein the tool is retained in the gripper arm until a positive action signal and lack of pressure from the tool are simultaneously provided. The tool cannot be discharged from the gripper arm under other conditions including power loss to the robotic device.
Claims I claim: 1. A robot gripper comprising: (a) a set of gripping jaws; (b) means including a plunger and sensor responsive to predetermined positioning of an object within said jaws to lockingly close said jaws on said object and provide a predetermined sensed pressure condition within said jaws; and (c) means including a powered latch pin responsive to removal of said predetermined sensed pressure condition and a predetermined further condition to unlock and open said gripping jaws. 2. A robot gripper as set forth in claim 1 wherein said means responsive to predetermined positioning includes means movable from a first position to a second position to close said jaws and lock said jaws. 3. A robot gripper as set forth in claim 2 wherein said means responsive to predetermined positioning further includes an electromagnetic device and a pin controlled by said electromagnetic device, said pin being responsive to said means movable moving from said first position to said second position to lock said means movable in said second position, and wherein said predetermined further condition includes means energizing said electromagnetic device to move said pin to unlock said means movable. 4. A robot gripper as set forth in claim 2 wherein said means movable from a first: position to a second position comprises a plunger extending into the region within said jaws, a shoulder travelling with said plunger and a groove in said shoulder. 5. A robot gripper as set forth in claim 3 wherein said means movable from a first position to a second position comprises a plunger extending into the region within said jaws, a shoulder travelling with said plunger and a groove in said shoulder. 6. A robot gripper as set forth in claim 5 wherein said pin enters said groove responsive to said means movable moving from said first position to said second position to lock said jaws, said means movable applying a force against said pin. 7. A robot gripper comprising: (a) a set of gripping jaws; (b) a plunger located between said jaws, said plunger including means for causing said jaws to close whenever the plunger is depressed by an object to be gripped; (c) a solenoid-driven latch pin positioned to lock said jaws in place when the plunger is fully despressed; and (d) means for energizing said solenoid and thereby removing said latch pin responsive to reduced pressure on said plunger, whereby the jaws are released to permit removal of the gripped object. 