The present invention provides a clutch connected between a robot or like and an attached end of arm tooling device (EOAT). The clutch includes two plates having a fixed relationship with one another. Excessive loading on the EOAT beyond predetermined amounts causes the plates to separate from one another. Any deformation in the fixed position of the plates with respect to one another will cause an instantaneous diminishing of a load transmitted between the two plates.
Claims The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows: 1. A clutch adapted for connection between a robot or like and an attached end of arm tool (EOAT) for separation upon an applied load upon said EOAT beyond a predetermined amount, said clutch in combination comprising: a first plate for connection with said robot or like, said first plate having tapered masts; a second plate for connection with said EOAT having a fixed relationship with respect to said first plate, and said second plate having sensing means to provide a signal to said robot or like upon separation of said second plate from said first plate, said second plate further including means of connection to allow said second plate to hang from said first plate upon separation of said second plate from said first plate and said second plate having rotative cam members nested within said tapered cam nests of said first plate whereby rotation of said second plate with respect to said first plate causes said second plate to be urged away from said first plate; and permanent magnets connected with said first second plate holding said first and second plates together in a fixed relationship with one another whereby said second plate moves relative to said first plate when said second plate is moved torsionally along at least one of three coordinate axis or transversely along at least one of two linear axis via an applied load on said EOAT beyond a predetermined amount and the load transmitted between said plates diminishes instantaneously upon any separation of said second plate from said first plate. 2. A method of attaching an end arm tool to a robot or like utilizing a clutch, said method in combination comprising: connecting with said robot or like a first plate; connecting with said EOAT a second plate; nesting a cam surface located on one of said plates in a tapered nest of said plate opposite said plate said cam surface is located on; and holding said first and second plates together in a fixed relationship with one another with a permanent magnet connected on one of said plates whereby said second plate moves relative to said first plate when said second plate is moved torsionally along at least one of three coordinate axis or transversely along at least one of two linear axis via an applied load on said EOAT beyond a predetermined amount, and the load transmitted between said first and second plates diminishes instantaneously upon any separation of said second plate from said first plate. 3. A clutch adapted for connection between a robot and an attached end of arm tool for separation upon an applied load on said EOAT beyond a predetermined amount, said clutch in combination comprising: a first plate for connection with said robot or like; a second plate for connection with said EOAT; cam surfaces located on one of said plates; tapered nests on said plate opposite said plate said cam surfaces are located on, said cam surfaces being received into said tapered nest to locate said plates in a fixed relationship to one another; and a permanent magnet fixably connected with one of said plates holds said first and second plates in said fixed relationship with one another whereby said second plate moves relative to said first plate when said second plate is moved torsionally along at least one of three coordinate axis or transversely along at least one of two coordinate linear axis via an applied load on said EOAT beyond a predetermined amount and the load transmitted between said first and second plates diminishes instantaneously upon said movement of said second plate with respect to said first plate. 4. A clutch as described in claim 3 wherein said cam surfaces includes a roller rotatably mounted to said plate said cam surface is located on. 5. A clutch as described in claim 3 wherein said cam surface includes a conical ring connected with said plate said cam surface is located on and said opposite plate having a conical surface for nesting said ring. 6. A clutch as described in claim 3 further including connecting means allowing said second plate to hang from said first plate upon separation of said second plate from said first plate. 7. A clutch as described in claim 3 further including sensing means for sensing the separation of said second plate from said first plate, said sensing means providing a signal for cessation of said robot or like. 