An ampule opener is provided for automatically opening ampules. The ampule opener is especially suitable for use in a robotic sterility test system and is provided with a pneumatic actuator means releasably connected to an ampule opener arm. The head of an ampule is positioned with its neck on a knife edge so that when the ampule opener arm is rotated by the actuator means, the arm applies a pressure on the head of the ampule and the ampule head drops away.
Claims We claim: 1. An ampule opener for opening an ampule having a head, neck including a score line and a body, said ampule opener comprising: a mounting plate; an ampule opener arm rotatably mounted in the mounting plate; pneumatic actuator means releasably connected to the ampule opener arm for rotating the arm toward the head of the ampule and for providing a predetermined build up of pressure by the rotating arm at a point of contact with the head of the ampule; a knife edge attached to the mounting plate and positioned so that an ampule may be placed in the ampule opener with its neck on the knife edge and its head extending into the path of the ampule opener arm when the ampule opener arm is rotated; and an ampule support block attached to the mounting plate and positioned to contact the body of the ampule and prevent the ampule from pivoting about the knife edge when pressure is applied by the opener arm on the head of the ampule; whereby when the ampule opener arm is rotated and contacts the head of the ampule and the predetermined build-up of pressure is exerted thereon by the rotating arm, the neck of the ampule is broken along the score line and the head of the ampule drops away. 2. The ampule opener of claim 1 further comprising coupling means mounted in the mounting plate for releasably coupling the pneumatic actuator means to the ampule opener arm. 3. The ampule opener according to claim 2, further comprising positioning means for accurately positioning the pneumatic actuator means in relation to the ampule opener arm and mounting plate during assembly and disassembly of the actuator means from the ampule opener. 4. The ampule opener according to claim 1, wherein the ampule opener arm is configured and dimensioned to rotate at an angular velocity of approximately one half revolution per second. 5. The ampule opener of cliam 4 wherein the ampule opener arm is about one and one quarter inches long and has a velocity of about four inches per second at the point where the ampule opener arm contacts the head of the ampule. 6. An ampule opener for opening an ampule having a head, a neck including a score line and a body, said ampule opener comprising: a mounting plate; an ampule opener arm rotatably mounted in the mounting plate; pneumatic actuator means releasably connected to the ampule opener arm for rotating the arm toward the head of the ampule at an agular velocity of approximately one half revolution per second and for providing a predetermined build up of pressure by the rotating arm at a point of contact with the head of the ampule; a knife edge attached to the mounting plate and positioned so that an ampule may be placed in the ampule opener with its neck on the knife edge and its head extending into the path of the ampule opener arm when the ampule opener arm is rotated; and an ampule support block attached to the mounting plate and positioned to contact the body of the ampule and prevent the ampule from pivoting abouth the knife edge when pressure is applied by the opener arm on the head of the ampule; whereby when the ampule opener arm is rotated and contacts the head of the ampule and the predetermined build up of pressure by the rotating arm is exerted thereon, the neck of the ampule is broken along the score line and the head of the ampule drops away. 7. The ampule opener of cliam 6, wherein the ampule opener arm is about one and one quarter inches long and has a velocity of about four inches per second at the point where the ampule opener arm contacts the head of the ampule. 