A support for an abrasive disc which includes a flat base, an upstanding annular rim and preferably four retainers mounted to the base within the rim and biased toward the rim to grip and retain the disc. The disc may be released by depressing cables connecting opposed diametrical pairs of retainers to withdraw the retainers.
Claims We claim: 1. A disc support adapted to grip and support an annular abrasive disc comprising: a frame including a flat base and an upstanding annular rim; at least one disc retainer for forcing said disc into and retaining said disc in contact with said annular rim; means for biasing said retainer toward said annular rim; and a cable attached to and extending between said retainer and the diametrically opposite portion of said annular rim and wherein movement of said cable toward said base causes movement of said retainer away from said annular rim. 2. A disc support according to claim 1 wherein said retainer includes a projection overhanging said annular rim when said retainer is not retracted, for capturing said abrasive disc between said annular rim and said retainer projection. 3. A disc support according to claim 2 wherein said retainer projection includes a sloped contact surface in contact with said abrasive disc, said contact surface being oriented to progressively force said disc into contact with said annular rim as said retainer is biased toward said annular rim. 4. A disc support according to claim 1 further including a block associated with said retainer and mounted to said base inwardly of said annular rim and a rod extending from said block to said rim, wherein said retainer is slideably mounted on said rod for movement toward and away form said annular rim. 5. A disc support according to claim 4 wherein said means for biasing said retainer toward said annular rim comprises a spring disposed between said block and said retainer. 6. A disc support adapted to grip and support an annular abrasive disc comprising: a frame including a flat base and an upstanding annular rim; two disc retainers diametrically opposed with respect to said annular rim for forcing said disc into and retaining said disc in contact with said annular rim; means for biasing said retainers toward said annular rim; and a cable attached to and extending between said retainers, wherein movement of said cable toward said base causes movement of said retainers toward each other and away from said annular rim. 7. A disc support adapted to grip and support an annular abrasive disc comprising: a frame including a flat base and an upstanding annular rim; four disc retainers spaced at 90 degrees from each other around said annular rim for forcing said disc into sand retaining said disc in contact with said annular rim; means for biasing said retainers toward said annular rim; and cables connecting diametrically opposed pairs of said retainers which cause movement of said paired retainers away from said annular rim and said disc when said cables are moved toward said base. 