A multiple joint robot part comprising a mechanical wrist mechanism utilizes universal joints to effect simultaneous rotations about three mutually perpendicular axes to thereby impart pitch, yaw and roll motions to a robotic end effector attached thereto. All of the wrist motions are kinematically independent, and the pitch and yaw motions are activated by means of linear motion actuators. Pitch and yaw bend angles are traversed gradually in two or more stages to allow a generous bend radius for internally routed service lines to the end effector.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot part adapted to be driven by a robot drive means, the part comprising: a relatively stationary base; a first pair of independent rotational axes having a first point of mutual intersection (A) and being movable relative to each other; a second pair of independent rotational axes having a second point of mutual intersection (D) spaced a first distance (AD) from the first point of mutual intersection, the second pair of axes being movable relative to each other; first link means supported on said base; second link means being rotationally supported on each of the first pair of axes and the second link means being rotationally supported on each of the second pair of axes; third link means having first and second end points (B and C, respectively) fixed relative to the base, and the second link means, respectively, for establishing a fixed second distance (BC), during rotation of the first and second link means about their respective axes, wherein none of the first and second points of mutual intersection (A and D, respectively) and the first and second end points (B and C, respectively) are coincident, the first point of intersection and the first end point (A and B, respectively) defining a third distance (AB) and the second point of intersection and the second end point (D) and (C) respectively) defining a fourth distance (DC); and actuator means for providing independent rotation of said first link means about each of the first pair of axes to operatively transfer corresponding bend movements in more than one stage to selectively establish the position of said second link means relative to the base. 2. A mechanical wrist mechanism adapted to be driven by a robot drive means for positioning an end effector comprising: a relatively stationary base; a first point of independent rotational axes having a first point of mutual intersection (A) and being movable relative to each other; a second pair of independent rotational axes having a second point of mutual intersection (D) spaced a first distance (AD) from the first point of mutual intersection, the second pair of axes being movable relative to each other; a first line means supported on said base; a second link means supported on the first link means, the first link means being rotationally supported on each of the first pair of axes and the second link means being rotationally supported on each of the second pair of axes; end effector support means including an end effector mounting surface, the end effector support means being supported on the second link means for rotation about a third independent rotational axis; a rotary drive shaft rotatably supported by said stationary base; third link means in driving engagement with the draft shaft and the tool support member for transferring the rotary motion of the drive shaft to the tool support member, the third link means having first and second end points (B and C, respectively) fixed relative to the base and the second link means, respectively, for establishing a fixed second distance (BC) during rotation of the first and second link means about their axes wherein none of the first and second points of mutual intersection (A and D, respectively) and the first and second end points (B and C, respectively) are coincident; and actuator means for providing independent rotation of said first link means about the first pair of axes to operatively transfer corresponding bend movements in more than one stage to the end effector support means to selectively establish the position of said mounting surface relative to the base within a work envelope. 3. The mechanism as claimed in claim 2 wherein said actuator means includes first and second reciprocable linear actuators for rotating said first link means about the first pair of axes and wherein one of said actuators is hingedly connected to said first link means to rotate the first link means about one of said first pair of rotary axes. 4. The mechanism as claimed in claim 2 wherein at least one of said pairs of axes are orthogonal. 5. The mechanism as claimed in claim 4 wherein both pairs of axes are orthogonal. 6. The mechanism as claimed in claim 2 further comprising a first joint having a center of rotation defined by the first point of mutual intersection (A) wherein said first joint is hingedly connected to the base; and wherein said actuator means is hingedly connected to said first joint to rotate the first joint about one of said first pair of axes. 7. The mechanism as claimed in claim 6 further comprising a second joint having a center of rotation defined by the second point of mutual intersection (D) wherein said first link means is hingedly connected to said first and second joints. 8. The part as claimed in claim 1 wherein said third link means has ends which at least partially define spherical joints having centers of rotation defined by the first and second end points (B and C, respectively). 9. The mechanism as claimed in claim 6 wherein said first link means is hingedly connected to said first joint to rotate about said first pair of axes relative to the base. 10. The mechanism as claimed in claim 7 or claim 9 wherein said second link means is hingedly connected to said second joint to rotate relative to said first link means. 11. The part as claimed in claim 1 further comprising an end effector support member rotatable on a third independent rotational axis intersecting the second pair of axes at the second point of mutual intersection (D). 12. The part as claimed in claim 11 wherein said third independent rotation axis is orthogonal to each of said second pair of axes. 13. The invention as claimed in claim 11 wherein said first and second link means includes first and second hollow housings, respectively, which together at least partially define a continuously unobstructed passage between the base and the end effector support member including cavities in the first and second housings for the enclosed containment of end effector related structures. 14. The invention as claimed in claim 13 further comprising first and second joints having the first and second points of intersection (A and D), respectively, as centers of rotation, the joints including first and second hollow members hingedly connected to said first and second housings, respectively, the first and second housings and the first and second members together at least partially defining the unobstructed passage. 15. The invention as claimed in claim 14 wherein said base includes a third member which together with the first and second housings and the first and second members define the unobstructed passage. 16. The mechanism as claimed in claim 2 wherein the first point of intersection and the first end point (A and B, respectively) define a third distance (AB) and the second point of intersection and the second end point (D and C, respectively) define a fourth distance (DC) and wherein the sum of the distances AB and BC is less than the sum of the distances AD and DC. 17. The mechanism as claimed in claim 3 or claim 16 further comprising first and second universal joints at least partially defined by said third link means, the first and second universal joints having centers defined by the first and second end points (B and C, respectively). 