Apparatus for taking smear samples of the surface of objects for sampling radiation or chemical contamination levels. Both wiping area and pressure are controlled giving reliable, repeatable samples. A carriage provided with sampling strips is slideably mounted within a frame. Constant force springs pull the carriage across a known distance upon its release while a pressure roller on the carriage presses the sample strip to the area to be sampled. The sample strip is wound on a take-up reel as each sample is taken. The device is intended for remote or hazardous environments and may be operated manually or by robotics.
Claims We claim: 1. A smear sampling apparatus comprising: a. a frame with pads mounted thereon adapted for contacting a surface to be sampled; b. a carriage slideably disposed within the frame; c. carriage driving means mounted between the frame and carriage to move the carriage; d. sampling means mounted to the carriage adapted to feed a sample paper strip from a feed spool, position the paper on a pressure roller, and store a plurality of samples on a take-up reel, where the sampling means is disposed on the carriage so that the sample paper is contacted and moved across a surface as the carriage moves within the frame; e. a pressure sensing and release means mounted at one end of the frame adapted to hold the carriage until a condition, a selected pressure, at a point of contact of the sampling means and the surface to be sampled is sensed whereon the carriage is released to move within the frame and wipe the surface with the sample paper; and f. reset means operably mounted to the carriage and sampling means and adapted to reset the pressure sensing and release, driving, and sampling means as each sample is taken so as to provide for a plurality of samples. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the pressure sensing and release means further comprises: a. a release block; and b. a plurality of release pins, release links and springs disposed in the block and operatively interconnected to hold the carriage until the release pins are depressed, whereby the force required to depress the release pins sufficiently to release the carriage is related to the selected pressure desired at the point of contact of the sampling means and the surface to be sampled. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the pressure sensing and release means further comprises a plurality of pressure sensors operatively connected to a plurality of release links to release the carriage upon sensing a selected pressure. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the driving means comprises a spring mounted between the frame and carriage. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the driving means comprises a constant force spring mounted between the frame and carriage. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the reset means comprises: a. a side arm assembly having first and second side arms adapted to rotate when pulled by a reset force so as to pull fresh sample strip from the a feed spool by lengthening the sample paper path distance between the take-up reel and feed spool; b. a first ratchet means operatively mounted to the take-up reel and the first side arm so as to allow rotation in only one direction and prevent unwinding of the take-up reel; c. a second ratchet means operatively mounted to the take-up reel so as to allow rotation of the take-up reel only in the same direction as the first ratchet means; d. a pulley with a first shaft operatively mounted to the second ratchet means and a second shaft rotably mounted to the second side arm; e. a constant force spring motor mounted to the second side arm with a motor shaft connected to the second pulley shaft and adapted to drive the pulley and take-up reel through the second ratchet means to wind the samples thereon; f. a spring attached between the pulley and carriage adapted to rotate the pulley and the constant force spring motor when the apparatus is reset so as to recharge the constant force spring motor; and g. a reset cable attached to the side arm assembly that transmits a reset force for the reset operation. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a marking means mounted to the carriage and adapted to mark the sample paper each time the apparatus is reset. 