There is provided a backlash control rotation gear assembly for robotic applications, with such assembly comprising an input device to provide rotational force of a predetermined maximum torque. The system further includes a first drive gear which is connected to the rotational input device and a second drive gear which is connected to the first drive gear by an elastic torsion spring preloaded with a predetermined spring torque force. An output driven gear is connected to a moveable robotic part to be rotated, with such driven gear being connected to the first and second drive gears, wherein the first drive gear is driven by the rotational input device and the second drive gear is driven indirectly by the input device through the preloaded elastic torsion spring. The preloaded torque force of the elastic torsion spring maintains the intermeshing teeth of the first and second drive gears and the driven gear is loaded, substantially constant contact, thereby eliminating gear backlash normally encountered in such gear systems.
Claims I claim: 1. A backlash control rotation gear assembly for robotic applications, said assembly comprising: (a) rotational input means to provide rotational force of a predetermined maximum torque; (b) first drive means, said first drive means being connected to said rotational input means; (c) second drive means; (d) elastomeric means connecting said second drive means to said first drive means, said elastomeric means being preloaded with a predetermined torque force prior to locking said elastomeric means to said first and second drive means to provide an elastomeric loaded connection between said first and second drive means; and (e) an output driven gear connected to a movable robotic part to be rotated, said driven gear being connected to said first and second drive means, said first drive means being driven by said rotational input means and said second drive means being driven indirectly by said rotational input means via said preloaded elastomeric connecting means, whereby said preloaded torque force of said elastomeric connecting means maintains said first and second drive means and said driven gear in loaded, substantially constant contact. 2. The gear assembly of claim 1, wherein said first drive means transfers rotational input from said rotational input means to a first drive gear, said first drive means being at least partially hollow, and wherein said second drive means is disposed radially within said hollow portion of said first drive means and being effectively connected thereto by said elastomeric connecting means, said second drive means being connected to a second drive gear. 3. The gear assembly of claim 2, wherein said first drive means is connected to said first drive gear by intermeshing gear teeth, and wherein said second drive means is similarly connected to said second drive gear by intermeshing gear teeth. 4. The gear assembly of claim 3, said assembly further comprising rotational friction damping means to effectively dampen and absorb relative rotational movement between said first and second drive means. 5. The gear assembly of claim 4, wherein said friction damping means further comprises a friction damper located between said first and second drive means, and a biasing means to maintain compressive force on said friction damper. 6. The gear assembly of claim 5, wherein said gear assembly is mounted within the base of a robotic manipulator, and said driven gear provides rotational motion to the main turret portion of said manipulator relative said base. 7. A backlash control dual rotation gear assembly for use in robotic manipulators, said assembly comprising: (a) rotational input means to provide rotational force of a predetermined maximum torque; (b) a first drive gear, said first drive gear being connected to said rotational input means by irst drive means, said first drive means having a first and second end and being at least partially hollow; (c) a second drive gear, said second drive gear being connected indirectly to said first drive gear by a second drive means disposed radially within said hollow portion of said first drive means, said second drive means having a first and second end; (d) elastomeric means connecting said second drive means adjacent one its ends to said first drive means adjacent a corresponding end of said first drive means, said elastomeric means being preloaded with a predetermined torque force prior to locking said elastomeric means to said first and second drive means to provide an elastomeric, loaded connection between said first and second drive means; and (e) an output driven gear connected to a movable robotic part to be rotated, said driven gear intermeshing with said first and second drive gears, wherein said first drive gear is driven by said rotational input means and said second drive gear is driven by said rotational input means and said second drive gear is driven indirectly by said rotational input means via said preloaded elastomeric connection with said first drive gear, whereby said preloaded torque force of said elastomeric connection maintains the intermeshing teeth of said first and second drive gears and said driven gear in loaded, substantially constant contact. 8. The gear assembly of claim 7, said assembly further comprising rotational friction damping means to effectively dampen and absorb relative rotational movement between said first and second drive means. 9. The gear assembly of claim 8, wherein said friction damping means further comprises a friction damper located between said first and second drive means, and a biasing means to maintain compressive force on said friction damper by said first and second drive means. 10. The gear assembly of claim 9, wherein said gear assembly is mounted within the base of a robotic manipulator, and said driven gear provides rotational motion to the main turret portion of said manipulator relative said base. 11. The gear assembly of claim 7, wherein said first drive means is connected to said first drive gear by gear teeth, and wherein said second drive means in similarly connected to said second drive gear by gear teeth. 12. The gear assembly of claim 7, wherein said first and second drive means each include a pair of corresponding transfer gears and drive shafts, said first and second drive means each being connected by intermeshing gear teeth to its respective transfer gear, and said transfer gears each being connected to its respective drive gear by a drive shaft. 13. A backlash control dual rotation gear assembly for use in robotic manipulators, said assembly comprising: (a) rotational input means to provide rotational force of a predetermined maximum torque; (b) a first drive gear, said first drive gear being connected to said rotational input means by first drive means, said first drive means having a first and second end and being at least partially hollow, said first drive gear being connected to said first drive means adjacent its second end; (c) a second drive gear, said second drive gear being connected indirectly to said first drive gear by a second drive means disposed radially within said hollow portion of said first drive means, said second drive means having a first and second end and being connected to said second drive gear adjacent its second end; (d) elastomeric means connecting said second drive means to said first drive means adjacent the first ends of the respective first and second drive means, said elastomeric means being preloaded with a predetermined torque force prior to locking said elastomeric means to said first and second drive means to provide an elastomeric, loaded connection between the first end of said first and second drive means; and (e) an output driven gear connected to a movable robotic part to be rotated, said driven gear being connected to said first and second drive gears by a pair of transfer gears which intermesh with said driven gear, wherein said first drive gear is driven by said rotational input means and said second drive gear is driven indirectly by said rotational input means via said elastomeric connection with said first drive gear, whereby said preloaded torque force of said elastomeric connection means maintains said first and second drive gears, said transfer gears, and said driven gear in loaded, substantially constant contact. 14. The gear assembly of claim 13, said assembly further comprising rotational friction dampling means to effectively dampen and absorb relative rotational movement between said first and second drive means. 15. The gear assembly of claim 14, wherein said friction damping means further comprises a friction damper located between said first and second drive means, and a biasing means to maintain compressive force on said friction damper. 16. The gear assembly of claim 13, wherein said gear assembly is mounted within the base of a robotic manipulator, and said driven gear provides rotational motion to the main turret portion of said manipulator relative said base. 