A kinematic method to operate a multi-jointed robot to achieve coordinated, speed-invariant motion when the robot's end effector is moved along a predefined path. To accomplish such operation, a total execution time function is defined which is a function of acceleration time, slew time, and deceleration time for the joints. Values for the acceleration time, slew time, and deceleration time are calculated which minimize the total time function subject to constraints on the displacement, the limiting velocity, the limiting acceleration, and the limiting deceleration for the joints. Then, the end effector of the robot is operated such that all joints start moving at the same instant, all joints accelerate for the same period, all joints slew for the same period, and all joints decelerate for the same period. During such motion, at least one moving joint is responsible for determining the acceleration time, at least one other moving joint (or possibly the same joint) is responsible for determining the deceleration time, and at least one moving joint (or one of the two prior joints) is responsible for determining the slew time. Also during such motion, each moving joint will progress through its motion at the same relative rate; that is, at the time the ith joint completes some percentage of its travel distance, any other moving joint will complete the same percentage of its travel distance.
Claims We claim: 1. A kinematic method to operate a multijointed robot to achieve coordinated, speed-invariant motion when the robot's end effector is moved along a predefined path comprising the steps of: defining a total execution time function for each path segment which is a function of acceleration time, slew time, and deceleration time for each of the joints; for each of the joints, calculating values for the acceleration time, slew time, and deceleration time which minimize the total time function subject to constraints on the displacements of the joints, the limiting velocities of the joints, the limiting accelerations of the joints, and the limiting decelerations of the joints; operating the end effector of the robot such that all joints start and stop moving at the same time and at least one moving joint is responsible for determining the acceleration time, at least one other moving joint (or possibly the same joint) is responsible for determining the deceleration time, and at least one moving joint (or one of the two prior joints) is responsible for determining the slew time. 2. A method according to claim 1 wherein the total execution time function, t.sub.T, for a path segment is defined as wherein t.sub.T is the total time for motion of the joints, t.sub.a is acceleration time, t.sub.s is slew time, and t.sub.d is deceleration time for the joints. 3. A method according to claim 2 wherein the constraints are ##EQU14## where: Q.sub.i is the given displacement of any one joint (i.e., the ith joint); V.sub.limi is limiting velocity for the ith joint; A.sub.limi is limiting acceleration for the ith joint; and D.sub.limi is limiting deceleration for the ith joint. 4. A method according to claim 3 wherein, for quantities t*, t*.sub.a, t*.sub.s and t*.sub.d where: ##EQU15## the quantities t.sub.a, t.sub.d and t.sub.s have the following values: ##EQU16## 5. A method according to claim 1 wherein, for each joint, the acceleration of the joint is controlled to be the same as the deceleration of the 6. A method according to claim 5 wherein the total execution time function, t.sub.T, for a path segment is defined as wherein t.sub.T is the total time for motion of the joints, t.sub.a is acceleration time, and t.sub.s is slew time. 7. A method according to claim 6 wherein the constraints are: ##EQU17## where: Q.sub.i is the given displacement of any one joint (i.e., the ith joint); V.sub.limi is limiting velocity for the ith joint; and A.sub.limi is limiting acceleration for the ith joint. 8. A method according to claim 7 wherein, for a quantity t* such that ##EQU18## the quantities ta, t.sub.s and t.sub.d are determined to have the following values: ##EQU19## 9. A method for operating a robot having an end effector and a plurality of joints, each of which is driven by an individually controllable servo motor to achieve coordinated, minimum-time motion which is speed-invariant when the end effector is moved along a predefined path segment, comprising the steps of: defining a total execution time function, t.sub.T, for the path segment such that: wherein t.sub.T is the total time for motion of the joints, t.sub.a is acceleration time, t.sub.s is slew time, and t.sub.d is deceleration time; determining values for the acceleration times, deceleration times and slew times for the moving joints of the robot which minimize total execution time subject to the constraints that: ##EQU20## where: Q.sub.i is the given displacement of any one joint (i.e., the ith joint); V.sub.limi is limiting velocity for the ith joint; A.sub.limi is limiting acceleration for the ith joint; and D.sub.limi is limiting deceleration for the ith joint; and operating the end effector of the robot such that all joints start and stop their motion at the same time and at least one moving joint is responsible for determining the acceleration time, at least one other moving joint (or possibly the same joint) is responsible for determining the deceleration time, and at least one moving joint (or one of the two prior joints) is responsible for determining the slew time. 10. A method according to claim 9 wherein the servo motors are controlled such that, for each joint, the acceleration time of the joint is equal to the deceleration time. 11. A method according to claim 9 wherein the total execution time function, t.sub.T, for a path segment is defined as wherein t.sub.T is the total time for motion of the joints, t.sub.a is acceleration time, and t.sub.s is slew time. 12. A method according to claim 11 wherein the constraints are: ##EQU21## where: Q.sub.i is the given displacement of any one joint (i.e., the ith joint); V.sub.limi is limiting velocity for the ith joint; and A.sub.limi is limiting acceleration for the ith joint. 13. A method according to claim 12 wherein, for a quantity t* such that ##EQU22## the quantities t.sub.a, t.sub.s and t.sub.d have the following values: ##EQU23## 14. A method to operate a multi-jointed robot to achieve coordinated, speed-invariant motion of an end effector along a predefined path comprising the steps of: defining a total execution time function for each path segment which is a function of acceleration time, slew time, and deceleration time for each of the joints; calculating periods for the acceleration time, slew time, and deceleration time which minimize the total execution time function subject to constraints on the displacement of the joint, the limiting velocity, the limiting acceleration, and the limiting deceleration; operating the end effector of the robot such that all joints start moving at the same time and all joints accelerate for the calculated minimum acceleration time period, all joints slew for the minimum calculated slew time period, and all joints decelerate for the minimum calculated deceleration time period. 15. A method according to claim 14 wherein all joints stop moving at the same time and at least one moving joint operates at its limiting acceleration, at least one other moving joint (or the same joint) operates at its limiting deceleration, and at least one other moving joint (or one of the two prior joints) operates at its limiting velocity. 16. A method according to claim 14 wherein the total execution time function, t.sub.T, for the path segment is defined as wherein t.sub.T is the total time for motion of the joints, t.sub.a is acceleration time, t.sub.s is slew time, and t.sub.d is deceleration time. 17. A method according to claim 16 wherein the constraints are ##EQU24## where: Q.sub.i is the given displacement of any one joint (i.e., the ith joint); V.sub.limi is limiting velocity for the ith joint; A.sub.limi is limiting acceleration for the ith joint; and D.sub.limi is limiting deceleration for the ith joint; and 18. A method according to claim 17 wherein, for quantities t*, t*.sub.a, t*.sub.s and t*.sub.d, where: ##EQU25## the quantities t.sub.a, t.sub.d and t.sub.s have the following values: ##EQU26## 19. A method according to claim 15 wherein, for each moving joint, the acceleration of the joint is controlled to be the same as the deceleration of the joint. 20. A method according to claim 19 wherein the total execution time function, t.sub.T, for the path segment is defined as wherein t.sub.T is the total time for motion of the joints, t.sub.a is acceleration time and t.sub.s is slew time. 21. A method according to claim 20 wherein the constraints are: ##EQU27## where: Q.sub.i is the given displacement of any one joint (i.e., the ith joint); V.sub.limi is limiting velocity for the ith joint; and A.sub.limi is limiting acceleration for the ith joint. 22. A method according to claim 21 wherein, for a quantity t* as follows, ##EQU28## the quantities t.sub.a, t.sub.s and t.sub.d have the following values: ##EQU29## 