A composite tape for the storage and delivery of very small electronic components makes use of a carrier strip with pockets for containment of individual components and a cover strip. The cover strip extends over all the pockets to hold the components in the pockets until needed. Sprocket holes extend along the side of the carrier strip and are used for reeling up long composite tapes when loaded and for unreeling when components are to be removed. At the time of removal two take-up reels are used. One of the take-up reels pulls the cover strip away from the carrier strip to uncover the pockets. The other take-up reel progressively rolls up the carrier strip after the components have been lifted from the pockets. Various expedients are used for releasably securing the cover strip to the carrier strip.
Claims Having described the invention, what is claimed as new in support of Letters Patent is as follows: 1. A tape for the storage and retrieval of electronic components comprising a carrier substrip of temperature responsive synthetic plastic resin sheet material having a multiple number of pockets at a succession of longitudinally spaced locations and a cover substrip for covering said pockets while said storage tape is in a coil for storage, said carrier and cover substrips being a single composite strip of said sheet material, releasable retention means for holding the cover substrip over and in engagement with the carrier substrip when components are in said pockets, said retention means comprising the material of adjacent edge portions of the substrips, said material of said adjacent edge portions having a retention condition when said material is at one temperature condition in a relatively inflexible state, said cover substrip having a release condition for removal from a position over the pockets when said material of said edge portions of the substrips is at another temperature condition in a relatively flexible state, said carrier substrip and said cover substrip being a single integral composition of substantially uniform thickness with said edge portions at one side of said band being in continuous engagement and edge portions on the opposite side of said band being separate from each other. 2. A tape for storage and retrieval of electronic components as in claim 1 wherein those portions of the cover strip over the respective pockets are spaced from each other in a longitudinal direction. 