An apparatus and method is described for inserting pins in holes wherein either the pin or the hole is chamfered or beveled. One part is vibrated with respect to the other in a plane orthogonal to the direction of insertion. One part is incrementally moved in the direction of insertion. When interference caused by the contact is sensed, the magnitude of the interference is determined and used to reposition the center-line of the one part in the orthogonal plane until the pin is fully inserted.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of inserting a part having a cylindrical projection into a hole in another part wherein either the end of the projection or the edge of the hole is chamfered, comprising the steps of: (a) positioning the projection adjacent the hole in the other part; (b) vibrating one part in relation to the other part in a plane orthogonal to the direction of insertion of said projection into said hole; (c) moving one part with respect to the other part in the direction of insertion of the projection until contact is made with an edge of said hole; (d) sensing the interference resulting from such contact and generating a signal proportional thereto; (e) in response to said signal, repositioning one part relative to the other in said orthogonal plane in a direction which reduces said interference; (f) repeating steps (c), (d) and (e) until the projection is completely inserted in the hole. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the vibration is circular in one plane. 3. The method of inserting a cylindrical projection on one part into a hole in another part wherein either the end of the projection is chamfered or the edge of the hole is chamfered comprising the steps of: (a) positioning the projection adjacent the hole in the other part and vibrating one part with respect to the other in a plane orthogonal to the direction of insertion; (b) moving one part a first increment with respect to the other part in a direction orthogonal to said plane; (c) sensing if contact is made between said parts; (d) if no contact is made in step (b), repeating step (b) and storing a count number; (e) if contact is made in step (b), determining if the interference resulting from the contact is greater or less than after the previous move in the plane; (f) if interference is determined to be less in step (e), moving one part one increment with respect to the other in the direction of the previous move and repeating steps (c) and (d) or (e); (g) if interference in step (e) is determined to be greater in step (e), then incrementing the stored count number one unit and determining whether the previous move was made in said first direction: (h) if the answer in step (g) is YES, then moving one part one increment with respect to the other in the same direction and repeating step (b); (i) if the answer in step (g) is NO, checking the stored count to determine if it is less than 3 units; (j) if the count in step (i) is less than 3 units, moving one part in the plane in a direction opposite to the last move and step (b) is repeated; (k) if the count in step (i) is not less than 3 units, moving one part in the plane on an axis orthogonal to the previous axis and resetting the count to ZERO; and repeating steps (b)-(e). 4. Apparatus for inserting a part having a cylindrical projecting end into a hole in another part, wherein either the hole or the projection is beveled, comprising: (a) gripper means for holding one part adjacent the other with the projecting end nearest the hole; (b) shaker means for vibrating one part in relation to the other part in a plane orthogonal to the direction of insertion of said projecting end into said hole; (c) controller means for moving one part with respect to the other in the direction of insertion until contact is made between the end of the projection and the edge of said hole; (d) sensor means for sensing such contact and generating interference signals proportional thereto, the sensor means comprising a pair of accelerometers, one of which is sensitive to contact between hole and projection in one direction, the other one of which is sensitive to contact between hole and projection in a direction orthogonal thereto and wherein each generates a separate interference signal which are separately filtered in filter means; (e) signal processor means for processing said signals and coupling said signals to said controller means, which controller means, in response to said signals, repositions one part in said orthogonal plane in a direction which reduces or eliminates said interference until the projection is completely inserted in the hole. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 including converter means for converting the separate interference signals to D.C. analog signals and the analog signals to corresponding digital signals. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein the shaker means includes an, oscillator means for generating sine and cosine signals to vibrate one part with respect to the other in a circular motion in a plane orthogonal to the direction of insertion. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein the controller means in response in response to said analog signals generates an X direction signal and Y direction signal. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein the X direction signal and Y direction signal are coupled to said oscillator means for controlling the motion of said shaker means. 