A coupling mechanism permits a robot hand to be coupled to, and uncoupled from, application-specific tools by the motion of the robotic hand relative to a tool stand.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for exchangeably coupling tools to robotic hands comprising: tapered receiver means which are fixedly connected to robotic hands; complementary tapered means which are fixedly connected to tools and which are configured for generally self-centering mating with the tapered receiver means; latching means for latching the tapered receiver means to the complementary tapered means, the latching means each comprising a spring connected to the tapered receiver means and having an end which extends to engage the complementary tapered means; and aperture means formed in each of the complementary tapered means to permit an actuator to engage the spring via the aperture means. 2. A system according to claim 1 wherein the tapered receiver means comprises finger blocks and the complementary tapered means comprises finger blanks. 3. A system according to claim 2 wherein the finger blocks each have a dovetail-like receiving groove and the finger blanks each have an end having a complementary dovetail-like shape for seating within a dovetail-like groove in each finger block. 4. A system according to claim 2 wherein the sidewalls of the dovetail-like receiving grooves are angled to retain the finger blocks. 5. A system for selectively coupling and uncoupling a tool from a robotic hand such that the tool can be interchanged with another tool by motion only of the robotic hand, comprising: tool stand means for providing a plurality of tool storage and receiver sites; tapered receiver means fixedly connected to a robotic hand; complementary tapered means which are fixedly connected to tools and adapted to be self-centeringly received by the receiver means while being supported by the tool stand means in a generally predetermined orientation; latching means for selectively latching each of the complementary tapered means to each of the tapered receiver means through mechanical interaction with the tool stand means, the latching means each comprising a spring connected to the tapered receiver means and having an end which extends to engage the complementary tapered means; aperture means formed in each of the complementary tapered means to provide access to the extending end of the spring; and pin-like actuator means mounted at each of the storage and receiver sites on the tool stand means to engage the latching means via the aperture means for selectively disengaging a one of the receiver means from a one of the tapered means. 6. A system according to claim 5 wherein the complementary tapered means comprises finger blanks and the tapered receiver means comprises finger blocks for receiving the finger blanks. 7. A system according to claim 6 wherein each finger block has an open ended dovetail-like receiving groove formed therein, each finger blank includes an end portion having a complementary dovetail-like shape for seating within said dovetail-like groove in said finger block, and both the base and the sidewalls of the dovetail-like receiving grooves are tapered. 8. A system according to claim 6 wherein said tool stand means has dimensional compliance to accommodate misalignment of a said finger block and a said finger blank during coupling and uncoupling. 9. A system according to claim 8 wherein said tool stand means includes means for engaging and restraining vertical movement of a said finger blank. 10. A system for selectively coupling and uncoupling finger blocks from finger blanks on a robotic hand such that tools which are fixedly connected to the finger blanks can be interchangeably coupled to the robotic hand by motion only of the robotic hand, comprising: tool stand means including a plurality of tool storage and retrieval sites, each storage and retrieval site being defined by a stationary pin-like actuator member; tapered finger blanks adapted for fixed connection to tools and each having an aperture formed therein which permits the finger blank to be supported by a one of the stationary pin-like actuator members on the tool stand means; finger blocks adapted for fixed connection to a robotic hand and each having a receiving groove formed therein, each receiving groove having a dovetail-like shape whose broad end is open to self-centeringly receive the tapered end of ones of the finger blanks; a secondary slot formed in each of the receiving grooves; latching means for selectively latching ones of the finger blocks to ones of the finger blanks through mechanical interaction, the latching means each comprising a leaf spring for connection within one of the secondary slots such that one of the ends of the spring is free to engage a side of the finger blank received by the finger block; and an access aperture formed in each of the finger blanks to provide access to the latching means by one of the pin-like actuator members. 11. A system according to claim 10 wherein the tool stand means includes compliant means for providing the tool stand means with compliance to accommodate misalignment of a finger block and a finger blank during coupling and uncoupling of a tool. 