A robot joint having a ball-like arrangement on a support, the ball arrangement positioned in a socket device in which the ball is free to move so the socket device can rotate in various directions about the ball arrangement. First and second connectors connect force imparting arrangements to fixed points in the socket device. One of these force imparting arrangements is capable of approaching or receding from the other in some rotations of the socket device.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A controlled relative motion system permitting a controlled motion member, joined to another base member, to selectively move with respect to that base member, said system comprising: a first joint mean comprising: a first joint support means; a first joint ball means with a generally spherical shape affixed to said first joint support means; a first joint equatorial plane capture means having a rotation location in which said first joint ball means is positioned such that said first joint equatorial plane capture means can rotate in multiple directions about said first joint ball means; a plurality of first joint force imparting means mechanically connected to said first joint equatorial plane capture means, including a first joint first force imparting means and a first joint second force imparting means each of which permits force to selectively be imparted to said first joint equatorial plane capture means; and a plurality of first joint connection means, including a first joint first connection means and a first joint second connection means, with said first joint first connection means rotatably connecting said first joint first force imparting means to said first joint equatorial plane capture means and said second joint second connection means rotatably connecting said first joint second force imparting means to said first joint equatorial plane capture means and with said first joint first and second connection means being fixed with respect to one another at that connection of each in said first joint equatorial plane capture means, said first joint first force imparting means being capable of approaching and receding from said first joint second force imparting means during selected rotation of said first joint equatorial plane capture means about said first joint ball means. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said first joint ball means is a hollow ball means having a generally spherical opening therein. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said first joint equatorial plane capture means is formed by a first joint socket means having a recess therein ending in a surface at least partially concave and following a generally hemispherical shape past an equator thereof, there being a circumferential slot in said first joint ball means in which a circumferential sliding means is positioned, and along which it is movable, said circumferential sliding means being connected to said first equatorial plane capture means together around said first joint ball means with said circumferential sliding means comprising said first joint connection means. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said system further comprises a second joint means mechanically connected to said first joint means, said second joint means comprising: a second joint support means; a second joint ball means of a generally spherical shape affixed to said second joint support means; a second joint equatorial plane capture means having a rotation location in which said second joint ball means is positioned such that said second joint equatorial plane capture means can rotate in multiple directions about said second joint ball means; a plurality of second joint force imparting means mechanically connected to said second joint equatorial plane capture means, including a second joint first force imparting means and a second joint second force imparting means, each of which permits force to be selectively imparted to said second joint equatorial plane capture means; and a plurality of second joint connection means, including a second joint first connection means and a second joint second connection means, with said second joint first connection means rotatably connecting said second joint first force imparting means to said second joint equatorial plane capture means and said second joint second connection means rotatably connecting said second joint second force imparting means to said second joint equatorial plane capture means and with said second joint first and second connection means being fixed with respect to one another at that connection of each in said second joint equatorial plane capture means, said second joint first force imparting means being capable of approaching and receding from said second joint second force imparting means during selected rotation of said second joint equatorial plane capture means about said second joint ball means. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said system further comprises a second joint means having a second joint base member and a second joint rotary member which is rotatably connected to said second joint base member such that it can rotate about substantially a single axis with respect to said second joint base member, and further having a second joint first connection means mechanically connected to said second joint rotary member and to a second joint first force imparting means which permits force to be selectively imparted to said second joint rotary member, said second joint base member being mechanically connected to said first joint equatorial plane capture means. 6. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said interior opening in said first joint ball means contains a retaining sphere through which a retaining pin is placed with said retaining pin extending through first and second access openings in said first joint ball means to be affixed to said first joint equatorial plane capture means. 7. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said system further comprises a second joint means having a second joint base member and a second joint rotary member which is rotatably connected to said second joint base member such that it can rotate about substantially a single axis with respect to said second joint base member, and further having a second joint first connection means mechanically connected to said second joint rotary member and to a second joint first force imparting means which permits force to be selectively imparted to said second joint rotary member, said second joint base member being mechanically connected to said first joint equatorial plane capture means. 8. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein said first joint second connection means comprises a control pin affixed to and extending from said first joint equatorial plane capture means having a first rotary joint at its end opposite that which is affixed to said first joint equatorial plane capture means, said first rotary joint also being connected to said first joint second force imparting means. 9. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein said first joint second connection means comprises a parallelogram linkage means having a first rotary anchor means rotatably connected to said first joint support means, and a pair of parallelogram arms each rotatably connected between said first joint equatorial plane capture means and said first joint rotary anchor means. 10. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein said circumferential sliding means has gear teeth provided therein. 11. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said second joint support means is mechanically connected to said first joint equatorial plane capture means. 12. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said first and second joint support means are mechanically connected to one another. 13. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein said second joint first connecting means is a rotatable screw means mounted in said second joint base member and rotatably connected to said second joint first force imparting means. 14. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein said system further comprises a third joint means having a third joint base member, mechanically connected to said second joint rotary member, and having a third joint rotary member which is rotatably connected to said third joint base member such that it can rotate about substantially a single axis with respect to said third joint base member, and further having a third joint first connection means mechanically connected to both said third joint rotary member and said second joint base member such that angular motion of said second joint rotary member with respect to said second joint base member causes angular motion of said third joint rotary member with respect to said third joint base member. 15. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein said first joint second connection means comprises an extension of said retaining pin extending outward from said first joint equatorial plane capture means have a first rotary joint at its extended end, said first rotary joint being also connected to said first joint second force imparting means. 16. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein said second joint first connecting means comprises a rotatable screw means mounted in said second joint base member and rotatably connected to said second joint first force imparting means. 17. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein said first joint ball means is a hollow ball means having a generally spherical opening therein. 18. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein said first joint second force imparting means is rotatably connected to said first joint rotary anchor means. 19. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein a driving gear means is meshed with said circumferential sliding means gear teeth. 20. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein the system further comprises a third joint means having a third joint base member and a third joint rotary member which is rotatably connected to said third joint base member such that it can rotate about substantially a single axis with respect to said third joint base member, and further having a third joint first connection means mechanically connected to said third joint rotary member and to a third joint first force imparting means which permits force to be selectively imparted to said third joint rotary member, said third joint base member being mechanically connected to said second joint equatorial plane capture means. 21. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein said system further comprises: a first plurality of joint means, including said first and second joint means, each of said plurality of joint means comprising: a joint support means; a joint ball means of a generally spherical shape affixed to said support means; a joint equatorial plane capture means having a rotation location in which said corresponding joint ball means is positioned such that said joint equatorial plane capture means can rotate in multiple directions about that joint ball means; a plurality of joint force imparting means mechanically connected to said equatorial plane capture means, including a joint first force imparting means and a joint second force imparting means, each of which permits force to selectively be imparted to said corresponding joint equatorial plane capture means; a plurality of joint connection means, including a joint first connection means and a joint second connection means, with said joint first connection means rotatably connecting said joint first force imparting means to said joint equatorial plane capture means and said joint second connection means rotatably connected said joint second force imparting means to said joint equatorial plane capture means and with said joint first and second connection means being fixed with respect to one another at that connection of each in said joint equatorial plane capture means, said joint first force imparting means being capable of approaching and receding from said joint second force imparting means during selected rotation of said joint equatorial plane capture means about said joint ball means; and a mechanical interconnection array mechanically connecting together each of said first plurality of joint means such that said joint support means of each, other than said first joint support means, is connected to said first joint equatorial plane capture means. 22. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein said first joint first and second force imparting means and said second joint first and second force imparting means are all mechanically mounted on said common connection means. 23. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein said second joint first force imparting means is a motor means mounted outside said second joint base member. 24. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein said third joint first connection means comprises a plurality of gears. 25. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein said second joint first force imparting means is a motor means mounted outside said second joint base member. 26. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein said rotatable screw means extends through said second joint base member and through said first joint equatorial plane capture means, and also through a first access opening in said first joint ball means into said interior opening therein to connect with a universal joint contained within said interior opening of which said second joint first connection is further comprised. 27. The apparatus of claim 17 wherein said interior opening in said first joint ball means contains a retaining sphere through which a retaining pin is placed with said retaining pin extending through first and second access openings in said first joint ball means to be affixed to said first joint equatorial plane capture means. 28. The apparatus of claim 17 wherein said system further comprises a second joint means having a second joint base member and a second joint rotary member which is rotatably connected to said second joint base member such that it can rotate about substantially a single axis with respect to said second joint base member, and further having a second joint first connection means mechanically connected to said second joint rotary member and to a second joint first force imparting means which permits force to be selectively imparted to said second joint rotary member, said second joint base member being mechanically connected to said first joint equatorial plane capture means. 29. The apparatus of claim 18 wherein one of said pair of parallelogram arms contains a length adjusting means. 30. The apparatus of claim 19 wherein said driving gear means serves as part of said first force imparting means. 31. The apparatus of claim 20 wherein said system further comprises a fourth joint means having a fourth joint base member, mechanically connected to said third joint rotary member, and having a fourth joint rotary member which is rotatably connected to said fourth joint base member such that it can rotate about substantially a single axis with respect to said fourth joint base member, and further having a fourth joint first connection means mechanically connected to both said fourth joint rotary member and said third joint base member such that angular motion of said third joint rotary member with respect to said third joint base member causes angular motion of said fourth joint rotary member with respect to said fourth joint base member. 32. The apparatus of claim 21 wherein the system further comprises a third joint means having a third joint base member and a third joint rotary member which is rotatably connected to said third joint base member such that it can rotate about substantially a single axis with respect to said third joint base member, and further having a third joint first connection means mechanically connected to said third joint rotary member and to a third joint first force imparting means which permits force to be selectively imparted to said third joint rotary member, said third joint base member being mechanically connected to said second joint equatorial plane capture means. 33. The apparatus of claim 24 wherein said third joint first connection means also comprises a gear portion affixed to said second joint base member. 34. The apparatus of claim 26 wherein said universal joint is also connected through a second access opening in said first joint ball means to a motor means serving as said second joint first force imparting means. 35. The apparatus of claim 26 wherein said universal joint is comprised of a sphere having a pin therethrough rotatably connected to a first hollow spherical shell therearound which in turn has a pin connected to a second hollow spherical shell therearound, said second spherical hollow shell being connected to said rotatable screw means. 36. The apparatus of claim 27 wherein said first joint second connection means comprises an extension of said retaining pin extending outward from said first joint equatorial plane capture means have a first rotary joint at its extended end, said first rotary joint being also connected to said first joint second force imparting means. 37. The apparatus of claim 28 wherein said second joint first connecting means comprises a rotatable screw means mounted in said second joint base member and rotatably connected to said second joint first force imparting means. 38. The apparatus of claim 37 wherein said second joint first force imparting means is a motor means mounted outside said second joint base member. 39. The apparatus of claim 37 wherein said rotatable screw means extends through said second joint base member and through said first joint equatorial plane capture means, and also through a first access opening in said first joint ball means into said interior opening therein to connect with a universal joint contained within said interior opening of which said second joint first connection is further comprised. 