A robotic game apparatus comprises a CRT display. A robot has a photo detector which faces a screen of the CRT display and detects an image on the screen. On the screen of the CRT display, images which differ, for example, in brightness or the like are formed in response to different codes. The photo detector of the robot generates a code signal responding to a change in image brightness or the like. This code signal is decoded, and motors or the like are controlled to cause corresponding movements of the arms and body of the robot.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A video game apparatus comprising: a video displaying means; an image signal producing means for producing an image signal that forms an image on said video displaying means; a code signal generating means for generating a code signal having a series of binary bits, said image signal producing means being responsive to said code signal generating means for varying a brightness component of said image on said video displaying means in response to said code signal and including means for causing said image to exhibit a predetermined brightness condition between said binary bits; a controllable amusement device for being controlled in accordance with said code signal; a photosensitive image receiving means associated with said controllable amusement device for receiving light from said image on said video displaying means, said photosensitive image receiving means includes means for detecting said varying of brightness component and producing a control code signal in response thereto, said controllable device being responsive to said control code signal produced by said photosensitive image receiving means. 2. The video game apparatus in accordance with claim 1, wherein said code signal generating means for varying the brightness component includes means for generating white and black character data in response to said code signal. 3. The video game apparatus in accordance with claim 1, wherein said means for causing said image to exhibit a predetermined brightness condition further comprises means for forming a trigger bit between said code bits. 4. The video game apparatus in accordance with claim 1, wherein said image signal producing means further comprises means for forming a start bit before said series of binary code bits. 5. The video game apparatus of claim 1, wherein said image signal producing means further comprises means for forming a start bit at a beginning of said series of binary code bits and means for forming a trigger bit between said code bits, said trigger bit causing said image signal producing means to form an image having a predetermined brightness condition, and said code bits causing said image signal producing means to change between black and white level in accordance with said code signal. 