A direct-drive active compliant end-effector (10) comprises a planar linkage (28) having input links (30, 44) driven by motors (24, 26). A force sensor (52) is connected between the output link (36) and a tool mount (48) for measuring tool interaction forces, signals representative of which together with those representative of angular displacement and velocity of the input links (30, 44) are used by a controller (82) for controlling the drive motors (24, 26) to provide active electronic compliancy.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An end-effector for use with a robotic manipulator, comprising: a linkage including an output link, a first drive link and a connecting link each coupled at one end in a spaced-apart relationship to the output link, and a second drive link coupled at one end to the other end of the connecting link; means for mounting a tool on the output link of said linkage; first rotary drive means coupled to the other end of the first drive link of said linkage for applying torque thereto and for generating signals representative of its angular displacement and angular velocity; second rotary drive means coupled to the other end of the second drive link of said linkage for applying torque thereto and for generating signals representative of its angular displacement and angular velocity; and sensor means connected between said tool mounting means and the output link of said linkage for generating signals representative of forces in orthogonal directions parallel to the plane of the output link of said linkage upon interaction of the tool with a workpiece; said first and second rotary drive means each being responsive to said angular displacement, angular velocity and force signals for applying controlled torque to said linkage in order to achieve active electronic compliancy between the tool and manipulator upon interaction with the workpiece. 2. The end-effector of claim 1, wherein said first rotary drive means comprises a brushless, DC motor with a resolver. 3. The end-effector of claim 1, wherein said second rotary drive means comprises a brushless, DC motor with a resolver. 4. The end-effector of claim 1, wherein said sensor means for generating signals representative of orthogonal forces parallel to the plane of the output link of said linkage comprises a piezoelectric force transducer. 5. An end-effector for use with a robotic manipulator and with a controller for electronically controlling compliancy between the manipulator and a tool interacting with a workpiece, comprising: a linkage including a first drive link, an output link coupled at one end to the first drive link, a connecting link coupled at one end to the other end of said output link, and a second drive link coupled to the other end of said connecting link; the tool being mounted on the output link of said linkage; a first motor including a shaft drivingly connected directly to the first drive link of said linkage, said first motor including a resolver for generating signals representative of angular displacement and angular velocity of the first drive link; a second motor including a shaft drivingly connected directly to the second drive link of said linkage, said second motor including a resolver for generating signals representative of the angular displacement and angular velocity of the second drive link; means for supporting said first and second motors on the robotic manipulator with their shafts in fixed relative spaced-apart positions; and sensor means connected between the tool and the output link of said linkage for sensing forces, in two directions in a plane parallel to the plane of the output link of said linkage upon interaction of the tool with the workpiece, and generating signals representative thereof; and the controller being responsive to the angular displacement and angular velocity signals of said first and second motors and the force signals from said sensor means to control torque applied by said motors in order to achieve active electronic compliance. 6. The end-effector of claim 5, wherein said first motor comprises a brushless DC motor. 7. The end-effector of claim 5, wherein said second motor comprises a brushless DC motor. 8. The end-effector of claim 5, wherein the directions of the forces sensed by said sensor means parallel to the plane of the output link of said linkage are mutually orthogonal. 9. The end-effector of claim 5, wherein said sensor means comprises a two-dimensional piezoelectric force transducer. 10. The end-effector of claim 5, further including: means for insulating said sensor means from spurious signals. 11. An end-effector system for connection between a robotic manipulator and a tool, comprising: a linkage including a first drive link, an output link coupled at one end to the first drive link, a connecting link coupled at one end to the other end of said output link, and a second drive link coupled to the other end of said connecting link; the first drive link and connecting link extending transverse to the output link, and the second drive link extending transverse to the connecting link, with the tool being mounted on the output link of said linkage; a first motor drivingly connected to the first drive link of said linkage, said first motor including a resolver for generating signals representative of angular displacement and angular velocity of the first drive link; a second motor drivingly connected to the second drive link of said linkage, said second motor including a resolver for generating signals representative of the angular displacement and angular velocity of the second drive link; sensor means connected between the tool and the output link of said linkage for sensing forces, in two directions in a plane parallel to the plane of the output link of said linkage upon interaction of the tool with a workpiece, and generating signals representative thereof; and means for individually controlling said first and second motors responsive to their angular displacement and angular velocity signals and the force signals from said sensor means in order to achieve active electronic compliance between the manipulator and tool during interaction with the workpiece. 12. The end-effector system of claim 11, wherein said first motor comprises a brushless, DC motor with a resolver. 13. The end-effector system of claim 11, wherein said first and second motors each comprises a brushless, DC motor with a resolver. 14. The end-effector system according to claim 13, wherein the directions of the forces sensed by said sensor means are mutually orthogonal. 15. The end-effector system according to claim 14, wherein said sensor means comprises a piezoelectric force transducer. 