An ultrasonic scanning system for testing large curved components of fiber/resin matrix composite material, the system ultrasonically testing these components with water jet probes caliper-mounted on the working arm of an industrial robot. The computer reads CAD data appertaining to the component, transfers it to robot-compatible form and delivers it on demand to the robot computer. The computer also reads the data output from the probe and reconciles it with the CAD data to yield as an output a quality map of the component. Instantaneous probe position on the surface of the work piece is computed from data on the starting position of the scanning movement of the probe, and the scanning velocity of the probe.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of performing a non-destructive testing operation on a workpiece, wherein a testing probe is used to scan a surface of the workpiece, the method being characterized by the steps of: i. mounting the probe on the working end of an arm of an identical robot having a controller; ii. mounting the workpiece adjacent the robot in a jig so that its position relative to the robot is determined; iii. providing the controller of the robot with such design data relating to the shape of the workpiece as will enable the robot to move the probe over the surface of the workpiece; iv. programming the controller to command the robot to move the probe in a scanning path across the surface of the workpiece from a start point to a stop point, through a plurality of continue points, at a predetermined velocity; v. inputting a computer with test data relating to the shape of the workpiece, the location of the start point on the surface of the workpiece, the predetermined velocity of probe movement, the instant of departure of the probe from the start point along the scanning path, and a signal representative of the output from the probe; and vi. running a quality mapping program on the computer, for processing said test data to compute based solely upon said start point, said predetermined velocity, and said instant of departure without any feedback of position data the position of the probe on the surface of the workpiece which displays the position on the surface of the workpiece of zones of different quality within the material from which the workpiece is formed. 2. A method according to claim 1 characterized in that the step of providing the controller of the robot with the design data is performed by said computer. 3. A method according to claim 1 or 2 characterized in that the predetermined velocity of probe movement is a constant velocity. 4. A method according to claim 3 characterized in that the quality mapping program is such as to provide a quality map in which zones of different quality within the workpiece are distinguished on the map as zones of different color. 5. A method according to claim 4 characterized in that the testing operation is an ultrasonic testing operation and the testing probe is an ultrasonic probe. 6. A method according to claim 3 characterized in that the testing operation is an ultrasonic testing operation and the testing probe is an ultrasonic probe. 7. A method according to claim 2, characterized in that the testing operation is an ultrasonic testing operation and the testing probe is an ultrasonic probe. 8. A method according to claim characterized in that the testing operation is an ultrasonic testing operation and the testing probe is an ultrasonic probe. 9. A method according to claim 1 or 2 characterized in that the quality mapping program is such as to provide a quality map in which zones of different quality within the workpiece are distinguished on the map as zones of different color. 10. A method according to claim 9 characterized in that the testing operation is an ultrasonic testing operation and the testing probe is an ultrasonic probe. 11. Apparatus for the non-destructive testing of a workpiece, including a testing probe to be scanned over a surface of the workpiece, mechanical means to scan the probe and display means to generate a display representative of the output of the probe; characterized by i. The mechanical means comprising an industrial robot having an arm which carries the probe and a controller for moving the arm, the controller being programmed to move the probe in a scanning path across the surface of the workpiece from a start point to a stop point through a plurality of continue points at a predetermined velocity; ii. a jig for the workpiece adjacent the robot for determining the position of the workpiece relative to the robot; iii. a computer for inputting the robot controller with such test data relating to the shape of the workpiece as will enable the controller to command the robot to move the probe over the surface of the workpiece, and for running a quality mapping program which processes test data to compute, based solely upon the location of the start point on the surface of the workpiece, the predetermined velocity of probe movement, the instant of departure of the probe from the start point along the scanning path, and a signal representative of the output from the probe without any feedback of position data, to provide as output to the display means a quality map of the workpiece of zones of different quality within the material from which the workpiece is formed. 12. Apparatus as claimed in claim 11 characterized in that the testing probe is an ultrasonic testing probe. 13. Apparatus as claimed in claim 11 or 12 for testing a workpiece which has a small thickness relative to its width and length, and characterized by a testing probe which comprises a transmitting probe for addressing one major surface of the workpiece and a receiving probe for addressing the other major surface, the said probes being mounted in opposition to each other, one on each arm of a caliper carried by the arm of the robot. 