An apparatus which acquires individual articles having a substantially cylindrical aperture therein from a supply of roughly aligned articles in a storage bin. The apparatus grips the article on the interior wall of the cylindrical aperture therein. The gripper is moved to retract the article from the storage bin. The article is then moved to a receiving member which aligns the longitudinal axis of the cylindrical aperture of the article substantially parallel or coincidental with the longitudinal axis of the receiving member.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus for acquiring an individual article having a substantially cylindrical aperture therein from a supply of roughly aligned articles in a storage bin, including: a fixedly mounted head assembly; means for gripping the article, said gripping means comprising a cylindrical portion adapted to be interfit into the cylindrical aperture of the article, and a flange portion fixedly connected to and extending outwardly from one end of said cylindrical portion and adapted to abut against one end of the article when said cylindrical portion has been interfit into the cylindrical aperture of the article; means for moving said gripping means into the cylindrical aperture of the article and retracting said gripping means with the article secured releasably thereto from the storage bin; and means, associated with said head assembly, for receiving said gripping means and substantially aligning the longitudinal axis of the cylindrical aperture of the article substantially parallel with the longitudinal axis of said receiving means. 2. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said gripping means includes at least one gripper member arranged to move outwardly from said cylindrical portion into engagement with at least a portion of the interior surface of the cylindrical aperture of the article to secure the article to said gripping means. 3. An apparatus for acquiring individual articles having a substantially cylindrical aperture therein from a supply of roughly aligned articles in a storage bin, including: a fixedly mounted head assembly; means for gripping the article, said gripping means comprising a cylindrical portion adapted to be interfit into the cylindrical aperture of the article, a flange portion extending outwardly from one end of said cylindrical portion and adapted to abut against one end of the article when said cylindrical portion has been interfit into the cylindrical aperture of the article, at least one gripper member arranged to move outwardly from said cylindrical portion into engagement with at least a portion of the interior surface of the cylindrical aperture of the article to secure the article to said gripping means, and an aperture extending from one end of said gripping means to the other end thereof opposed from said flange portion with the longitudinal axis of the aperture being substantially parallel with the longitudinal axis of said cylindrical portion; means for moving said gripping means into the cylindrical aperture of the article and retracting said gripping means with the article secured releasably thereto from the storage bin, said moving means being positioned to extend through the aperture in said gripping means; and means, associated with said head assembly, for receiving said gripping means and substantially aligning the longitudinal axis of the cylindrical aperture of the article substantially parallel with the longitudinal axis of said receiving means. 4. An apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the aperture in said gripping means includes a truncated, conical opening extending inwardly from said other end of said gripping means with the base opening of said conical opening being located on said other end of said gripping means and the longitudinal axis of said conical opening being substantially parallel with the longitudinal axis of said cylindrical portion. 5. An apparatus according to claim 4, wherein said moving means includes a shaft having a ball mounted on one end thereof, said shaft having at least a portion thereof located in and spaced from the interior surface of the aperture in said gripping means with the ball having a diameter greater than the diameter of the opening of the truncated, conical opening opposed from the base opening thereof, said ball having a diameter less than the diameter of the base opening so that the exterior surface of said ball engages the interior surface of the tapered side walls of said gripping means in the truncated, conical opening when said moving means retracts said gripping means. 6. An apparatus according to claim 5, wherein said receiving means includes a protruding portion arranged to mate with a slot in said one end of said gripping means with the longitudinal axis of the slot being substantially parallel with the longitudinal axis of said cylindrical portion of said gripping means. 7. An apparatus according to claim 6, wherein: said protruding portion includes a conical guide; and said slot in said one end of said gripping means is conical to mate with said conical guide. 8. An apparatus according to claim 7, wherein said receiving means includes an aperture with the longitudinal axis thereof being substantially parallel with the longitudinal axis of said conical guide, said shaft having a portion thereof passing through the aperture and being spaced from the interior surface of said receiving means. 