Ultrasonic apparatus for use in detecting an object having a transducer. The transducer has an array of at least one element coupled directly into air. The apparatus also includes a transmitter which may be multi-channel, a receiver which may be multi-channel, a transmit receive switch, and a computer for causing operation of said transmit receive switch to cause sequential supplying of pulses of energy from the transmitter to the element or elements of the transducer and for receiving energy received by the transducer. The element or elements of the transducer are provided with a roughened surface to produce high frequency ultrasonic energy.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. In an ultrasonic apparatus for use in detecting an object, a capacitive type transducer, transmitter means for supplying pulses, receiver means, transmit receive switch means and means for causing operation of said transmit receive switch means to cause supplying of pulses from the transmitter means to said transducer to create transmitted ultrasonic energy and for receiving reflected ultrasonic energy received by the transducer, said transducer comprising a body having an opening therein, a rigid backing plate carried by the body and disposed in the opening, metallic means carried by the backing plate and providing a planar surface, a layer of flexible insulating material overlying the metallic means and a thin layer of conducting material disposed on the layer of flexible insulating material on the side facing away from the metallic means, the planar surface of the metallic means having sandpaper-like formed annular grooves disposed therein and facing towards the layer of flexible insulating material. 2. Apparatus as in claim 1 wherein said metallic means of said transducer is comprised of a plurality of elements formed into a multi-element array having a predetermined focal point and wherein said transmitter means has multiple channels, said transmitter means including means for delaying the pulses supplied to the elements of the multi-element array in accordance with the distance that the elements are from the predetermined focal point for the multi-element array so that the transmitted ultrasonic energy from the multi-element array will arrive at approximately the same point along the axis of the array, said transmitted ultrasonic energy being adapted to be reflected by the object to provide reflected ultrasonic energy which can be received by the multi-element array. 3. Apparatus as in claim 2 together with mirror means for reflecting transmitted ultrasonic energy from at least certain of said elements of the multi-element array whereby transmitted ultrasonic energy from the elements of the ray is in phase at a predetermined point on the central axis of the array. 4. Apparatus as in claim 2 wherein said receiver means has multiple channels together with beam forming means for receiving the signals from the multi-channel receiver means and introducing delays to compensate for the different path lengths traveled by the received ultrasonic energy to the elements of the multi-element array. 5. Apparatus as in claim 4 together with computer means for controlling the operation of the multi-channel transmitter means, the multi-channel receiver means, the transmit receive switch means and the receiving beam forming means. 6. Apparatus as in claim 1 wherein said transducer means is in the form of an electrostatic transducer. 7. Apparatus as in claim 1 together with mirror means for reflecting energy from said at least one of the elements. 8. Apparatus as in claim 1 wherein said transducer has an ultrasonic frequency capability ranging from 50 to 500 kilohertz. 9. Apparatus as in claim 2 wherein said elements of the multi-element array are formed of substantially continuous annular elements. 10. Apparatus as in claim 1 wherein the horn-like means provides a normal lobe pattern together with horn-like means for directing transmitted ultrasonic energy away from and for receiving reflected ultrasonic energy in directions which differ substantially from the normal lobe pattern formed by the element. 11. Apparatus as in claim 10 wherein said horn-like means is in the form of a double horn. 12. In an ultrasonic transducer, a body having an opening therein, a rigid backing plate carried by the body and disposed in the opening, metallic means carried by the backing plate and providing a planar surface, a layer of flexible insulating material overlying the metallic means and a thin layer of conducting material disposed on the layer of flexible insulating material on the side facing away from the metallic means, the planar surface having sandpaper-like formed annular grooves disposed therein. 13. A transducer as in claim 12 wherein said metallic means is formed of an aluminum alloy. 14. Apparatus as in claim 13 wherein and aluminum alloy is 5086-T-116. 15. A transducer as in claim 12 wherein said metallic means is substantially continuous and annular. 16. Apparatus as in claim 15 wherein said metallic means is in the form of a plurality of concentric elements providing a multi-element array having an axis. 17. A transducer as in claim 16 together with mirror means for redirecting the energy from at least a plurality of the elements of the multi-element array so that the energy from the multi-element array will be directed along the axis of the multi-element array. 18. A transducer as in claim 16 together with horn-like means for redirecting the energy from at least one of the elements of the multi-element array. 19. A transducer as in claim 18 wherein said horn-like means are in the form of a double horn. 20. Apparatus as in claim 12 wherein the metallic means is in the form of a cylinder. 21. A transducer as in claim 12 together with mirror means for reflecting energy from the metallic means. 