A robot system having various work stations and control means which allows recognition of the identity, position and geometry of a plurality of the work stations and assures movement of a robot manipulator among the work stations without its colliding with them even if new work stations are substituted for original work stations or if work stations of substantially different geometry are moved from one position to another. In a particularly advantageous aspect of the invention, the control means of the robot system derives its operating and clearing procedures from information fed to it from intelligence, or code, that is specifically associated with each of the work stations. This arrangement allows rapid set up of a laboratory robot to perform any of a large number of combinations of events. It also makes it practical to provide a robotic system to the customer which can be practically pre-programmed to "hand" sample-associated data from work station to work station, thereby effectively tracking such sample parameters as volume and mass.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. In a robotic system comprising a computer, a robotic manipulator, and a plurality of workstations, at least one such workstation being a liquid processing station, said liquid processing station having a control system, the computer, manipulator and control systems being networked, the improvement which comprises; means to maintain a block of sample-specific code in the control system of each liquid processing workstation, the code containing at least in part liquid parameters; means to transfer to a succeeding workstation during robotic manipulation of the sample the sample-specific code to form the basis, at least in part, for further robotic manipulation of the sample; and means to update the sample-specific code as said liquid sample is passed from one workstation to another workstation, at least one station being a liquid processing workstation. 2. The robotic system of claim 1 which comprises: means to update volumetric information relative to the processing of said sample. 3. The robotic system of claim 1 which comprises: means to store parameter-specific code blocks for each of a pipette workstation and another workstation respectively, the means to store the code for the pipette workstation includes means to receive code from the code block of said other workstation, said code adapted to control, at least, the position of a pipette relative to volume of liquid being transferred to or from a container. 4. The robotic system of claim 1 which comprises: position-signalling means, for each workstation, to communicate and store in said robotic system an identity of each workstation and information relating to a geometrical position occupied by said workstation relative to said manipulating means, said position-signalling means comprising the identity of each said workstation and geometrical information on the position of said workstation. 5. The robotic system of claim 1, 2, 3 or 4, wherein said robot apparatus comprises a self-configuring robot control system including means to control a plurality of robotic workstations, said control system comprising: (a) a language-generating-and-storing dictation means to receive command-specific operating parameters from different code-bearing modules each of which module is assigned to a different workstation; and (b) means to activate said code by transferring said operating parameters from said dictionary of said workstation. 6. The system of claim 1, 2, 3 or 4 wherein said system comprises position-attitude guide means to control the positions of said workstations with respect to the manipulator means. 