A process and system for fluid distribution from a principal intelligence and fluid distribution center to multiple users through a plurality of distributed intelligence sub-centers. Each distributed intelligence sub-center has intelligence computing, analyzing, decision making, and direction capability to provide control for its portion of the system. The process and apparatus of this invention provides flow control, leak detection, pipe condition assessment, user meter readings, pipeline locator signals, robot control, and pipeline repair and cleaning. The process provides a total system approach providing improved safety and reduced operating costs and is particularly suited for underground distribution of natural gas services.
Claims We claim: 1. A process for fluid distribution through an underground pipeline system from a single principal intelligence and fluid distribution center to multiple users, the steps comprising: passing information obtained from a fluid in sequence from said principal distribution center through a plurality of distributed intelligence sub-centers, communicating data between each said distributed intelligence sub-center and said principal intelligence center and then communicating said data to an intelligence identifiable user valve in fluid communication with said underground pipeline system and a corresponding user meter for each user, communicating said data between said user valve and said user meter and said distributed intelligence sub-center, controlling flow of said fluid through each said user valve upon command from said distributed intelligence sub-center, providing valve position intelligence to said distributed intelligence sub-center, providing flow intelligence of said fluid flow through said user meter to said distributed intelligence sub-center upon command, controlling a set of said user meters corresponding to each said distributed intelligence sub-center by computing and analyzing data to determine a given output corresponding to a sensed input, and providing only summary data from said plurality of said distributed intelligence sub-centers to said principal intelligence center for general system control by control of fluid and said data to each of said distributed intelligence sub-centers. 2. The process of claim 1 wherein controlling said distributed intelligence sub-center includes using a plurality of flow control, leak detection, pipe condition assessment, user meter reading and analyzing, pipeline locator signals. 3. The process of claim 2 wherein controlling said distributed intelligence sub-center additionally includes using robot control for locating leaks and providing leak locator signals, flow control, and pipeline cleaning and repair. 4. The process of claim 1 wherein said fluid is gaseous. 5. The process of claim 1 wherein said fluid is liquid. 6. The process of claim 1 wherein communicating said data is conducted external to a pipeline of the underground pipeline system by radio waves. 7. The process of claim 1 wherein communicating said data is conducted external to a pipeline of the underground pipeline system by wires secured along and exterior to the structure of said pipeline. 8. The process of claim 1 wherein said user meter provides digital display upon command. 9. The process of claim 1 wherein each said distributed intelligence sub-center cumulates fluid flow data from each said user meter communicating with each said distributed intelligence sub-center and cumulates flow data from a sub-center meter providing said flow data of said fluid flow through said sub-center meter. 10. The process of claim 1 wherein said principal distribution center cumulates fluid flow data from each said distributed intelligence sub-center communicating with said distributed intelligence sub-center and flow data from a principle center meter providing said flow data of said fluid flow through said principal center meter. 11. In a process for fluid distribution of a fluid through an underground pipeline system from a single principal intelligence and fluid distribution center through a plurality of distributed intelligence sub-centers to a plurality of individual service units, the steps comprising: transmitting data from intelligence identifiable individual service units to one of said distributed intelligence sub-centers, controlling a set of user meters corresponding to said one of said distributed intelligence sub-centers by computing and analyzing data to determine a given output corresponding to a sensed input providing only summary data from said distributed intelligence sub-center to said principal intelligence center in conjunction with said pipeline. 12. The process of claim 11 wherein said fluid is gaseous. 13. The process of claim 11 wherein said fluid is liquid. 14. The process of claim 11 wherein communicating said data is conducted external to said pipeline by radio waves. 15. The process of claim 11 wherein communicating said data is conducted external to said pipeline by wires secured along and exterior to the structure of said pipeline. 16. The process of claim 11 further including providing for detection of a location of said pipeline from a ground surface by said distributed intelligence sub-center emitting a locator signal through said underground pipeline system. 17. The process of claim 11 wherein controlling said distributed intelligence sub-center includes using a plurality of flow control, leak detection, pipe condition assessment, user meter reading and analyzing, pipeline locator signals 18. The process of claim 11 wherein controlling said distributed intelligence sub-center control additionally includes using robot control for locating leaks and providing leak locator signals, flow control, and pipeline cleaning and repair. 19. The process of claim 11 wherein each said distributed intelligence sub-center cumulates fluid flow intelligence from each said user meter in communication with it and flow intelligence from a sub-center meter providing flow intelligence of said fluid flow therethrough. 20. The process of claim 11 wherein said principal distribution center cumulates fluid flow data from each said distributed intelligence sub-center communicating with said distributed intelligence sub-center and flow data from a principal center meter providing said flow data of said fluid flow through said principal center meter. 21. An underground pipeline fluid distribution system to multiple users comprising: a principal intelligence and distribution center; a plurality of distributed intelligence sub-centers, each said distributed intelligence sub-center controlling a set of user meters corresponding to each said distributed intelligence sub-center by computing and analyzing data to, determine a given output corresponding to a sensed input; an underground pipeline system in fluid communication through a supply pipeline with said principal distribution center and said plurality of distributed intelligence sub-centers and in fluid communication through distribution pipelines and branching user pipelines with a user fluid meter serving each said user; meter computer means at each said user fluid meter capable of individual identification and activation in data communication with its corresponding said distributed intelligence sub-center; sub-center computer means at each said distributed intelligence sub-center in data communication with and for providing only summary intelligence to said principal intelligence center. 22. The underground pipeline fluid distribution system of claim 21 wherein said data communication is conducted external to said pipeline by radio wave means emitting aboveground radio waves. 23. The underground pipeline fluid distribution system of claim 21 wherein said data communication is conducted external to said pipeline by wires along and exterior to the structure of said pipeline. 