A distortable diaphragm seal, which is preferably formed of felt, seals each end of a nut through which a screw extends. Grease, which is introduced into the interior of the nut to function as a lubricant, is sealed therein by the seal. The seal has an opening of substantially the cross sectional shape of the screw normal to the axial centerline of the screw to permit part of the seal to extend circumferentially along the unthreaded O.D., and to permit another portion of the diaphragm seal to run into, and out of, a helical groove in the ball screw, thus forming a continuous seal on the screw surface.
Claims I claim: 1. A grease seal for use in a power screw system including a screw having a substantially constant outer diameter about its axial centerline and at least one smooth helical groove formed in said outer diameter with a lead along said axial centerline; a nut cooperating with said screw to provide axial advancement of one of said screw and said nut with respect to the other during relative rotation between said screw and said nut, said nut having an end face substantially normal to said axial centerline; the improvement comprising: means for introducing grease interiorly to said nut; a distortable diaphragm seal assuming the shape of a flat sheet in an unstressed state; said diaphragm seal having an opening approximating the cross-sectional shape of said screw normal to said axial centerline but smaller than the cross-sectional shape except where the cross-sectional shape of said screw is an arc of a circle with its center at said axial centerline to define a crossover to permit a portion of said diaphragm seal to extend into said helical groove in said screw; and means for claming said diaphragm seal to said end face of said nut whereby said diaphragm seal is clamped to said nut in assembly with said screw, said diaphragm seal being distorted along said axial centerline during relative rotation between said screw and said nut to smoothly conform in a stressed state to said helical groove in said screw to seal said helical groove in said screw and prevent leakage of grease exteriorly of said nut. 2. The improvement of according to claim 1 in which said diaphragm seal is formed of felt having a hardness of F-1. 3. The improvement according to claim 2 in which said diaphragm seal is preloaded at least in its portions disposed within said helical groove in said screw. 4. The improvement according to claim 3 in which said clamping means includes means to control distortion of said diaphragm seal along said axial centerline during relative rotation between said screw and said nut. 5. The improvement according to claim 2 in which said diaphragm seal is preloaded around its entire periphery. 6. The improvement according to claim 5 in which said clamping means includes means to control distortion of said diaphragm seal along said axial centerline during relative rotation between said screw and said nut. 7. The improvement according to claim 1 in which said diaphragm seal is preloaded at least in its portions disposed within said helical groove in said screw. 8. The improvement according to claim 7 in which said clamping means includes means to control distortion of said diaphragm seal along said axial centerline during relative rotation between said screw and said nut. 9. The improvement according to claim 1 in which said diaphragm seal is preloaded around its entire periphery. 10. The improvement according to claim 9 in which said clamping means includes means to control distortion of said diaphragm seal along said axial centerline during relative rotation between said screw and said nut. 11. A grease seal for use in a power screw system including a ball screw having a substantially constant outer diameter about its axial centerline and at least one smooth helical groove formed in said outer diameter with a lead along said axial centerline; a ball nut having at least one helical groove; a plurality of balls interposed in said helical groove in said ball screw and said helical groove in said ball nut in an endless ball circuit for cooperating with said ball screw and said ball nut to provide axial advancement of one of said ball screw and said ball nut with respect to the other during relative rotation between said ball screw and said ball nut, and said ball nut having an end face substantially normal to said axial centerline; the improvement comprising: means for introducing grease interiorly to said ball nut; a distortable diaphragm seal assuming the shape of a flat sheet in an unstressed state; said diaphragm seal having an opening approximating the cross-sectional shape of said ball screw normal to said axial centerline but smaller than the cross-sectional shape except where the cross-sectional shape of said ball screw is an arc of a circle with its center at said axial centerline to define a crossover to permit a portion of said diaphragm seal to extend into said helical groove in said ball screw; and means for clamping said diaphragm seal to said end face of said ball nut whereby said diaphragm seal is clamped to said ball nut in assembly with said ball screw, said diaphragm seal being distorted along said axial centerline during relative rotation between said ball screw and said ball nut to smoothly conform in a stressed state to said helical groove in said ball screw to seal said helical groove in said ball screw and prevent leakage of grease exteriorly of said ball nut. 12. The improvement according to claim 11 in which said diaphragm seal is formed of felt having a hardness of F-1. 13. The improvement according to claim 12 in which said diaphragm seal is preloaded at least in its portions disposed within said helical groove in said ball screw. 14. The improvement according to claim 13 in which said clamping means includes means to control distortion of said diaphragm seal along said axial centerline during relative rotation between said ball screw and said ball nut. 15. The improvement according to claim 12 in which said diaphragm seal is preloaded around its entire periphery. 16. The improvement according to claim 15 in which said clamping means includes means to control distortion of said diaphragm seal along said axial centerline during relative rotation between said ball screw and said ball nut. 17. The improvement according to claim 11 in which said diaphragm seal is preloaded at least in its portions disposed within said helical groove in said ball screw. 18. The improvement according to claim 17 in which said clamping means includes means to control distortion of said diaphragm seal along said axial centerline during relative rotation between said ball screw and said ball nut. 19. The improvement according to claim 11 in which said diaphragm seal is preloaded around its entire periphery. 20. The improvement according to claim 19 in which said clamping means includes means to control distortion of said diaphragm seal along said axial centerline during relative rotation between said ball screw and said ball nut. 