A support device for a tool or fixture which uses pressurized fluid or electricity for power including two base assemblies adapted to be attached together in a manner permitting ready attachment and detachment and with each base having a metallic conduit extending therethrough but insulated therefrom, and with aligned open end portions adapted to engage one another when the bases are attached together thereby providing fluid and electrical power to the tool or fixture through the two base assemblies.
Claims I claim: 1. For supporting an end effector which uses pressurized fluid or electricity, a device including two basic component assemblies which are readily attached together for support of the end effector while simultaneously supplying pressurized fluid and electricity to the end effector through the device and which are also readily detached, comprising: a first component assembly of electrically nonconductive material; a second component assembly of electrically nonconductive material adapted to be attached to an end effector; a matching surface on each of the first and the second component assemblies, the two surfaces extending in close overlying relation with respect to one another when the component assemblies are connected; a first metallic conduit extending through the first component assembly and having an external portion for transmitting pressurized fluid and electricity thereto, the first conduit having an end portion opening adjacent the matching surface of the first component assembly; a second metallic conduit extending through the second component assembly and having an external portion for discharging pressurized fluid and electricity therefrom for use by the end effector, the second conduit having an end portion opening adjacent the matching surface of the second component assembly whereby the open end portions are configured to operatively engage one another in good electrical connection and leak resistant fluid connection when the component assemblies are attached to one another. 2. The device set forth in claim 1 in which the interior dimension of one open end portion and the exterior dimension of the other open end portion are so formed to allow close telescoping engagement between the end portions as the component assemblies are attached together whereby the pressurized fluid and electricity are effectively transmitted therebetween. 3. The device set forth in claim 1 in which a component assembly is mold formed from elastomeric plastic material with the conduits mostly imbedded therein. 4. The device set for in claim 3 in which the conduit external portion extends through the side surface of the component assembly. 5. The device set forth in claim 2 including an annular seal of resilient material supported about one conduit end portion and adapted to be captured between a matching surface and the other conduit end portion. 6. An improved support device for an end effector which uses pressurized fluid and electricity for power, the support device having two base assemblies, one adapted to be semi-permanently mounted on a machine arm, the other adapted to be semi-permanently mounted to the end effector thereby making removal between the base assemblies and the machine arm and the end effector difficult, the two base assemblies being of the type with means therebetween including matching and closely overlying surfaces to permit readily attachment and detachment together, the improvement comprising: mold formed base assemblies of nonconductive material; each base assembly having a tubular metallic conduit molded therein with an externally exposed open end portion so that pressurized fluid and electricity can be transmitted to and from the conduits; each conduit also having another end portion opening through the matching surfaces and positioned in aligned relationship with one another when the base assemblies are moved into attached relation; means for providing a good fluid leak resistant and electrical connection between the conduits when the base assemblies are attached. 7. The support device set forth in claim 6 in which the interior dimension of one conduit end portion and the exterior dimension of the other conduit end portion are so configured to allow a close telescoping connection therebetween whereby the pressurized fluid and electricity are effectively transmitted therebetween. 8. The support device set forth in claim 6 in which a base assembly is mold formed from elastomeric plastic material with a conduit mostly imbedded therein. 9. The support device set forth in claim 8 in which the conduit external portion extends through and beyond the side surface of the base assembly. 10. The support device set forth in claim 7 including an annular seal of resilient material supported about one conduit end portion and adapted to be captured between a matching surface and the other conduit end portion. 