A biomedical transducer which is useful for interposing between a tissue and apparatus or another tissue or organ which is applying pressure to the tissue, in order to estimate the pressure applied to a selected area of the tissue. The biomedical pressure transducer comprises: a first flexible layer carrying at least one electrical contact; a second flexible layer carrying at least one electrical contact and cooperating with the first flexible layer to define a pressurizable chamber wherein the contacts are normally touching when the chamber is not pressurized; and pressure estimation means for selectably pressurizing the pressurizing chamber so as to move at least one of said flexible layers sufficiently to separate the electrical contacts, and for indicating the lowest selected pressure at which the contacts are separated.
Claims I claim: 1. Apparatus for estimating a pressure applied to a limb by a tourniquet cuff which encircles the limb, comprising: a first flexible layer carrying a first electrical contact; a second flexible layer carrying a second electrical contact and cooperating with the first flexible layer to define a flexible pressurizable chamber wherein the first and second electrical contacts are touching when the chamber is not pressurized; locating means for attaching the chamber to a tourniquet cuff in a position that interposes the chamber between the cuff and limb encircled by the cuff and locates the contacts near a predetermined cuff location; and pressure estimation means for selectably pressurizing the chamber, and for indicating the lowest selected pressure at which the contacts are separated. 2. Apparatus as defined in claim 1 wherein the pressure estimation means includes means for selectably depressurizing the chamber from a level at which the contacts are separated and for indicating the highest selected pressure at which the contacts touch. 3. Apparatus as defined in claim 1 wherein the chamber surrounds the contacts. 4. Apparatus as defined in claim 3 wherein the contacts are located near the longitudinal axis of the chamber. 5. Apparatus as defined in claim 1 wherein the first and second flexible layers are formed of material that is substantially inextensible. 6. Apparatus as defined in claim 3 wherein the chamber is remote from the pressure estimation means and wherein the cooperating first and second flexible layers also define fluid passageway means for coupling the chamber surrounding the contacts to the remote pressure estimation means. 7. Apparatus as defined in claim 6 wherein the pressure estimation means includes electrical circuit means for determining remotely whether the contacts are touching or separated. 8. Apparatus as defined in claim 7 wherein the electrical circuit means includes electrically conductive lead means carried by at least one of the cooperating first and second flexible layers. 9. Apparatus as defined in claim 1 wherein the layers defining the chamber have physical dimensions and flexibility selected so that the interposing chamber conforms to the surface of the cuff and does not displace limb surface from the cuff surface. 10. Apparatus for estimating a plurality of pressures applied to a limb by a tourniquet cuff which encircles the limb, comprising: a first flexible layer carrying a plurality of first electrical contacts; a second flexible layer carrying a plurality of second electrical contacts and cooperating with the first flexible layer to define a flexible pressurizable chamber wherein pairs of first and second electrical contacts are touching when the chamber is not pressurized; locating means for attaching the chamber to a tourniquet cuff in a position that interposes the chamber between the cuff and a limb encircled by the cuff and locates the contacts near predetermined cuff locations; and pressure estimation means for selectably increasing the pressure in the chamber and for indicating the lowest selected pressure at which each pair of contacts is separated. 11. Apparatus as defined in claim 10 wherein the pressure estimation means for selectably depressurizing the chamber from a level at which all pairs of contacts are separated, and for indicating each of the highest selected pressures at which corresponding pairs of contacts are touching. 12. Apparatus as defined in claim 10 wherein the chamber surrounds the pairs of contacts. 13. Apparatus as defined in claim 12 wherein the paris of contacts are located near the longitudinal axis of the chamber. 14. Apparatus as defined in claim 13 wherein the chamber is remote from the pressure estimation means and wherein the cooperating first and second flexible layers also define fluid passageway means for coupling the chamber surrounding the contacts to the remote pressure estimation means. 15. Apparatus as defined in claim 14 wherein the pressure estimation means includes electrical circuit means for determining remotely whether the pairs of contacts are touching or separated. 16. Apparatus as defined in claim 15 wherein the electrical circuit means includes electrically conductive lead means carried by at least one of the cooperating first and second flexible layers. 17. Apparatus as defined in claim 10 wherein the layers defining the chamber are comprised of material having a degree of flexibility and physical dimensions selected so that the interposing chamber conforms to the surface of the cuff and does not displace substantially the limb surface from the cuff surface. 