An automatic lead sensing and fine-forming system is disclosed for preparing the leads of electronic components so that they are ready to be inserted by robots into holes on printed circuit boards. The positions of the lead tips and the positions of the holes are sensed and compared to determine if any leads need to be bent. These leads are then bent and the force on the leads and their displacement are sensed and recorded during the process. The data recorded is then used for subsequent bendings, where necessary, for bending the leads to the target locations so that all the leads fit simultaneously into the holes. To simplify image processing, the lead tips are illuminated by light originating from substantially isotropic directions from locations substantially coplanar with the region of the lead tips. A telecentric lens system is used in the optical sensing of the position of the lead tips so that measurement of the distances between leads is unaffected by variations in the separation between the lead tips and the sensing device.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus for bending a lad of a component comprising: bending means for bending and releasing the lead of the component in response to a control signal; detecting means for detecting the force on the lead and the displacement of the lead during the releasing of the lead by the bending means and producing an output signal in response to the detecting; controller means for producing the control signal in response to the detecting means output signal for controlling the bending means. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said bending means includes: a bending member for contacting and bending the lead; and motion means for producing motion between the bending member and the component in response to the control signal to produce force between the lead and the bending member in order to bend the lead. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the controller means stores therein a predetermined location for bending the lead and produces the control signal causing the bending means to bend the lead towards the predetermined location. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein when the detecting means detects that the lead has been bent to the predetermined location, the control signal produced by the controller means in response to the detecting means output will cause the bending means to move and the lead to spring-back in a direction substantially opposite to the previous direction of bending in a time period until the force between the lead and the bending means falls below a preset level, thereby releasing the lead at such point. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the detecting means detects whether the tip of the lead at the release point is within a preset tolerance of a predetermined target distance from the original position of its tip, and generates an output to so indicate. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the controller means records the force on the lead as a function of the displacement of the lead during said time period. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein when the detecting means detects that the lead tip at release point is not within said preset tolerance of said predetermined target distance from its original position, the control signal generated by the controller means in response to the output of the detecting means will cause the bending means to bend the lead at the release point in substantially the same or the opposite direction as said previous direction of bending, and when the detecting means detects that force on the lead reaches a level indicated by the function recorded during said time period, the control signal generated by the controller means will cause the bending means to reverse direction until the lead is released. 8. A method for bending a lead of a component comprising: bending and releasing the lead of the component in response to a control signal; detecting the force on the lead and the displacement of the lead during the releasing of the lead by the bending and producing an output signal in response to the detecting; producing the control signal in response to the output signal for controlling the bending. 9. Apparatus for bending a metal workpiece to a desired deformation comprising: bending means for applying and removing a bending force to the workpiece in response to a bending control signal; measuring means for measuring a springback force and a springback displacement produced by the workpiece during the removing of the bending force; storing means for storing the measured springback force and springback displacement produced by the workpiece; and controlling means for producing an initial bending control signal such that the bending means applies and removes an initial bending force, during the removal of the initial bending force the springback force and springback displacement produced by the workpiece is measured by the measuring means and stored by the storing means, the controlling means generates a springback force/displacement function characteristic of the workpiece from the stored springback force and springback displacement measurement, the controller produces a final bending control signal according to the springback force and displacement function such that the bending means applies a sufficient bending force to produce the desired deformation upon removal of the bending force. 10. Method for bending a metal workpiece to a desired deformation comprising the steps of: applying and removing an initial bending force to the workpiece; measuring a springback force and a springback displacement produced by the workpiece during the removing of the initial bending force; storing the measured springback force and springback displacement produced by the workpiece; generating a springback force/displacement function characteristic of the workpiece from the stored springback force and springback displacement measurement; and applying and removing a final bending force to the workpiece according to the springback force/displacement function so as to apply a sufficient bending force to produce the desired deformation upon removal of the bending force. 