Disclosed is a plastic injection molded container and closure assembly wherein the closure has a plug-like section and an outer skirt. The plug-like section includes a vertical cylindrical wall having upper and lower annular nesting surfaces for nesting closures in a stack. An annular top wall outwardly extends from the vertical cylindrical wall upper end and a skirt depends downwardly from the outer periphery of the outer top wall. The lower free end of the skirt includes a bead defining a thick cross-sectional area on the skirt for engaging the upper flange of a container when mated therewith. The container upper flange extends outwardly and downwardly from the open end of the container and has a free end engaging the bead on the closure skirt. The container has a sealing lip of increased cross-sectional thickness at the container rim projecting radially inwardly into sealing engagement with the vertical cylindrical wall on the plug-like section.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An injection molded plastic closure having non-uniform wall thickness for application to a container having a container sidewall and a container rim, said closure comprising: a top central circular panel for covering an open container, a plug-like portion extending upwardly from the central circular panel and for insertion into the open mouth of the container for sealing engagement with the container side wall, an encircling rim on the closure extending radially outwardly from the plug-like portion and having an outer depending skirt, an enlarged bead of a cross-sectional thickness substantially greater than the cross-sectional thickness of said skirt and said top central panel for locking engagement with the container rim, said plug-like portion having a substantially vertical upper wall portion and a lower wall portion offset radially inwardly from the vertical upper wall portion, a lateral offset portion interconnecting the upper vertical wall portion and the offset lower wall portion, a lower nesting surface on the bottom side of the lateral offset portion, and an upper nesting surface on the top of the vertical upper wall portion for engagement, said lower nesting surface engaging the upper nesting surface of another closure stacked therebelow and the upper surface on said closure engaging a lower nesting surface of a closure thereabove to stack the vertical upper wall portions in a vertical column. 2. An injection molded plastic closure having non-uniform wall thickness for application to a container rim, said closure comprising: a top central circular panel for covering an open container, a plug-like portion extending upwardly from the central circular panel and for insertion into the open mouth of the container for sealing engagement with the container side wall, an encircling rim on the closure extending radially outwardly from the plug-like portion and having an outer depending skirt, an enlarged bead of a cross-sectional thickness substantially greater than the cross-sectional thickness of said skirt and said top central panel for locking engagement with the container rim, a cylindrical section in said plug-like portion having a vertical wall, said vertical wall having a lower horizontal, nesting surface and an upper horizontal nesting surface, the upper nesting surface adapted to engage the lower nesting surface of a closure stacked thereabove to hold said closures with their respective vertical walls vertically aligned to define a composite cylinder a lateral offset portion inwardly extending from said lower horizontal nesting surface so as to form an outside corner therewith and an inwardly tapered frustoconical portion downwardly extending from said offset portion joining said offset to said central circular panel. 3. A plastic molded container and a plastic molded closure assembly comprising: a container having an upwardly tapered sidewall and a rim portion at the top of the sidewall encircling an open mouth for the container, a rim wall on said rim portion projecting radially outwardly from the tapered sidewall, a depending locking flange on the radially outer edge of the rim wall for locking engagement with said closure, a closure having a plug-like portion and a central circular panel for insertion into the open mouth of the container below the container rim wall, an outer skirt connected to said plug portion and defining therewith an inverted channel to receive the rim portion of the container, a bead on said skirt defining an area of increased cross-sectional thickness on the skirt wall for locking engagement with said depending locking flange on said container, said plug-like portion extending deeply into the container to position the central circular panel substantially below the depending locking flange, said plug-like portion having a vertical wall portion and having a horizontally offset nesting surface located substantially at the middle of the vertical wall portion and located beneath the locking flange, said central panel being located below said offset nesting surface. 4. An assembly in accordance with claim 3 in which the rim portion of said container has a sealing lip having a cross-sectional thickness substantially greater than the thickness of said container sidewall. 5. An assembly in accordance with claim 4 in which a substantially vertical surface on said sealing lip has sealing engagement with a vertical surface on said vertical stacking wall. 6. A one-piece plastic molded closure of resilient flexible plastic material comprising: a substantially cylindrical wall having upper and lower ends and an outside surface, said lower end defining an annular nesting surface extending laterally inwardly from said outside surface so as to engage the upper end of a cylindrical wall of another closure nested therewith; a top wall joined to the upper end of said cylindrical wall; a disk-like bottom panel having an outer periphery joined to said cylindrical wall lower end; and a skirt downwardly depending from the top wall so as to form a channel-like receptacle with said top wall and said cylindrical wall for receiving an upper free end of a mating container having an open end enclosed by said closure, a lateral offset portion inwardly extending from said cylindrical wall lower end so as to form an outside corner therewith and an inwardly tapered frustoconical portion downwardly extending from said offset portion joining said offset portion to said bottom panel. 7. The closure of claim 6 further including a bead upwardly extending from a lower end of said skirt for locking engagement with a free end of a mating container having an open end enclosed by said closure. 8. A plastic molded container and closure assembly comprising: (a) a container having an encircling container wall, an annular rim on an upper end of said container wall; and (b) a closure including (i) a disk-like bottom panel having an outer periphery; (ii) a substantially cylindrical wall having an upper end and a lower end joined to the bottom panel at the periphery thereof by an inwardly offset extending portion, a shoulder on said cylindrical wall extending laterally inwardly for engaging the upper end of a cylindrical wall of another closure nested therewith; said shoulder being located at a middle section on the cylindrical wall, (iii) an annular top wall outwardly extending from said cylindrical wall upper end; and (iv) a skirt downwardly depending from the top wall so as to form a channel-like receptacle with said top wall and said cylindrical wall for receiving said container rim. (v) said shoulder being located beneath said annular rim on said container. 9. The assembly of claim 8 further including a bead inwardly extending from a lower end of said skirt for locking engagement with said container rim. 10. The assembly of claim 9 wherein said container rim includes a downwardly extending outwardly-tapered lip having a free end received in said receptacle so as to lockingly engage said bead. 11. The container of claim 10 wherein said lip is resiliently hinged to said container rim and an upper portion of said bead is rounded for camming engagement therewith. 