An improved deburring brush is presented which is useful in processing aerospace parts of considerable length and surface complexity. The brush includes a cylindrical hub for providing support during use. A multiplicity of brush elements of the channel strip type are attached at regular intervals around the periphery of the hub. Attachment is typically by use of retaining strips which hold the brush strips in lengthwise channels cut in the hub surface. Each brush element includes a longitudinal metal strip bent into a generally U-shape to form a rear wall and two converging sidewalls. Bristle fibers are then laid side by side in a row, then collectively folded at their middles around a core wire for insertion into the U-shaped channel which is then compressed so that the sidewalls press against the multiplicity of protruding bristles. Each bristle is flexible and has impregnated therein a plurality of abrasive particles. The outwardly extending ends of each bristle readily flex in the plane of rotation. When the brush is set above the workpiece so that the bristle ends overlap the surface being deburred, each bristle makes a slapping contact therewith. To greatly improve the service life of the brush an elastomeric substance is applied to the surface of the bristles at and immediately adjacent the juncture of the bristles and the U-shaped channel in which they are clamped.
Claims I claim: 1. An improved brush for use in combination with apparatus for deburring a workpiece having structural length and surface complexity including one or more edges, said apparatus comprising: a rotatable brush having a plurality of radially extending discrete groups of long flexible bristles of fibrous material, said material having abrasive particles imbedded therein and distributed throughout said bristles, each of said bristles having tips and an elongated working section extending from said tips and terminating in a root; means for rotating said brush and for moving said workpiece and the working sections of said bristles into contact such that an elongated portion of each working section contacts said workpiece and is dragged across the workpiece when the brush is rotated, and when the brush and workpiece are linearly moved with respect to one another, whereby the working sections of said bristles are slapped against and dragged over the workpiece and wipe said edge and the surface forming said edge; said improved brush comprising a hub rotation on its axis, said hub having a plurality of circumferentially spaced axially extending slots, the roots of said bristles being secured within said slots and spaced in a single layer along the length thereof, the population density of the bristles and the spacing between said slots permitting flexing of the working sections into contact with said workpiece in a direction transverse to the axis of rotation of the brush to provide conformance with workpiece surface contours said elongated working sections of said bristles being substantially unsupported by adjacent bristles, and an elastomeric material applied to and between the bristles at the junction of the roots and hub, said elastomeric material extending a short distance from said root toward said working section, said bristles being bounded together by said elastomeric material only at said roots. 2. The invention as defined in claim 1, wherein are provided channel members complementary to said axial slots, and securely insertable therein; a core within each channel member, said core extending the full length of said channel member; and each of said plurality of bristles being wrapped with one half turn around said core to form said root, said bristles being spaced in a single layer along the full length of said core, said elastomeric material being applied to said bristles at the junction of said bristles and said channel members. 3. The invention as defined in claim 1 wherein the bristles have a free unsupported length of at least 7 inches. 4. The inventions as defined in claim 3, wherein the elastomeric material has an ultimate elongation of at least 300 per cent. 5. An improved brush comprising: a hub rotatable on its axis, said hub having a plurality of circumferentially spaced axially extending slots; a plurality of radially extending discrete groups of long flexible bristles of fibrous material, said material having abrasive particles imbedded therein and distributed throughout said bristles, each of said bristles having tips and an elongated working section extending from said tips and terminating in a root, the roots of said bristles being secured within said slots and spaced in a single layer along the length thereof, the population density of the bristles and the spacing between said groups permitting flexing of the working sections to provide conformance with the surface contours of a work piece, the elongated working sections of said bristles being substantialy unsupported by adjacent bristles; and an elastomeric material applied to and between the bristles at the junctions of the roots and hub, said elastomeric material extending a short distance from said root toward said working section, said elastomeric material bonding said bristles together only at said roots. 6. The invention as defined in claim 5, wherein are provided channel members complementary to said axial slots, and securely insertable therein; a core within each channel member, said core extending the full length of said channel member; and each of said plurality of bristles being wrapped with one half turn around said core to form said root, said bristles being spaced in a single layer along the full length of said core, said elastomeric material being applied to said bristles at the junction of said bristles and said channel members. 