Automated grinding is performed using a tracking means having a sufficient field of view to locate edges to be processed and using a high resolution profiler in order to provide grinding information for calculation of the amount of material which should be removed from the workpiece. Those sections of the workpiece not requiring additional grinding may be traversed at a high speed in order to improve productivity. A process control computer receives grinding information from the tracking means and high resolution profiler and uses it to control a manipulator to adjust the travel speed of the grinder, force with which a grinder is applied, position of the grinder, and/or speed of rotation of the grinder in order to remove the correct amount of material from a workpiece. The technique is especially advantageous in removing excess material, burrs, nicks, chips and other minor irregularities in workpieces. A second profiler may be used to check that the grinder has properly ground portions of the workpiece. The tracking means and the profilers are flying spot laser profilers. The technique can accommodate either force-control or position-control grinding.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of automated robotic grinding comprising the steps of: generating grinding information from tracking means mounted on a manipulator as the tracking means are moved along a workpiece; generating grinding information from a high resolution profiler mounted on the manipulator as the high resolution profiler is moved along the workpiece, the high resolution profiler having a higher vertical resolution than said tracking means; transmitting grinding information from the tracking means and the high resolution profiler to a process control computer; grinding the workpiece by moving a grinder, which is mounted on the manipulator, along the workpiece, the grinder being moved to follow the high resolution profiler; and controlling the grinding by the process control computer acting upon the manipulator with grinding information from said tracking means being used to maintain the grinder upon a proper path and grinding information from said high resolution profiler being used to determine the amount of material which should be removed by the grinder. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the process control computer controls the amount of material removed by the grinder based upon grinding information from the high resolution profiler by one or more substeps of the group comprising: varying the travel speed of the grinder; adjusting a transversing stage to which the grinder is mounted; varying a rotation speed of the grinder; and causing the grinder to vary its number of passes over different portions of the workpiece. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the process control computer controls the amount of material removed by the grinder based upon grinding information from the high resolution profiler by varying the force on, or position, power or speed of the grinder or any combination thereof. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the process control computer controls the amount of material removed by the grinder based upon grinding information from the high resolution profiler by varying the grinding power of the grinder. 