A controller for enabling a person with limited physical abilities to control one or more electrically operated machines. A movable mouthpiece actuates a pressure transducer in response to blowing or sucking air and a plurality of position transducers are connected to and measure the position of the mouthpiece in a plurality of planes. A controller receives the output of the pressure transducer and position transducers and provides control signals to control one or more machines. The operator can calibrate and adjust the controller to compensate for his/her individual disabilities.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A controller for enabling a person with limited physical abilities to control one or more electrically operated machines comprising, a movable mouthpiece adapted to conduct an air flow therethrough in response to a person blowing and/or sipping air therethrough, a pressure transducer connected to the mouthpiece and actuated by air flow through the mouthpiece, said transducer providing a signal in response to air flow, a plurality of position transducers connected to and measuring the position of the mouthpiece in a plurality of planes, each transmitter emitting a signal characteristic of the position of the mouthpiece, a controller connected to and receiving the outputs of the pressure transducer and the position transducers and connected to and controlling one or more machines by control signals, said controller including calibration means responsive to the outputs of the Pressure transducers and the position transducers selecting one or more planes of motion to be used for control in response to the person and selecting the range of motion in response to the person in each selected plane to be used for control, said calibration means arranging the control signals to fit within the selected planes and range of motion. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the calibration means includes means for defining one point which is the person limiting value for one extreme value of the person's range of motion in the X, Y and Z directions and a second point which defines the diagonal of the person's range of motion in the X, Y and Z direction, and defining the usable range of motion from said first and second points. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the calibration means measures and sets minimum pressure differentials needed to provide a signal in response to air flow. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the controller includes means for providing control signals which vary linearly and/or non-linearly relative to the outputs of the position transducers. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the controller controls a plurality of electrically operated machines. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the plurality of position transducers measure the position of the mouthpiece in X, Y and Z planes and the controller includes means for controlling the said machines by movement of the mouthpiece in less than all of said planes. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the controller selectively provides output signals for controlling different types of machine controls. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the controller is actuated by a predetermined signal time performed by the person. 