A piezoelectric load cell which can be utilized for detecting collisions and obstruction of a robot arm end effector includes a force sensing element of metallized polyvinylidene fluoride (PVDF) film. The piezoelectric film sensing element and a resilient support pad are clamped in compression between upper and lower plates. The lower plate has a central recess in its upper face for supporting the support pad and sensing element, while the upper plate has a corresponding central projection formed on its lower face for bearing on the sensing element and support pad. The upper and lower plates are dowelled together for concentric alignment and screwed together. The upper and lower plates are also adapted for mounting between the robot arm wrist and end effector.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A robot collision detector comprising: piezoelectric film force sensing means for generating an output voltage signal in response to compressive stresses thereon; support means for resiliently supporting said force sensing means; first and second plate means for compressively clamping therebetween said force sensing means and said support means; and means for mounting said first and second plate means between a robot arm wrist and end effector. 2. A robot collision detector according to claim 1, wherein said force sensing means is formed from polyvinylidene fluoride film having the respective surfaces thereof metallized. 3. A robot collision detector according to claim 1, further comprising: means for maintaining said first and second plate means in concentric alignment. 4. A robot collision detector according to claim 3, wherein said first and second plate means are dowelled and screwed together to maintain said first and second plate means in concentric alignment. 5. A robot collision detector according to claim 1, further comprising: means for buffering a voltage output of said force sensing means. 6. A robot collision detector according to claim 1, further comprising: means for amplifying said output voltage signal generated by said force sensing means. 7. A piezoelectric load cell, comprising: a circular metallized piezoelectric film force sensing element; a pair of wire leads fixed in electrical contract with respective metallized surfaces of said piezoelectric film force sensing element; a circular resilient support pad for supporting thereon said piezoelectric film force sensing element; a circular first plate member having a peripheral flange portion, and a centrally formed circular recess in an upper face thereof for receivably supporting therein said support pad, a pair of dowel pins being fitted in said flange portion at diametrally opposite locations thereon, said flange portion being further provided with a plurality of threaded holes therein at intervals therearound; a circular second plate member having a peripheral flange portion, and a centrally formed circular projection formed on a lower face thereof for bearing fully upon said piezoelectric film force sensing element, a pair of clearance holes being provided through said flange portion and aligned with said dowels for slidingly receiving said dowel pins fitted in said first plate member, said flange portion being further provided with a plurality of through-holes at intervals therearound and aligned with said threaded holes in said first plate member; and a plurality of screws threadedly fastening said first and second plate members together with said piezoelectric film force sensing element and said support pad clamped in compression between said recess of said first plate member and said projection of said second plate member. 8. A piezoelectric load cell according to claim 7 further comprising electrical insulation provided respectively between said first plate member and said support pad, and between said second plate member and said piezoelectric film force sensing element. 9. A piezoelectric load cell according to claim 7 further comprising means for mounting said first and second plate members between a robot wrist and end effector. 10. A robot collision detector comprising: piezoelectric film force sensing means for generating an output voltage signal in response to compressive stresses thereon; support means for resiliently supporting said force sensing means; and first and second plate means for compressively clamping therebetween said force sensing means and said support means; said first plate means having a recess in a surface thereof for receiving therein said force sensing means and said support means; said second plate means having a projection on a surface thereof for bearing on said sensing means and said support means. 