A robotic airbrush apparatus to apply color, pigment or paint to a surface in accordance with a preselected artwork configuration. The apparatus comprises in combination a robotic arm, a support for the arm, an airbrush mounted on the arm, a quill having an open free end and a proximal end attached in fluid communication with the airbrush, a paint pod acceptably bored for sliding engagement of the quill, a sensor mounted on the arm for determining the presence of the paint pod, a paint reservoir connected to the paint pod by means of a flexible conduit, and a computer program, such as a punched mat, for movement of the robotic arm in open engagement of the quill and paint pod and for movement of the airbrush together with the engaged quill and paint pod in accordance with the preselected artwork configuration. The apparatus also comprises a control valve on the airbrush and adjustable lever for opening and closing the control valve to adjust the amount of paint to be projected through the airbrush. Programmable instructions are also provided for the robotic arm to activate the lever on the airbrush.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus that repeatedly reproduces duplicate copies of a work of the visual arts, comprising: an airbrush member; a normally closed flow control means that regulates the flow of fluid through said airbrush member; a plurality of sources of paint of differing colors, each of said sources being under positive pressure; each of said sources of paint being substantially permanently positioned at a predetermined location; a plurality of elongate, flexible conduit means each of which has a first end disposed in substantially permanent fluid communication with an associated source of paint; a normally closed valve means positioned at a second end of each of said conduit means; each of said conduit means being filled with paint under positive pressure along its extent; each of said normally closed valve means being positioned at a fixed predetermined location when not in use; a first plurality of fixed location gripper members that releasably grip said normally closed valve means when said normally closed valve means are not in use, there being as many gripper members as there are normally closed valve means; a hollow quill member that has a first end disposed within said airbrush member and a second end that projects outwardly from said airbrush member; said airbrush member being mounted at the distal free end of a computerDcontrolled robotic arm; a second gripper member being mounted on and thus being movable with said airbrush member; a computer means that controls movement of said robotic arm and hence of said airbrush member; said quill member being slidably received within a preselected normally closed valve means and being operative to open said preselected valve means to paint flow when said second gripper member grips said preselected normally closed valve means; said computer means being operative to guide said robotic arm and hence said airbrush member along a predetermined path of travel relative to a paint-accepting surface; said computer means being operative to direct said second gripper member to sequentially engage different preselected normally closed valve means and to direct said first plurality of gripper members to release their associated normally closed valve means upon gripping thereof by said first gripper member; and said computer means being operative to control the normally closed valve means of said airbrush member; all of said operations of said computer means being timed and sequenced so that paint of different colors is applied to said paint-accepting surface in predetermined locations at a predetermined rate of flow to thereby reproduce a preselected work. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein each of said normally closed valve means is a paint pod member having two separate gripping surfaces, a first gripping surface being engaged by an associated first gripper member when said paint pod member is not in use, and a second gripping surface being engaged by said second gripper member when said paint pod member is in use. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, further comprising a sensing means that detects whether said second gripper member is gripping a paint pod member and whether a particular one of said plurality of first gripper members is gripping a paint pod member. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein said paint accepting surface is mounted on a hollow base member, and wherein said base member is apertured to receive a nozzle means associated with said airbrush member so that paint to be emptied from said airbrush member may be deposited into a waste paint receiving cavity defined by said hollow base member. 5. A method of producing multiple copies of a work, comprising the steps of: converting a work of the visual arts into bits of information and storing said information in a memory means; providing a surface upon which said work is to be reproduced; placing a paint reservoir means containing paint under positive pressure into fluid communication with a conduit means; placing a normally closed valve means at an end of said conduit means remote from said paint reservoir means; mounting said airbrush means at the terminus of a robotic arm having plural degrees of freedom; providing tubular quill means as a part of said airbrush means; opening said normally closed valve means by bringing it into engagement with said quill means; providing a paint flow control means; and reproducing said work by reading said memory means, said information instructing said robotic arm to follow a predetermined path of travel and said information simultaneously instructing said paint flow control means to regulate the flow of paint from said reservoir means sequentially through said normally closed valve means, said quill means and said airbrush means in the recited sequence and hence onto said second surface so that the visual image is reproduced. 6. The method of claim 5, further comprising the steps of: providing plural paint reservoir means under positive pressure containing differing colors of paint; placing a normally closed valve means in substantially permanent fluid communication with an associated paint reservoir means; positioning said normally closed valve means in predetermined locations and storing information concerning the location of each normally closed valve means and color of paint obtainable therefrom in said memory means; enabling said robitic arm to selectively grip and release individual normally closed valve means to place said airbrush means into and out of fluid communication with said reservoirs of paint, respectively; and instructing said robotic arm to retrieve and replace said normally closed valve means in sequence as needed during the reproduction of said visual image. 7. The method of claim 6, further comprising the step of positioning gripping and releasing means for gripping and releasing said normally closed valve means at each of said predetermined locations assigned to said normally closed valve means. 8. The method of claim 7, further comprising the step of forming a pair of spaced grippable surfaces on each of said normally closed valve means so that each normally closed valve means may be gripped at a first grippable surface by said robotic arm and at a second grippable surface by said normally closed valve means gripping means releasing means. 9. The method of claim 8, further comprising the step of instructing said normally closed valve means gripping and releasing means to release a normally closed valve means only when that normally closed valve means is simultaneously gripped by said robotic arm and only when the paint to be supplied through said normally closed valve means is next required by said airbrush means in reproducing said visual image. 10. The method of claim 9, further comprising the step of instructing said robotic arm to release a normally closed valve means to the grip of said normally closed valve means gripping and releasing means only after said normally closed valve means has been gripped by said gripping and releasing means. 11. The method of claim 6, further comprising the step of positioning a bias means within each normally closed valve means so that said normally closed valve means is closed to fluid flow when it is not engaged by said robotic arm. 12. The method of claim 6, further comprising the steps of: controlling the flow of paint through said airbrush means by providing a motor means having an output shaft that extends and retracts along its longitudinal axis of symmetry as instructed by said memory means, and linking said output shaft to a trigger means that operates a valve means forming a part of said airbrush means. 13. The method of claim 6, furhter comprising the step of: providing said robotic arm with sensing that determines the presence or absence of a normally closed valve means in the grip of said robotic arm or in a predetermined position assigned to a normally closed valve means. 14. The method of claim 5, further comprising the step of providing said robotic arm with at least two degrees of freedom. 15. A method of duplicating a work of the visual arts, comprising the steps of: placing an airbrush means having a flow control means in fluid communication with a source of paint under positive pressure; mounting said airbrush means to a computer controlled robotic arm having plural degrees of freedom; moving said airbrush means relative to paint accepting surface along a predetermined path of travel while simultaneously adjusting the flow of paint through said airbrush means as required to duplicate said work; positioning plural sources of different colored paint under positive pressure in preselected locations and sequentially connecting the airbrush means with predetermined individual sources of paint as required to duplicate said work; placing an equal number of elongate flexible conduit means in fluid communication with each of said sources of paint, and closing a remote end of each of said conduit means with a normally closed valve means that opens to paint flow only when it is engaged by said airbrush means; positioning a normally closed valve means between each of said sources of paint and said airbrush means, and configuring said airbrush means to open said normally closed valve means to paint flow only when said normally closed valve means is engaged by said airbrush means. 16. A method of painting a visual image with a robot means programmed to continually repeat a series of steps so that the visual image is continuously duplicated, comprising the steps of: arranging as many paint holding container members at a first predetermined location as there are different colors of paint in the visual image to be reproduced; applying a positive pressure to the paint in said container members; arranging a like number of normally closed valve means at a second predetermined location; extending a flexible conduit means between each of said container members and a normally closed valve means such that a first end of said conduit means is coupled to its associated container member and a remote second end of said conduit means is coupled to said normally closed valve means; positioning an airbrush means on a robotic arm; providing a quill means capable of opening said normally closed valve means as a part of said airbrush means; instructing said robotic arm to carry said airbrush means to a first preselected normally closed valve means; thereafter placing said quill means and said normally closed valve means in fluid communication with one another so that paint in a container member associated with said valve means may flow through said airbrush means; instructing said robotic arm and hence said airbrush means to follow a first predetermined path of travel relative to a paint-accepting surface while said paint is flowing through said airbrush means; simultaneously controlling the flow rate of paint through said airbrush means; terminating the flow of paint when the robotic arm completes said first path of travel; instructing said robotic arm to return said first valve means to its predetermined position; instructing said robotic arm to select a second normally closed valve means; thereafter instructing said robotic arm to follow a second predetermined path of travel while said airbrush means is applying paint to said paint accepting surface; instructing said robotic arm to return said second valve means to its predetermined position; and instructing said robotic arm to repeat said steps as many times as there are colors in the visual image to be reproduced. 17. An apparatus capable of repetitively producing copies of an airbrushed work of the visual arts, comprising: a robotic arm; an airbrush member carried by said robotic arm at a free end thereof; a paint pod member having first and second gripping surfaces formed therein in spaced relation to one another; a first gripper member adapted to grip said first gripping surface of said paint pod member; a second gripper member adapted to grip said second gripping surface of said paint pod member; said first gripper member being permanently disposed in a preselected location; and said second gripper member being mounted on the free end of said robotic arm and being movable therewith. 18. The apparatus of claim 17, further comprising: a sensing means mounted on said free end of said robotic arm; said sensing means positioned to sense the presence or absence of a paint pod member in said first or second gripper member; and said sensing means adapted to provide information concerning the presence or absence of a paint pod member in said first or second gripper member to a computer means. 19. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein said paint pod member includes a normally closed valve means therein. 20. The apparatus of claim 19, further comprising valve opening means for opening said normally closed valve means only when said second gripper means is gripping said paint pod means. 21. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein said valve opening means is a tubular quill member having a first end thereof in open communication with the interior of said airbrush member and a second end thereof that projects outwardly from said airbrush member. 22. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein said paint pod member has a bore means formed therein that slidingly receives the second end of said quill member. 23. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein said paint pod member includes a biased valve means that closes said bore means when said quill member second end is not disposed therein. 24. The apparatus of claim 17, further comprising a computer means that instructs said first gripper member to grip said paint pod member until said paint pod member is also gripped by said second gripping member at which time said computer means instructs said first gripper member to release said paint pod member. 25. The apparatus of claim 17, further comprising a source of paint of a preselected color disposed at a preselected location, said paint being under a positive pressure; a flexible conduit means having a first end in permanently open fluid communication with said source of paint and a second end in permanent fluid communication with said paint pod member; said paint pod member being a normally closed valve means so that paint under positive pressure fills said conduit means along its entire extent and does not flow through said conduit means until said normally closed valve is opened. 26. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein said airbrush member is adapted to open said normally closed valve means when said paint pod member is gripped by said second gripper member, whereby paint flows through said paint pod member into said airbrush member but is not discharged from said airbrush member until said airbrush member is activated. 27. The apparatus of claim 26, wherein a tubular quill member associated with said airbrush member opens said normally closed valve means when said piant pod member is gripped by said second gripper member. 