There is disclosed herein an apparatus for converting control signals of an electrical or optical nature of any other type or signal which may be converted to a change of temperature of a fixed volume of material trapped in a chamber to flexure of a membrane forming one wall of the chamber. Typically the device is integrated onto a silicon wafer by anisotropically etching a trench into said wafer far enough that a thin wall of silicon remains as the bottom wall of the trench. In some embodiments, polyimide is used as the material for the membrane. The trench is then hermetically sealed in any one of a number of different ways and the material to be trapped is either encapsulated during the sealing process or later placed in the cavity by use of a fill hole. Typically, a resistor pattern is etched on the face of a pyrex wafer used as a top for the trench to form the cavity. When current is passed through this resistor, the material in the cavity is heated, its vapor pressure increases and expansion occurs. This causes the flexible wall to flex outward. This outward flex movement may then be used to either shut off a fluid flow path, or be sensed in some manner when using the device as a transducer. Typically, a fluid passageway having a nozzle aperture surrounded by a sealing surface is photolithographically etched into a third wafer. This third wafer is then bonded to the first wafer such that the sealing surface is adjacent to the membrane such that when expansion in the cavity occurs, the membrane flexes until it contacts the sealing surface and shuts off fluid flow through the nozzle aperture.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A valve apparatus for controlling fluid comprising: a volume of material; a first semiconductor substrate having a cavity formed therein, said cavity having at least one flexible wall of said semiconductor of said first semiconductor substrate, said cavity containing said volume of material; a second substrate bonded to said first semiconductor substrate so as to convert said cavity to a hermetically sealed container in which said volume of material is trapped, and further comprising means for heating coupled to said second substrate in a position so as to be substantially enclosed within the circumference of the intersection of said cavity with the surface of said second substrate; a fluid flow path means integrated in a third semiconductor substrate which is bonded to said first semiconductor substrate so that said fluid flow path means is adjacent to said flexible wall, and having an aperture therein through which fluid to be controlled must flow, said aperture defined by a space between said flexible wall and a sealing surface integrated on said third semiconductor substrate said flexible wall cooperating with said sealing surface to valve said fluid. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said cavity comprises a trench etched in said first semiconductor substrate so as to have one thin, flexible wall and four other walls and a sixth wall defined by said second substrate. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said fluid space comprises a passageway between said flexible wall and said sealing surface chemically etched into said third semiconductor. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said means for heating is a resistor element photolithographically formed on the surface of said second semiconductor substrate with conductors leading from said resistor to contact pads elsewhere on the surface of said second semiconductor for allowing electrical current to be passed through said resistor. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said means for heating is a light guide which conducts light energy to said volume of material. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said means for heating is means for conduction of heat from the ambient into the material trapped in the means for containing. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said flexible wall is polyimide. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said flexible wall has a fold therein such that the flexible wall may flex by unfolding before stretching of the material of said flexible wall begins. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said trench is etched in a silicon wafer and has a depth so as to be far enough through the thickness of said wafer to leave a membrane of silicon at the bottom of said trench, and wherein said second substrate is a pyrex wafer hermetically sealed over the mouth of said trench. 10. A valve apparatus for controlling fluid comprising: a volume of material; a first semiconductor substrate having a cavity formed therein, said cavity having at least one flexible wall of said semiconductor of said first semiconductor substrate, said cavity containing said volume of material; a second substrate bonded to said first semiconductor substrate so as to convert said cavity to a hermetically sealed container in which said volume of material is trapped, and further comprising means for heating coupled to said second substrate in a position so as to be substantially enclosed within the circumference of the intersection of said cavity with the surface of said second substrate; a fluid flow path means integrated in a third semiconductor substrate which is bonded to said first semiconductor substrate so that said fluid flow path means is adjacent to said flexible wall, and having an aperture therein through which fluid to be controlled must flow, said aperture defined by a space between said flexible wall and sealing surface integrated on said third semiconductor substrate; wherein said cavity comprises a trench etched in said first semiconductor substrate so as to have one thin, flexible wall and four other walls and a sixth wall defined by said second substrate; wherein said fluid space comprises a passageway between said flexible wall and said sealing surface chemically etched into said third semiconductor; and wherein said first semiconductor substrate is silicon and wherein said second substrate is a pyrex wafer on which is formed a resistor pattern located on said pyrex wafer such that when said pyrex wafer and said silicon wafer are bonded together, the resistor pattern is located in said trench said flexible wall cooperating with said sealing surface to valve said fluid. 11. An apparatus comprising: a volume of material; a first semiconductor substrate having a trench etched therein to form at least one flexible wall of said first semiconductor substrate; a second substrate hermetically bonded to said first semiconductor substrate so as to trap said volume of material in said trench, and having attached thereto means for heating said trapped material, said attachment being such that said means for heating said trapped material can couple energy into said trapped material from an external source for causing deflection of said flexible wall; means integrated on a third substrate adjacent to said flexible wall for using said deflection thereof with changing temperature of said trapped material to do any task. 12. An apparatus comprising: a first wafer having a resistor pattern etched in a conductive layer deposited on a face of said first wafer and having conductors electrically coupled to said resistor pattern and running across the surface of said first wafer to electrically conductive bonding pads, said resistor pattern for allowing heat to be generated when current is driven through said resistor pattern; a second wafer of silicon having a membrane cavity etched therein, said cavity having walls sloped at a predetermined angle and having a predetermined depth relative to the thickness of said second wafer so as to form a flexible membrane wall of said cavity, said second wafer affixed to said first wafer so that said resistor pattern is contained within the confines of said cavity and such that a substantially hermetic seal is formed around said cavity except for leakage paths at the edges of said conductors running to said bonding pads; a fixed volume of a material which has a changing vapor pressure with changing temperature and which is encapsulated within said cavity for causing deflection of said flexible membrane by changing vapor pressure when said material is treated or cooled; metallic plating on said bonding pads and on said conductors so as to plug said leakage paths into said membrane cavity thereby forming a hermetic seal; means adjacent to said flexible membrane for using said deflection thereof to do any task. 