A storage and retrieval subsystem in a data processing system includes a plurality of magnetic tape cartridges, a host computer, and a library storage module storing the plurality of magnetic tape cartridges in substantially upright positions. The library storage module includes a first cylindrical array of storage cells centered about a vertical axis, a second cylindrical array concentrically arranged about the first array, and a library tape unit including a plurality of tape drives, each of the tape drives being adapted to receive one of the magnetic tape cartridges in a substantially horizontal transducing position. A robot within the library storage module is used to transfer selected ones of the magnetic tape cartridges between their substantially upright positions and the substantially horizontal transducing positions at a selected tape drive. A first controller outboard the channel communicating with the host computer is adapted to receive commands from the host computer for interfacing between the host computer and the library storage module, and a second controller inboard of the channel is adapted to receive commands from the outboard controller for interfacing between the outboard controller and the robot.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. In a data processing system, a storage and retrieval subsystem comprising: a plurality of magnetic tape cartridges, each of said plurality of magnetic tape cartridges being adapted to have data written thereto and read therefrom; a host computer; library means for storing said plurality of magnetic tape cartridges in substantially upright positions, said library means including a first cylindrical array of storage cells centered about a vertical axis and a second cylindrical array concentrically arranged about said first array; a library tape unit including a plurality of tape drives, each of said tape drives being adapted to receive one of said plurality of magnetic tape cartridges in a substantially horizontal transducing position; robotic means for transferring said plurality of magnetic tape cartridges between their substantially upright storage positions and the substantially horizontal transducing positions at said plurality of tape drives; outboard controller means adapted to receive commands from said host computer for interfacing between said host computer and said library means; and inboard controller means, within said library means, adapted to receive commands form said outboard controller means for interfacing between said outboard controller means and said robotic means. 2. A storage and retrieval subsystem according to claim 1, wherein said robotic means comprises: a support column centered on said vertical axis; an arm assembly rotatably mounted upon said support column, said arm assembly being adapted for rotation about said vertical axis; a wrist assembly mounted at the distal end of said arm assembly between said first and second arrays; and means, coupled between said arm assembly and said wrist assembly, for moving said wrist assembly vertically with respect to said arm assembly. 3. A storage and retrieval subsystem according to claim 2, wherein said robotic means further comprises a vision system that is operatively coupled to said inboard controller means, said vision system being adapted to feedback information to said inboard controller means regarding a position of said robotic means relative to a preselected storage cell. 4. A storage and retrieval subsystem according to claim 3, wherein said vision system comprises: a pair of video cameras adapted to read encoded means for identifying each said magnetic tape cartridge, each said magnetic tape cartridge having a unique one of said identifying means affixed thereto; and interface logic and memory means, operatively coupled between said wrist assembly and said inboard controller means, for fine positioning if said wrist assembly to said preselected storage cell. 5. A storage and retrieval subsystem according to claim 2, wherein said wrist assembly comprises: a turntable; and a pair of hand assemblies mounted upon said turntable in opposing relationship, both of said pair of hand assemblies including a gripper assembly adapted to grasp said cartridges. 6. A storage and retrieval subsystem according to claim 5, wherein said gripper assembly further comprises means for rotating said cartridges between their substantially upright storage positions and the substantially horizontal transducing positions. 7. A storage and retrieval subsystem according to claim 2, wherein said robotic means further comprises a remote electronics interface mounted on said arm assembly and operatively coupled to said inboard controller means for controlling said robotic means. 8. A storage and retrieval subsystem according to claim 1, wherein said library means further comprises means for manually inputting and outputting a plurality of said cartridges. 9. A storage and retrieval subsystem according to claim 8, wherein said manual input/output means comprises: a cartridge access port mounted within and adapted to open outwardly from said second array; a third array of storage cells attached to said cartridge access port; and means attached to said cartridge access port and said second array, for preventing access to said first and second arrays when said cartridge access port is open to said third array, said access preventing means when said cartridge access port is open covering said opening in said second array. 10. A storage and retrieval subsystem according to claim 1, further comprising: means, coupled to an outer portion of said library means, for transferring a plurality of said cartridges remotely from said first and second arrays. 11. An improved storage and retrieval subsystem in a data processing system having a host computer and a plurality of tape transports coupled for communication with the host computer, each of the tape transports being adapted for use with magnetic tape cartridges, wherein the improvement in combination therewith comprises: a first array of storage cells, each of said cells consisting essentially of a back portion and bottom portion separating two side portions, and an open front portion adapted for insertion of one of the magnetic tape cartridges, wherein said cells are radially disposed about a vertical axis with their respective front portions inwardly directed thereto; structural means for supporting said first array, said structure means including a floor portion, ceiling portion, and a segmented wall portion substantially surrounding said first array; a second array of storage cells, an upper portion thereof being suspended from said ceiling portion and a lower portion thereof mounted on said floor portion wherein an open path is defined there between, said upper and lower portions having their cells radially disposed about said vertical axis, concentrically inward from said first array, with their respective front portions outwardly directed therefrom; a robot mounted for rotation about said vertical axis, said robot including means for transferring the cartridges between said cells and the tape transports; and means adapted to receive commands from the host computer for interfacing between the host computer and said robot. 12. The improvement according to claim 11, wherein said robot comprises: a support column mounted upon said floor portion; a theta arm rotatably mounted upon said support column, said theta arm being adapted to rotate horizontally within the open path defined between said upper and lower portions; and means for rotating said theta arm. 13. The improvement according to claim 12, wherein said transfer means comprises: a turntable adapted for movement between said first and second arrays; a pair of hand assemblies mounted in an opposed relationship upon said turntable; and means, attached to the distal end of said theta arm, for moving said turntable vertically with respect to said theta arm. 14. The improvement according to claim 13, wherein each of said hand assemblies comprise: gripper means for holding one of the cartridges; means for extending and retracting said gripper means; and means for rotating said gripper means about its axis of extension and retraction. 15. The improvement according to claim 14, wherein said gripper means comprises: a pair of fingers; toggle means coupled to said pair of fingers for opening and closing same; a lead screw coupled to said toggle means; a nut threadedly coupled to said lead screw; and motor means rigidly coupled to said nut in order to rotate same thereby causing said lead screw to move towards or away from said toggle means and opening or closing same. 16. The improvement according to claim 14, wherein said extension and retraction means comprises: a pair of rods slidingly supporting said gripper means upon a plurality of roller bearings; a lead screw; a nut threadedly coupled to said lead screw and rigidly attached to said gripper means; motor means attached to said lead screw for rotating same thereby causing said nut and said gripper means to move along its axis of extension and retraction. 17. The improvement according to claim 14, wherein said rotating means comprises: a motor; a first gear attached to said motor; and a second gear, larger than said first gear and coupled thereto by a belt, said second gear being attached to said hand assembly to rotate same. 18. A method of storage and retrieval of data contained in a plurality of magnetic tape cartridges, comprising: forming a first cylindrical array of storage cells centered about a vertical axis, said first array comprising an upper and a lower portion; forming a second cylindrical array of storage cells concentrically arranged about said first array; rotatably deploying robotic means for picking and placing said plurality of magnetic tape cartridges from and to said first and second arrays; providing a plurality of tape drives adapted to receive said magnetic tape cartridges from said robotic means; and interfacing said first and second arrays, robotic means, and tape drives for maximizing access by a host computer to the data stored in said magnetic tape cartridges. 19. The method according to claim 18, wherein said forming steps further comprise orienting said storage cells for maintenance of said magnetic tape cartridges in substantially upright positions therein. 20. The method according to claim 18, wherein said step forming said second array comprises: suspending said upper portion; and mounting said lower portion beneath said suspended upper portion; wherein said suspended upper portion and said mounted lower portion form an access path there between. 21. The method according to claim 20, wherein said deploying step comprises: providing a support column at the vertical axis; coupling one end a rotatable arm to said support column for rotation within said access path; and coupling to the other end of said rotatable arm a pair of hand and finger assemblies. 22. The method according to claim 21, further comprising: supporting said pair of hand and finger assemblies upon a turntable; and providing means for raising and lowering said turntable. 23. The method according to claim 22, wherein said supporting step comprises mounting said pair of hand and finger assemblies in an opposing relationship upon said turntable. 24. The method according to claim 23, wherein said forming step of said second array includes forming a portion thereof for manually inputting a plurality of said cartridges, said portion being adapted for access by said hand and finger assemblies. 25. The method according to claim 24, further comprising: (a) manually inputting a plurality of said cartridges in said portion of said second array; (b) retrieving a selected one of the plurality of cartridges with said robotic means; (c) selecting one of said storage cells for storing said cartridge; (d) rotating said robotic means with said retrieved cartridges from said manual input portion to said selected storage cells; (e) placing said cartridge in its selected cell; (f) rotating said robotic means back to said manual input portion; and (g) repeating steps (b) through (f). 26. The method according to claim 25, wherein said retrieving step comprises: extending one of said hand and finger assemblies to said manual input portion; gripping said selected cartridge; and retracting said hand and finger assembly with said selected cartridge. 27. An automated method of retrieving data contained in a plurality of magnetic tape cartridges, comprising: storing said plurality of magnetic tape cartridges in a library having an outer cylindrical array of cells and an inner cylindrical array of cells, said outer array being radially inwardly disposed and said inner array being radially outwardly disposed; forming an access path between said outer and inner arrays; controlling a robot having six degrees of freedom within said access path for selectively picking and placing said cartridges; and coupling at least one tape drive adapted for use with magnetic tape cartridges with said library. 28. The method according to claim 27, further comprising: selecting a cartridge stored in a predetermined cell; rotating said robot within said access path to a first position corresponding radially to said predetermined cell; moving said robot vertically within said access path to a second position corresponding to the elevation of said predetermined cell; extending said robot to a third position proximate to said selected cartridge; gripping said selected cartridge with said robot; retracting said robot with said gripped cartridge to said second position; moving said robot with said gripped cartridge to a fourth position within said access path, said fourth position corresponding to the elevation of said tape drive; and extending said robot with said gripped cartridge to a loading position within said tape drive. 29. The method according to claim 27, wherein said coupling step comprises providing a cartridge tray rotatably mounted upon said tape drive for movement from an inclined loading position to a substantially horizontal transducing position. 30. The method according to claim 27, wherein said storing step further comprises arranging said cells to store said cartridges in a substantially upright position. 