An improved adapter is provided for an interchangeable robot end-of-arm tooling system. The quick change adapter is made from modular components including a body, an interface package, and a robot adapter plate with locator system.
Claims We claim: 1. An adapter for use in connecting a tool to the end of a robot arm the tool having a locking element, comprising: a first module connected to the end of the robot arm; means disposed on the first module for disengageably locking the tool to the adapter by means of rigid engagement with the tool's locking element; a second module attached to the first module; a plurality of interface connectors disposed on the second module for establishing connections between the tool and interface passageways within the second module; and the second module being removable from the first module without removing the first module from the end of the robot arm. 2. The adapter of claim 1 wherein the means for disengageably locking the tool comprises a spring-loaded piston actuated to a disengaged position by fluid pressure in a first fluid passageway. 3. The adapter of claim 2 wherein the piston causes a plurality of balls within a receiver element to grip a portion of the tool extending into the receiver when fluid pressure in the first fluid passageway is released. 4. The adapter of claim 3 wherein the piston is double acting such that fluid pressure in a second fluid passageway actuates the piston to a locked position and the spring operates to maintain tool coupling if fluid pressure in the second fluid passageway is inadvertently released. 5. The adapter of claim 1 further comprising means for locating the tool in a particular angular relationship with respect to the first module. 6. The adapter of claim 5 wherein the means for locating the tool comprises at least two holes in the first module located less than 180 degrees apart and adapted for receiving corresponding pins projecting from the tool. 7. The adapter of claim 5 wherein the means for locating the tool comprises at least two holes in the first module located less than 180 degrees apart and adapted for insertion in corresponding holes located in the tool. .Iadd. 8. An adapter for use in connecting a tool to the end of a robot arm, the tool having a locking element, comprising: a first module for connection to the end of the robot arm; means disposed on the first module for disengageably locking the tool to the adapter by means of rigid engagement with the tool's locking element; at least one second module attached to the first module; and a plurality of interface connectors disposed on the second module for establishing connections between the tool and interface passageways within the second module. .Iaddend. .Iadd.9. A modular adapter for use in connecting tools to the ends of robot arms, each tool having a common locking element and a plurality of interface connectors in an interface connector pattern, comprising: a body module for connection to the end of the robot arm; means disposed on the body module for disengageably locking the tools to the adapter by means of rigid engagement with the tools' common locking elements; at least one interface module attached to the body module; interface connection means disposed on the interface module in an interface connector pattern for establishing communication with at least a portion of the interface connectors on a selected one of the tools; and the interface module being selected from a plurality of interface modules having different interface connector patterns in order to match the interface connector pattern of the selected interface module to at least a portion of the interface connector pattern of the tool. .Iaddend. .Iadd.10. The adapter of claim 9 wherein the interface connectors comprise at least one fluid port. .Iaddend. .Iadd.11. The adapter of claim 9 wherein the interface connectors comprise at least one pneumatic port. .Iaddend. .Iadd.12. The adapter of claim 9 wherein the interface connectors comprise at least one electrical contact. .Iaddend. .Iadd.13. The adapter of claim 9 comprising a plurality of interface modules connected to the body module, each interface module having interface connectors for communication with a portion of the interface connectors on the tool. .Iaddend. .Iadd.14. The adapter of claim 9 wherein the interface module is bolted to the body module. .Iaddend. .Iadd.15. A method of manufacturing an adapter for use in connecting tools to the ends of robot arms, the tools having common locking elements but different interface connector patterns, comprising the steps of: manufacturing a plurality of common locking modules having means for disengageably locking the tools to the adapters by means of rigid engagement with the tools' common locking elements; manufacturing a plurality of interface modules having different interface connector patterns matching the different interface connector patterns of the tools; selecting individual ones of the interface modules having interface connectors in patterns enabling communication with interface connectors of predetermined ones of the tools; and attaching the selected interface modules to locking modules. .Iaddend. 