A machine-readable, human-readable coding system comprising a one piece, pre-printed label having at least two identical messages coded on the label. The label has two columns, one column, (2) being a series of aligned segments (6). There is one data character (12) of an OCR code located in each segment. The background of each segment is color coded for human readability. A second column (8) contains a single machine-readable bar code (12) containing the same message as the OCR code. The color coded segments and the OCR code are readable one direction and the bar code in the opposite direction.
Claims We claim: 1. A machine-readable, human-readable coding system comprising: a one piece, pre-printed coded label, having at least two identical messages, a first vertical column on the label, a series of data characters of an optical characters recognition code being located in the first column, the data characters forming a message in a first code which is both machine-readable and human-readable, and a second vertical column containing a single machine-readable bar code symbol, the bar code symbol comprising a message in a second code which is machine-readable and which message corresponds to the first message, the identical coded messages being complete in both the first column and the second column, the identical messages also being complete in both the top half of the label and the bottom half of the label, the data characters in the top half of the first column plus the bar code characters in the top half of the second column being the complete message and the data characters in the bottom half of the first column plus the bar code characters in the bottom half of the second column also being the complete message, such that, if as much as the top half or the bottom half of the label is missing, it can still be accurately read. 2. A machine-readable, human-readable coding system comprising: a sheet containing a plurality of one piece, pre-printed coded labels, each label having: three identical messages, a first column on the label having a series of aligned segments, one data character of an optical character recognition code being located in each segment, the data characters forming a message in a first code which is both machine-readable and human-readable, the background of each segment being color coded to correspond to the data character in the segment, the colors forming a message in a second code which is human-readable and which message corresponds to the first message, and a second column containing a single machine-readable bar code symbol contiguous with the first column and co-extensive therewith, the bar code symbol comprising a message in a third code which message is machine-readable and which message corresponds to the first and second messages, the identical coded messages being complete in both the first column and the second column, the identical messages also being complete in both the top half of the label and the bottom half of the label, the data characters in the top half of the first column plus the bar code characters in the top half of the second column being the complete message and the data characters in the bottom half of the first column plus the bar code characters in the bottom half of the second column also being the complete message, such that, if as much as the top half or the bottom half of the label is missing, it can still be accurately read. 3. A machine-readable, human-readable coding system comprising: a one piece, pre-printed coded label having three identical messages, a first column on the label having a series of aligned segments, one data character of an optical character recognition code being located in each segment, the data characters forming a message in a first code which is both machine-readable and human-readable, the background of each segment being color coded to correspond to the data character in the segment, the colors forming a message in a second code which is human-readable and which message corresponds to the first message, and a second column containing a single machine-readable bar code symbol, the bar code symbol comprising a message in a third code which message is machine-readable and which message corresponds to the first and second messages, the identical coded messages being complete in both the first column and the second column, the identical messages also being complete in both the top half of the label and the bottom half of the label, the data characters in the top half of the first column plus the bar code characters in the top half of the second column being the complete message and the data characters in the bottom half of the first column plus the bar code characters in the bottom half of the second column also being the complete message, such that, if as much as the top half or the bottom half of the label is missing it can still be accurately read. 4. A coding system according to claim 3 wherein the characters of the first code are a subset of the FIPS PUB 32 OCR-A character set. 5. A coding system according to claim 3 wherein the data characters of the first code are a subset of an OCR-A character set comprising A to Z in upper case; 0 to 9 and spaces. 6. A coding system according to claim 3 wherein the data character set of the bar code is the same as the OCR-A subset in inverse alignment. 7. A coding system according to claim 3 wherein each segment is separated from each contiguous segment by a printing trap comprising a solid line. 8. A coding system according to claim 3 wherein each segment is separated from the bar code in the second column by a printing trap comprising a solid line. 9. A coding system according to claim 3 wherein the bar code format is comprised of at least six data characters with a quiet zone above and below the six data characters. 10. A coding system according to claim 3 wherein each label has pressure sensitive adhesive for securing it to an object. 11. A coding system according to claim 3 wherein the data character set of the bar code is the same as the OCR-A subset in inverse alignment. 