A control apparatus for controlling a controlled object including controlled elements comprises a host processor, a plurality of slave modules and a communication network for providing communication between the host processor and the slave modules. The host processor interprets a control program to generate commands for the controlled elements in response to demands send from the slave modules. These commands are sent via the communication network to the respective slave modules. Each slave module is allotted to a controlled element and has a processor which interprets and executes the commands for its allotted controlled element and generates a demand upon finishing the execution of a command. This demand is sent via the communication network to the host processor and causes the next command to be generated.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A control apparatus for controlling a controlled object which includes a plurality of controlled elements, comprising: a host processor for supervising said control apparatus and for interpreting successive steps of subprograms included within a control program to generate commands for the control of said controlled elements in response to respective demand signals, each command including first designation information for designating a subprogram to be processed after the execution of said each command; a plurality of slave modules each slave module being allotted to one of said controlled elements, respectively, and includes a processor for interpreting and executing said commands to generate control signals for said allotted controlled element and for generating, upon completion of the execution of said each command, a demand signal for requesting said host processor to generator another one of said commands, said demand signal includes second designation information for designating a subprogram to the processed in said host processor; and communication means for transmitting said demand signals from said slave modules to said host processor and said commands from said host processor to said slave modules. 2. A control apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said second designation information designates a subprogram which corresponds to a first subprogram designated by said first designation information, said first designation information being included within a command recently executed by said processor of said each slave module. 3. A control apparatus as claimed in claim 2, wherein said first designation information of said command recently executed designates a subprogram from which said recently executed command was derived. 4. A control apparatus as claimed in claim 2, wherein said first designation information of said command recently executed designates one of said subprograms which either corresponds to or is other than the subprogram from which said command recently executed was derived. 5. A control apparatus as claimed in claim 4, wherein a plurality of said commands transmitted to different ones of said slave modules may each include first designation information designating said first subprograms. 6. A control apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said communication means comprises: a plurality of memories connected to said host processor and to said slave modules, respectively, each of said memories including an area into which said host processor writes a command and out of which said slave module connected thereto reads said command, said area including a first field for storing information identifying a control operation and a second field for storing said first designation information; and interruption means connected to said host processor and to said slave modules for permitting said slave modules to interrupt said host processor, and including interruption information transmitting means for transmitting said second designation information from each of said slave modules to said host processor. 7. A control apparatus as claimed in claim 6, wherein said interruption information transmitting means includes means for receiving said second designation information from each of said slave modules, and modifying means for modifying said received second designation information to form information which identifies an interruption service routine for a designated subprogram. 8. A control apparatus as claimed in claim 7, wherein said modifying means includes means for adding to said second designation information a first value which identifies a location of a table of starting locations of said interruption service routines. 9. A control apparatus as claimed in claim 8, wherein said modifying means further includes means for adding to said second designation information a second value which identifies a salve module. 10. A control apparatus as claimed in claim 9, wherein said modifying means further includes means for shifting said second designation information by a predetermined number of bit positions. 11. A control apparatus as claimed in claim 10, wherein said modifying means includes a first register and a plurality of second registers connected to said first register, said second registers being further connected to said slave modules, respectively, for receiving said second designation information therefrom, and said first register including a first section for receiving shifted second designation information from each of said second registers, a second section for receiving said first value, and a third section for receiving said second value, and being connected to said host processor for supplying its content thereto. 12. A control apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said processor in each of said slave modules includes a set of command routines, corresponding to a set of commands necessary for controlling the corresponding allotted controlled element for interpreting and executing said commands. 13. A control apparatus as claimed in claim 12, wherein each of said subprograms comprises a series of command statements, said host processor includes a set of command statement routines corresponding to a set of command statement codes for intrepreting said command statements into said commands. 14. A control apparatus as claimed in claim 13, wherein said host processor includes a first table indicating the correspondence between said command statement codes and said command statement routines, and said processor in each of the slave modules includes a second table indicating the correspondence between said commands and said command routines, said first and second tables being utilized for selecting one of said command statement routines and one of said command routines respectively to be started. 15. A control apparatus as claimed in claim 14, wherein each of said subprograms has a subprogram controller routine which is started in response to said second designation information, said subprogram controller controls the processing of the designated subprogram. 16. A control apparatus as claimed in claim 15, wherein said host processor includes a subprogram number register for storing a number identifying the subprogram being processed by said host processor, and a plurality of job stacks, each job stack corresponding to one of said subprograms and including a working area for said corresponding subprogram and a program step register for storing a number identifying the step of said corresponding subprograms to be processed, said number stored in said subprogram number register being set by a subprogram controller routine upon initiation of processing of said corresponding subprograms and said number stored in said subprogram number register being utilized by said command statement routine for accessing said job stacks, and said number stored in said program step register being updated by said command statement routines upon completion of the processing of each step of said subprogram corresponding to said program step register and said number stored in said program step register being utilized by said subprogram controller routine for selecting one of said command statement routines to be started. 17. A control apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said host processor includes background programs to be executed when processing of said control program is not needed. 18. A control apparatus as claimed in claim 17, wherein said background programs includes an editor and compiler program having a set of command mnemonic processing routines corresponding to a set of command mnemonic symbols used by users in source command statements for converting source command statements to said command statements for said host processor and vice versa, and a table indicating the correspondence between said command mnemonic symbols and said command mnemonic processing routines. 19. A control apparatus as claimed in claim 18, wherein said background programs include a system monitor program providing a user with a man-machine interface and monitoring the operating state of said control apparatus thereby permitting rapid identification and resolution of emergent or unusual conditions. 20. A control apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein at least one of said slave modules further includes a plurality of additional processors operating in parallel with each other and in cooperation with said processor for interpreting and executing said commands. 