Two or more robotic arms having end effectors rigidly attached to an object to be moved are disclosed. A hybrid position/force control system is provided for driving each of the robotic arms. The object to be moved is represented as having a total mass that consists of the actual mass of the object to be moved plus the mass of the moveable arms that are rigidly attached to the moveable object. The arms are driven in a positive way by the hybrid control system to assure that each arm shares in the position/force applied to the object. The burden of actuation is shared by each arm in a non-conflicting way as the arm independently control the position of, and force upon, a designated point on the object.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A control system for a plurality n of moveable robot arms 1, 2, 3 . . . n each having joints and joint angles between a moving source and an end effector for each arm, said system cooperating to move an object through a distance x, which object, together with the moveable robot arms, has a total mass, which is resolved into a point mass M having an origin point G in Cartesian space wherein the object can move in a vector subspace spanned by S.sub.v and S.sub.f, which represent the position and force natural constraint subspaces for point G, respectively in that Cartesian space, said system comprising: a plurality of end effectors, one each for each of said robot arms, rigidly connected to the object to be moved, said object characterized as being partitioned into a plurality of portions radiating from the point G and including the portion of the object which is connected to each robot arm, with each robot arm being treated as though it includes a portion of the object radiating from the origin point G to the rigid connection for each arm; and means for applying to said object by each of said robot arms, i, a positive force acting on said object by each of said robot arms in a shared and non-conflicting manner, with each force moving a designated robot arm and its associated portion of the object, said force being defined as wherein M.sub.x is the nxn Cartesian mass matrix of the ith arm and its gripped, radiating portion of the object, V.sub.x is the vector of velocity terms in Cartesian space for the velocity of the object, G.sub.x is the Cartesian gravity term of the ith arm and its gripped, radiating portion of the object, the subscript x indicates Cartesian reference rather than individual joints of linkages of the robotic arm, i, .theta..sub.i is a six dimensional vector whose components are the joint angles of robot arm i, x.sub.d is the desired acceleration vector of the object in the S.sub.f vector subspace, and the three translational dimensions and the three rotational dimensions, through which the object may move, are defined as the constraint frame for point G of the object. 2. A control system for robotic arms which cooperate to move an object, comprising: two or more arms each rigidly connected by its end-effector to said object, said object characterized by being represented by a center of gravity point G for a total mass that includes the mass of all the moveable robot arms plus the mass of the object, with each arm treated as though it includes a portion of the object radiating from the center point G to the rigid connection for each arm; means for sharing between said arms a positive driving force applied by said arms to said object according to a scaler N.sub.1, N.sub.2 . . . N.sub.n for the arms so long as ##EQU8## and N.sub.1, N.sub.2 . . . N.sub.n are scalers in a feedforward control loop for a positioning force applied by said arms to said object. 3. A control system in accordance with claim 2 and further comprising means for applying additional forces by each of said arms to place said object in internal tension, compression or torque without affecting the positioning of said object. 4. A control system for robotic arms which cooperate to move an object, comprising: two or more arms each rigidly connected by its end-effector to said object; means for sharing between said arms a positive driving force applied by said arms to said object according to a scaler N.sub.1, N.sub.2 . . . N.sub.n for the arms so long as ##EQU9## wherein N.sub.1, N.sub.2 . . . N.sub.n are scalers in a feedforward control loop for a positioning force applied by said arms to said object; means for applying additional internal forces by each of said arms to place said object in internal tension, compression or torque without affecting the positioning of said object; means for adding a signal representative of the share of said internal force by a given arm to the output of said feedforward positioning loop for said arm; and means for applying both positional and internal forces to said arm for application to said object. 5. A control system in accordance with claim 4 and further comprising a rigid environment; and said arms exert positional forces and internal forces between said object and said environment. 6. A controller system for a plurality of n robot arms 1, 2, 3 . . . n each having joint angles and each rigidly connected by its end-effector to a object to be moved through m possible dimensions into a desired distance and orientation in Cartesian space, which object is assigned a single origin point G and a task related coordinate frame having natural and artificial constraints specified for the point G, and including an m-dimensional vector subspace spanned by S.sub.v and S.sub.f which represent, respectively, the position and force natural constraint subspaces of a constraint frame for point G, which object may or may not be in contact with an environment, said controller comprising: an input terminal for receiving a signal indicative of the desired acceleration vector, x.sub.d, in the m-dimensional S.sub.f vector subspace at the constraint frame for point G, means for developing a Cartesian force vector at point G from a positive nonconflicting force applied by each arm, i, wherein each arm grips an associated portion of the object with the gripped portion radiating from the origin point G, and the arm is treated as though it includes the gripped portion of the object, said cartesian force being defined as wherein M.sub.x is the n times m Cartesian mass matrix for the gripped, radiating portion of the object and the ith arm, V.sub.x is the vector of velocity terms for the object in Cartesian space, G.sub.x is the Cartesian gravity term for the gripped, radiating portion of the object and the ith arm, the subscript x indicates Cartesian reference rather than individual joints of linkages of the robotic arm, i, .theta..sub.i is an m-dimensional vector whose components are the joint angles of arm i; means for developing a signal indicative of actual movement by said object in each of said m-dimensional directions; and feedback means for applying said developed signal to null out said desired acceleration signal at said input terminal. 7. A method of controlling a plurality of robot arms each adapted with joints and joint angles for movement, and each having a gripping end effector, with all robot arms cooperating to move an object in Cartesian space by a distance x, said method comprising the steps of: partitioning the object relative to an origin point, G, on the object into a plurality of portions, each portion radiating from the object's origin point G, and being associated for movement by a gripping end effector; gripping each radiating portion of the object by an end effector which is designated to move that gripped portion; assigning the mass of each arm and the mass of its gripped portion as the total mass to be moved by that arm; applying to said object by each of said arms i, a force defined as wherein M.sub.x is the nxn Cartesian mass matrix of the gripped radiating portion of the object and the ith arm, V.sub.x is the vector of velocity terms in Cartesian space wherein the object can move in a vector subspace spanned by S.sub.v and S.sub.f, which represent the position and force natural constraint subspaces for point G, respectively, in that Cartesian space, G.sub.x is the Cartesian gravity term of the gripped, radiating portion of the object and the ith arm, the subscript x indicates Cartesian reference rather than individual joints of linkages of the robotic arm, i, .theta..sub.i is a six dimensional vector whose components are the joint angles of arm i, and x.sub.d is the desired acceleration vector in the S.sub.f vector subspace, and the three translational and the three rotational dimensions through which the object may move are defined as the constraint frame for point G of the object. 8. A method for controlling robotic arms which cooperate to move an object in accordance with claim 7 and, comprising the additional step of sharing between said arms a positive driving force applied by said arms to said object according to a scaler N.sub.1, N.sub.2 . . . N.sub.n for the arms so long as ##EQU10## 9. A method in accordance with claim 8 and comprising the additional step of placing the scalers in a feedforward control loop for developing a positioning force applied by said arms to said object. 10. A method in accordance with claim 9 and comprising the further step of applying additional forces by each of said arms to said object without affecting the positioning of said object. 11. A method in accordance with claim 10 and comprising the additional step of applying each additional force in opposition to the other forces to place said object in compression. 12. A method in accordance with claim 10 and comprising the additional step of applying each additional force in opposition to the other forces to place said object in tension. 13. A method in accordance with claim 10 and comprising the additional steps of applying some of said forces to said object in opposition with each other; placing said opposing forces on different places on said object to create an internal torque within said object. 14. A method in accordance with claim 8 and comprising the further steps of placing said object against a rigid environment; and exerting positional and internal forces between said object and said environment. 