A visual sensor system for producing stereoscopic visual information comprises two sensors arranged on a plane and spaced by a predetermined distance from each other, light emitting elements arranged in one of the sensors for emitting light to an object through an imaging lens of the one sensor, a photo-sensor arranged on the other sensor for sensing the light reflected by the object through an imaging lens of the other sensor and determining a convergence position of the object based on an incident position of the sensed light, a changing device for changing a convergence angle between the two sensor on the focusing plane by relatively changing the direction of the other sensor, and a controller for controlling the changing device to change the direction of the other sensor toward the convergence position of the object.
Claims We claim: 1. A visual sensor system for producing stereoscopic visual information, comprising: two visual sensor means spaced by a predetermined distance from each other; light emitting means arranged on one of said two visual sensor means for emitting light to an object through an imaging lens of said one visual sensor means; photosensor means arranged on the other of said two visual sensor means for sensing the light reflected by the object and incident along the optical axis of an imaging lens of said other visual sensor means determining a convergence position of the object based on an incident position of the sensed light; convergence angle changing means for changing a convergence angle between said two sensor means on a focusing plane by relatively changing a direction of said other sensor means; and control means for controlling said convergence angle changing means so that the direction of said other sensor means is changed toward the convergence position of the object determined by said photosensor means. 2. A visual sensor system according to claim 1, wherein said control means changes the direction of both of said two sensor means toward the convergence position. 3. A visual sensor system according to claim 1, wherein one of said sensor means has at least light emitting means and the other sensor means has at least photosensor means. 4. A visual sensor system according to claim 1, wherein said changing means includes a motor and a worm gear. 5. A visual sensor system according to claim 1, wherein said photosensor means is a one-dimensional array sensor. 6. A visual sensor system according to claim 1, wherein said two sensor means each has means for focusing an imaging lens to the convergence position. 7. A visual sensor system for producing stereoscopic visual information, comprising: monitor means movable at least in the horizontal direction and having a plurality of visual sensors for monitoring remote points, convergence angle control means for controlling a convergence angle of said visual sensors, and means for performing focussing of said visual sensors on the remote points in accordance with the convergence angle controlled by said convergence angle control means; operation means for controlling the movement of said monitor means at least in the horizontal direction; said operation means including one display means for each of said visual sensors; and display control means for controlling said display means to display visual information produced by said visual sensors having the convergence angle thereof controlled by said convergence angle control means, on the corresponding display means. 8. A visual sensor system according to claim 7, wherein said monitor means is a robot having movable visual sensors. 9. A visual sensor system according to claim 7, wherein said display means are arranged so that a first and second of said display means is for viewing by each repsective eye of an operator, and the visual information produced by the two visual sensors are displayed. 10. A visual sensor system according to claim 7, wherein one of said visual sensors has at least photosensor means. 11. A visual sensor system according to claim 7, wherein said convergence angle control means includes motor means to change the directions of said visual sensors. 12. A visual sensor system according to claim 10, wherein said photosensor means is a one-dimension array sensor. 13. A visual sensor system for producing stereoscopic visual information, comprising: a plurality of input means for inputting image information pertaining to a viewed object, at least one of said plurality of input means having light emitting means for recognizing the distance to the object or the direction in which the object faces; a plurality of display means for displaying the image information input by said plurality of input means; control means for controlling said plurality of input means such that the scope of a field of vision of the image information input by each of said plurality of input means is made substantially equal to each other, and means for keeping the object in focus while said control means performs its control operations; and means for supplying the image information input by each of said plurality of input means to a corresponding one of said plurality of display means. 14. A visual sensor system according to claim 13, wherein each of said plurality of input means comprises means for obtaining image information from a three-dimensional object. 15. A visual sensor system accrording to claim 13, wherein said plurality of display means are two in number arranged for viewing by each respective eye of an operator, and the visual information produced by the two input means are displayed by said two display means. 16. A visual sensor system according to claim 13, wherein one of said plurality of input means includes photosensor means. 17. A visual sensor system according to claim 13, wherein said control means controls a convergence angle between said plurality of input means. 18. A visual sensor system according to claim 14, wherein said control means controls a convergence angle between said plurality of input means such that the scope of a field of vision of the image information obtained by each of said plurality of input means is made substantially equal to each other, regardless of the distance between the three-dimensional object and said plurality of input means. 19. A visual sensor system for producing stereoscopic visual information, comprising: a plurality of input means for inputting image informaiton; a plurality of display means for displaying the image informaiton input by said plurality of input means; means for detecting a direction to which an operator sees; first control means for controlling a direction of said input means in response to the direction of said operator detected by said detection means; and second control means for controlling said input means such that the scope of a field of vision of the image information input by each of said plurality of input means is made substantially equal to each other regardless of the distance between the position of said plurality of input means controlled by said first control means and an object which is in the direction controlled by said first control means and whose image is to be input by said input means, wherein said second control means controls a convergence angle of said plurality of input means at real time. 20. A visual sensor system according to claim 19, wherein each of said plurality of input means comprises means for obaining the image information from a three-dimensional object. 21. A visual sensor system according to claim 19, wherein said plurality of display means are two in number and said two display means are arranged so that a first and a second of said two display means is for viewing by each respective eye of an operator, and the visual information produced by said input means is displayed by said two display means. 