A method and apparatus are described for automatically palletizing parcels of various sizes, shapes and contents which arrive in random order at a pickup point to be transferred onto a pallet. A system is disclosed including a digital computer operating under an expert computer program which takes information about attribute factors of the parcels and applies predetermined rules to assign a space for the parcel on the pallet, and communicates coordinates of the assigned space to a flexible material handling robot.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for using a computer system to effect the palletizing of parcels, comprising the steps of: (a) providing a group of parcels to be palletized, each parcel of said group of parcels having previously determined attribute factors; (b) inputting data which identifies the type sand quantities of the parcels which comprise said group of parcels to be palletized into a memory of the computer system; (c) determining dimensions of a logical voxel based on at least one of the orthagonal dimensions of each parcel of a plurality of said group of parcels; (d) determining the total pallet space available; (e) creating a mathematical pallet model representative of the total pallet space available by dividing mathematically the total pallet space available into a plurality of voxels, each of said voxels being dimensionally equal to corresponding dimensions of said logical voxel; (f) storing said pallet model in a memory of the computer system; (g) identifying from said group of parcels to be palletized a specific parcel to be stacked; (h) evaluating the attribute factors of said specific parcel to be stacked in comparison to predetermined threshold levels of the pallet models; (i) searching at least a portion of said pallet model for at least one space comprising a combination of voxels which are adjacent to each other, said combination of voxels mathematically corresponding to the size of said specific parcel to be stacked, said combination of voxels representing actual space in said pallet space in which said specific parcel to be stacked can be physically located; (j) assigning space in accordance with predetermined rules to said specific parcel to be stacked when at least one space is found in step (i) for said specific parcel to be stacked; and (k) locating said specific parcel to be stacked in the actual space corresponding to said space assigned instep (j) to said specific parcel to be stacked. 2. The method according to claim 1 comprising the step of determining and identifying the existance of set relationships between the types of parcels comprising the group of parcels to be palletized. 3. The method according to claim 2 wherein the step of determining and identifying the set relationship comprises: (a) selecting from the group of parcels to be palletized, a first group consisting of at least one parcel type and a second group consisting of at least one parcel type; (b) determining whether said second group can be located above said first group, said determination being based at least in part on the contents of each of said parcel types of said first group and on the contents of each of said parcel types of said second group; (c) determining the existence of a first combination of an available quantity and acceptable orientation of said at least one parcel type of said first group which forms a first flat surface whose horizontal dimensions are equivalent to the horizontal dimensions of a second flat surface that can be formed by a second combination of an available quantity and acceptable orientation of said at least one parcel type of said second group; (d) defining a set relationship between said at least one parcel type of said first group and said at least one parcel type of said second group, whenever said at least one parcel type of said second group can be located above said first group and said first and second combinations exist and; (e) storing the definition of said set relationship in a memory of the computer system. 4. The method according to claim 2 comprising the steps of: (a) determining whether any parcel types of the parcels to be palletized are toxic; and (b) reserving space in said pallet model for toxic parcels, whenever any parcel types have been determined to be toxic. 5. The method according to claim 1 wherein the step of assigning space to the parcel to be stacked comprises: (a) assigning space to said specific parcel to be stacked on the pallet when space is found in the parcel model in accordance with predetermined rules which corresponds to the physical size of said specific parcel to be stacked; and (b) assigning space to said pacific parcel to be stacked in a queue when space is not found in the pallet model in accordance with predetermined rules which corresponds to the physical size of said specific parcel to be stacked. 6. The method according to claim 1 wherein the step of searching the pallet model comprises: (a) determining if said specific parcel to be stacked is part of a set which has a set space reserved in the pallet model; and (b) determining if space within a reserved set space exists in the pallet model corresponding to the physical size of said specific parcel to be stacked, whenever it has been determined that said specific parcel to be stacked is part of a set which has a set space reserved in the pallet model. 7. The method according to claim 6 wherein said set space comprises first and second set levels, and wherein the step of determining if space within a reserved set exists comprises: (a) determining whether said specific parcel to be stacked is a first set level or a second set level parcel type; (b) determining whether space is available in the pallet model within the first set level of the reserved set which corresponds to the physical size of said specific parcel to be stacked whenever said specific parcel to be stacked is a first set level parcel type; and (c) determining whether space is available in the pallet model within the second set level of the reserved set which corresponds to the physical size of said specific pallet to be stacked whenever said specific pallet to be stacked is a second set level parcel type and said first set level is full. 8. The method according to claim 6 wherein the step of searching the pallet model comprises: (a) determining whether said specific parcel to be stacked is part of a new set for which a new set space can be reserved in the pallet model, whenever said specific parcel to be stacked is not part of a set for which a set space has already been reserved in the pallet model; and (b) reserving a new set space in the pallet model, whenever said new set space can be reserved and said specific parcel to be stacked is not part of a set for which a set space has already been reserved in the pallet model. 9. The method according to claim 8 wherein the step of determining whether the parcel to be stacked is part of a new set for which a new set space can be reserved comprises determining which parcel type of the group of parcels to be palletized (i) has the greatest number of parcels left to be stacked and (ii) is in a set relationship with at least the parcel to be stacked, for which said new set space for said new set exists in the pallet model and for which said parcel to be stacked is a first set level parcel of said new set. 10. The method according to claim wherein the step of searching the pallet model comprises determining whether space exists in the pallet model which corresponds to the physical size of said specific parcel to be stacked whenever said specific parcel is not part of a set for which a set space has been reserved and said specific parcel to be stacked is not part of a new set for which a set space can be reserved. 11. The method according to claim 10 wherein the step of assigning space to the specific parcel to be stacked comprises: (a) assigning space to said specific, parcel to be stacked on the pallet when space is found in the parcel model in accordance with predetermined rules which corresponds to the physical size of said specific parcel to be stacked; and (b) assigning space to said specific parcel, to be stacked in a queue when space is not found in the pallet model in accordance with predetermined rules which corresponds to the physical size of said specific parcel to be stacked. 12. The method according to claim 11 wherein the step of searching the pallet model comprises redefining at least one set space of any set spaces reserved in the pallet model, whenever the number of parcels to be stacked which are in the queue exceeds a predetermined number, such that space can be identified in the pallet model in accordance with predetermined rules which corresponds to the physical size of at least one of the parcels in the queue or to the physical size of said specific parcel to be stacked. 13. The method according to claim 11 wherein the step of searching the pallet model comprises reviewing the parcels in the queue after a predetermined quantity of parcels to be stacked have been identified, evaluated, and assigned space, since the last review of the queue. 14. The method according to claim 1 comprising the step of updating the computer system. 15. The method according to claim 14 wherein the step of updating the computer system comprises: (a) updating the pallet model to indicate what actual space is occupied by the parcels stacked on the pallet; (b) updating a queue file to indicate what parcels are in a queue; and (c) updating the threshhold levels based on the space available in the pallet model and based on the types and locations of parcels currently stacked on the pallet. 16. The method according to claim 1 wherein the step of searching the pallet model comprises applying predetermined pallet stacking rules to determine whether said specific parcel to be stacked can be located in an identified space. 17. The method according to claim 16 wherein the step of applying predetermined pallet stacking rules comprises determining whether the center of mass of the pallet would be within predetermined limits if said specific parcel to be stacked were to be located in an identified location. 18. The method according to claim 16 wherein applying predetermined pallet stacking rules comprises determining whether the pallet will meet predetermined interlocking volume criteria if said specific parcel to be stacked were to be located in an identified location. 19. The method according to claim 16 wherein applying predetermined pallet stacking rules comprises determining whether the pallet will meet predetermined pallet edge criteria if said specific parcel to be stacked were to be located in an identified location. 20. The method according to claim 1 comprising the step of initializing the computer system. 21. The method according to claim 20 wherein the step of initializing the computer system comprises: (a) identifying the types of parcels available to be palletized; (b) assigning attribute factors to each of said parcel types; (c) assigning initial threshhold levels; and (d) inputting into a memory of the computer (i) data which identifies said parcel types; (ii) said attribute factors; and (iii) said threshold levels. 22. The method according to claim 1 wherein the step of determining dimensions of a logical voxel comprises: (a) selecting at least one proposed voxel size based on the total pallet space; (b) determining an estimated parcel size based on each proposed voxel size for each parcel of a plurality of parcels of said group of parcels; (c) determining the difference between each estimated partial size and the respective actual parcel size, and summing said differences separately to yield a total difference for each proposed voxel size; (d) estimating the required computational time for each proposed voxel size; and (e) selecting a logical voxel from said at least one proposed voxel size based on an assessment of each said total difference and respective estimated computational time. 23. The method according to claim 1 wherein the step of determining dimensions of a logical voxel comprises the step of setting the dimensions of said logical voxel to be equal to the dimensions of a largest voxel common to a plurality of parcels of said group of parcels based on at least one of the orthagonal dimensions of each parcel of said plurality of parcels. 24. An apparatus for palletizing parcels, comprising: (a) means for transporting a plurality of parcels to a predetermined pick up point; (b) means for determining the types and quantity of parcels to be palletized; (c) means for receiving information carried by individual parcels transported by said transporting means; (d) means for determining dimensions of a logical voxel; (e) means for creating a pallet model representative of the pallet space by mathematically dividing the pallet space available into voxels equal to in size to said logical voxel; (f) mean for evaluating attribute factors of an individual parcel transported by said transporting means in comparison to predetermined threshold levels of said pallet model; (g) means for assigning space to said individual parcel in accordance with the information carried by said individual parcel, with the evaluation of the attribute factors of said individual parcel and with predetermined rules; and (h) means for transferring said individual parcel from said pick up point to said assigned space. 25. The apparatus as claimed in claim 29 wherein said transferring means comprises a robot system configured to receive coordinate information related to said assigned space and to the location of said individual parcel. 26. The apparatus as claimed in claim 24 wherein said pallet model creating means, said attribute factor evaluating means and said space assigning means further comprise a preprogrammed digital computer. 