The invention relates to a CW-Nd:YAG Laser soldering system for SMD-components by means of which the soldering may be shortened by the simultaneous feeding of solder, multiple radiation, ER-absorber, flux or reaction gas, and an optimizing of the Z-adjustment of the laser spot or spots and the laser power per soldering point can be controlled. Embodiments are explained and are illustrated schematically in the figures of the drawing.
Claims We claim: 1. Laser soldering system for Surface Mounted Device-components using a CW-Nd:YAG Laser having a temperature and time control and monitoring device as well as a temperature gradient control, wherein control devices for a laser spot, a radiation surface and the laser power for soldering points are mounted on and cooperate with a laser head of a first multiaxis robot and, in addition, a computer-controlled filler wire advancing device and its process control device are integrated in said first laser head, and wherein a second multiaxis robot, is controlled to operate in cooperation with the first multiaxis robot and comprises means for the inserting components to be soldered, for preliminary supplying of solder to said components and for the fluxing, and only three-axis to six-axis positioning systems are used for the laser soldering process. 2. A laser soldering system according to claim 1, wherein the laser head is constructed as a swivel module laser head. 3. A laser soldering system according to claim 2, wherein a computer-controlled dispenser for one of: filler wire and soldering paste, laser lens systems and gas nozzles for a forming gas are mounted with the laser head. 4. A laser soldering system according to claim 3, wherein said dispenser operates with the same computer formation and positioning as the CW-Nd:YAG Laser. 5. A laser soldering system according to claim 4, wherein the filler wire is transported through a capillary tube, is positioned and is melted off by the laser beam. 6. A laser soldering system according to claim 5, wherein said means for inserting of the second multiaxis robot is positioned in front, relative to a direction of movement of said components, of the laser soldering operation of the first multiaxis robot, and is coupled by way of a gripper exchange. 7. A laser soldering system according to claim 6, wherein the component connections, by means of the component inserting device, are one of: coated with a layer absorbing the laser light, and surface treated. 8. A laser soldering system according to claim 7, wherein the components to be soldered, with their connections, before the inserting and soldering, are immersed into a fast-drying or low-evaporating flux solution which absorbs the laser light and during the soldering are pressed on by means of a die. 9. A laser soldering system according to claim 6, wherein 5 to 30% nigrosine or colophonium solutions are used as the light-absorbing solution. 10. A laser soldering system according to claim 9, wherein the component connections are pressed on by means of a quartz glass die. 11. A soldering system according to claim 10, wherein the components to be soldered, during the soldering, are pressed on by means of a spring steel spider which diagonally recesses the connections. 12. A laser soldering system according to claim 11, wherein during the soldering operation, a blowing of protective gas or forming gas takes place by way of one or several gas nozzles under the control of an H.sub.2 -sensor. 13. A laser soldering system according to claim 12, wherein the protective or forming gas is moistened or rinsed by means of methanol/-formic acid in a "washing bottle". 14. A laser soldering system according to claim 13, wherein the blowing of forming gas takes place pneumatically only during the duration of the laser soldering pulse. 15. A laser soldering system according to claim 14, wherein for the simultaneous soldering of two components, two fiber optic systems, by way of a beam splitter, are coupled with the CW-Nd:YAG Laser and, possibly by way of a photocell, are coupled with the robot control, the robot 11 having a two-axis control for maximal reflection. 16. A laser soldering system according to claim 15, wherein for the adaptation of the laser spot to the soldering point geometry, the laser lens or the laser head are constructed to be slidable or pivotable in the Z-direction by means of an adjusting device by way of the robot control. 17. A laser soldering system according to claim 16, wherein the radial intensity of the laser and thus the soldering time can also be varied by way of a laser power measuring and adjusting device and a PC programming device. 18. A laser soldering system according to claim 17, wherein a swivelling unit is assigned to the filler wire advancing device. 