A method and apparatus for automatic orientation and assembly are provided. A first plurality of parts are mated with corresponding depressions or other irregularities formed in a pallet by vibrating the pallet and moving the parts thereover. A second plurality of parts are then oriented in a predetermined positional relationship with the first parts, for example matingly engaged therewith, by passing the parts over the pallet which is again vibrated, generally with different vibration parameters. The second parts may matingly engage corresponding irregularities in the first part, may be positioned and oriented by further irregularities on the pallet, or a template may be provided over the pallet with openings for positioning and orienting the second parts. The passing of parts over the pallel and vibration of the pallet may be repeated for additional parts to be assembled if desired. Matingly engaged parts may be secured together by applying pressure, preferably en masse, to at least one part of each part pair or by other suitable means.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for automatically assembling a plurality of first parts with a corresponding plurality of second parts comprising the steps of: (a) mechanically dumping said first parts from a reservoir of said parts with random orientation on a pallet having irregularities formed therein which are sized and shaped to permit said first parts to mate therewith in a predetermined orientation; (b) utilizing a vibrating apparatus to mechanically vibrate said pallet, causing said first parts to mate in a predetermined way with said irregularities; (c) mechanically dumping said second parts from a reservoir of said parts with random orientation over said pallet, said pallet having first parts mated with at least most of the irregularities therein, second irregularities being provided to control the orientation and position of the second parts; and (d) utilizing a vibrating apparatus to mechanically vibrate the pallet, moving the second parts under control of the second irregularities into a predetermined positional relationship with corresponding first parts. 2. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein said first and second parts are mating parts, said predetermined positional relationship being mating equipment, at least one of said second irregularities being on said first parts. 3. A method as claimed in claim 2 including the step of (e) securing together first and second parts which are in mating engagement. 4. A method as claimed in claim 3 wherein said securing step is performed simultaneously for all first and second parts in mating equipment. 5. A method as claimed in claim 3 wherein mating first and second parts snap-fit together, and including the step of applying pressure to at least one of said first or second parts in mating engagement to snap-fit the parts together. 6. A method as claimed in claim 3 wherein mating first and second parts pressure-fit together, and including the step of applying pressure to at least one of said first or second parts in mating engagement to pressure-fit the parts together. 7. A method as claimed in claim 3 wherein one of said parts is deformable to secure parts together, and including the step of applying pressure to at least one of said first or second parts in mating engagement to deform said one part. 8. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein said step (c) includes the steps of laying a template over the pallet, which template has openings formed therethrough which are sized and shaped to receive and properly orient the second parts, said template openings being at least one of said second irregularities, and dumping the second parts on said template. 9. A method as claimed in claim 8 wherein the second part is formed to be in the predetermined positional relationship with a corresponding first part in two or more orientations, said template openings being formed to permit said second part to be oriented in only said two or more orientations. 10. A method as claimed in claim 8 wherein the second part is formed to be in the predetermined positional relationship with a corresponding first part in only one orientation, said template openings being formed to permit said second parts to be oriented in only said one orientation. 11. A method as claimed in claim 8 including the step of registering said template on said pallet. 12. A method as claimed in claim 8 including the step of controlling the direction of movement of the second parts across the template. 13. A method as claimed in claim 12 wherein the controlling direction of movement step includes the step of moving second parts in different directions at different positions on the template. 14. A method as claimed in claim 12 including the step of controlling the orientation of the second parts as they are moved across the template. 15. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the second part is formed to assemble with a corresponding first part in two or more orientations, at least one of said pallet irregularities and corresponding first parts being formed to permit said second part to be oriented in only said two or more orientations. 16. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the second part is formed to assemble with a corresponding first part in only one orientation, at least one of said pallet irregularities and corresponding first parts being formed to permit said second part to be oriented in only said one orientation. 17. A method of automatically forming N assemblies of M parts each comprising the steps of: (a) mechanically dumping a plurality of first parts from a reservoir of such parts with random orientation on a pallet having irregularities formed therein which are sized and shaped to permit said first parts to mate therewith in a predetermined orientation; (b) utilizing vibrating apparatus to mechanically vibrate said pallet, causing said first parts to mate in a predetermined way with said irregularities; (c) mechanically dumping a plurality of an additional one of said M parts from a reservoir is such parts with random orientation over said pallet, additional irregularities being provided to control the orientation and position of said additional parts; (d) utilizing vibrating apparatus to mechanically vibrate the pallet, moving the additional parts under control of the additional irregularities into a predetermined positional relationship with corresponding prior positioned parts; and (e) repeating steps (c) and (d) until all M parts have been assembled. 