An error-reducing feedback controller for a robotic system wherein a new torque term is added to the existing generated torque in order to compensate for nonlinearity or imperfect modeling accuracy in the existing system. Equations for development of the new torque term using relatively few inputs from the system output are described, along with several examples, including numeric values.
Claims We claim: 1. The method for assuring small errored operating stability in a movable joint of a nonlinear torque environment military robot comprising the steps of: adding to the existing torque at said movable joint of said military robot an error reducing torque .tau..sub.new that is defined by the mathematical relationship: wherein: m is the mass of a robotic arm and load being controlled at said joint, g is the acceleration of gravity, L is the length of said robotic arm being controlled, .alpha.d is the angle between said robotic arm and horizontal plane, Kp is the position gain factor at said movable joint, Kv is the velocity gain factor at said movable joint, e(t) is the error between attained and desired robotic arm positions, and e(t) is the first time derivative of e(t); determining the magnitude of the velocity gain factor, Kv, at said movable joint in response to a predetermined mathematical criteria for absolute joint movement stability; selecting the magnitude of said position gain factor, Kp, of said movable joint in response to predetermined mathematical criteria for absolute joint movement stability and a determined magnitude of said velocity gain factor Kv; moving said movable joint between first and second physical positions thereof with a combination of said existing torque and said .tau..sub.new torque. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said predetermined mathematical criteria in said selecting steps is the function: ##EQU30## 3. The method of claim 1 further including the step of limiting the magnitude of said velocity gain factor Kv, and said position gain factor, Kp, to the time dependent amplitude of a predetermined exponential majoring function. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein said majoring functions includes a second derivative with respect to time. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein said nonlinear torque environment includes a resilient spring component, viscous friction, and a changing load impedance; said predetermined mathematical criteria for the velocity gain factor Kv consists of Kv being larger than the negative of B, the coefficient of viscous friction; said predetermined mathematical criteria for the position gain factor Kp consists of Kp being larger than the negative of K, the spring component constant. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein said nonlinear torque environment includes the effect of gravity, and: said velocity gain factor Kv predetermined mathematical criteria consists of Kp being greater than zero; and said position gain factor Kp predetermined mathematical criteria consists of Kp being greater than the negative of the constant 2g/L where g and L are defined in claim 1. 7. The method of claim 3 wherein said nonlinear torque environment includes a nonlinear gravity effect and: said majorizing function is defined by the relationship where: v(t) is the majorizing function and v(t) and v(t) its first and second time derivatives, and Kp and Kv are as defined in claim 1. 8. Improved robotic apparatus comprising: a robotic arm system having a total torque input signal, a force generating movable arm output member, and means for generating output signals representative of attained position, velocity and acceleration of said movable arm output member; torque signal comparison means connected with an applied torque input signal of said robotic apparatus and an error reducing torque feedback signal for generating said total torque input signal; a source of movable are output member desired performance determined position, velocity, and acceleration signals; position error signal generating means connected with said attained position signal and said desired performance determined position signal for generating a position error signal therefrom; velocity error signal generating means connected with said attained velocity output signal and said desired performance determined velocity signal for generating a velocity error signal therefrom; acceleration error signal generating means connected with said attained acceleration output signal and said desired performance determined acceleration signal for generating an acceleration error signal therefrom; adaptive controller means connected with said position error signal, said velocity error signal, and said acceleration error signal for generating said torque feedback signal from a predetermined combination thereof. 9. The robotic apparatus of claim 8 wherein said position error signal is an angular position signal. 10. The robotic apparatus of claim 8 wherein said robotic arm system includes means comprising one of: a potentiometer, an optical encoder and a magnetic resolver, for generating said attained position signal. 11. The robotic apparatus of claim 9 wherein said robotic arm system includes means comprising one of: a differentiation circuit, a tachometer and an accelerometer, for generating said velocity and acceleration signals. 12. The robotic apparatus of claim 8, wherein said adaptive controller means includes an error bounding majorizing function mathematical algorithm. 13. The robotic apparatus of claim 11 wherein said adaptive controller majorizing function mathematical algorithm is selected from a plurality of said algorithms in response to loading predictions for said robotic apparatus. 14. The robotic apparatus of claim 12 wherein said loading predictions are nonlinear in character. 15. The robotic apparatus of claim 13 wherein said majorizing function algorithm includes components each selected in response to a different nonlinear load. 16. The method for assuring small errored operating stability in a nonlinear torque environment military robot comprising the steps of: adding to the existing torque at a predetermined movable arm joint of said military robot an additional error reducing torque .tau..sub.new that is determined by a physical embodiment of a selected one of predetermined mathematical relationships between: m the mass of said robotic arm and loading thereon, g the acceleration of gravity, L the length of said robotic arm, .alpha. the angle between said movable arm and a horizontal plane, Kp the position gain factor at said movable joint of said controlled arm, Kv the velocity gain factor at said movable joint of said controlled arm, e(t) the error between attained and desired robotic arm positions, and e(t) the arm velocity first time derivative of e(t); determining the magnitude of the velocity gain factor, Kv, of a movable joint controller of said robot in response to predetermined mathematical criteria for absolute joint movement stability; selecting the magnitude of the position gain actor K.sub.p of said movable joint controller in response to predetermined mathematical criteria for absolute joint movement stability and the determined magnitude of said velocity gain factor Kv; moving said movable arm at said joint with a combination of said existing and .tau..sub.new torques. 