This invention pertains to a robotic tool end assembly used to transport a blade of a jet engine to a specific workstation and then to transfer this blade to this workstation. It encompasses gripping means to grip the blade and coupling means that couple with the workstation prior to the exchange of the blade between the workstation and this robotic tool end assembly.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic tool end assembly for transporting a blade to and from a workstation comprising: a) gripping means for selectively engaging one end region of the blade to be transported; b) presence sensor means for detecting the presence of the blade between said gripping means so that said gripping means can be activated to engage the blade; c) coupling means for coupling the robotic tool end assembly with the workstation, said coupling means comprising operating means for engaging gripping members on the workstation so that the blade may be transferred between said gripping means of the robotic tool end assembly and said gripping members of the workstation; and, d) control means for controlling the operation of said gripping means and said operating means. 2. The apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein said operating means comprise at least one fluid operated cylinder to engage said gripping members on the workstation. 3. The apparatus as set forth in claim 2 wherein said fluid operated cylinder is an air cylinder. 4. The apparatus as set forth in claim 3 wherein said coupling means comprise a housing supporting said air cylinder. 5. The apparatus as set forth in claim 4 wherein said housing is supported upon compressible shafts that permit said air cylinder to engage the workstation prior to depositing or retrieving the blade with respect to the workstation. 6. The apparatus as set forth in claim 5 further comprising robot gripper open sensors for detecting the presence of said gripping members. 7. The apparatus as set forth in claim 6 wherein said presence sensor means extend outward away from the robotic tool end assembly. 8. The apparatus as set forth in claim 7 wherein said gripping means are configured to grip an upper portion of the root end region of the blade and wherein said gripping members are configured to grip a lower portion of said root end region of the blade. 9. A method of transporting a blade to and from a workstation comprising the steps of: a) positioning a robotic tool end assembly with respect to the workstation, said robotic tool end assembly comprising operating means for engaging gripping members on the workstation so that the blade may be transferred between said robotic tool end assembly and the workstation; b) coupling the workstation and said robotic tool end assembly together; c) opening said gripping members by said operating means; d) transferring the blade between said robotic tool end assembly and the workstation; e) closing said gripping members by said operating means; and, f) uncoupling said robotic tool end assembly from the workstation. 10. The method as set forth in claim 9 wherein said operating means comprise at least two air cylinders configured to engage said gripping members secured to the workstation. 11. The method as set forth in claim 10 wherein said operating means comprise a housing supporting said air cylinders therein. 12. The method as set forth in claim 11 wherein said housing is supported upon sliding shafts that enable the workstation and said housing to remain coupled while transferring the blade. 13. The method as set forth in claim 12 further comprising the step of sensing the presence of the blade prior to the transfer of the blade between said robotic tool end assembly and the workstation. 14. The method as set forth in claim 13 further comprising the step of gripping the root end region of the blade. 