An improved break-away, end-of-arm robotic tooling assembly that has been designed to prevent damage to the robot arm in the event it would come in contact with something it should not. The robotic tooling assembly has a two inch inside diameter bore for air and paint lines. The robotic tooling assembly is compliant in all directions with the exception of a pulling force and it can be reset on repeating registration structure within the robotic tooling assemble. An air switch is incorporated which instantly signals the robot controller to perform an emergency stop.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An improved break-away, end-of-arm robotic tooling assembly comprising: an elongated barrel assembly having a primary tubular sleeve, an front disc plate and a rear disc plate, said front and rear disc plates having a bore whose diameter is less than the inner diameter D1 of said tubular sleeve to form inwardly extending flanges on the front and rear ends of said tubular sleeves a hub having a front disc, a secondary tubular sleeve and a rear disc, said rear disc having a diameter less than D1 and being captured within said barrel assembly, said secondary tubular sleeve having an outer diameter less than the inner diameter of the bore of the front disc plate of said barrel assembly and said secondary tubular sleeve extends forwardly therethrough: means for forcing the rear disc of said hub toward the front disc plate of said barrel assembly; and means for axially aligning the rear disc of said hub with the front disc plate of said barrel assembly in a predetermined axially aligned static position. 2. An improved break-away, end-of-arm robotic tooling assembly as recited in claim 1 wherein said means for forcing the rear disc member of said hub toward the front disc plate of said barrel assembly comprises a plurality of air cylinders connected to a source of compressed air. 3. An improved break-away, end-of-arm robotic tooling assembly as recited in claim 1 wherein said means for axially aligning the rear disc of said hub with the front disc plate of said barrel assembly comprises a plurality of alignment members that are detachably received in alignment seats in the front disc plate of said barrel assembly. 4. An improved break-away, end-of-arm robotic tooling assembly as recited in claim 3 wherein said alignment members have the general shape of a ball. 5. An improved break-away, end-of-arm robotic tooling assembly as recited in claim 3 further comprising a means for signaling when the axially aligned static position of the rear disc of said hub and the front disc plate of said barrel assembly has been disrupted. 6. An improved break-away, end-of-arm robotic tooling assembly as recited in claim 5 wherein said means for signaling when the axially aligned static position of the rear disc of said hub and the front disc plate of said barrel assembly has been disrupted comprises a source of compressed air that is connected to a robot controller which is then connected to an air switch capable of sensing a pressure drop, and said air switch is connected by air tubes to pressurized air cavities in the front disc plate of said barrel assembly, said pressurized air cavities being in communication with said alignment members so that movement of one or more of said alignment members out of their respective alignment seats will cause an air pressure loss that would be detected by said switch. 7. An improved break-away, end-of-arm robotic tooling assembly as recited in claim 6 further comprising a manifold that is connected to said source of pressurized air and also to said air cylinders and said pressurized air cavities. 8. An improved break-away, end-of-arm robotic tooling assembly as recited in claim 1 further comprising a robot wrist disc detachably secured to the front disc of said hub. 