A unitary one-piece plug is insertable into a magnetic data storage blank disk by a robot arm. The plug has a relatively large flange portion and grip knob on one end, a smaller diameter entry portion on the other end which passes through a central aperture in the disk. A cylindrical portion of less diameter than the entry portion forms a circumferential slot which rests on a bottom edge of the aperture in a vertically oriented disk when the plug is left in the disk aperture and the disk is mounted in a disk carrier for disk processing. The plug flange then blocks communication from one side to the other side of the disk. When the plug is lifted in the disk aperture by a robot arm the plug slot is captured by the upper edge of the disk aperture and permits the robot arm to move the disk with its plug to and from a disk cassette. Since there is no unplugging and unplugging of plug halves and a more simple robot arrangement is possible, the generation of particles which can cause magnetic defects in the manufactured magnetic media disk is minimized.
Claims We claim: 1. In combination, a magnetic disk having a central circular aperture and a removable disk plug for blocking said aperture and for carrying said disk, said aperture being bounded by a circular edge of a first thickness and wherein said plug comprises an integral entry portion having a diameter less than the diameter of said aperture and positionable through said aperture, an integral exterior flange portion having a diameter greater than the diameter of said aperture, said portions being integrally connected to a connecting portion between said entry portion and said exterior flange portion, said connecting portion forming a circular slot therebetween, said slot having a bottom diameter less than the diameter of said entry portion, such that when said slot rests on a bottom of said circular edge, said plug exterior flange portion covers completely said aperture and when said disk plug is moved upwardly parallel to said disk, an upper surface of said slot abuts an upper edge of said circular edge such that said disk and plug can be moved as a single unit. 2. The combination of claim 1 wherein said disk plug is of a one-piece unitary construction. 3. The combination of claim 2 wherein said plug is machined from stainless steel. 4. The combination of claim 1 wherein the center of gravity of said plug is within said entry portion such that said exterior flange portion tends to lean on a peripheral surface of said disk proximate to an upper edge of said aperture to seal said aperture. 5. The combination of claim 1 wherein said exterior flange portion includes an integral grab means extending outwardly from a side of said plug opposite the entry portion side for attaching a robot arm effector. 6. The combination of claim 5 wherein said grab means comprises a cylindrical knob member. 7. The combination of claim 6 wherein said knob member includes as open cylindrical cavity for guiding said effector into clamping position with respect to said knob member. 8. The combination of claim 1 wherein the angle between a tangent of the peripheral end of said entry portion at one side of said circular slot and the surface of said flange portion forming an opposite side of said circular slot is greater than 90.degree.. 9. The combination of claim 8 wherein said angle is about 93.degree.. 10. The combination of claim 1 wherein said plug entry portion and said plug flange portion have a common diametrical axis. 11. The combination of claim 1 wherein the axis of said plug flange portion is offset from the axis of said plug entry portion. 12. A closure plug for insertion into a central aperture of a magnetic disk comprising a unitary one-piece member having a relatively flat disk-like entry portion of a first diameter for insertion through said central aperture, a relatively flat flange portion having a second diameter greater than said first diameter for sealing off one side of said central aperture, a cylindrical connecting portion therebetween having a third diameter less than said first diameter forming a circular slot between said entry portion and said flange portion for engaging an edge surface of said central aperture and means on said flange portion for attaching a plug grabbing device to said flange portion for inserting and removing said plug from said central aperture. 13. The combination of claim 12 wherein said plug entry portion and said plug flange portion have a common diametrical axis. 14. The combination of claim 12 wherein the axis of said plug flange portion is offset from the axis of said plug entry portion. 15. The combination of claim 12 wherein the center of gravity of said plug is within said entry portion. 