A positioning system for accurately positioning components and the like in which a two-dimensional linear motor moves upon an air bearing across a large platen having a predetermined grid pattern yielding reasonably good resolution. A second two-dimensional positioning assembly of extremely fine resolution is secured to the linear motor arranged to traverse the large platen. Location sensors are provided in closed loop feedback system for detecting the X and Y positions. Coarse resolution is obtained by operating the first two-dimensional linear motor and fine resolution is obtained by operating the second two-dimensional positioning assembly, preferably after disabling the air bearing. The fine positioning system may also include a driver motor for rotating a manipulator arranged upon the second positioning system to correct for any angular misalignment of the component being placed by the manipulator.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A high precision placement system comprising: first mounting means including first reference surface means; first two-dimensional positioning means movable along said first reference surface means for positioning said first positioning means in a coarse manner relative to said first reference surface means; second mounting means including second reference surface means, mounted upon said first two-dimensional positioning means; second two-dimensional positioning means movable relative to said second reference surface means for positioning said second positioning means relative to said second reference surface means and hence relative to said first reference surface means, said second two-dimensional positioning means having a higher resolution than said first two-dimensional positioning means. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein said first first reference surface means comprises a platen having a planar working surface and first and second sets of parallel, uniformly spaced grid-like grooves lines formed in the platen working surface for defining an orthogonal matrix of teeth; said first positioning means comprising first two-dimensional linear motor means having first and second forcer means arranged adjacent to said platen; and means for operating said first and second forcer means to move said first linear motor means in mutually perpendicular directions over the planar surface of said platen. 3. The system of claim 2 wherein said second reference surface means is mounted upon said linear motor; said second two-dimensional positioning means comprising a second linear motor means; said second reference surface means having a planar working surface and first and second sets of parallel, uniformly spaced grid-like groove lines formed in the last-mentioned planar surface for defining an orthogonal matrix of teeth, the spacing between the parallel lines of said first and second sets of second platen being smaller than the spacing between the parallel lines of said first and second sets of said first platen; said second two-dimensional linear motor means having first and second forcer means; means for operating first and second forcer means of said second linear motor means for moving said linear motor means across the working surface of said second platen, whereby the collective movement of said first and second linear motor means respectively provides coarse and fine placement adjustment of said second linear motor means. 4. The system of claim 3 wherein the size of the working surface of said second platen is less than the size of the working surface of said first platen. 5. The system of claim 3 wherein the spacing between the lines of said first and second sets of said second platen is less than one-half the spacing between the lines of the first and second sets of grid lines of said first platen. 6. The system of claim 3 wherein the second platen working surface area is less than one-half the size of the working surface of said first platen. 7. The system of claim 1 further comprising means for generating signals representative of the distance and direction for movement of said first and second linear motor means. 8. The system of claim 7 further comprising means responsive to the movement of said first and second linear motor means for terminating movement of said first and second linear motor means when they have moved through a desired distance. 9. The system of claim 3 further comprising potentiometer means for sensing movement of said second linear motor means; and means responsive to the output of said potentiometer means for terminating movement of said second linear motor means when the values sensed by said potentiometer means is substantially equal to predetermined values representative of the distance to be moved by said second linear motor means. 10. The system of claim 9 wherein said potentiometer means comprises first and second resistance means; means slidingly engaging each of said first and second resistance means for generating signals representative of the respective X and Y movement of said second linear motor means for determining the movement thereof. 11. The system of claim 10 wherein said potentiometer means comprises a linear resistance potentiometer having end terminals coupled between a predetermined voltage and ground potential. 12. The system of claim 11 wherein said resistance means are arranged in mutually perpendicular directions on the surface of said second platen adjacent associated sides of the grid pattern provided on said surface. 13. The system of claim 12 wherein said sensor means comprise conductive means slidably engaging said X and Y resistance members. 14. The system of claim 9 wherein said means responsive to the output of said potentiometer means comprises means for comparing the output of said potentiometer means with said predetermined value and means for terminating movement of said second linear motor means when the comparing means indicated that the inputs thereto are substantially equal. 15. The system of claim 13 further comprising an umbilical cord for coupling electrical signals to and from said second linear motor means; said umbilical cord including conductor means for coupling the signals from said sensor means to said comparison means for determining the distance travelled by said second linear motor means. 16. The system of claim 15 wherein said umbilical cord further comprises means for delivering air under pressure to said second linear motor means for producing a film of air between the adjacent surfaces of said second linear motor means and said platen working surface to facilitate high speed, low friction movement of said second linear motor means across the working surface of said second platen. 17. The system of claim 1 further comprising a robot arm coupled to said second positioning means; a work surface beneath said robot arm; said robot arm including means for performing an activity upon said work surface and at a precise location thereupon. 18. The system of claim 7 wherein said first linear motor means is comprised of sensor means for sensing movement of said first linear motor means across said first platen; means responsive to predetermined values for terminating movement of said first linear motor means when the signals developed by said sensor means compare with predetermined values. 19. The system of claim 18 wherein said sensor means comprises means for detecting the grid lines in said first platen. 20. The system of claim 3 wherein said first platen is horizontally aligned and said first platen working surface is on the underside of said horizontally aligned first platen; said first linear motor extending downwardly from the working surface of said first platen, the magnetic attraction therebetween being sufficient to maintain said first linear motor means in operating relationship with said first platen. 21. The system of claim 20 wherein said second platen is mounted on the side of said first linear motor means remote from said first platen working surface; the working surface of said second platen being on the underside thereof; the working surfaces of said first and second platens being arranged in substantially spaced parallel fashion; said second linear motor means being suspended beneath said second platen and extending downwardly therefrom, the magnetic attraction between said second platen working surface and said second linear motor means being sufficient to maintain the second linear motor means in working engagement with said second platen. 22. The system of claim 21 further comprising a second robot arm releasably mounted to said second linear motor means. 23. The system of claim 22 wherein said second robot arm comprises means for releasably supporting a component; a work surface arranged beneath said second robot arm; and means provided on said second robot arm for viewing a component gripped by said delivery means for accurately positioning a component so gripped by said gripping means upon said work surface. 24. The system of claim 20 further comprising a work surface beneath said robot arm, wherein said robot arm further comprises means for performing an operating function at a predetermined location upon said work surface. 25. The system of claim 2 further comprising a first movable platform; guide means on said second reference surface means for guiding and supporting said first movable platform to limit said first movable platform to linear movement at a predetermined orientation along said second reference surface means; means mounted on said second reference surface means for driving said first movable platform; a second movable platform positioned upon said first movable platform; means on said first movable platform for guiding said second movable platform and limiting the movement of said second movable platform to linear movement at a predetermined orientation substantially perpendicular to the linear movement of said first movable platform; second means for moving said second movable platform; and means for sensing the position of said first and second movable platforms. 26. The system of claim 25 wherein said means for detecting the position of said second movable platform in two-dimensional space further comprises: means responsive to movement of said second movable platform relative to said first movable platform for generating a signal representative of said movement; and means responsive to movement of said first movable platform relative to said first mounting means for generating a signal representative of said last-mentioned movement. 27. The system of claim 26 wherein said means for generating a signal representative of the movement of said second movable platform and said first movable platform each comprise linear potentiometer means. 28. The system of claim 26 wherein said means for generating a signal representative of the movement of said second movable platform and said first movable platform each comprise a registration strip and a cooperating light source and light sensing means for sensing transparent slits in said registration strip upon movement of the associated platform. 29. The system of claim 25 wherein said means for driving said first and second movable platforms are each comprised of a lead screw and means for rotating said lead screw in either one of two rotational directions and a threaded opening provided in each of said first and second movable platforms for engaging its associated lead screw whereby rotation of each of said lead screw imparts linear movement to its associated movable platform. 30. The system of claim 25 wherein the means for driving said first and second movable platforms are each comprised of a closed-loop timing belt entrained about a pair of spaced timing belt pulleys; means for selectively rotating one of said timing belt pulleys in either one of two rotational directions; one run of each of said timing belts being positioned adjacent the path of movement of its associated movable platform and means for securing each movable platform to its associated timing belt whereby rotational drive imparted to the associated timing belt pulley of each of said drive means imparts linear movement to the associated movable platform. 31. The system of claim 25 wherein each of said guide means is comprised of a pair of spaced parallel guide rods cooperating with guide bores in each of said platforms for slidably receiving and being guided by an associated set of said guide rods. 32. The system of claim 25 wherein each of said guide means comprises a pair of elongated guide members each having elongated grooves; each of said movable platforms having projections parallel to one another and arranged to be received by and slidably moved along the guide grooves in said guide members. 33. The system of claim 25 further comprising control means for applying signals to the drive means of said second two-dimensional positioning means; said control means further including means for receiving positioning signals from said feedback means; said control means generating control signals responsive to the feedback signals received from said position detecting means. 34. The system of claim 1 further comprising a robot mounted upon said second movable platform means of said second two-dimensional positioning assembly for performing an operation at the precise position to which the robot is moved by said coarse and fine two-dimensional positioning assemblies. 35. A high precision placement system comprising: a platen having a planar working surface, and first and second sets of parallel uniformly spaced grid-like groove lines formed in the platen surface for defining an orthogonal matrix of teeth; first and second two-dimensional linear motor means each having first and second forcer means and means for operating said first and second forcer means to move said first and second two-dimensional linear motor means over the planar working surface of said platen; third and fourth two-dimensional positioning means each respectively mounted upon said first and second two-dimensional linear motor means; and means for moving said first, second, third and fourth two-dimensional positioning means for precision positioning thereof, the resolution of said third and fourth positioning means being greater than the resolution of said first and second positioning means. 36. A method for precision positioning of an object mounted upon an output platform movable by means of a two-dimensional positioning means which in turn is mounted upon the intermediate output platform of a second two-dimensional positioning means arranged to move relative to a work surface, comprising the steps of: operating the second two-dimensional positioning means to move both the first and the second two-dimensional positioning means to a predetermined location; and operating the first two-dimensional positioning means to position the output platform at the desired final location, the resolution of the first positioning means being greater than the resolution of the second positioning means. 37. The method of claim 36 further comprising the steps of determining the instantaneous position of the output platform and operating said two-dimensional positioning means according to the detected position. 38. The method of claim 36 wherein said second two-dimensional positioning means comprises a platen and a two-dimensional linear motor movable in mutually perpendicular directions along the working surface of said platen, said two-dimensional linear motor having first and second forcer means, said method further comprising the step of operating said second two-dimensional positioning means further comprising the step of operating said first and second forcer means to selectively move said linear motor in mutually perpendicular directions to the desired position along the working surface of said platen. 39. The method of claim 38 further comprising means for generating an air bearing between said linear motor and the working surface of said platen, said method further comprising the steps of: deactivating said air bearing generating means when said second two-dimensional positioning means has been moved to the desired position thereby locking the linear motor to the platen by magnetic attraction preparatory to operation of said first two-dimensional positioning means. 40. A precision placement system comprising: first mounting means; reference means; first positioning means for moving said first mounting means relative to said reference means in mutually perpendicular directions along substantially common plane; second mounting means; second positioning means mounted upon said first mounting means for moving said second mounting means in mutually perpendicular directions substantially along a second common plane, said second positioning means having a higher resolution than said first positioning means; said second positioning means further comprising means for rotating said second mounting means about a predetermined axis. 41. A precision placement system comprising: first mounting means; reference means; first positioning means for moving said first mounting means relative to said reference means in mutually perpendicular directions along substantially common plane; second mounting means; second positioning means mounted upon said first mounting means for moving said second mounting means in mutually perpendicular directions substantially along a second common plane, said second positioning means having a higher resolution than said first positioning means; said second positioning means further comprising means for rotating said second mounting means about a predetermined axis; holding means on said second mounting means for holding a component for delivery of said component to a working surface adjacent to said holding means; and camera means mounted upon said second mounting means for mapping the position of said component relative to said working surface, including means for generating signals for operating said second positioning means in the event of misalignment between said components and said working surface. 42. A method for precision positioning of an object releasably mounted upon an output platform movable by means of a first positioning system which in turn is mounted upon the intermediate output platform of a second positioning system which is arranged to move relative to a work surface located beneath said object, and holding means mounted on said platform for holding a component, comprising the steps of: operating the second positioning system to move the first positioning system in mutually perpendicular directions to drive the first positioning system to a predetermined location; determining if there is any misalignment between the component held by the holding means and the work surface; and operating the first positioning system responsive to detection of a misalignment of said components relative to the desired position on the working surface. 43. The method of claim 42 wherein the step of operating said first positioning system further comprises the step of: selectively moving the first positioning system in mutually perpendicular directions and rotating said component to correct for misalignment. 44. The method of claim 43 further comprising the steps of determining the instantaneous position of the output platform and operating said two-dimensional positioning means according to the detected position. 45. The method of claim 42 further comprising the step of operating the holding means to precisely place the component upon the working surface. 