A magnetically levitated apparatus and method for controlling the motion of robotic manipulators. The magnetic levitation system comprises freely mobile manipulators, with attached magnetically active components, such as permanent magnets or superconducting magnets. Linear and rotational forces are imposed on the manipulator by means of externally generated magnetic fields, such as electromagnets. The arrangements of magnetic components on the manipulators, and the magnetic field sources in the environment of the manipulators determine the precision of control and degrees of freedom that the manipulators possess at any given location in the system. The manipulators may function with more than one degree of freedom with high precision at one or more locations with the system, with low precision and limited degrees of freedom in other locations in the system. Various methods are applied to provide stability and damping of the individual manipulators without requiring constant feedback. Electrical signals and power are provided to and from the manipulators without the requirement of a motion-restricting cable, tether or wire.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A magnetically driven micro-robot comprising: a). fixed magnetic means comprising multiple electromagnet means which can produce magnetic fields when said multiple electromagnet means are driven with respective electrical currents; b). manipulator means, responsive to said magnetic fields for producing motion, comprising: i. permanent magnet means for producing magnetic forces and torques in response to said magnetic fields; ii. end effector means which can do useful work when positioned in space; c). contact member means which projects from and is rigidly attached to said manipulator means for making mechanical contact; d). substantially planar, fixed solid surface means for providing stability and dampening the motion of said manipulator means when said contact member means mechanically contact said substantially planar, fixed solid surface means; and e). programmable control means which generates and controls said electrical currents through said multiple electromagnet means, thereby controlling the motion of said manipulator means and said end effector means with multiple, controllable degrees of freedom of motion. 2. The microrobot of claim 1 wherein said manipulator means is located below said substantially planar, fixed solid surface means so that gravity pulls said manipulator away from said solid surface with a known force equal to the weight of said manipulator, thereby improving and simplifying control of the motion of said manipulator in the vertical direction. 3. The microrobot of claim 1 wherein said multiple electromagnet means are air core electromagnet means, thereby allowing precise control of said magnetic fields and the motion of said manipulator means. 4. The microrobot of claim 1 wherein said contact member means is relatively small in relation to said manipulator means for the purpose of reducing the area of mechanical contact between said manipulator means and said substantially planar, fixed solid surface means, thereby reducing friction effects and improving position control of said manipulator means. 5. The microrobot of claim 4 wherein said contact member means is selected from the group consisting of knife edge contact members and pin contact members, thereby allowing said manipulator means to rotate about points of mechanical contact when said contact member means are in mechanical contact with said substantially planar, fixed solid surface means. 6. The microrobot of claim 4 wherein said contact member means comprises curved surface contact member means, thereby allowing said manipulator means to roll on said contact member means when said contact member means are in mechanical contact with said substantially planar solid surface means. 7. A magnetically driven micro-robot comprising: a). fixed magnetic means comprising multiple electromagnet means which can produce magnetic fields when said multiple electromagnet means are driven with respective electrical currents; b). manipulator means, responsive to said magnetic fields for producing motion, comprising: i. permanent magnet means for producing magnetic forces and torques in response to said magnetic fields; ii. end effector means which can do useful work when positioned in space; c). contact member means which projects from and is rigidly attached to said manipulator means for making mechanical contact; d). unpressurized liquid means for providing stability and dampening the motion of said manipulator means when said contact member means mechanically contacts said unpressurized liquid means; and e). programmable control means which generates and controls said electrical currents through said multiple electromagnet means, thereby controlling the motion of said manipulator means and said end effector means with multiple, controllable degrees of freedom of motion. 8. A magnetically driven micro-robot comprising: a). fixed magnetic means comprising multiple air core electromagnet means which can produce magnetic fields when said multiple air core electromagnet means are driven with respective electrical currents; b). manipulator means, responsive to said magnetic fields for producing motion, comprising: i. permanent magnet means for producing magnetic forces and torques in response to said magnetic fields; ii. end effector means which can do useful work when positioned in space; c). said manipulator means being located on only one side of each of said air core electromagnet, thereby allowing said manipulator means freedom of motion away from said side; d). substantially planar, fixed solid surface means for providing stability ad dampening the motion of said manipulator means; e). programmable control means which generates and controls said electrical currents through said multiple electromagnet means, thereby controlling the motion of said manipulator means and said end effector means with multiple, controllable degrees of freedom of motion; f). said substantially planar, fixed solid surface means being located above said manipulator means so that the gravity force on said manipulator means is directed away from said substantially planar, fixed solid surface means, thereby simplifying and improving control and calibration for the vertical direction of motion; and g). said programmable control means controls said respective currents to said air core electromagnet means so that at least one of said respective currents is selected from a group including zero, positive and negative, thereby improving control by allowing said programmable control means to control said magnetic forces so that zero, positive, or negative force can applied in at least one direction. 9. A magnetically driven micro-robot comprising: a). fixed multiple electromagnet means which can produce magnetic fields when said multiple electromagnet means are driven with respective electrical currents; b). unattached manipulator means, responsive to said magnetic fields for producing motion, comprising: i. permanent magnet means for producing magnetic forces and torques in response to said magnetic fields; ii. end effector means which can do useful work when positioned in space; c). electrically conductive contact member means which projects from and is rigidly attached to said manipulator means for making mechanical contact; d). electrically conductive, stabilization and damping means selected from the group consisting of electrically conductive liquids and electrically conductive, substantially planar solid surfaces for providing stability and dampening the motion of said manipulator means whereby electrical contact with said manipulator means can be made when said electrically conductive means is supplied with electricity and said electrically conductive contact member means is in contact with said electrically conductive, stabilization an damping means; and e). programmable control means which generates and controls said electrical currents through said electromagnet means, thereby controlling the motion of said manipulator means and said end effector means with multiple, controllable degrees of freedom of motion. 10. A magnetically driven micro-robot transport path, comprising: a). fixed, multiple electromagnet means which can produce magnetic fields when said multiple electromagnet means are driven with respective electrical currents; b). manipulator means, responsive to said magnetic fields for producing motion, comprising: i. movable magnet means for producing magnetic forces and torques in response to said magnetic fields; ii. end effector means which can do useful work when positioned in space; c). each one of said multiple electromagnet means further comprising no more than two layers of electrical wires in the vicinity of said manipulator means, said electrical wires being driven by said electrical currents; d). each one of said layers of electrical wires being only a single wire thick; e). stabilizing and motion damping means for stabilizing and damping the motion of said manipulator means; and f). programmable control means for generating and controlling said electrical currents through said multiple electromagnet means, thereby controlling the motion of said manipulator means with at least one controllable degree of freedom of motion. 11. The micro-robot transport path of claim 10 wherein said fixed, multiple electromagnet means is comprised of less than 7 of said layers of electrical wires, thereby allowing said fixed, multiple electromagnet means to be made using process which are limited to making less than 7 layers of wires. 12. The micro-robot transport path of claim 10 wherein said stabilizing and motion dampening means comprises substantially planar solid surface means. 13. The micro-robot transport path of claim 10 wherein said stabilizing and motion dampening means comprises liquid means. 14. The micro-robot transport path of claim 10 wherein said stabilizing and motion dampening means comprises superconductor means. 15. The micro-robot transport path of claim 10 wherein said electrical wires are sensibly straight in the vicinity of said manipulator means, thereby forming an electromagnet which can be made long and thin. 16. The micro-robot transport path of claim 10 wherein said electrical wires of one of said electromagnet means forms an angle with said electrical wires of at least one other of said electromagnet means, said angle being selected from a group which consists of oblique angles and perpendicular angles, thereby allowing control of said manipulator means with more than one controllable degree of freedom of motion. 17. The micro-robot transport path of claim 10 further including: a). at least one fixed coil electromagnet means for producing magnetic fields, each one of said coil electromagnet means comprising coils of wire which are more than two wires thick; b). said fixed coil electromagnet means being connected to and controlled by said programmable control means; and c). said fixed coil electromagnet means being located in proximity to said fixed multiple electromagnet means so that said programmable control means can control the motion of said manipulator means using either said coil electromagnet means or said fixed multiple electromagnet means, whereby a flexible automation system is for med which can control said manipulator means in different ways in different locations. 18. A magnetic levitation micro-robot, comprising: a). fixed magnetic means comprising multiple electromagnet means which can produce magnetic fields when driven by respective electric currents, and which are located on one side of a substantially planar surface; b). said multiple electromagnet means further comprises top electromagnet means and bottom electromagnet means, each one of said top electromagnet means being located above and contiguous with at least one of said bottom electromagnet means; c). manipulator means, located on the opposed side of said substantially planar surface from said fixed magnetic means, and responsive to said magnetic fields for producing motion, comprising: i. moveable magnetic means which can produce magnetic forces and torques in response to said magnetic fields; ii. end effector means which can do useful work when positioned in space; d). stabilizing and motion dampening means selected from the group which consists of liquid and solid surface means for stabilizing and dampening the motion of said manipulator means; and e). programmable control means which generates and controls said electrical currents through said electromagnets, thereby controlling the motion of said manipulator means and said end effector means with up to six, controllable degrees of freedom of motion. 19. The magnetic levitation microrobot of claim 18 wherein said multiple electromagnetic means further comprising: a). said top electromagnetic means comprises shaped electromagnetic means spaced so that the centers of said shaped electromagnetic means forms an equilateral triangle; b). wherein said bottom electromagnet means comprises shaped electromagnetic means, corresponding to said top set, spaced so that the centers of said bottom electromagnetic means forms an equilateral triangle; and c). wherein said top and bottom electromagnet means are joined so that the central axes of said top electromagnet means are offset from the central axes of said bottom electromagnet means by a factor of a common radius of said electromagnet means, thereby forming a magnetic levitation microrobot drive system which has low power consumption and can be controlled with six controllable degrees of freedom of motion. 20. The magnetic levitation microrobot of claim 18 wherein said moveable magnet means comprises a permanent magnet means formed from a unitary piece of permanent magnet material. 21. The magnetic levitation microrobot of claim 18 wherein said moveable magnetic means comprises a plurality of permanent magnet means, and said manipulator means further comprises structural means attached to and interconnecting said permanent magnet means. 22. The magnetic levitation microrobot of claim 21 wherein said plurality of permanent magnet means is fewer than six permanent magnet means, thereby forming a microrobot which can be controlled with six controllable degrees of freedom of motion but which has fewer than six permanent magnets. 23. A magnetically driven microrobot system comprising: a). fixed magnetic means comprising fixed, multiple electromagnet means which can produce magnetic fields in response to respective electrical currents; b). said fixed, multiple electromagnet means further comprising a regularly spaced array of transport electromagnet means and a set of local electromagnet means; c). said local electromagnet means being located in proximity to and prolapsed with respect to said regularly spaced array of transport electromagnet means; d). a plurality of manipulator means, responsive to said magnetic fields, for producing motion; each of said manipulator means comprising: i. moveable magnetic means which can produce magnetic forces and torques in response to said magnetic fields; ii. end effector means which can do useful work when positioned in space; e). said regularly spaced array of transport electromagnet means being at least three times as long in one dimension as one of said manipulator means; f). stabilization and motion damping means for providing stability and dampening the motion of said manipulator means; and g). programmable control means which generates and controls said electrical currents through said fixed, multiple electromagnet means, whereby a plurality of said manipulator means can be controlled with multiple, controllable degrees of freedom of motion using said local electromagnet means by moving said manipulator means into and out of the vicinity of said local electromagnet means using said transport electromagnet means. 