An automated multi-purpose analytical chemistry processing center and laboratory work station having a movable table for supporting microtiter plates and other fluid receptacles, a movable arm, and a modular mobile pod affixed for reciprocal movement along the arm. The work station combines into a single programmable system the capabilities for automation of a wide range of bioanalytical procedures including, not only sample pipetting, serial dilution, reagent additions, mixing, reaction timing and similar known manual procedures, but also programmable spectrophotometric measurements and other physical parameters, further processing based on these measurements and automatic data recording. The work station is adapted to transfer, dispense, and aspirate liquid from one location to another automatically in accordance with user programmed instructions. The work station is capable of measuring physical characteristics of selected samples and performing experimental assays in a closed loop manner in accordance with those measurements. Fluid is dispensed and aspirated using an interchangeable modules having one or a selected plurality of nozzles. Affixed to the modules nozzles are disposable pipettor tips, which are automatically picked up by the pod and ejected by a tip ejector mechanism at the control of the user. Additional modules may be used to perform Measurement Functions. The work station is designed for interactive connection with a remote computer.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. In an automated, analytical chemistry processing system, a multi-functional laboratory device comprising: a pod containing a single motor having at least a first range of motion and a second range of motion; a module having at least first and second actuatable devices; and means for operably connecting said first and second actuatable devices to said motor wherein operation of said motor within said first range is effective to actuate said first actuatable device, and operation of said motor in said second range is effective to actuate said second actuatable device, wherein actuation of said actuatable devices is effective to accomplish a step in an analytical chemistry process. 2. A device, as claimed in claim 1, wherein said module is latchingly detachable from said pod, and wherein said second actuatable device comprises means for detaching said module from said pod. 3. A device, as claimed in claim 1, wherein said module has a third actuatable device, and wherein said motor has a third range of operation, wherein operation of said motor within said third range is effective to actuate said third actuatable device. 4. A device, as claimed in claim 1, wherein said actuatable devices comprise devices selected from the group consisting of means for drawing and expelling fluid in a pipette, means for ejecting a pipette tip, and means for moving an optical filter into an optical path. 5. A device as claimed in claim 1 wherein the first actuatable device is a first plunger means reciprocally driven by said device along an axis; and wherein the second actuatable device is a second plunger means in co-axial abutment with said first plunger means, said second plunger means being driven reciprocally within a second range of motion along the axis by said first plunger means for performing a manipulative operation. 6. In an automatic, analytical chemistry processing system, the combination comprising: a pod comprising a single motor, said single motor having at least a first range, a second range, and a third range of motion; and a latchingly detachable module having a pipette with an ejectable tip and having first actuatable means for drawing and expelling fluid using said pipette, second actuatable means for ejecting said pipette tip, and third actuatable means for unlatching said latchingly detachable module from said pod, wherein operation of said motor within said first range is effective to actuate said first means for drawing and expelling fluid in said pipette, operation of said motor in said second range is effective to actuate said second means for ejecting said pipette tip, and operation of said motor in said third range is effective to actuate said third means for detaching said module from said pod. 7. In an automated, analytical chemistry processing system, a multi-functional laboratory device comprising: a pod body; a single drive element housed in said pod body; a first actuatable device driven by said drive element to operate within a first range of motion; a detachable module which is connectable to said pod body, said module being selectively connected to or disconnected from said pod body by said first actuatable device within the first range of motion; said module having a locking element which locks the module to the pod body as said first actuatable device reaches a first position within said first range of motion, and which unlocks the module, detaching said module from said body, when said first actuatable device reaches a second position within said first range, thereby allowing the pod body to connect with another module designed for a particular step in an analytical chemistry process. 8. A device as claimed in claim 7 further comprising a second actuatable device driven by said device element to operate within a second range of motion, whereby such second range of motion effects operation of said module to perform a particular step in an analytical chemical process. 9. A device as claimed in claim 8 further comprising a third actuatable device driven by said device element to operate within a third range of motion, whereby such third range of motion effects operation of said module to perform another step in an analytical chemical process. 