A joystick control device having a lower U-shaped bracket, an upper U-shaped bracket, a handle attached to the upper U-shaped bracket, with the upper U-shaped bracket connected to the lower U-shaped bracket by a compliant joint allowing six degrees of freedom for the joystick. The compliant joint consists of at least one cable segment affixed between the lower U-shaped bracket and the upper U-shaped bracket. At least one input device is located between the lower U-shaped bracket and the upper U-shaped bracket.
Claims I claim: 1. A joystick control device comprising: a lower U-shaped bracket; an upper U-shaped bracket; a handle affixed to said upper U-shaped bracket; said upper U-shaped bracket connected to said lower U-shaped bracket by a compliant joint allowing six degrees of freedom for said joystick; said compliant joint comprising at least one cable segment affixed between said lower U-shaped bracket and said upper U-shaped bracket; and at least one input device located between said lower U-shaped bracket and said upper U-shaped bracket. 2. The device of claim 1 wherein said compliant joint comprises two cable segments. 3. The device of claim 2 wherein said cable segments are held at a fixed vertical distance by eight cable retaining brackets, each of said cable retaining brackets having a portion of material rolled over a part of said cable segment to secure said cable segment to said cable retaining bracket, said upper U-shaped bracket having a cable retaining bracket affixed at either end, said lower U-shaped bracket having a cable retaining bracket affixed at either end, and the remaining four cable retaining brackets bent 90.degree. and circumferentially interposed between the adjacent ends of said U-shaped brackets thereby forming four corners on said cable segments. 4. A joystick control device comprising: a plurality of brackets, two of said brackets having an essentially "U" configuration cross-section, the other of said brackets being angle brackets, said two U-shaped brackets having their said "U" configuration cross-sections in substantially different orthogonal planes; a handle affixed to one of said U-shaped brackets; a plurality of cable segments, said segments having longitudinal axes which lie substantially in at least two planes, all of said at least two planes being orthogonal to said planes of said "U" cross-sections of said two U-shaped brackets and generally perpendicular to said handle longitudinal axis, all of said plurality of said brackets having means to retain said cable segments, wherein one end of each of said cable segments is secured to one of said angle brackets and the other end of each of said cable segments is secured to one of said two U-brackets, wherein said angle brackets are circumferentially interposed between the adjacent legs of said U-shaped brackets, and wherein said cable segments permit compliant movement of said handle of said joystick; and at least one input device located between said two U-shaped brackets. 5. The device of claim 4 wherein each of said planes in which said cable segments lie contain a plurality of segments, said plurality of cable segments in each of said planes in which said cable segments lie defining a cable segment set. 6. The device of claim 4 wherein said cable segments are provided with a swage at each end to provide a more secure clamp when said cable segment ends are placed into cable end retainers. 7. The device of claim 6 wherein said swage is a copper swage. 