An automated library article terminal is externally operable by the user, to, through a delivery chute mounted and arranged to deliver articles through an external wall, automatically stock, vend, and selectively accept return of and re-stock, so that they can be re-vended, a plurality of reusable articles each having a unique code. A memory stores information comprising the location of the plurality of articles in the terminal. A control is coupled to the memory and is responsive to operation of the terminal by a user to generate control signals. A vertical track member has a rotational drive responsive to the control signals for revolving the vertical track member about a given axis. A vertical lift member is mounted for vertical movement on the vertical track member. A vertical drive is responsive to the control signals for vertically moving the lift member relative to the vertical track member. An article handling member mounted on the vertical lift member extends and retracts in a generally horizontal direction relative to the vertical lift member and can be manipulated to selectively engage and release one of the articles. A code reader is mounted for reading the code of any article transported by the article handling member to or from the delivery chute and for generating an article code signal representative of the code so read and transmitting the article code signal to the memory.
Claims The invention is claimed as follows: 1. An automated machine for use in the storage, vending and receipt of articles comprising, in combination: an external wall having a delivery chute mounted thereto and extending therethrough, control means accessible for operation externally of said machine by a user to automatically stock, vend and selectively accept return of and re-stock, so that they can be re-vended, a plurality of reusable articles each having a unique code; storage means having a plurality of individual compartments, each for storing one of said plurality of articles; retrieval means movable relative to said storage means for retrieving user-selected articles from said compartments and for delivering the retrieved article to a user by way of said delivery chute, and for retrieving a returned article from said delivery chute and placing said returned article in an unoccupied one of said compartments; memory means for storing information corresponding to the location of said plurality of articles in said machine; code reader means mounted in said machine for reading the code of any article handled by the retrieval means and for generating an article code signal representation of the code so read, and transmitting said article code signal to said memory means; location signal generating means coupled to said retrieval means for generating a signal corresponding to the location of an article and for transmitting said article location signal to said memory means, whereby said memory means is updated with information corresponding to the article code and location of each article handled by said retrieval means; wherein said compartment means are arrayed in generally horizontally stacked, arcuate rows, each row extending over a major fractional portion of a circle and comprising a plurality of said compartment means in generally side-by-side array; and further including row indicia means and compartment indicia means associated respectively with said rows and with said compartments; indicia sensor means mounted to said retrieval means and responsive to said indicia means for producing position signals corresponding to the position of said retrieval means relative to said indicia means and for transmitting said position signals to said control means; wherein said indicia means include indicia for marking the location of each individual compartment; and wherein said control means further includes correction means for comparing the position signals produced in response to said indicia means to signals generated by said location signal generating means and for generating correction signals for correcting the position of said retrieval means to the extent necessary for properly aligning the retrieval means with each compartment for retrieving or replacing an article from or to said compartment. 2. A machine according to claim 1 wherein said retrieval means comprises a robotic arm apparatus comprising: a vertical track member; rotation drive means responsive to said control signals for revolving said vertical member about a given axis; a vertical lift member mounted for vertical axial movement on said vertical track member; vertical drive means responsive to said control signals for vertically moving said lift member relative to said vertical track member; article handling means mounted on said vertical lift member; horizontal drive means responsive to said control signals for extending and retracting said article handling means in a generally horizontal direction relative to said vertical lift member; and handling drive means responsive to said control signals for activating said article handling means to selectively engage and release one of said articles. 3. Apparatus according to claim 2 wherein said memory means retains information regarding the location of each said article within the machine, and, upon return of an article by a user, will automatically record the location to which said returned article is transported by said robotic arm apparatus. 4. Apparatus according to claim 2 wherein the user operated control means provides three distinct modes of operation, wherein the user may purchase the article, rent the article or return the article. 5. Apparatus according to claim 2 wherein said location signal generating means comprises angular position sensing means operatively associated with said rotational drive means for determining the angular position of said vertical track member and for providing corresponding angular position signals. 6. Apparatus according to claim 5 wherein said position sensing means comprises optical sensing means oriented for observing the rotational motion of said vertical track member and indicia means for quantifying said rotational motion. 7. Apparatus according to claim 5 wherein said vertical and rotational drive means comprise stepper motors and wherein said angular position sensing means include means for producing angular position signals corresponding to increments of rotation of each of said stepper motors. 8. Apparatus according to claim 6 wherein said indicia means include incremental markings located on said apparatus observable by said optical sensing means. 9. Apparatus according to claim 7 wherein said indicia means include incremental markings on said apparatus observable by said optical sensing means. 10. Apparatus according to claim 9 wherein said control means includes means for comparing the signals from said optical sensing means and said angular position signal producing means and for producing a malfunction signal in the event the two signals do not correspond to the same relative motion of said article handling means. 11. A machine according to claim 1 wherein each of said plurality of reusable articles is contained within a case; wherein said delivery chute has unique dimension; and wherein each said case has unique dimensions complementary with said delivery chute dimensions, such that any non-conforming case and/or articles cannot be introduced into the machine through said delivery chute. 12. A machine according to claim 11 and further including sensor means and rejecting means associated with said delivery chute for sensing and rejecting any article introduced thereto which does not have said unique dimensions of said case. 13. A machine according to claim 1 wherein said machine further includes a receipt printer operatively coupled with said memory means for printing receipts for customers upon rental and return of articles, said receipt printer and said memory means being further accessible by an authorized attendant for printing a table of contents of the articles inventoried in said machine for display upon said machine. 14. A machine according to claim 2, wherein said code reader means is mounted to said article handling means. 15. A machine according to claim 11 wherein said delivery chute is further provided with sensor means and means for activating said sensor means only in response to introduction into said delivery chute of a case having said unique dimensions for providing an indication that an acceptable article has been placed within the delivery chute. 16. A machine according to claim 1 wherein said retrieval means comprises a robotic arm apparatus comprising: a vertical track member; rotational drive means responsive to said control signals for revolving said vertical track member about a given axis; a vertical lift member mounted for vertical movement on said vertical track member; vertical drive means responsive to said control signals for vertically moving said lift member relative to said vertical track member; article handling means mounted on said vertical lift member; means responsive to said control signals for extending and retracting said article handling means in a generally horizontal direction relative to said vertical lift member; and means responsive to said control signals for activating said article handling means to selectively engage and release one of said articles. 17. Apparatus according to claim 5, wherein said location signal generating means comprises vertical position sensing means operatively associated with said vertical lift member for determining the vertical position thereof, and for providing corresponding vertical position signals. 18. Apparatus according to claim 17, wherein said vertical and rotational drive means comprise stepper motors and wherein said angular and vertical position sensing means include means for producing respective angular and vertical position signals corresponding to increments of rotation of each of said stepper motors in response to rotation thereof. 19. Apparatus according to claim 17, wherein said position sensing means comprises optical sensing means oriented for observing the vertical motion of said vertical lift member and indicia means for quantifying said vertical motion. 20. Apparatus according to claim 19, wherein said indicia means include incremental markings located on said apparatus and observable by said optical sensing means. 