A device for the generation of basic electrical signals which are supplied to a computerized processing complex for the operation of industrial robots. The system includes a stereo mirror arrangement for the projection of views from opposite sides of a visible indicia formed on a workpiece. The views are projected onto independent halves of the retina of a single camera. The camera retina is of the CCD (charge-coupled-device) type and is therefore capable of providing signals in response to the image projected thereupon. These signals are then processed for control of industrial robots or similar devices.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A stereo optical system for locating indicia on a workpiece, said system comprising: a camera means for receiving reflected images of said indicia, said camera means having a retina, and a lens spaced apart from said retina so as to focus said reflected images upon said retina; a pair of center mirrors, each of said center mirrors being disposed to reflect an image through said lens and upon one half of said retina; a pair of peripheral mirrors, each of said peripheral mirrors being disposed to reflect an angular image of said indicia upon one of said pair of center mirrors. 2. The stereo optical system set forth in claim 1 wherein said retina is a charge coupled device which converts the image reflected thereupon into electrical signals which are adapted for transmittal to selected computer, processing equipment for guidance and control of a robotic device. 3. The stereo optical system set forth in claim 2 wherein said electrical signals include gray scale signals whereby variations of shades of the reflected images may be reproduced and acted upon by said processing equipment. 4. The stereo optical system set forth in claim 2 wherein said system is adapted to receive selected ancillary components disposed between said peripheral mirrors whereby said mirrors may receive images of said workpiece without viewing interference from said ancillary components. 5. The stereo optical system set forth in claim 2 including artificial light means for illuminating said indicia. 6. The stereo optical system set forth in claim 5 wherein said light means comprises at least one laser illuminator. 7. The stereo optical system set forth in claim 6 wherein said light means comprises at least one laser illuminator located on each of opposite sides of said indicia on said workpiece. 8. The stereo optical system set forth in claim 7 wherein each said laser illuminator is located adjacent one of said peripheral mirrors. 9. The stereo optical system set forth in claim 6 wherein said light means comprises at least one said laser illuminator located above each of said peripheral mirrors, and at least one said laser illuminator located outwardly of each of said peripheral mirrors. 10. The stereo optical system set forth in claim 9 wherein each said laser illuminator located above each said peripheral mirror illuminates said indicia with a linearly structured beam. 11. The stereo optical system set forth in claim 9 wherein each said laser illuminator located outwardly of said peripheral mirrors illuminates said indicia with a diffused light. 12. The stereo optical system set forth in claim 9 wherein each said laser illuminator located above said peripheral mirrors illuminates said indicia with a linearly structured beam and, wherein each said laser illuminator located outwardly of said peripheral mirrors illuminates said indicia with a diffused light. 13. The stereo optical system set forth in claim 12 wherein a light filter is disposed between said lens and said pair of center mirrors for the passage only of light of predetermined desirable wave lengths. 14. A stereo optical system for locating indicia on a workpiece, said system comprising: a housing; a pair of peripheral mirrors disposed in spaced relation on said housing, each of said peripheral mirrors disposed for receiving and reflecting an image of said indicia; a pair of center mirrors, each of said center mirrors being disposed for receiving said reflected image from one of said spaced peripheral mirrors and for reflecting said received image; a camera means for receiving each said reflected image of said indicia from said center mirrors, said camera means having a retina and a lens spaced apart from said retina and disposed with respect to said center mirrors so as to focus one of said reflected images upon each one half of said retina. 15. The stereo optical system set forth in claim 14 wherein said housing is provided with a forward portion having a central portion and a pair of side portions disposed in angular relation with said central portion. 16. A stereo system set forth in claim 15 wherein said system is adapted to receive selected ancillary components. 17. A stereo system set forth in claim 16 wherein at least one of said ancillary components is located adjacent said central portion of said housing. 18. A stereo system set forth in claim 17 wherein each of said peripheral mirrors are mounted on said side portions whereby said peripheral mirrors are disposed to "look around" said ancillary equipment. 19. The stereo optical system set forth in claim 14 wherein said retina is a charge coupled device which converts the images reflected thereupon into electrical signals which are adapted for transmittal to selected computer, processing equipment for guidance and control of a robotic device. 20. The stereo optical system set forth in claim 19 wherein said indicia is illuminated by at least one laser illuminator. 