A robotic apparatus for automobile assembly includes a robot which moves in sequence to a plurality of different stations and performs an operation at each station based on information obtained from a video camera. The camera can pivot to form an image of each station. While the robot is performing an operation at one station, the camera is forming an image at a subsequent station. By the time that the robot finishes the operation at one station and moves to the subsequent station, the image formed by the camera at the next station has already been processed by a controller, and the robot can immediately begin to perform an operation at the subsequent station.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An assembly apparatus comprising: a plurality of discrete fixed stations; a robot which can move to each of the plurality of discrete stations in sequence to perform an operation on an object at each station; position recognition means for generating a discrete image containing positional information concerning an object at each discrete station; robot control means responsive to the position recognition means for controlling the robot to perform a discrete operation sequence on an object at each station based on positional information from the recognition means; and means for controlling the position recognition means to generate an image containing the positional information concerning an object at one of the stations while the robot is performing an operation at a previous station. 2. An assembly apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein the robot control means comprises means for moving the robot to a supply station to grasp a first object and to a mounting station to mount the first object on a second object. 3. An assembly apparatus as claimed in claim 2, further comprising supply means for supplying a first object to a supply position at the supply station where the first object can be grasped by the robot. 4. An assembly apparatus as claimed in claim 3, wherein the supply means comprises means for supplying a plurality of first objects one by one to the supply position, further comprising means for controlling the supply means to supply another first object to the supply position when the robot removes a first object from the supply position. 5. An assembly apparatus as claimed in claim 2, wherein the first object comprises an automobile wheel having stud holes formed therein and the second object comprises a vehicle body equipped with a wheel mounting portion having wheel mounting studs on which a wheel can be mounted. 6. An assembly apparatus as claimed in claim 5, wherein the robot includes a nut runner for driving nuts on the wheel mounting studs. 7. An apparatus as claimed in claim 6, further comprising a nut supplier for supplying a nut to the nut runner at the supply station. 8. An assembly apparatus as claimed in claim 5, wherein the position recognition means comprises a camera which can move between a first position in which it is aimed at a wheel at the supply position and a second position in which it is aimed at the wheel mounting studs of a vehicle at the mounting station. 9. An assembly apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein the plurality of stations includes a discrete fixed part supply station and discrete fixed part mounting station, and wherein the position recognition means comprises a video camera which is movable between a first position in which it is aimed at a first object at the supply station and a second position in which it is aimed at a second object at the mounting station. 10. An assembly apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein the plurality of stations includes a discrete fixed part supply station and a discrete fixed part mounting station, and wherein the position recognition means comprises a first video camera aimed at a first object at the supply station and comprises a second video camera aimed at a second object at the mounting station. 11. An automobile assembly apparatus comprising: a part supply station; a part mounting station; a conveyor for transporting vehicle bodies in sequence to the part mounting station; a part supplier for supplying a part to the part supply station; a robot movable between the part supply station and the part mounting station and equipped with a hand for grasping a part at the supply station and mounting the part on a vehicle body at the mounting station; image forming means for forming a discrete image of a part at the supply station and for forming another discrete image of a portion of the vehicle body on which the part is to be mounted at the mounting station; image processing means for processing an image formed by the image forming means to generate positional information; a controller including robot control means for controlling the position of the robot hand, based on the positional information from the image processing means, through a part supply operation at the supply station and through a part mounting operation at the mounting station, and including means for controlling the image forming means to form an image of a part of the supply station when the robot is performing a mounting operation at the mounting station and to form an image of a vehicle body at the mounting station when the robot is performing a part supply operation at the supply station. 12. A wheel mounting apparatus for mounting a wheel having stud holes on wheel mounting studs of a vehicle body, comprising: a wheel mounting station; a wheel supply station having a supply position; a conveyor for conveying automobile bodies in sequence to the mounting station; a wheel supplier for sequentially supplying wheels to the supply position at the supply station; a robot which is movable between the supply station and the mounting station and which is equipped with a movable hand for grasping a wheel and a plurality of nut runners mounted on the hand; a camera for forming an image of a wheel at the supply position of the supply station and for forming a separate image of the wheel mounting studs of a vehicle body at the mounting station; an image processor for processing an image formed by the camera to generate positional information; robot control means responsive to the image processor for controlling the hand of the robot when the robot is at the supply station to align the nut runners with the stud holes in a wheel at the supply position and for controlling the hand of the robot when the robit is at the mounting station to align the stud holes of the wheel which is grasped by the hand with the wheel mounting studs on the vehicle body; and camera control means for controlling the camera to form an image of a wheel at the supply position when the robot is at the mounting station and for forming an image of the wheel mounting studs on a vehicle body at the mounting station when the robot is at the supply station. 13. A robotic assembly method comprising the steps of: generating positional information concerning the object at a first fixed station; moving a robot to the first station and controlling the robot to perform an operation on an object at the first station based on the positional information; and generating positional information concerning an object at a discrete second fixed station separate from the first station while the robot is performing an operation at the first station. 14. An assembly method as claimed in claim 13, further comprising moving the robot to the second station and controlling the robot to perform an operation on the object at the second station based on the positional information concerning the object at the second station. 15. An assembly method as claimed in claim 13, wherein the steps of generating positional information each comprise forming an image of an object with a camera and processing the image to generate positional information. 16. An assembly method as claimed in claim 14, wherein: controlling the robot at the first station comprises controlling a hand of the robot to obtain a prescribed positional relationship between the hand and a first object at the first station and grasping the first object; and controlling the robot at the second station comprises controlling the hand of the robot to obtain a prescribed positional relationship between the first object grasped by the hand and a second object at the second station and mounting the grasped first object on the second object. 17. A robotic assembly method comprising the steps of: forming a discrete image with a cameral of stud holes of wheel at a discrete first fixed station and generating positional information concerning the stud holes; moving a robot to the first station after the positional information has been generated at the first station, controlling a hand of the robot to obtain a prescribed positional relationship between the hand and the stud holes based on the positional information, and grasping the wheel; forming a second discrete image with a cameral of wheel mounting studs on a vehicle body at a discrete second fixed station and generating positional information concerning the wheel mounting studs while the robot is at the first station; and moving the robot to the second station while grasping the wheel, controlling the hand of the robot to obtain a prescribed positional relationship between the stud holes of the wheel and the wheel mounting studs, and mounting the wheel on the wheel mounting studs based on the positional information concerning the wheel mounting studs. 