A permanently installed manufacturing system, to join together loose part sub-assemblies with quick change workstations and exchange tool transporters. The flexible manufacturing process involves the automatic, or manual, joining of loose components, regardless of the assembly technology used, the model mix required, or the type of product to be assembled. The system allows the utilization of interchangeable flex-tools, supported on various types of power and free transporters, that can be programmably controlled and automatically changes over. The system will accommodate batch runs, random runs, prototype runs, as well as synchronous and asynchronous operations.
Claims We claim: 1. A programmable manufacturing process for the production of a variety of models of products, said process being able to accommodate model mix and being adaptable to run prototype models without interrupting current product, the steps of the process comprising: asychronously transporting a plurality of workpieces along an endless track having a plurality of workstations positioned therealong, said workstations each having at least one automatically positionable tool for performing a manufacturing operation on said workpieces; preselectively controlling each of said workstations to select a manufacturing operation to be performed, including performing no manufacturing operation at all, thereby selecting a series of manufacturing operations to be performed on each workpiece as it is transported along said track, depending on the model of workpiece and the product to be manufactured; and simultaneously transporting the models of workpieces and performing the same or different series of operations on the models of workpieces so transported. 2. The process as recited in claim 1 including changing the tools at at least one predetermined workstation during the process without interrupting the production steps at that or other workstations. 3. The process as recited in claim 1 including adding additional workstations as the workpieces are being transported. 4. The process as recited in claim 1 including removing the workpieces from said track from a given work station forwardly. 5. The process as recited in claim 1 including supporting the parts to be worked on such that each is transported on a support and disposed in a vertical plane relative to said track. 6. The process as recited in claim 1 wherein at least one work station has a plurality of tooling for performing at least two different manufacturing operations and the process further includes the step of automatically selecting one of said plurality of tooling at each of said at least one work station to be positioned for performing a manufacturing operation on certain of said workpieces. 7. The process as recited in claim 6 including the automatic sequential selection of a plurality of tooling at at least one workstation to perform manufacturing operations upon at least one of said workpieces. 