An automated component placement device (100) includes an automated robotic transporter (108) that transports a component (106) into an illuminated area (104) on a translucent compliant surface (102) upon which components (104) are placed in a three dimensional orientation such that a silhouette of the components, leads, coplanar or non-coplanar are created on the translucent compliant surface (102) when the translucent compliant surface (102) is flexed. The position of silhouette of the component (106) is used to determine the orientation of the component held by the robotic transporter (108) to facilitate the placement of the component (106).
Claims We claim: 1. An automated or semi-automated component placement device, comprising: transporting means for transporting a component; means for providing an illuminated area; a translucent compliant surface within the illuminated area for locating a component in a three-dimensional orientation such that when the component contacts with the translucent compliant surface at least one surface thereto causes the translucent compliant surface to flex producing a silhouette of the component on the translucent compliant surface for use by the transporting means to facilitate a determination of the three dimensional orientation of the component. 2. The automated or semi-automated component placement device according to claim 1 wherein a three dimensional placement position is determined by the transporting means from the silhouette produced by the component on the translucent compliant surface. 3. The automated or semi-automated component placement device according to claim 1 wherein the placement position is determined in three dimensions by using a camera that produces an image which a microcomputer uses to determine the three dimensional orientation of the component to be placed. 4. The automated or semi-automated component placement device according to claim 1 wherein a coplanar component may be placed by pressing components onto the translucent compliant surface causing the translucent compliant surface to flex until a silhouette is formed for determining the three dimensional orientation of the coplanar component. 5. The automated or semi-automated component placement device according to claim 1 wherein a non-coplanar component may be placed by pressing non-components onto the translucent compliant surface causing the translucent compliant surface to flex until a silhouette is formed for determining the three dimensional orientation of the non-coplanar component. 6. An automated or semi-automated component placement device, comprising the steps of: (a) transporting a component onto a translucent compliant surface; (b) illuminating the translucent compliant surface for providing a silhouette of at least a portion of the component; (c) determining a three dimensional orientation of the component by pressing the component on the translucent compliant surface to flex the translucent compliant surface until the three dimensional orientation of the component may be determined from the silhouette. 