This invention relates to the field of computer controlled robotics. More specifically, it relates to a novel method and algorithm to symbolically decompose the robot jacobian matrix, in such a way that the robot jacobian Moore-Penrose pseudo-inverse is obtained symbolically even when the robot jacobian is ill conditioned or rank deficient, and to a general purpose computer and method to perform the symbolic steps. The resulting symbolic pseudo-inverse, after symbolic reduction techniques, is not only efficient from the point of view of number of floating point operations, but is also accurate (exact) and stable. It removes the restrictions imposed by the computational complexity of the jacobian pseudo-inverse, especially when the robot jacobian is ill conditioned (robot near/at singularities). This method is sufficiently fast to allow real time control of the robot and is sufficiently stable to allow good robot performance near singularities. In addition, the method presented in this invention is of special importance for the future design of prototypes of robot manipulators, as well as for robot trajectory planning.
Claims I claim: 1. A method for controlling motion of a robot which is capable of moving through and near singularities, given a corresponding robot Jacobian matrix, comprising the method steps: symbolically computing a robot Jacobian pseudo-inverse matrix for the robot Jacobian matrix, even when the Jacobian is rank deficient; sensing a set of data representative of a current joint configuration of the robot; computing a set of MMD (Megherbi Matrix Decomposition) diagonal values from the Jacobian pseudo-inverse matrix, based upon the sensed set of data, determining, from the sensed set of data, a minimum allowable MMD diagonal value, for each of said MMD diagonal value which is less than the determined minimum MMD diagonal value, substituting zero for the reciprocal of each such value occurring in the robot Jacobian pseudo-inverse matrix, thereby permitting robot motion only in allowable physical directions; computing a set of control signals from the robot Jacobian pseudo-inverse matrix for controlling further motion of the robot; and moving the robot in response to the set of control signals. 2. The method for controlling motion of a robot according to claim 1, wherein the step of computing the set of control signals from the robot Jacobian pseudo-inverse matrix for controlling further motion of the robot further includes determining a Cartesian speed at which the robot is to be moved at each point of its motion such that a maximum joint velocity physically realizable by the robot is not exceeded. 3. The method for controlling motion of a robot according to claim 1, wherein the step of computing the set of control signals from the robot Jacobian pseudo-inverse matrix for controlling further motion of the robot further includes determining a maximum Cartesian speed at which the robot is to be moved for a given constant robot joint velocity. 4. The method for controlling motion of a robot according to claim 1, wherein the step of computing the set of control signals from the robot Jacobian pseudo-inverse matrix for controlling further motion of the robot further includes determining a maximum Cartesian acceleration at which the robot is to be moved at each point of its motion such that a maximum joint actuator torque limit is not exceeded. 5. The method for controlling motion of a robot according to claim 1, wherein the step of computing the set of control signals from the robot Jacobian pseudo-inverse matrix for controlling further motion of the robot further includes damping and reducing robot joint velocities such that maximum joint velocities physically realizable by the robot are not exceeded, without decreasing a rate of convergence of the method of controlling robot motion near singularities. 6. The method for controlling motion of a robot according to claim 1, wherein the step of computing the set of control signals from the robot Jacobian pseudo-inverse matrix for controlling further motion of the robot further includes damping and reducing robot joint velocities such that maximum joint actuator torque limits are not exceeded, without decreasing a rate of convergence of the method of controlling robot motion near singularities. 7. A robot which is capable of moving through and near singularities, given a corresponding robot Jacobian matrix, comprising: sensing means for sensing a set of data representative of a current joint configuration of the robot; processing means for providing a set of control signals for controlling motion of the robot comprising: memory means for storing a symbolically computed robot Jacobian pseud-inverse matrix for the robot Jacobian matrix, even when the Jacobian is rank deficient; computing means responsive to the sensing means and memory means for computing a set of MMD (Megherbi Matrix Decomposition) diagonal values from the Jacobian pseudo-inverse matrix; determining means responsive to the sensing means for determining a minimum allowable MMD diagonal value; substituting means for substituting zero for the reciprocal of each of said MMD diagonal value occurring in the robot Jacobian pseudo-inverse matrix which is less than the determined minimum MMD diagonal value, thereby permitting robot motion only in allowable physical directions; and control means for computing the set of control signals from the robot Jacobian pseudo-inverse matrix; and means for moving the robot in response to the set of control signals. 8. A robot according to claim 7, wherein the control means further comprises means for determining a Cartesian speed at which the robot is to be moved at each point of its motion such that a maximum joint velocity physically realizable by the robot is not exceeded. 9. A robot according to claim 7, wherein the control means further comprises means for determining a maximum Cartesian speed at which the robot is to be moved for a given constant robot joint velocity. 10. A robot according to claim 7, wherein the control means further comprises means for determining a maximum Cartesian acceleration at which the robot is to be moved at each point of its motion such that a maximum joint actuator torque limit is not exceeded. 11. A robot according to claim 7, wherein the processing means further comprises means for damping and reducing robot joint velocities such that maximum joint velocities physically realizable by the robot are not exceeded, without decreasing a rate of convergence of the processing means for providing the set of control signals for controlling motion of the robot near singularities. 12. A robot according to claim 7, wherein the processing means further comprises means for damping and reducing robot joint velocities such that maximum joint actuator torque limits are not exceeded, without decreasing a rate of convergence of the processing means for providing the set of control signals for controlling motion of the robot near singularities. 