An elementary sensor for sensing a force comprises a transducer for transforming a mechanical deformation to an electric signal, and a first strain generative body (20) including a supporting portion (21) and a working portion (23) connected to the transducer so as to allow the transducer to produce a mechanical deformation on the basis of a displacement relative to the supporting portion of the working portion. By further adding a second strain generative body (30) including a fixed portion (31) fixed at least with respect to the direction of a force to be detected, and a displacement portion (33) connected to the working portion of the first strain generative body, wherein the displacement portion is constructed to produce a displacement based on a given external force relative to the fixed portion to transmit the displacement thus produced to the working portion of the first strain generative body, a force detector applicable to a wide variety of measurement ranges can be realized. Moreover, by allowing the displacement portion to be elongated, a detector suitable for measurement of both force and moment can be provided. In addition, a stylus (306) can be connected to the elementary sensor to apply it to a contact detector, and the elementary sensor can be affixed at the hand of a robot to apply it to a gripper for the robot.
Claims I claim: 1. A gripper for a robot comprising: a right finger member and a left finger member, a work being held between said right finger member and said left finger member; a right intermediate member and a left intermediate member; a hand member for movably supporting said right intermediate member and said left intermediate member; drive means for moving said right intermediate member and said left intermediate member with respect to said hand member; a right strain generative body made of metal having a supporting portion and a working portion, said supporting portion being fixed to said right intermediate member, said working portion being fixed to said right finger member, and said right strain generative body generating a strain based on a mechanical deformation caused by a displacement between said supporting portion and said working portion; a left strain generative body made of metal having a supporting portion and a working portion, said supporting portion being fixed to said left intermediate member, said working portion being fixed to said left finger member, and said left strain generative body generating a strain based on a mechanical deformation caused by a displacement between said supporting portion and said working portion; a right substrate made of semiconductor attached to said right strain generative body so that a strain generated by said right strain generative body is transmitted to said right substrate, said right substrate having a single crystal structure; a left substrate made of semiconductor attached to said left strain generative body so that a strain generated by said left strain generative body is transmitted to said left substrate, said left substrate having a single crystal structure; right resistance elements having a piezo resistance effect wherein electric resistance changes due to a mechanical deformation, said right resistance elements being formed on said right substrate; left resistance elements having said piezo resistance effect, said left resistance elements being formed on said left substrate; and means for detecting a condition for holding said work by measuring resistance values of said right resistance elements and said left resistance elements. 2. A gripper for a robot as set forth in claim 1 wherein the right strain generative body and the left strain generative body have a flexible portion located between the supporting portion and the working portion, a thickness in said flexible portion being thinner than that in said supporting portion and said working portion so as to obtain flexibility. 3. A gripper for a robot as set forth in claim 2 wherein the working portion is located in a central part of the strain generative body, the flexible portion being located in a peripheral part of said working portion and the supporting portion being located in a peripheral part of said flexible portion. 4. A gripper for a robot as set forth in claim 1 wherein the right resistance elements and the left resistance elements are arranged on the substrates in a way such that three axial components exerted to said substrates can be detected. 5. A gripper for a robot as set forth in claim 1 wherein the right resistance elements and the left resistance elements are arranged on the substrates in a way such that three dimensional forces and moments exerted to said substrates can be detected. 6. A gripper for a robot comprising: a right finger member and a left finger member, a work being held between said right finger member and said left finger member; a right intermediate member and a left intermediate member, said left intermediate member being connected to said left finger member; a hand member for supporting said right intermediate member and said left intermediate member, at least one of said intermediate members being movably supported as a movable member; drive means for moving said movable member with respect to said hand member; a strain generative body made of metal having a supporting portion and a working portion, said supporting portion being fixed to said right intermediate member, said working portion being fixed to said right finger member, and said strain generative body generating a strain based on a mechanical deformation caused by a displacement between said supporting portion and said working portion; a substrate made of semiconductor attached to said strain generative body so that a strain generated by said strain generative body is transmitted to said substrate, said substrate having a single crystal structure; resistance elements having a piezo resistance effect wherein electric resistance changes due to a mechanical deformation, said resistance elements being formed on said substrate; and means for detecting a condition for holding said work by measuring resistance values of said resistance elements. 7. A gripper for a robot as set forth in claim 6 wherein the strain generative body has a flexible portion located between the supporting portion and the working portion, a thickness in said flexible portion being thinner than that in said supporting portion and said working portion so as to obtain flexibility. 8. A gripper for a robot as set forth in claim 7 wherein the working portion is located in a central part of the strain generative body, the flexible portion being located in a peripheral part of said working portion and the supporting portion being located in a peripheral part of said flexible portion. 9. A gripper for a robot as set forth in claim 6 wherein the resistance elements are arranged on the substrates in a way such that three axial components exerted to said substrates can be detected. 10. A gripper for a robot as set forth in claim 6 wherein the resistance elements are arranged on the substrates in a way such that three dimensional forces and moments exerted to said substrates can be detected. 