A retractable tool bit assembly utilized in conenction with a robotic gripper type and end-effector. The apparatus includes one or more spring loaded nestable or telescoping tubular sections together with a catch mechanism for capturing and holding the tool, such as an allen key, in its retracted position. The innermost tubular section includes a threshold cap and engages and holds the tool. The catch mechanism consists of a slider type mechanism located adjacent a relatively larger outer base sction and includes means for engaging a conically or mushroom shaped rear end portion of the tool when the telescoping sections are moved to a retracted or parked position. The catch mechanism is released upon actuation of a rotary tool drive motor coupled to a circular mount and which holds the base section. When released all the telescoping sections including the tool extends fully outward to a use position.
Claims I claim: 1. A retractable tool bit assembly comprising: at least one rotatable outwardly protruding tool bit holder section; an elongated spring biased tool mounted for axial movement in and out of said holder section and having an inwardly retracted parked position and an outwardly extended use position, said tool further including a back end having a grippable rear end portion; a slider type catch mechanism located adjacent the tool bit holder section and including means for engaging said end portion of said tool when said tool is moved to said parked position and means for releasing said end portion upon rotational movement of said section whereupon said spring biased tool extends fully outward to said use position. 2. A retractable tool bit assembly comprising: a rotatable outwardly protruding base section; at least one coaxial spring biased telescoping extension section mounted for axial movement in and out of said base section; an elongated spring biased tool mounted for axial movement in and out of said extension section and having an inwardly retracted parked position and an outwardly extended use position, said tool further including an inner end having a grippable end portion; a slider type catch mechanism located adjacent the base section and including means for engaging said end portion of said tool when said telescoping extension section and said tool are moved to said parked position and means for releasing said end portion upon rotational movement of said base section whereupon said spring biased tool extends fully outward to said use position. 3. The tool bit assembly as defined by claim 2 wherein said means for engaging said end portion of said tool includes a spring biased block member rotatable with said base section and orthogonally translatable relative to a central longitudinal axis of said base section and said extension section and having an aperture offset from said axis for receiving and engaging said end portion, whereby inward movement of said tool causes said spring biased block member to slide sideways in response to contact with said end portion until said end portion extends into said aperture, said block member thereafter reversing direction and capturing said end portion until released by a subsequent rotation of said base section. 4. The tool bit assembly as defined by claim 3 wherein said means for releasing includes means for sliding said spring biased block member in a direction to bring said aperture into alignment with said central longitudinal axis in response to rotation of said base portion whereby the end portion of the spring loaded tool is freed and said tool and said extension section thereafter assume a fully extended use position. 5. The tool bit assembly as defined by claim 4 wherein said means for sliding said block member includes cam follower means located in an end portion of said block member away from said aperture and cam means engageable with said cam follower means located adjacent said block member, whereby rotational movement of the base section results in said cam means translating the block member and the aperture therein into alignment with said central longitudinal axis to release said tool. 6. The tool bit assembly as defined by claim 5 wherein said cam follower means comprises an angulated slot formed in said end portion of said block member. 7. The tool bit assembly as defined by claim 6 wherein said cam means comprises a finger member engageable within said slot. 8. The tool bit assembly as defined by claim 7 wherein said finger member comprises a spring biased outwardly extending finger member. 9. The tool bit assembly as defined by claim 5 wherein said tool and said extension section include means for linearly extending outward to and from said use position. 10. The tool bit assembly as defined by claim 9 wherein said means for linearly extending comprises a keyed linear slot located on an inside surface of said base section and said extension section and a keyed surface member and an outer surface of said extension section and said tool for respectively engaging said slots in said base section and said extension section. 11. The tool bit assembly as defined by claim 10 and additionally including a rotatably driven seat member supporting said base section and including a passage therein transverse to said central longitudinal axis supporting said spring biased block member. 12. The tool bit assembly as defined by claim 11 wherein said seat member is located in a base plate of a robotic gripper. 13. The tool bit assembly as defined by claim 11 and additionally including an outer cap member secured to extension section and having a central opening for the passage of said tool therethrough. 14. The tool bit assembly as defined by claim 11 wherein said grippable end portion of said tool comprises a conically shaped tip. 15. The tool bit assembly as defined by claim 14 wherein said conically shaped tip includes a flat rear end surface transverse to said central longitudinal axis for being engaged by said spring biased block member. 16. The tool bit assembly as defined by claim 11 wherein said base section and said at least one extension section are generally circular in cross section. 17. The tool bit assembly as defined by claim 11 wherein said tool comprises an allen key type member. 