An apparatus is provided which determines whether a member is placed correctly on a base. The apparatus comprises an arm mounted for movement toward and away from the base which normally holds the member in place on the base. The arm has a projection which extends a distance beyond the surface of the arm and toward the base. When the member is in a first or third position relative to the base, the projection makes contact with the member. When the member is in a second position relative to the base, the projection clears the member and is positioned in close proximity to the side of the base. The apparatus determines the position of the member by sensing with a photosensor a corresponding position of the arm displaced from the base. The displacement distance of the arm relative to the base is due to the distance that the projection extends beyond the surface of the arm.
Claims I claim: 1. An apparatus for sensing positions of a member relative to a base when the member is placed on the base comprising: an arm mounted to the base, the arm being movable in a direction toward and away from the base, the arm having a projection extending a distance beyond the arm in said direction of movement of the arm toward the base and being located on the arm so that the projection comes into contact with the member as the arm is moved toward the base to determine a first position of the member relative to the base and the projection is free from contact with the member as the arm is moved toward the base to determine a second position of the member relative to the base, wherein the member in its first position causes the arm to occupy a detectable displaced position relative to the base, the displaced position of the arm being substantially displaced from a nondisplaced position that the arm occupies when the member is in its second position, the displacement being directly related to the extending distance and location of the projection. 2. The apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising: a second arm disposed opposite to the arm, the second arm being mounted to the base and being movable in said direction toward and away from the base, the second arm having a second projection extending a distance beyond the second arm in said direction of movement of the second arm toward the base and being located on the second arm so that the second projection comes into contact with the member as the second arm is moved toward the base to determine a third position of the member relative to the base and the second projection is free from contact with the member as the second arm is moved toward the base to determine the second position of the member relative to the base, wherein the third position of the member causes the second arm to occupy a detectable displaced position relative to the base, the displaced position of the second arm being substantially displaced from a nondisplaced position that the second arm occupies when the member is in its second position, the displacement being directly related to the extending distance and location of the second projection. 3. The apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the arm and the second arm are integrally connected together and pivotally mounted to the base at one end of the arm and of the second arm. 4. The apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the arm is longer than the second arm, the longer portion of the arm being thicker and wider at an end opposite to the one end mounted to the base, the thicker and wider end having an end face for reflecting light from a photosensor. 5. The apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the arm is independently movable with respect to the second arm, each of the arm and the second arm being pivotally mounted to the base at one end of the arm and of the second arm. 6. The apparatus according to claim 5, wherein each of the arm and the second arm is thicker and wider at an end opposite to the one end mounted to the base, the thicker and wider ends each having an end face for reflecting light from a photosensor. 7. The apparatus according to claim 2, wherein said projection and second projection are integrally formed with said arm and said second arm. 8. The apparatus according to claim 7, wherein said arm and second arm having said projection and said second projection, respectively, are die casted from a metal. 9. The apparatus according to claim 8 wherein said metal is an aluminum alloy. 10. The apparatus according to claim 2, wherein said projection and said second projection are fixably connected to said arm and said second arm, respectively. 11. The apparatus according to claim 10, wherein said projection and said second projection are made from a machinable plastic. 12. The apparatus according to claim 10, wherein said projection and said second projection are made from a metal. 13. The apparatus according to claim 12 wherein said metal is an aluminum alloy. 