The present invention relates generally to a new carrier for holding and transporting semiconductor products, and more specifically, to a versatile product carrier for holding and transporting a plurality of products, such as, ceramic substrates, green sheets, wafers, glass and/or metal masks, rigid or floppy disks, to name a few. The modular or versatile product carrier usually has two symmetrical cross-bars and two symmetrical end plates. The two cross-bars securely link into the end plates thereby forming the versatile product carrier of this invention. A cover that can be used to cover the versatile product carrier is also disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A versatile product carrier comprising: (a) a first end plate having a plurality of columns linked by a first centerpiece, said first centerpiece having means for accommodating a product, (b) two or more linking means having an end, and further having a snapable retaining means at each said end, (c) a second end plate having a plurality of columns linked by a second centerpiece, said second centerpiece having means for accommodating a product, (d) each of said columns having at least one opening, to accommodate said snapable retaining means of said linking means, (e) said first end plate and said second end plate are linked together by said snapable retaining means by inserting said snapable retaining means of said linking means into said openings in said columns. 2. The versatile product carrier of claim 1, wherein at least one of said centerpiece has at least one opening. 3. The versatile product carrier of claim 1, wherein said centerpieces have at least one stop to vertically support said product. 4. The versatile product carrier of claim 1, wherein said centerpieces have at least one raised segment to vertically support said product. 5. The versatile product carrier of claim 1, wherein said versatile product carrier is made from molded plastic. 6. The versatile product carrier of claim 1, wherein said versatile product carrier is made from extruded plastic. 7. The versatile product carrier of claim 1, wherein said versatile product carrier is made from metal. 8. The versatile product carrier of claim 1, wherein said versatile product carrier is made by machining. 9. The versatile product carrier of claim 1, wherein said versatile product carrier is made from a composite material. 10. The versatile product carrier of claim 1, having at least one flat surface for placement or formation of an identifying code. 11. The versatile product carrier of claim 1, wherein at least one of said linking means has at least one rib. 12. The versatile product carrier of claim 1, wherein at least one of said linking means has at least one opening. 13. The versatile product carrier of claim 1, wherein at least one of said linking means has an upper arm and a lower arm. 14. The versatile product carrier of claim 13, wherein said upper arm is of a different length than said lower arm. 15. The versatile product carrier of claim 1, wherein at least one of said snapable retaining means is bonded into said opening in said columns. 16. The versatile product carrier of claim 1, wherein at least one of said snapable retaining means is welded into said opening in said column. 17. The versatile product carrier of claim 1, wherein at least one of said snapable retaining means is brazed into said opening in said column. 18. The versatile product carrier of claim 1, wherein a portion of at least one of said column is hollow. 19. The versatile product carrier of claim 1, wherein at least a portion of said versatile product carrier is coated with an overcoating. 20. The versatile product carrier of claim 19, wherein said overcoating is an antistatic coating. 21. The versatile product carrier of claim 1, wherein at least one said centerpiece is coated with an overcoating. 22. The versatile product carrier of claim 1, wherein at least one column has a track to mate with a corresponding centerpiece. 23. A cover for a versatile product carrier of claim 1, comprising: (a) a first side-wall and a second side-wall, and (b) a canopy linking said first side-wall with said second side-wall. 24. The cover for a versatile product carrier of claim 23, wherein said first side-wall further comprises a top side-wall. 25. The cover for a versatile product carrier of claim 23, wherein said second side-wall further comprises a top side-wall. 26. The cover for a versatile product carrier of claim 23, wherein at least one side-wall further comprises a ledge. 27. The cover for a versatile product carrier of claim 23, having at least one flat surface for the placement or formation of an identifying code. 28. The cover for a versatile product carrier of claim 23, wherein at least one side-wall has at least one opening. 29. The cover for a versatile product carrier of claim 24, wherein at least one means for connecting is provided to connect said first side-wall to said top side-wall. 30. The cover for a versatile product carrier of claim 25, wherein at least one means for connecting is provided to connect said second side-wall to said top side-wall. 31. The cover for a versatile product carrier of claim 23, wherein said canopy has at least one opening. 32. The cover for a versatile product carrier of claim 23, wherein said cover is made of a transparent material. 33. The cover for a versatile product carrier of claim 23, wherein said cover is made of a translucent material. 34. The cover for a versatile product carrier of claim 23, wherein said cover is made from plastic. 35. The cover for a versatile product carrier of claim 23, wherein said cover is made from molded plastic. 36. The cover for a versatile product carrier of claim 23, wherein said cover is made from extruded plastic. 37. The cover for a versatile product carrier of claim 23, wherein said cover ia made from metal. 38. The cover for a versatile product carrier of claim 23, wherein said cover is made from a composite material. 