A moldable plastic carrier for predictably and steadfastly locating the carrier and wafers therein upon wafer transfer equipment has an open top for insertion and removal of the wafers, a pair of opposed upright sidewalls with inner opposed ribs and wafer pockets therebetween for spacing and supporting the axially aligned wafers in the carrier. The carrier has a pair of opposed upright end walls with one upright end wall being indexable upon the transfer equipment. The one end wall has opposing transfer equipment to contact rails each with upper and lower portions. An arch is formed between the upper and lower portions thereby forming a 4-point contact with the transfer equipment.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A molded plastic carrier for wafers, the carrier being indexable upon a flat platform of wafer transfer equipment with indexing webbing on the platform, having an open top for insertion and removal of the wafers, a pair of opposed upright sidewalls with inner opposed ribs and wafer pockets therebetween for spacing and supporting the wafers in axial alignment in the carrier, one upright end wall with a horizontal indexing bar being indexable upon the webbing of the transfer equipment, comprised of opposing, upright transfer equipment contact rails each with upper and lower portions with an arch therebetween formed by an upright ramp along one of the portions of the rails one each rail thereby forming a four point flat contact between the carrier and platform of the transfer equipment. 2. The carrier of claim 1, wherein each of the contact rails have inner and outer edges that slope rearwardly from the inner edge to the outer edge. 3. The carrier of claim 2, wherein the four points of contact are at the inner edges of the upper and lower portions. 4. The carrier of claim 2, wherein the ramp is on each rail along the inner edge beginning at the upper portion and sloping toward the lower portion with the upper portion contact points being at the top of the ramps. 5. The carrier of claim 1, wherein the one end wall is H-shaped with an H-shaped flange and a horizontal indexing bar between the rails. 6. The carrier of claim 1, further comprising a robotic pick-up flange on the outside of the upper portion of each rail. 7. The carrier of claim 1, wherein each of the rails is substantially flat having an inner edge sloping rearwardly to an outer edge and a raised ramp forms the arch beginning at the upper portion and extending downward to intermediate of the upper and lower portions. 8. The carrier of claim 7, wherein the ramp becomes flush with the rail at the intermediate of the upper and lower portions. 9. The carrier of claim 8, where in the ramp is in a range of 0.010 to 0.020 inches high and extends to the lower portion between one and two inches. 10. The carrier of claim 9, where in the ramp is approximately 0.018 inches high. 11. The carrier of claim 8, wherein the ramp is approximately 0.06 inches wide. 12. A molded plastic carrier for wafers, the carrier being indexable upon a flat platform of wafer transfer equipment with indexing webbing on the platform, having an open top for insertion and removal of the wafers, a pair of opposed upright sidewalls with inner opposed ribs and wafer pockets therebetween for spacing and supporting the wafers in axial alignment in the carrier, one upright end wall with a horizontal indexing bar being indexable upon the webbing of the transfer equipment, comprised of opposing, upright transfer equipment contact rails each with upper and lower portions, an end surface; inner and outer upright side edges that slope rearwardly from the inner side edge to the outer side edge and a raised ramp projecting from said end surface along the inner side edge beginning at the upper portion and extending downwardly toward the flush with the end surface at said lower portion, thereby forming four points of flat contact between the carrier and the platform of the equipment at the inner side edges of the upper and lower portions. 13. A molded plastic carrier for wafers, the carrier being indexable upon a flat platform of wafer transfer equipment with indexing webbing on the platform, having an open top for insertion and removal of the wafers, a pair of opposed upright sidewalls with inner opposed ribs and wafer pockets therebetween for spacing and supporting the wafers in axial alignment in the carrier, one upright end wall with a horizontal indexing bar being indexable upon the webbing of the transfer equipment, comprised of opposing transfer equipment contact rails each with upper and lower portions and being substantially flat with an inner side edge sloping rearwardly to an outer side edge and a raised ramp beginning at the upper portion along the inner side edge and extending downward to intermediate of the upper and lower portions thereby forming four points of flat contact between the carrier and the platform of the equipment with two points of contact at the top of the ramps and the other two points of contact at the inner side edge of the lower portions. 