A video image monitoring system for simultaneously monitoring a plurality of video images associated with a plurality of concurrent video signals. The system includes a solid state display panel, such as a LCD, having a number of directly addressable subpanels, each of which is used to display a selected video image. A distributor couples each of the video signals to one of the subpanels. The distributor is programmably controlled by a controller. For video signals which are modulated onto carrier signals, demodulators are provided which have programmable selection ability.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A video image monitoring system for real-time, simultaneous monitoring of a plurality of video images associated with a plurality of concurrent video signals, comprising: a single display having a plurality of directly addressable subpanels within said single display, each capable of receiving a separate image for simultaneously displaying in real time those video images corresponding to selected ones of said plurality of video signals, said single display being composed of a matrix of subpanels where each subpanel is directly adjacent to another subpanel except at an edge of said single display; distribution means for receiving said video signals and for selectably coupling said video signals to said plurality of directly addressable subpanels within said single display; and control means for controlling the distribution means to couple predetermined ones of said video signals to said plurality of directly addressable subpanels within said single display. 2. The monitoring system of claim 1 wherein said single display is a solid state display having independently controlled and addressable subpanels for display of video images. 3. The monitoring system of claim 1 wherein said video signals are modulated onto carrier signals and wherein said distribution means includes demodulating means for demodulating said video signals from said carrier signals. 4. The monitoring system of claim 3 wherein said demodulating means includes demodulator circuits, each of which provide output demodulated video signals which are coupled to one of the subpanels of said single display, and wherein each of said demodulator circuits includes means for programmably selecting which of said modulated carrier signals are to be demodulated by that particular demodulator circuit. 5. The monitoring system of claim 3 wherein each of said video signals has associated therewith an audio signal and wherein said monitoring system includes means for selecting one of the audio signals, each of said directly addressable subpanels having a selectively actuable visual indicator for showing which audio signal has been selected for hearing and means for audibly presenting said selected audio signal. 6. The monitoring system of claim 1 wherein said distribution means includes a routing switcher means for selectably routing predetermined ones of said video signals to predetermined ones of said plurality of directly addressable subpanels. 7. The monitoring system of claim 6 wherein said control means includes programmable means for controlling said routing switcher means. 8. The monitoring system of claim 2 wherein said distribution means includes: receiving means for receiving a plurality of computer video data signals; routing switcher means for switching selected ones of said plurality of video data signals to predetermined output channels; video encoder means, having a number of input channels coupled to said output channels of said router switcher means, for converting said computer data signals to a signal format suitable for display on said solid state display; means for coupling the converted video data signals from said video encoder means to said solid state display. 9. The monitoring system of claim 8 wherein said receiving means receives a plurality of computer data signals associated with a plurality of video display terminals. 10. The monitoring system of claim 1 further including means coupled to the selected video signals displayed on said plurality of directly addressable subpanels of said single display for electronically processing said selected video signals. 