Methods and arrangements for automation of the masking process for spray painting and other material spray deposition. The methods provide masking simultaneous with the material spray to thereby eliminate additional mask application and removal processes. The arrangements provide non-contact masking and unused material recovery. Air curtain masking and solid non-consumable masking methods are provided.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of producing a non-contact mask for sprayed material comprising the steps of: providing at least one material spray; providing at least one moving air curtain mask; aiming said air curtain mask to apply a desired boundary to said material spray; transporting said spray and mask along predetermined paths relative to surfaces upon which material deposition of said sprayed material is to be applied with well defined boundaries; placing two-dimensional or three-dimensional machine vision sensors at multiple sites; maneuvering said moving mask by a robot using information from said vision sensors to maneuver the robot for establishing a desired mask line and to maintain an optimum distance between mask line and the mask. 2. A method of producing a non-contact mask for sprayed material comprising the steps of: providing at least one material spray; providing at least one moving rotary mask; aiming said material spray at a predetermined substantially oblique angle to said rotary mask to apply a desired boundary to said material spray; transporting said spray and mask along predetermined paths relative to surfaces upon which material deposition of said sprayed material is to be applied with well defined boundaries; placing two-dimensional or three-dimensional machine vision sensors at multiple sites; maneuvering said moving mask by a robot using information from said vision sensors to maneuver the robot for establishing a desired mask line and to maintain an optimum distance between mask line and the mask. 3. A method of producing a non-contact mask for sprayed material comprising the steps of: providing at least one material spray; providing at least one moving belt mask; aiming said material spray at a predetermined substantially oblique angle to said belt mask to apply a desired boundary to said material spray; transporting said spray and mask along predetermined paths relative to surfaces upon which material deposition of said sprayed material is to be applied with well defined boundaries; placing two-dimensional or three-dimensional machine vision sensors at multiple sites; maneuvering said moving mask by a robot using information from said vision sensors to maneuver the robot for establishing a desired mask line and to maintain an optimum distance between mask line and the mask. 