Electrical resistance spot welding is controlled by stopping the welding current upon detection of indentation of the work pieces by the electrodes. Indentation is detected indirectly by monitoring the deformation in one or both electrode holders. The piston of the welding gun cylinder is prevented from displacing in direct proportion to displacements of the electrodes during formation of the weld so that the squeezing force applied by the electrodes to the work piece, and therefore the deformation in the electrode holders, varies as a function of electrode displacements.
Claims I claim: 1. An electrical resistance spot welding apparatus that includes a welding gun having a pair of electrode holders, each electrode holder supporting an electrode, and having means for moving said electrode holders to move said electrodes into and out of squeezing engagement with a work piece, said apparatus comprising: a controllable source of electrical welding current coupled to said electrodes; means for continuously detecting the mechanical deformation in a work piece, said means for detecting further comprising a piezoelectric transducer mounted to at least one of said electrode holders, said piezoelectric transducer producing a continuous electrical signal indicative of said deformation; means for terminating said welding current, said means for terminating continuously receiving and monitoring said electrical signal from said piezoelectric transducer to immediately terminate the welding current when said electrical signal indicates the occurrence of indentation of the weld nugget; and means for unidirectionally locking said means for moving said electrode holders during thermal expansion and indentation of the work pieces at the weld sites during formation of the weld said means for locking mechanically connected to at lest one of said electrode holders to prevent said electrodes to move apart during said deformation. 2. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said means for continuously detecting the mechanical deformation comprises a piezoelectric transducer mounted to each electrode holder, said transducer producing a signal indicative of the deformation in the corresponding electrode holder and wherein said means for controlling is responsive to the sum of the signals. 3. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said piezoelectric transducer is affixed to each of said electrode holders at a location subject to deformation produced by a bending movement in said electrode holder generated by the expansion and contraction of the work piece and electrodes during the welding process. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein said means for moving further comprises a pair of hands, each of said pair of hands having one of said pair of electrode holders mounted therein, each said transducer being mounted to said electrode holder adjacent to the respective one of said pair of hands. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said means for moving said electrode holders comprises a cylinder and ram and wherein said means for locking is mounted within said cylinder. 6. An electrical resistance spot-welding method in which electrode holders of a welding gun are acted upon by a means for moving said electrode holders to apply a squeezing force to a work piece while electrical current is conducted between the electrodes through said work piece at a welding site, the method comprising the steps of: locking said electrode holders mechanically from movement apart during thermal expansion of the work piece at the weld site during the formation of the weld; measuring continuously the mechanical deformation in at least one of the electrode holders with a piezoelectric transducer; generating a continuous electrical signal indicative thereof; and stopping the supply of welding current to the electrodes when the signal indicates the occurrence of indentation. 7. The method according to claim 6 further comprising the step of detecting the deformation in both electrodes and generating a signal in response to each deformation and stopping the supply of welding current to the electrodes in response to the sum of the signals. 