A socket cleaning tool having a rotatable mandrel and a hollow elastomeric sleeve which seats on the mandrel is disclosed. The outer surface of the sleeve defines a plurality of wiper strips which extend substantially the length of the sleeve and which terminate at edges that are sized and shaped to contact and wipe the surface of a socket as the sleeve and mandrel are rotated in the socket to clean the socket.
Claims I claim: 1. A socket cleaning tool for cleaning frustoconically shaped sockets, said tool comprising: a mandrel; a generally hollow elastomeric sleeve for seating on said mandrel, said sleeve defining an inner surface for seatingly receiving said mandrel and an outer surface defining a plurality of wiper strips which extend substantially the length of said sleeve and which terminate at edges, said edges defining an imaginary frustoconical surface complementing that of a frustoconically-shaped socket so that said edges contact the surface of the socket; and grip facilitating means for facilitating gripping of said tool so that said mandrel and sleeve seated thereon can be rotated in unison in the socket to enable said wiper strips to wipe and clean the surface of the socket. 2. A socket cleaning tool as claimed in claim 1 wherein said inner surface of said sleeve is slightly smaller than the outer surface of said mandrel so that said sleeve is seated on said mandrel by stretching said sleeve over said mandrel, the stretching of which increases friction between said sleeve and said mandrel to prevent said sleeve from slipping on said mandrel when the tool is used to clean a socket. 3. A socket cleaning tool as claimed in claim 1 wherein the surface of the mandrel is textured to increase friction between said sleeve and said mandrel. 4. A socket cleaning tool as claimed in claim 1 further comprising adhesive located between said sleeve and said mandrel for adhesively securing said sleeve to said mandrel to prevent said sleeve from slipping on said mandrel when the tool is used to clean a socket. 5. A socket cleaning tool as claimed in claim 4 wherein said adhesive is a cyanoacrylic type adhesive. 6. A socket cleaning tool as claimed in claim 1 wherein said grip facilitating means includes an elongated base member which is rotatably attached to said mandrel so that said mandrel is capable of rotating about the longitudinal axis of said elongate member, said elongate member further including a self-contained power means for rotatively driving said mandrel. 7. A socket cleaning tool as claimed in claim 6 wherein said mandrel defines a cylindrical chamber for receiving a central shaft which is axially aligned with the longitudinal axis of said elongate member and driven by said self-contained power means. 8. A socket cleaning tool as claimed in claim 6 further comprising grip facilitating means including a disc-shaped flange member which extends from a central portion of said elongate base member and is coaxially aligned therewith, said flange member defining a V-shaped groove about its periphery for receiving the gripping elements of an automated tool changing mechanism. 9. A socket cleaning tool as claimed in claim 1 further comprising a retention knob assembly projecting outwardly from said mandrel and being axially aligned therewith, said retention device assembly having a knob at its free end for receipt in a retention member to hold the tool in place in a socket to be cleaned by said tool, said retention knob assembly further including adjustable spring means for adjusting the squeegee pressure of the wiper strips against surface of the socket, said retention knob assembly further including rotatable attaching means for rotatively attaching said retention knob assembly to said mandrel so that said mandrel is capable of being rotated relative to said retention knob assembly. 10. A socket cleaning tool as claimed in claim 1 wherein said sleeve and said wiper strips are integral. 11. A socket cleaning tool as claimed in claim 1 wherein said sleeve is provided with an odd number of wiper strips. 12. A socket cleaning tool as claimed in claim 1 wherein said sleeve is provided with five wiper strips. 13. A socket cleaning tool as claimed in claim 1 wherein said grip facilitating means includes a handle attached to said mandrel, said handle facilitating hand gripping of said tool by an individual. 14. A socket cleaning tool as claimed in claim 13 further comprising a cover for said handle. 15. A socket cleaning tool as claimed in claim 1 wherein said mandrel and said sleeve are frustoconically-shaped. 