This invention relates to a bobbin sorting and batch transfer apparatus which can collect a predetermined number of bobbins from vertically stacked storage racks each of which has a discharge port. A carriage is provided on which there are mounted one or more guide elements including vertical guides which can be juxtaposed proximate to the discharge ports. A chain drive bearing rollers is arranged to form holding bins or compartments which can be advanced in a planetary motion along the various guides. The rollers are spaced from the vertical guides to maintain the bobbins in equilibrium by arranging same to roll against the vertical guides, the rollers urging the bobbins to move through a closed loop path which can position any holding bin or compartment into proximate opposition to any discharge port in a given column of racks. Gates on the racks selectively release a bobbin wound with wires having specified characteristics into the selected bin or compartment, the chain drive being reversible to minimize distance traveled by any given bin or compartment to a discharge port. An ejection member is provided for ejecting all of the bobbins loaded onto the apparatus in a desired sequence independently of the manner or order in which the bobbins are initially placed into the holding bins or compartments.
Claims I claim: 1. Bobbin sorting and batch transfer apparatus for collecting a predetermined number of bobbins from a loading station having a plurality of storage locations arranged along a predetermined direction and each containing bobbins wound with wires having specified physical characteristics and each having a discharge port, and for discharging the collected bobbins in a predetermined sequence at an unloading station remote from the loading station, the apparatus comprising carriage means for moving between the loading and unloading stations; a plurality of serially arranged bobbin holding means 1 . . . n each mounted on said carriage means for movement along a closed path at least a portion of which is substantially parallel to said predetermined direction and for registry with any desired storage location when said carriage means is at the loading station and for receiving a single selected bobbin; gate means for enabling a single bobbin stored in a specified storage location and having a desired specified characteristic to be moved to a selected empty holding means n.sub.i in registry therewith; control and drive means for selectively positioning any bobbin holding means n.sub.i in registry with a desired discharge port of any storage location to thereby permit any assortment of up to n bobbins in any combination each to be independently and individually loaded into another selected bobbin holding means in any desired order, said bobbin holding, gate, control and drive means comprising sorting means thereby permitting the sorting of bobbins relative to each other within successive bobbin holding means to arrange the bobbin in a desired sequence relative to each other; and ejecting means for sequentially ejecting a bobbin from each of a plurality of sequentially arranged holding means l . . . n, whereby a batch of up to n bobbins can be dispensed in the desired sequence corresponding to a serial relationship of said holding means l . . . n independently of the manner in which the bobbins are initially placed into the individual ones of said holding means. 2. Apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein the bobbin storage locations are arranged in vertical columns within which the discharge ports are spaced a predetermined distance from each other, and wherein said holding means are spaced from each other along said path a distance which substantially corresponds to the predetermined distance of the discharge ports, whereby alignment of a holding means with a discharge port in one vertical column causes a plurality of holding means to be aligned with a like plurality of discharge ports in that column. 3. Apparatus as defined in claim 2, wherein the bobbins have a width defined by flanges upon which the bobbins can roll, each holding means having a width greater than the width of a bobbin to permit a bobbin to roll in and roll out of a bobbin holding means. 4. Apparatus as defined in claim 3, wherein said carriage means includes drive means for selectively driving said carriage to bring a column of holding means into alignment with one of the vertical columns of discharge ports, whereby after all the bobbins have been loaded from one column said carriage can be moved to other columns for selection of bobbins until all said holding means l . . . n have been loaded. 5. Apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein said holding means are arranged in a planetary configuration. 6. Apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein said carriage means includes guide means for forming a closed loop path in a generally vertical plane, bobbins placed in said holding means abutting against and rolling on said guide means as the bobbins move along said closed loop path, said holding means including bobbin support means for maintaining bobbins received within said holding means spaced from each other along said closed loop path predetermined minimum distances from each other. 7. Apparatus as defined in claim 6, wherein said control means includes drive means for advancing said support means along said closed loop path and urging bobbins within said holding means to follow said closed loop path. 8. Apparatus as defined in claim 7, wherein said guide means comprises two vertical guides spaced from each other in said vertical plane, inclined guides extending upwardly from each vertical guide meeting substantially midway between said vertical guides to bridge the same and provide an initial gradual incline and subsequently a gradual decline for a bobbin when moving from one vertical guide to the other vertical guide; and a lower guide spaced below said vertical guides, said drive means comprising a chain drive which follows said closed loop path, and sad support means comprising rollers mounted on said chain drive. 9. Apparatus as defined in claim 8, wherein said drive means comprises a plurality of sprockets arranged about said closed loop path to configure said chain drive into four portions including two substantially vertical chain portions and two horizontal chain portions, said vertical chain portions being spaced from associated vertical guides and said horizontal chain portions being above and proximate to said inclined and lower guides. 10. Apparatus as defined in claim 9, wherein said vertical chain portions are spaced from said vertical guides a distance to insure that bobbins supported by said rollers opposite said vertical guides are stable and urged by said rollers to roll against said vertical guides. 11. Apparatus as defined in claim 8, wherein said spacing between vertical guides and said lower guide is sufficient to permit bobbins to move on said lower guide below said vertical guides as the bobbins move along said closed loop path. 12. Apparatus as defined in claim 8, wherein said guides are configurated to insure that the bobbins always roll against at least one of said guides. 13. Apparatus as defined in claim 7, wherein said guide means comprises a vertical member having two opposing vertical guide surfaces spaced from each other in said vertical plane and having upper and lower ends, an upper arcuate guide surface bridging the upper ends of said vertical guide surfaces, and a lower guide surface spaced below said vertical member, said drive means comprising sprocket wheels mounted for rotation at said upper and lower ends of said vertical guide surfaces about rotation points proximate to said upper and lower ends of said vertical guide surfaces, and a chain drive cooperating with said sprocket wheels to configure arcuate portions of said path at said upper and lower ends of said vertical member, said lower guide surface generally conforming to said lower arcuate portion of said path and being spaced below said vertical member to permit bobbins to move on said lower guide surface below said vertical member as the bobbins move along said closed loop path. 14. Apparatus as claimed in claim 13, wherein said support means comprises rollers mounted on said chain drive which follows and is spaced from said guide surfaces to insure that bobbins supported by said rollers opposite said vertical guide surfaces are stable and urged by said rollers to roll against said vertical guide surfaces. 15. Apparatus as defined in claim 7, wherein said guide means comprises an internal vertical member having two opposing vertical guide surfaces spaced from each other in said vertical plane, upper and lower guide surfaces respectively bridging upper and lower ends of said vertical guide surfaces, and an external member enclosing said internal member and having an internal surface spaced from and substantially conforming to said guide surfaces on said internal member to form a closed channel about a periphery of said internal member having a width in said vertical plane at least equal to a diameter of flanges of the bobbins whereby the bobbins can roll in on their flanges along a direction in the vertical plane into and out of said bobbin holding means, said drive means comprising sprocket wheels mounted for rotation at the upper and lower ends of said internal vertical member about rotation points proximate to said upper and lower ends, and a chain drive cooperating with said sprocket wheels to configure arcuate portions of said path at the upper and lower ends of said internal vertical member, said external member being provided with a plurality of openings vertically aligned along said path, and cover means mounted for selectively opening said covers only when a bobbin is to pass through a selected opening, and for otherwise closing associated openings and serving as part of said guide means along which the bobbins roll during movement along said path. 16. Apparatus as defined in claim 15, wherein said support means comprises rollers mounted chain drive which is arranged to urge the bobbins to roll about said rollers and said internal surface of said external member substantially about the entire closed loop path. 17. Apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein said control means includes reversible drive means for moving any selected bobbin holding means into proximity with a desired discharge port from either direction along said path. 18. Apparatus as defined in claim 17, wherein said control means includes direction determining means for selecting a direction of movement along said path of a selected bobbin holding means into proximity with a desired discharge port which minimizes travel by a selected bobbin holding means thereby minimizing time required to align bobbin holding means and discharge ports for bobbin transfer. 19. Apparatus as defined in claim 18, wherein said direction determining means comprise a manually operated drive controller. 20. Apparatus as defined in claim 18, further comprising bobbin identifying means for identifying the storage locations in which specified bobbins are located; and automatic direction determining means for determining the direction of movement of a specified holding means by identification of the storage locations and as a function of an initial position of the specified holding means and a final position to which it is to be moved for bobbin transfer. 21. Apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein said predetermined direction is substantially vertical. 