A carrier system for facilitating the production of electrical assemblies with electrical components including a component carrier and a fixture for facilitating component insertion and removal with the carrier. The carrier comprises an open rectangular peripheral skirt with a transverse support plate for engaging a component housing. Spaced flexible bowed retaining arms extend across the peripheral skirt. Each arm has a clip extension for securing the component housing in the carrier. Central operating structures on each retaining arm facilitate movement between first and second positions. Slide tabs on each arm coact with the peripheral skirt to prevent rotation of the retaining arms during motion. Operating tabs are spaced at fixed positions relative to the peripheral skirt. Supporting plates interconnect each tab to a respective operating arm that is positioned within the peripheral skirt as a function of component housing size. The system also includes a fixture that deflects the operating tabs as a carrier moves through the fixture.
Claims What is claimed as new and desired to be secured by Letters Patent of the United States is: 1. A carrier for an electrical component with a planar housing of predetermined dimensions, said carrier comprising: A. first spaced parallel skirt means and second skirt means for connecting said first set of skirt means to form peripheral skirt means, B. planar support means for supporting the planar housing of the electrical component, said planar support means extending between said first skirt means at an intermediate plane through said peripheral skirt means thereby forming first and second cavities, C. retaining means between said first skirt means in said first cavity and spaced from said second skirt means for deflection between first and second positions, D. inwardly extending clip means on each of said retaining means for capturing the component housing when said retaining arm means are in the first position, and E. operating means on each said retaining means for facilitating the deflection of said retaining means from the first position to the second position. 2. A carrier as described in claim 1 wherein the retaining means comprises flexible arms. 3. A carrier for an electrical component as recited in claim 2 adapted for traveling along a central axis transverse to said first skirt means wherein each flexible arm bowed toward the central axis. 4. A carrier for an electrical component as recited in claim 1 wherein said second skirt means include means for forming a skirt cavity spaced from said retaining means and having a surface parallel to said planar base means and said retaining means includes slide tab means for moving over said parallel surface as said retaining means moves to the second position thereby to prevent twisting of said retaining means and said clip means. 5. A carrier for an electrical component as recited in claim 4 wherein said second skirt means additionally includes stop means at said skirt cavity for defining the second position with said slide tab means. 6. A carrier for an electrical component as recited in claim 1 wherein said operating means comprises operating tab means for receiving a force to move said retaining means to the second position and offset means connected to said retaining means and said operating tab means for positioning said operating tab means independently of the position of said retaining means and at a constant position relative to said peripheral skirt means. 7. A carrier for an electrical component as recited in claim 6 said offset means on each retaining means locate a corresponding one of said operating tab means at a different position relative to said retaining means and at a predetermined position with respect to said peripheral skirt means. 8. A carrier for an electrical component as recited in claim 6 wherein said second skirt means include means for forming a skirt cavity spaced from said retaining means and having a surface parallel to said planar base means and said retaining means includes slide tab means for moving over said parallel surface as said retaining means moves to the second position thereby to prevent twisting of said retaining means and said clip means. 9. A carrier for an electrical component as recited in claim 6 wherein said second skirt means additionally includes stop means for defining the second position with said slide tab means. 10. A carrier for an electrical component as recited in claim 6 adapted for traveling along a central axis transverse to said first skirt means wherein each of said retaining means bows toward the central axis. 11. A carrier for an integrated circuit in a pin grid array package characterized by a planar housing of predetermined dimensions and an array of depending terminals, said carrier being adapted for transport along an axis and comprising: A. first and second spaced parallel skirt means for forming a rectangular peripheral skirt means that defines the outline of said carrier, said first and second skirt means lying transverse to and parallel to the axis, respectively, B. planar support means for supporting the planar housing of the electrical component, said planar support means extending between said first skirt means at an intermediate plane through said peripheral skirt means thereby forming first and second cavities and having a plurality of apertures therethrough for receiving the terminals of the integrated circuit, C. flexible bowed retaining arm means attached to said first skirt means and spaced from said second skirt means in said first cavity for deflection between first and second positions, each said retaining arm means being bowed toward the axis, D. inwardly extending clip means on each of said retaining arm means for capturing the component housing when said retaining arm means are in the first position, and E. operating means on each said retaining arm means for facilitating the deflection of said retaining arm means from the first position to the second position. 12. A carrier for an electrical component as recited in claim 11 wherein said second skirt means include means for forming a skirt cavity spaced from said retaining arm means and having a surface parallel to said planar base means and said retaining arm means includes slide tab means for moving over said parallel surface as said retaining arm means moves to the second position thereby to prevent twisting of said retaining arm means and said clip means. 13. A carrier for an electrical component as recited in claim 12 wherein said second skirt means additionally includes stop means at said skirt cavity for defining the second position with said slide tab means. 14. A carrier for an electrical component as recited in claim 13 wherein said operating means comprises operating tab means for receiving a force to move said retaining arm means to the second position and offset means connected to said retaining arm means and said operating tab means for positioning said operating tab means independently of the position of said retaining arm means and at a constant position relative to said peripheral skirt means. 15. A carrier for an electrical component as recited in claim 14 said offset means on each retaining arm means locate a corresponding one of said operating tab means at a different position relative to said retaining arm means and at a predetermined position with respect to said peripheral skirt means. 16. A carrier for an electrical component as recited in claim 14 wherein said second skirt means include means for forming a skirt cavity spaced from said retaining arm means and having a surface parallel to said planar base means and said retaining arm means includes slide tab means for moving over said parallel surface as said retaining arm means moves to the second position thereby to prevent twisting of said retaining arm means and said clip means. 17. A carrier for an electrical component as recited in claim 14 wherein said second skirt means additionally includes stop means for defining the second position with said slide tab means. 18. A carrier for an electrical component as recited in claim 14 wherein said planar support means comprises a laminated plate with an insulating laminate for contacting the housing and terminals of the integrated circuit and a conductive laminate in said second cavity contacting said insulating laminate. 19. A carrier for an electrical component as recited in claim 14 wherein at least one of said second skirt means has bumper means attached thereto for absorbing shocks imparted along the axis, each such bumper means being attached to said second skirt means and being spaced therefrom. 20. A system for use in the assembly of electrical components having planar housings of predetermined dimensions, said system comprising: A. a carrier for each electrical component, said carrier including: i. first spaced parallel skirt means and second skirt means for connecting said first set of skirt means to form peripheral skirt means, ii. planar support means for supporting the planar housing of the electrical component, said planar support means extending between said first skirt means at an intermediate plane through said peripheral skirt means thereby forming first and second cavities, iii. flexible bowed retaining arm means between said first skirt means in said first cavity and spaced from said second skirt means for deflection between first and second positions, iv. inwardly extending clip means on each of said retaining arm means for capturing the component housing when said retaining arm means are in the first position, and v. operating means on each said retaining arm means for facilitating the deflection of said retaining arm means from the first position to the second position, B. means for transferring said carrier along an axis, and C. fixture means in line with said transfer means for facilitating the insertion and removal of an electrical component from a said carrier, said fixture means including: i. guide means for receiving said peripheral skirt means of a said carrier, and ii. means for engaging said operating means on each said retaining arm means for displacing said retaining arm means to the second position thereby to open said carrier for insertion and removal of the electrical component. 21. A system for use in the assembly of electrical components as recited in claim 20 wherein said guide means comprises a base plate means for support in said transfer means and spaced beam means parallel to the axis for engaging said peripheral skirt means and said engaging means comprises plate means on each said beam means for supporting depending lip means spaced above and transverse to said base plate means whereby said lip means engage said operating means on each said retaining arm means as a said carrier moves through said fixture means. 22. A system for use in the assembly of electrical components as recited in claim 20 wherein said operating means comprises operating tab means for contacting said lip means of said fixture means to move said retaining arm means to the second position and offset means connected to said retaining arm means and said operating tab means for positioning said operating tab means independently of the position of said retaining arm means and at a constant position relative to said peripheral skirt means and for positioning a corresponding one of said operating tab means at a different position relative to said retaining arm means whereby said fixture means engages said carriers for differently sized electronic components. 