An apparatus for rotatably moving and positioning an indexing table is disclosed. The apparatus of the present invention allows an indexing table to be quickly rotated between a plurality of index positions to within an accuracy of less than 0.001 inches on a repeated basis. Further, the apparatus has no looseness or physical separation between motion transmission elements while at or near each index position that would otherwise allow for externally induced movement of the indexing table. While at or near each index position, a first side of the cogs of a first planetary gear is kept in continual contact with the first side of the cogs of a main gear, and the second side of the cogs of a second gear is kept in continual contact with the second side of the cogs of a main gear. Also, a first interfacing portion of a first rotating drive mechanism is kept in continual contact with a first interfacing surface on the indexing table, and a second interfacing portion of a second rotating drive mechanism is in continual contact with a second interfacing surface on the indexing table. Thus, a drive arrangement is achieved that can drive the indexing table rotationally in either of two directions without any physical lag or looseness due to gear backlash while the indexing table is at or near each index position.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for moving an indexing table and stopping it at a plurality of precisely defined positions, said indexing table being intended for carrying at least one workpiece between said plurality of precisely defined positions so that work can be performed on said workpiece at at least one of said plurality of precisely defined positions; said apparatus comprising: a first gear mounted so as to be rotatably and translatably movable with respect to said indexing table said first gear having cogs at the perimeter thereof, said cogs having a first side and a second side; a second gear mounted so as to be rotatably and translatably movable with respect to said indexing table said second gear having cogs at the perimeter thereof, said cogs having a first side and a second side; a main gear having cogs intended for intermeshing with said cogs of said first and second gears; moving means for effecting translational motion of said first gear and said second gear with respect to said main gear; said first and second gears being interconnected such that translational movement of one effects corresponding translational movement of the other; wherein said first gear and said second gear are each engaged with a main gear, wherein said first gear and said second gear are caused to rotate about their respective center axes when moved translationally by said moving means; said first gear having a first interfacing portion that interfaces with said indexing table, with said first interfacing portion being located offset to the axis of rotation of said first gear; wherein said first interfacing portion interfaces with a first receiving surface on said indexing table and is in contact therewith on a continual basis at least in the vicinity of each index position; said second gear having a second interfacing portion that interfaces with said indexing table, with said second interfacing portion being located offset to the axis of rotation of said second gear; wherein said second interfacing portion interfaces with a second receiving surface on said indexing table and is in contact therewith on a continual basis at least in the vicinity of each index position; wherein a first side of said cogs of said first gear contact an opposed first side of said cogs of said main gear, said contact being such that is least one of said cogs of said first gear is in contact with at least one of said cogs of said main gear on a continual basis at least in the vicinity of each index position; and wherein a second side of said cogs of said second gear contact an opposed second side of said cogs of said main gear, said contact being such that at least one of said cogs of said second gear is in contact with at least one of said cogs of said main gear on a continual basis at least in the vicinity of each index position. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said indexing table moves rotationally. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said indexing table repeatedly moves said work pieces to said precisely defined positions with an accuracy of 0.001 inches. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said first gear, said second gear, and said main gear are spur gears. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said first gear, said second gear, and said main gear are helical gears. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said first and second gears have a gear ratio of 1:2 to said main gear. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said first and second gears have a gear ratio of 1:3 to said main gear. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said first and second gears have a gear ratio of 1:4 to said main gear. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said first and second gears have a gear ratio of 1:5 to said main gear. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said first and second gears have a gear ratio of 1:6 to said main gear. 11. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said first and second gears have a gear ratio of 2:3 to said main gear. 12. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said first and second gears have a gear ratio of 3:5 to said main gear. 13. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said first interfacing portion is located such that an axis passing therethrough and parallel to the axis of rotation of said first gear passes through the area of contact between said first gear and said main gear; and wherein said second interfacing portion is located such that an axis passing therethrough and parallel to the axis of rotation of said second gear passes through the area of contact between said second gear and said main gear. 14. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the effective radii of said first gear and of said second gear are the same and are one-half the effective radius of said main gear. 15. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the effective radii of said first gear and of said second gear are the same and are one-quarter the effective radius of said main gear. 16. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said moving means comprises a rotating drive shaft and at least one drive arm, wherein said drive shaft is centrally located between said first and second gears and said at least one drive arm interconnects said first and second gears to said drive shaft. 17. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said at least one drive arm comprises a first drive arm and a second drive arm displaced on opposite sides of said drive shaft to each other, said first drive arm interconnecting with said first gear and said second drive arm interconnecting with said second gear. 18. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein said at least one drive arm is a single drive arm extending outwardly from said drive shaft, said first and second gears interconnecting with said single drive arm. 19. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said first gear, said second gear, and said main gear are worm gears. 20. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said main gear has a substantially straight surface having cogs thereon for intermeshing with said first gear and said second gear. 21. An indexing table adapted for moving between and stopping at a plurality of precisely defined positions, said indexing table being intended for carrying at least one workpiece between said plurality of precisely defined positions so that work can be performed on said workpiece at at least one of said plurality of precisely defined positions; said apparatus comprising: a first gear mounted so as to be rotatably and translatably movable with respect to said indexing table said first gear having cogs at the perimeter thereof, said cogs having a first side and a second side; a second gear mounted so as to be rotatably and translatably movable with respect to said indexing table said second gear having cogs at the perimeter thereof, said cogs having a first side and a second side; a main gear having cogs intended for intermeshing with said cogs of said first and second gears; moving means for effecting translational motion of said first gear and said second gear with respect to said main gear; said first and second gears being interconnected such that translational movement of one effects corresponding translational movement of the other; wherein said first gear and said second gear are each engaged with a main gear, wherein said first gear and said second gear are caused to rotate about their respective center axes when moved translationally by said moving means; said first gear having a first interfacing portion that interfaces with said indexing table, with said first interfacing portion being located offset to the axis of rotation of said first gear; wherein said first interfacing portion interfaces with a first receiving surface on said indexing table and is in contact therewith on a continual basis at least in the vicinity of each index position; said second gear having a second interfacing portion that interfaces with said indexing table, with said second interfacing portion being located offset to the axis of rotation of said second gear; wherein said second interfacing portion interfaces with a second receiving surface on said indexing table and is in contact therewith on a continual basis at least in the vicinity of each index position; wherein a first side of said cogs of said first gear contact an opposed first side of said cogs of said main gear, said contact being such that is least one of said cogs of said first gear is in contact with at least one of said cogs of said main gear on a continual basis at least in the vicinity of each index position; and wherein a second side of said cogs of said second gear contact an opposed second side of said cogs of said main gear, said contact being such that at least one of said cogs of said second gear is in contact with at least one of said cogs of said main gear on a continual basis at least in the vicinity of each index position. 