An apparatus for connecting a cleaning tool to a robotic manipulator so that the tool can be used in contaminated areas on horizontal, vertical and sloped surfaces. The apparatus comprises a frame and a handle, with casters on the frame to facilitate movement. The handle is pivotally and releasibly attached to the frame at a preselected position of a plurality of attachment positions. The apparatus is specifically configured for the KELLY VACUUM SYSTEM but can be modified for use with any standard mobile robot and cleaning tool.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for attaching a cleaning tool to a robotic manipulator, said apparatus comprising: a frame; means for attaching said tool to said frame; and means for connecting said frame to said manipulator so that said tool can be used on a vertical, horizontal or sloped surface. 2. The apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein said connecting means releasably connects said frame to said manipulator. 3. The apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein said connecting means pivotally connects said frame to said manipulator. 4. The apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein said connecting means further comprises: a handle having a first end and a second end, said first end adapted to be gripped by said manipulator; and means for connecting said second end of said handle to frame. 5. The apparatus as recited in claim 4, wherein said connecting means is releasably connecting. 6. The apparatus as recited in claim 4, wherein said connecting means is pivotally connecting. 7. The apparatus as recited in claim 4, wherein said second end of said handle connects to one of a plurality of positions on said frame. 8. The apparatus as recited in claim 4, wherein said frame has at least two casters. 9. An apparatus for attaching a cleaning tool to a robotic manipulator, said apparatus comprising: a frame; a handle having a first end and a second end, said first end adapted to be gripped by said manipulator; means for connecting said second end of said handle to said frame; and means for attaching said tool to said frame. 10. The apparatus as recited in claim 9, wherein said connecting means releasably connects said second end of said handle to said frame. 11. The apparatus as recited in claim 10, wherein said connecting means pivotally connects said second end of said handle to said frame in a preselected position of a plurality of positions. 12. The apparatus as recited in claim 9, wherein said connecting means pivotally connects said second end of said handle to said frame. 13. The apparatus as recited in claim 9, wherein said connecting means connects said handle to said frame in a preselected position of a plurality of positions. 14. The apparatus as recited in claim 13, wherein said connecting means pivotally connects said second end of said handle to said frame. 15. The apparatus as recited in claim 9, further comprising casters. 16. The apparatus as recited in claim 9, wherein said attaching means releasably attaches said tool to said frame. 17. An apparatus for attaching a cleaning tool to a robotic manipulator, said apparatus comprising: a frame having two side members, a rear member, and a support member; a handle having a first end and a second end, said first end adapted to be gripped by said manipulator; means for releasibly connecting said second end of said handle to said support member; and means for attaching said tool to said side members so that said tool is carried between said side members. 18. The apparatus as recited in claim 17, wherein said connecting means connects said second end of said handle to said support member at a preselected position of a plurality of positions. 19. The apparatus as recited in claim 17, wherein said connecting means pivotally connects said second end of said handle to said support member. 20. The apparatus as recited in claim 17, wherein said frame further comprises casters. 