The apparatus of the present invention may be utilized for the automated bonding of electronic components to a circuit board. A placement and bonding head is attached to a manipulatable robotic arm and is utilized to select an electronic component having a plurality of conductive leads from a supply of such components and position that component adjacent a plurality of contact pads on a circuit board. While retaining the electronic component within the placement and bonding head, the component is then thermally bonded to the contact pads. In one embodiment of the present invention, an electronic component may be optically inspected while being retained within the placement and bonding head. In another embodiment, thermal bonding is accomplished utilizing a plurality of thermally activatable blades which each include a thermocouple mounted adjacent thereto. Selective low current control signals are then coupled to the placement and bonding head where transformers are utilized to amplify the current prior to coupling the control signal to individually thermally activatable blades. In yet another embodiment of the present invention, the placement and bonding head includes a plenum for supplying inert gas to the bonding site so that the use of flux is not necessary.
Claims We claim: 1. A system for placing an electronic component having a plurality of conductive leads onto a plurality of contact pads on a circuit board and bonding said electronic component thereto, said system comprising: a manipulatable robotic arm adapted to be selectively moved about within a work space containing a circuit board; a placement head selectively and temporarily mounted to said manipulatable robotic arm for placing an electronic component on said circuit board; means for selectively retaining said electronic component within said placement head; bonding means contained within said placement head for thermally bonding said electronic component to said circuit board while said electronic component is retained within said placement head, said bonding means comprising a plurality of thermally activatable blades fixedly mounted within said placement head adjacent to said plurality of conductive leads of said electronic component when said electronic component is retained within said placement head; and a plurality of thermal detectors, each of said plurality of thermal detectors mounted adjacent to an associated one of said plurality of thermally activatable blades. 2. The system for placing an electronic component having a plurality of conductive leads onto a plurality of contact pads on a circuit board and bonding said electronic component thereto according to claim 1, further including a plurality of control circuits, each control circuit coupled to one of said plurality of thermal detectors and an associated one of said plurality of thermally activatable blades for supplying current to a thermally activatable blade wherein the temperature of each of said plurality of thermally activatable blades may be individually controlled to compensate for variations in thermal conductivity in the vicinity thereof. 3. The system for placing an electronic component having a plurality of conductive leads onto a plurality of contact pads on a circuit board and bonding said electronic component thereto according to claim 2, further including a plurality of current amplification devices mounted within said placement head, each of said plurality of current amplification devices coupled to an associated one of said plurality of thermally activatable blades. 4. The system for placing an electronic component having a plurality of conductive leads onto a plurality of contact pads on a circuit board and bonding said electronic component thereto according to claim 3, wherein each of said plurality of control circuits provides a low level supply current to be coupled to said placement head and a selected one of said plurality of current amplification devices wherein said placement head may be selectively and temporarily mounted to said manipulatable robotic arm utilizing low current connections. 5. The system for placing an electronic component having a plurality of conductive leads onto a plurality of contact pads on a circuit board and bonding said electronic component thereto according to claim 3, wherein each of said plurality of current amplification devices mounted within said placement head comprises a transformer. 6. The system for placing an electronic component having a plurality of conductive leads onto a plurality of contact pads on a circuit board and bonding said electronic component thereto according to claim 5, wherein the primary of each of said transformers comprises a center-tapped torodial transformer coil. 7. The system for placing an electronic component having a plurality of conductive leads onto a plurality of contact pads on a circuit board and bonding said electronic component thereto according to claim 2, wherein the output of each of said plurality of control circuits comprises a pulse width modulated control signal wherein the amount of current provided to a selected one of said plurality of thermally activatable blades may be controlled by varying the pulse width of said pulse width modulated control signal. 8. A device for bonding an electronic component having a plurality of conductive leads to a plurality of conductive pads on a circuit board, said device comprising: a bonding head having a cavity adapted to receive an electronic component; a plurality of thermally activatable blades mounted within said bonding head adjacent to said cavity and adapted to bond a plurality of conductive leads to a plurality of contact pads upon activation thereof; a plurality of thermal detectors, each of said plurality of thermal detectors mounted adjacent to and associated one of said plurality of thermally activatable blades; and a plurality of control circuits, each control circuit coupled to one of said plurality of thermal detectors and an associated one of said plurality of thermally activatable blades for supplying current to a thermally activatable blade wherein the temperature of said plurality of the thermally activatable blades may be individually controlled to compensate for variations in thermal conductivity in the vicinity thereof. 9. The device for bonding an electronic component having a plurality of conductive leads to a plurality of contact pads on a circuit board according to claim 8, further including means for selectively maintaining an electronic component within said cavity. 10. The device for bonding an electronic component having a plurality of conductive leads to a plurality of contact pads on a circuit board according to claim 9, wherein said means for selectively maintaining an electronic component within said cavity comprises a vacuum chuck within said cavity and a selective source of vacuum adapted to be applied thereto. 11. The device for bonding an electronic component having a plurality of conductive leads to a plurality of contact pads on a circuit board according to claim 8, further including a plenum mounted within said bonding head adjacent to said plurality of thermally activatable blades and means for controlling the coupling of a supply of an inert gas to said plenum wherein said bonding may occur without the necessity of utilizing flux. 12. The device for bonding an electronic component having a plurality of conductive leads to a plurality of contact pads on a circuit board according to claim 11, wherein said supply of an inert gas comprises a supply of nitrogen. 