Gasket formed in place on a surface of an article by producing an initial elongated bead of a selected cross-sectional area and bringing a mold cavity having the same cross-sectional area into contact with the surface to produce the final shape of the bead on the surface.
Claims The invention having been thus described, what is claimed as new and desired to secure by Letters Patent is: 1. A method of forming a flexible gasket directly onto a surface of at least one part of a mating multipart article, comprising the steps of: (a) forming an elongated bead on a surface of at least one part of a mating multipart article of an extrudable thermoplastic mixture which is moisture curable to form a thermoset polymer, said polymeric material being extruded in a predetermined configuration and volume; (b) contacting said bead and said surface with a mold having a primary mold cavity of the same general configuration and volume as said bead, and the cross-sectional configuration and dimensions of the finished gasket, said contact resulting in a continuous gasket with no visible seam therein; and (c) exposing the shaped thermoplastic gasket to moisture thereby bringing about polymerization of said thermoplastic mixture which renders said mixture thermoset. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the gasket material is formed by combining a first and a second component at the time of formation of the bead, wherein the first component is a moisture curable polymer which, when exposed to moisture, becomes thermoset; and the second component is a non-crosslinked elastomer. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein: (a) the first component is a primary polymer having a polyester backbone and isocyanate end groups that are capable of chemically reacting with each other in the presence of moisture to form a derivative polymer having a longer than average chain length than said primary polymer, and (b) the second component is a non-crosslinked elastomer that is not substantially chemically reactive with itself or with said first component in the presence of moisture, wherein said first and said second components are intimately mixed to form said polymeric mixture; said polymeric mixture when maintained in the absence of moisture and other active hydrogen donor materials, is a readily extrudable and otherwise conventionally moldable thermoplastic composition, but which, upon exposure to moisture, becomes essentially thermoset. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein said second component is selected from the group consisting of styrene-isoprene-styrene block polymers, styrene-butadiene-styrene block polymers, isoprene homopolymer, and polyvinyl chloride, polyisobutylene, styrene-ethylene-butylene-styrene, and ethylene-propylene rubber. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein, when exposed to a relative humidity of 10% to 100% for at least 5 minutes, or when submerged in water at 0.degree. C. to 100.degree. C., the polymer mixture becomes an essentially thermoset elastomeric material. 6. A method of forming a flexible gasket directly onto a surface of at least one part of a mating multipart article, comprising the steps of: (a) extruding an elongated bead of an extrudable thermoplastic mixture which is moisture curable to form a thermoset polymer in a predetermined configuration and volume, said extruding being into a primary mold cavity which is one part of a mating multipart article of the same general configuration and volume as said bead and of the same general cross-sectional configuration and dimensions as the unfinished gasket, (b) contacting said bead with a surface of the multipart article, said contact resulting in a contiguous gasket with no visible seam therein; and (c) exposing the shaped thermoplastic gasket to moisture thereby bringing about polymerization of said thermoplastic mixture which renders said mixture thermoset. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein the gasket material is formed by combining a first and a second component at the time of formation of the bead, wherein the first component is a moisture curable polymer which, when exposed to moisture, becomes thermoset; and the second component is a non-crosslinked elastomer. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein: (a) the first component is a primary polymer having a polyester backbone and isocyanate end groups that are capable of chemically reacting with each other in the presence of moisture to form a derivative polymer having a longer than average chain length than said primary polymer, and (b) the second component is a non-crosslinked elastomer what is not substantially chemically reactive with itself or with said first component int he presence of moisture, wherein said first and second components are intimately mixed to form said polymeric mixture; said polymeric mixture when maintained in the absence of moisture and other active hydrogen donor materials, is a readily extrudable and otherwise conventionally moldable thermoplastic composition, but which, upon exposure to moisture, becomes essentially thermoset. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein said second component is selected from the group consisting of styrene-isoprene-styrene block polymers, styrene-butadiene-styrene block polymers, isoprene homopolymer, and polyvinyl chloride, polyisobutylene, styrene-ethylene-butylene-styrene, and ethylene-propylene rubber. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein when exposed to a relative humidity of 10% to 100% for at least 5 minutes, or when submerged in water at 0.degree. C. to 100.degree. C., the polymer mixture becomes an essentially thermoset eleastomeric material. 11. A method of forming a flexible gasket directly onto a surface of at least one part of a mating multipart article, comprising the steps of: (a) forming one part of a multipart article in a secondary cavity in a closed mold with a surface exposed to a primary mold cavity; (b) injecting an injectable thermoplastic mixture which is moisture curable to form a thermoset polymer in a predetermined configuration and volume, said injecting being into the primary mold cavity which comprises a second part of the mating multipart article and is of the cross-sectional configuration and dimensions as the finished gasket, (c) contacting said primary mold cavity with said surface, said contact resulting in a continuous gasket with no visible seam therein; and (d) exposing the shaped thermoplastic gasket to moisture thereby bringing about polymerization of said thermoplastic mixture which renders said mixture thermoset. 12. The method of claim 11 wherein the gasket material is formed by combining a first and a second component at the time of formation of the bead, wherein the first component is a moisture curable polymer which, when exposed to moisture, becomes thermoset; and the second component is a non-crosslinked elastomer. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein: (a) the first component is a primary polymer having a polyester backbone and isocyanate end groups that are capable of chemically reacting with each other in the presence of moisture to form a derivative polymer having a longer than average chain length than said primary polymer, and (b) the second component is a non-crosslinked elastomer that is not substantially chemically reactive with itself or with said first component in the presence of moisture, wherein said first and second components are intimately mixed to form said polymeric mixture; said polymeric moisture when maintained in the absence of moisture and other active hydrogen donor materials, is a readily extrudable and otherwise conventionally moldable thermoplastic composition, but which, upon exposure to moisture, becomes essentially thermoset. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein said second component is selected form the group consisting of styrene-isoprene-styrene block polymers, styrene-butadiene-styrene-styrene block polymers, isoprene homopolymer, and polyvinyl chloride, polyisobutylene, styrene-ethylene-butylene-styrene, and ethylene-propylene rubber. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein when exposed to a relative humidity of 10% to 100% for at least 5 minutes, or when submerged in water at 0.degree. C. to 100.degree. C., the polymer mixture becomes an essentially thermoset elastomeric material. 16. The method of claim 11 wherein the part of the multi-part article of step (a) is formed in situ. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein the gasket material is formed by combining a first and a second component at the time of formation of the bead, wherein the first component is a moisture curable polymer which, when exposed to moisture, becomes thermoset; and the second component is a non-crosslinked elastomer. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein: (a) the first component is a primary polymer having a polyester backbone and isocyanate end groups that are capable of chemically reacting with each other in the presence of moisture to form a derivative polymer having a longer than average chain length than said primary polymer, and (b) the second component is a non-crosslinked elastomer that is not substantially chemically reactive with itself or with said first component in the presence of moisture, wherein said first and second components are intimately mixed to form said polymeric mixture; said polymeric mixture when maintained in the absence of moisture and other active hydrogen donor materials, is a readily extrudable and otherwise conventionally moldable thermoplastic composition, but which, upon exposure to moisture, becomes essentially thermoset. 19. The method of claim 18 wherein said second component is selected from the group consisting of styrene-isoprene-styrene block polymers, styrene-butadiene-styrene block polymers, isoprene homopolymer, and polyvinyl chloride, polyisobutylene, styrene-ethylene-butylene-styrene, and ethylene-propylene rubber. 20. The method of claim 19 wherein when exposed to a relative humidity of 10% to 100% for at least 5 minutes, or when submerged in water at 0.degree. C., the polymer mixture becomes an essentially thermoset elastomeric material. 