A technique for preventing a stalled linear motor device from damage including monitoring accelerometer servos which generate signals representative of the difference between a command acceleration signal controlling the linear motor and the actual acceleration experienced by the linear motor device which signal represents the acceleration error and the direction of the error. The different signal is compared against programmed limits to develop a break-loose signal when the programmed limit (positive or negative) is exceeded. The break-loose signal is monitored as to duration, which duration is preprogrammed according to the dynamics of the system specifications presently in use. In the event that the break-loose signal exceeds the preprogrammed time limit, a latch is set, generating an interrupt signal applied to the computer control which immediately removes all motive power from the system and tests the latch to determine the source of the error, the latch remaining in the set state awaiting the computer test and being reset only after recognition by the computer.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for identifying a break-loose condition in a robotic system comprised of: a stator surface; at least one robot movable within a predetermined workspace along said stator surface responsive to motor step pulses and direction signals; means for controlling the movement of said robot according to a predetermined command value; acceleration detection means provided on said robot and movable therewith for generating a signal representing the acceleration of said robot in a predetermined linear direction; difference means for generating a difference value representing the difference between the command value and the acceleration signal representing the actual acceleration sensed by said acceleration detection means; means for comparing said difference value with a predetermined threshold level representing a safe linear acceleration limit, said comparison means including means for generating a break-loose signal when said threshold level has been exceeded; means for timing the duration of said break-loose signal including means for generating a system break-loose emergency signal when said break-loose signal has persisted for a predetermined time interval. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: means responsive to a break-loose emergency signal for removing all driving power from the robots in the system. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 further comprising means for storing the threshold level applied to said comparator means, said threshold level being a value which is related to the weight of the robot. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising means for storing the time interval of said timing means which is related to an actual break-loose condition of the robot. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising latch means normally maintained in a reset state and being driven to a set state by said system break-loose emergency signal for maintaining said set state indefinitely independently of the continued persistence of the break-loose signal. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 further comprising: means responsive to said set state for halting movement of all of said robots; and further including means for resetting said latch means to said reset state. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: comparator means having a first input for receiving said difference value and a second input for receiving said threshold level; means for generating a reference level related to the command value for moving the associated robot, said reference level being in digital form; digital to analog converter means for converting the reference level in digital form to an analog form signal which is applied to said comparator. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said timing means comprises: clock means; means responsive to said clock means and to the presence of a break-loose signal for counting clock pulses from said clock means; said counting means generating a break-loose emergency signal upon reaching a predetermined count of said clock pulses. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein said counting means further comprises: means for adjusting said predetermined count; and means coupled to said adjusting means for generating a binary signal for adjusting said predetermined count, said binary signal having a binary code format comprised of a plurality of binary bits. 10. Apparatus for identifying a break-loose condition in a robotic system, said means for comparing comprising: a stator surface; at least one robot movable within a predetermined workspace along said stator surface responsive to motor step pulses and direction signals; means for controlling the movement of said robot according to a predetermined command value; acceleration detection means provided on said robot; difference means for generating a difference value representing the difference between the command value and the actual acceleration sensed by said acceleration detection means; means for comparing said difference value with a predetermined threshold level, said comparison means including means for generating a break-loose signal when said threshold level has been exceeded; means for timing the duration of said break-loose signal including means for generating a system break-loose emergency signal when said break-loose signal has persisted for a predetermined time interval; first and second comparators for comparing said difference signal against first and second reference levels which establish the safe limits for a difference signal; said comparators generating a break-loose signal when said difference signal falls outside of its associated safe limit; and said timing means having an enabling input means for coupling the outputs of said comparators to said timing means enabling input. 11. Apparatus for identifying a break-loose condition in a robotic system comprised of: a stator surface; at least one robot movable within a predetermined workspace and along said stator surface responsive to step pulses and a direction signal; means for commanding the acceleration in mutually perpendicular directions of said robot according to a predetermined command value; first and second acceleration detection means provided on said robot for detecting acceleration in said mutually perpendicular directions; first and second difference means for respectively generating a difference value representing the difference between the command value and the actual acceleration sensed by said first and second acceleration detection means in each of said mutually perpendicular directions; means for comparing each of said difference values with predetermined threshold levels representing safe limits for each of said mutually perpendicular directions, said comparison means including means for generating a break-loose signal when the safe limit of at least one of said mutually perpendicular directions has been exceeded; means for timing the duration of said break-loose signal including means for generating a break-loose emergency system when said break-loose signal has persisted for a predetermined time interval. 12. The apparatus of claim 11 further comprising: means responsive to a break-loose emergency signal for removing all driving power from the robots in the system. 13. A method for monitoring a robot in a robot system for the potential of being damaged or misaligned and from damaging other objects within the work place, said robot being movable along a stator surface and in a common workspace populated by other robots and objects within the workplace, each robot having a driving motor means for moving the robot along said stator surface which is a substantially flat surface, said method comprising the steps of: establishing the safe limits of linear acceleration of a robot preparatory to commanding the movement of said robot according to the commanded acceleration and weight of the robot; applying a command signal to said motor means for commanding the movement of a robot; determining the actual linear acceleration of the commanded robot; determining the difference between said command signal and said actual acceleration; and determining if the difference signal falls within said safe limits. 14. The method of claim 13 further comprising the steps of: generating a break-loose signal when said difference signal falls outside of said safe limits; measuring the length of time that the break-loose signal persists; and generating an emergency interrupt signal if the break-loose signal persists for a period of time greater than a predetermined limit. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein said predetermined limit is preset preparatory to initiating a command signal and is a function of the desired acceleration and the weight of the robot together with any attachment secured thereto. 16. The method of claim 15 further comprising the steps of: generating clock pulses at a predetermined rate; counting said clock pulses when said break-loose signal is present; and comparing said count with said predetermined limit for generating said emergency interrupt signal when said count exceeds said predetermined limit. 17. The method of claim 16 further comprising: maintaining said emergency interrupt signal even in the event that the break-loose signal is no longer present; and removing said emergency interrupt signal responsive to decoupling of all power from all of the robots in the system responsive to an emergency interrupt signal. 18. A method for monitoring a robot in a robot system to determine its potential of being damaged or misaligned and from damaging other objects within the work place, said robot being movable along a stator surface in a common workspace populated by other robots and other fixed obstacles, each robot having a driving motor means for selectively moving the robot in mutually perpendicular directions along said stator surface which is a substantially flat surface, said method comprising the steps of: establishing the safe limits of acceleration of a robot in each of said mutually perpendicular directions preparatory to commanding the movement of said robot according to the commanded acceleration and weight of the robot; applying a command signal to said motor means for selectively commanding the movement of a robot in mutually perpendicular directions; independently determining the actual acceleration of the commanded robot in each of said mutually perpendicular directions; obtaining a difference value representing the difference between said command signal and said actual acceleration for each of said mutually perpendicular directions; and determining if the difference value for each of said mutually perpendicular directions falls within said safe limits. 19. The method of claim 18 further comprising the steps of: generating a break-loose signal when said difference signal falls outside of said safe limits; measuring the length of time that the break-loose signal persists; and generating an emergency interrupt signal if the break-loose signal persists for a period of time greater than a predetermined limit. 20. The method of claim 19 wherein said predetermined limit is preset preparatory to initiating a command signal and is a function of the desired acceleration and the weight of the robot together with any attachment secured thereto. 21. The method of claim 20 further comprising the step of: generating clock pulses at a predetermined rate; counting said clock pulses when said break-loose signal is present; and comparing said count with said predetermined limit for generating said emergency interrupt signal, when said count exceeds said predetermined limit. 22. Apparatus for identifying a break-loose condition in a robotic system comprised of: a stator having a planar surface; at least one robot movable within a predetermined workspace along said stator planar surface; said stator surface being formed of a magnetic material having grooves arranged in mutually orthogonal directions to define a pattern of teeth arranged in regular rows and columns; said robot including two dimensional linear motor means for generating electromagnetic signals cooperating with said stator teeth for moving said robot along said stator surface and within a predetermined workspace; means for commanding movement of said robot according to a predetermined command value; first and second acceleration detection means provided on said robot for producing acceleration signals in mutually perpendicular directions responsive to linear acceleration of said robot in associated directions; difference means for generating a difference value representing the difference between the command value and the actual linear acceleration signals sensed by each of said first and second acceleration detection means; means for providing predetermined threshold levels representing safe limits for acceleration of said robot in each of said mutually perpendicular directions, said safe limits being a function of the wight of said robot; difference means for generating a difference value representing the difference between the command value and the actual acceleration value sensed by each of said first and second acceleration detection means; means for comparing each of said difference values with said predetermined threshold levels; and means responsive to said means for comparing for generating a break-loose signal when its associated safe limit threshold level has been exceeded. 23. The apparatus of claim 22 further comprising: means for timing the duration of the break-loose signal including means for generating a system break-loose emergency signal when said break-loose signal has persisted for a predetermined time interval. 24. The apparatus of claim 23 further comprising: means for halting movement of said robot responsive to said system break-loose emergency signal. 