An electrical device comprises a three-dimensional body formed from an organic polymer and a plurality of electrical elements attached to the body. The body has a regular pattern of sockets in its surface, and the electrical elements have barbed appendages, or, alternatively, the body has appendages and the electrical elements have sockets. The elements are affixed to the body by insertion of the appendages into the sockets. Electrical connections between the electrical elements are formed by selective deposition of tungsten onto the surface of the body with a scanning laser beam. A miniature ("gnat") robot can be constructed using those constructional techniques.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A semiconductor die for attachment to a supportive structure, comprising a base of crystalline semiconductor material, microcircuitry formed integrally within said base and comprising dopants in selected regions of said base and conductive material electrically connecting the doped regions, at least one appendage of crystalline semiconductor material integral to said base and extending outwardly therefrom, said appendage being sized for insertion into a socket formed in said supportive structure. 2. A semiconductor die configured to be attached to a supportive structure, comprising a base of crystalline semiconductor material, microcircuitry formed integrally within said base and comprising dopants in selected regions of said base and conductive material electrically connecting the doped regions, at least one opening in said base of crystalline semiconductor material, said opening forming a socket for receiving an appendage mounted on said supportive structure. 3. The semiconductor die of claim 1 or 2 wherein said appendage has one or more retaining barbs and said barbs and socket are sized so that said appendages are retained in said socket. 4. The device of claim 1 further comprising structure forming a robot, said structure comprising a plurality of said semiconductor dies, each attached to said supportive structure by said appendages and sockets, at least one actuator device formed on one said semiconductor die, and an appendage connected to said actuator device so that it may be moved relative to said supportive structure. 5. An electronic device, said device comprising a supportive structure having a plurality of sockets arranged across at least one surface of said structure, and at least one semiconductor die comprising a base of crystalline material, microcircuitry formed in said base, at least one appendage of crystalline material integral to said base and extending outwardly therefrom, said appendage and sockets being sized and shaped so that said appendage may be inserted into each of said sockets and retained there, thereby permitting said die to be attached to said structure at a plurality of locations on said surface of said supportive structure. 6. An electronic device, said device comprising a supportive structure having a plurality of appendages arranged across at least one surface of said structure, and at least one semiconductor die comprising a base of crystalline material, microcircuitry formed in said base, at least one socket formed in said base of crystalline material, said appendage and sockets being sized and shaped so that each of said appendages may be inserted into said socket and retained there, thereby permitting said die to be attached to said structure at a plurality of locations on said surface of said supportive structure. 7. The device of claim 5 wherein said supportive structure comprises a laser molded body of organic polymer. 8. The device of claim 6 wherein said organic polymer is methyl-acrylate. 9. The device of claim 5 wherein there are a plurality of appendages integrally formed in said die and said appendages form a pattern, and wherein said sockets on said supportive structure are arranged in a pattern matching the pattern of said appendages at a plurality of locations. 10. The device of claim 4, wherein said supportive structure has a plurality of sockets arranged across a second surface of said structure, thereby permitting said die to be attached to said second surface of said structure at a plurality of locations. 11. The device of claim 6 wherein there are a plurality of sockets formed in said die and said sockets form a pattern, and wherein said appendages on said supportive structure are arranged in a pattern matching the pattern of said sockets at a plurality of locations. 12. The device of claim 6, wherein said supportive structure has a plurality of appendages arranged across a second surface of said structure, thereby permitting said die to be attached to said second surface of said structure at a plurality of locations. 13. A method of packaging electrical elements, comprising the steps of: forming a three-dimensional body from an organic polymer, attaching a plurality of electrical elements to surfaces of said body, and connecting said electrical elements by selective deposition of conductive material on the surface of said body. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein said attaching step comprises forming at least one socket in said body, forming barbed appendages in said electrical elements, said appendages being sized and shaped to fit into and be retained in said sockets, and inserting said barbed appendages into said sockets. 15. The method of claim 13 wherein said attaching step comprises forming at least one socket in each said electrical element, forming barbed appendages in said body, said appendages being sized and shaped to fit into and be retained in said sockets, and inserting said barbed appendages into said sockets. 16. A method of packaging electrical elements, comprising the steps of: forming a three-dimensional body, attaching a plurality of electrical elements to surfaces of said body, and connecting said electrical elements by selective deposition of conductive material on the surface of said body. 