This invention relates to methods and systems for characterizing the actions of drugs in cells. In particular, the invention provides methods for identifying multiple primary targets through which a drug, drug candidate, or other compound of interest acts on a cell. Thus, the invention also relates to methods for drug development based on the disclosed methods for identifying multiple primary targets of a drug. The methods of the invention involve: (i) measuring responses of cellular constituents to graded exposures of the cell to a drug of interest; (ii) identifying an "inflection concentration" of the drug for each cellular constituent measured; and (iii) identifying "expression sets" of cellular constituents from the distribution of the inflection drug concentrations. Each expression set corresponds to a particular primary target of the drug. The invention also provides computer systems which identify multiple targets of a drug by executing the disclosed methods.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for comparing a number of primary targets for two or more different drug compositions, said method comprising: (a) determining a number of primary targets of each drug composition according to a method comprising determining the number of expression sets wherein; (i) the expression sets each comprise a plurality of cellular constituents having similar inflection concentrations of the drug composition; (ii) the inflection concentration of the drug composition for a cellular constituent is the level of exposure to the drug composition at which the cellular constituent is increased or decreased by the drug composition in a drug response; and (iii) the drug response comprises measured amounts of the pluralities of cellular constituents in a cell of the cell type at a plurality of levels of exposure of said cell type to the drug composition, wherein each expression set indicates the presence of a different primary target of the drug composition in the cell type, and (b) comparing the number of primary targets determined for each drug composition. 2. the method of claim 1 wherein, the two or more drug compositions comprise the same drug. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the inflection concentration of the drug composition for the cellular constituent is the level of exposure to the drug composition at which the absolute slope of a plot of the measured amount of the cellular constituent in the drug response is maximum. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the inflection concentration of the drug composition for the cellular constituent is the level of exposure to the drug composition at which the measured amount of the cellular constituent in the drug response is one-half of its asymptotic value. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the measured amounts of cellular constituents in the drug response are interpolated. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the measured amounts of cellular constituents in the drug response are interpolated by spline fitting. 7. The method of claim 5, wherein the measured amounts of cellular constituents in the drug response are interpolated by model fitting to a parameterized function. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the parameterized function is a Hill function. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the inflection concentration of a cellular constituent for the drug composition is the inflection point parameter of the Hill function. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the expression sets are identified from a histogram of the inflection concentrations of the pluralities of cellular constituents, each of the expression sets corresponding to a mode in the histogram. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the modes in the histogram are identified by visual inspection of the histogram. 12. The method of claim 10, wherein the modes in the histogram are identified by an objective statistical test. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the objective statistical test is based on the Fisher Distance. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the objective statistical test based on the Fisher Distance is used to test for bimodality of the histogram. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the objective statistical test based on the Fisher Distance comprises determining the maximum Fisher Distance of the histogram, wherein values of the maximum Fisher Distance positively correlate with the levels of confidence that the histogram is bimodal. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the objective statistical test based on the Fisher Distance further comprises determining a confidence level for bimodality of the histogram, the confidence level being determined by a method comprising comparing the determined maximum Fisher Distance of the histogram to an empirical distribution of maximum Fisher Distance values for a hypothesis of unimodality. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the empirical distribution of maximum Fisher Distance values is a uniform distribution. 18. The method of claim 16, wherein the empirical distribution of maximum Fisher Distance values is a triangular distribution. 19. The method of claim 16, wherein the empirical distribution of maximum Fisher Distance values is a Gaussian distribution. 20. The method of claim 16, wherein the confidence level for bimodality of the histogram is further determined from the probability that the determined maximum Fisher Distance of the histogram is from a unimodal distribution. 21. The method of claim 20, wherein the probability is the fraction of the empirical distribution of maximum Fisher Distance values having values greater than the determined maximum Fisher Distance. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein the confidence level for bimodality of the histogram is the probability that the determined maximum Fisher Distance of the histogram is from a unimodal distribution subtracted from unity. 23. The method of claim 20, wherein the confidence level for bimodality of the histogram is the probability that the determined maximum Fisher Distance of the histogram is from a unimodal distribution subtracted from unity. 24. The method of claim 13, wherein the objective statistical test based on the Fisher Distance is used to test for levels of multimodality greater than bimodality. 25. The method of claim 24, wherein the objective statistical test based on the Fisher Distance comprises: (a) dividing the histogram into subintervals suspected of containing two modes; and (b) testing the subinterval of the histogram for bimodality. 26. The method of claim 1, wherein the cellular constituents comprise abundances of a plurality of RNA species. 27. The method of claim 26, wherein the measured amounts of the pluralities of cellular constituents in a cell of the cell type are obtained by a method comprising contacting one or more gene transcript arrays (i) with RNA, or with cDNA derived therefrom, from a cell of the cell type that is exposed to the levels of exposure to the drug composition, and (ii) with RNA, or with cDNA derived therefrom, from a cell of the cell type that is not exposed to the levels of exposure to the drug composition. 28. The method of claim 1, wherein the cellular constituents comprise abundances of a plurality of protein species. 29. The method of claim 28, wherein the measured amounts of the abundances of the plurality of protein species are obtained by a method comprising contacting an antibody array with proteins from a cell of the cell type, wherein the antibody array comprises a surface with attached antibodies, the antibodies being capable of binding with the plurality of protein species. 30. The method of claim 28, wherein the measured amounts of the abundances of the plurality of protein species are obtained by a method comprising performing two-dimensional electrophoresis of proteins from a cell of the cell type. 31. The method of claim 1, wherein the cellular constituents comprise activities of a plurality of protein species present in the cell type. 32. A computer system for comparing a number of primary targets for two or more different drug compositions, said computer system comprising: (a) a processor; (b) a memory coupled encoded by the memory, (c) one or more programs encoded by the memory, the one or more programs causing the processor to determine a number of primary targets of each drug composition and to compare the number of primary targets determined for each drug composition, wherein the number of primary targets of each drug composition is determined according to a method comprising determining the number of expression sets wherein (i) the expression sets each comprise a plurality of cellular constituents having similar inflection concentrations of the drug composition; (ii) the inflection concentration of the drug composition for a cellular constituent is the level of exposure to the drug composition at which the cellular constituent is increased or decreased by the drug composition in a drug response; and (iii) the drug response comprises measured amounts of the pluralities of cellular constituents in a cell of the cell type at a plurality of levels of exposure of said cell type to the drug composition, wherein each expression set indicates the presence of a different primary target of the drug composition in the cell type. 33. The computer system of claim 32, said system further comprising means for displaying the inflection concentrations of the drug composition. 34. The computer system of claim 32, said system further comprising means for displaying the expression sets. 35. The computer system of claim 32, wherein the inflection concentrations of the drug composition are in the memory. 36. The computer system of claim 35, said system further comprising means for inputting the inflection concentrations of the drug composition into the memory. 37. The computer system of claim 35, wherein the inflection concentrations of the drug composition are loaded into the memory by a user. 38. The computer system of claim 32, wherein the one or more programs encoded in the memory include drug response representation software. 39. The computer system of claim 32, wherein the one or more programs encoded in the memory include software components which determine inflection concentrations of the drug composition. 40. The computer system of claim 32, wherein the drug response is in the memory. 41. The computer system of claim 40, said system further comprising means for inputting the drug response into the memory. 42. The computer system of claim 40, wherein the drug response is loaded into memory by a user. 43. The computer system of claim 40, wherein the programs further cause the processor to determine the inflection concentrations of the drug composition. 44. The computer system of claim 32, wherein the inflection concentration of the drug composition for the cellular constituent is the level of exposure to the drug composition at which the absolute slope of a plot of the measured amount of the cellular constituent in the drug response is maximum. 45. The computer system of claim 32, wherein the inflection concentration of the drug composition for the cellular constituent is the level of exposure to the drug composition at which the measured amount of the cellular constituent in the drug response is one-half of its asymptotic value. 46. The computer system of claim 32, wherein the measured amounts of cellular constituents in the drug response are interpolated. 47. The computer system of claim 46, wherein the measured amounts of cellular constituents in the drug response are interpolated by spline fitting. 48. The computer system of claim 46, wherein the measured amounts of cellular constituents in the drug response are interpolated by model fitting to a parameterized function. 49. The computer system of claim 48, wherein the parameterized function is a Hill function. 50. The computer system of claim 49, wherein the inflection concentration of a cellular constituent for the drug composition is the inflection point parameter of the Hill function. 51. The computer system of claim 32, wherein the express ion sets are identified from a histogram of the inflection concentrations of the pluralities of cellular constituents, each of the expression sets corresponding to a mode in the histogram. 52. The computer system of claim 51, wherein the modes in the histogram are identified by visual inspection of the histogram. 53. The computer system of claim 51, wherein the modes in the histogram are identified by an objective statistical test. 54. The computer system of claim 53, wherein the objective statistical test is based on the Fisher Distance. 55. The computer system of claim 54, wherein the objective statistical test based on the Fisher Distance is used to test for bimodality of the histogram. 56. The computer system of claim 55, wherein the objective statistical test based on the Fisher Distance comprises determining the maximum Fisher Distance of the histogram, wherein values of the maximum Fisher Distance positively correlate with the levels of confidence that the histogram is bimodal. 57. The computer system of claim 56, wherein the objective statistical test based on the Fisher Distance further comprises determining a confidence level for bimodality of the histogram, the confidence level being determined by a method comprising comparing the determined maximum Fisher Distance of the histogram to an empirical distribution of maximum Fisher Distance values for a hypothesis of unimodality. 58. The computer system of claim 57, wherein the empirical distribution of maximum Fisher Distance values is a uniform distribution. 59. The computer system of claim 57, wherein the empirical distribution of maximum Fisher Distance values is a triangular distribution. 60. The computer system of claim 57, wherein the empirical distribution of maximum Fisher Distance values is a Gaussian distribution. 61. The computer system of claim 57, wherein the confidence level for bimodality of the histogram is further determined from the probability that the determined maximum Fisher Distance of the histogram is from a unimodal distribution. 62. The computer system of claim 61, wherein the probability is the fraction of the empirical distribution of maximum Fisher Distance values having values greater than the determined maximum Fisher Distance. 63. The computer system of claim 62, wherein the confidence level for bimodality of the histogram is the probability that the determined maximum Fisher Distance of the histogram is from a unimodal distribution subtracted from unity. 64. The computer system of claim 61, wherein the confidence level for bimodality of the histogram is the probability that the determined maximum Fisher Distance of the histogram is from a unimodal distribution subtracted from unity. 65. The computer system of claim 54, wherein the objective statistical test based on the Fisher Distance is used to test for levels of multimodality greater than bimodality. 66. The computer system of claim 65, wherein the objective statistical test based on the Fisher Distance comprises: (a) dividing the histogram into subintervals suspected of containing two modes; and (b) testing the subinterval of the histogram for bimodality. 67. The computer system of claim 32, wherein the cellular constituents comprise abundances of a plurality of RNA species. 68. The computer system of claim 67, wherein the measured amounts of the pluralities of cellular constituents in a cell of the cell type are obtained by a method comprising contacting one or more gene transcript arrays (i) with RNA, or with cDNA derived therefrom, from a cell of the cell type that is exposed to the levels of exposure to the drug composition, and (ii) with RNA, or with cDNA derived therefrom, from a cell of the cell type that is not exposed to the levels of exposure to the drug composition. 69. The computer system of claim 32, wherein the cellular constituents comprise abundances of a plurality of protein species. 70. The computer system of claim 69, wherein the measured amounts of the abundances of the plurality of protein species are obtained by a method comprising contacting an antibody array with proteins from a cell of the cell type, wherein the antibody array comprises a surface with attached antibodies, the antibodies being capable of binding with the plurality of protein species. 71. The computer system of claim 69, wherein the measured amounts of the abundances of the plurality of protein species are obtained by a method comprising performing two-dimensional electrophoresis of proteins from a cell of the cell type. 72. The computer system of claim 32, wherein the cellular constituents comprise activities of a plurality of protein species present in the cell type. 73. A computer program product for directing a computer in a computer-aided comparison of a number of primary targets for two or more different drug compositions, said computer program product comprising: computer code for determining a number of primary targets of each drug composition and for comparing the number of primary targets determined for each drug composition, wherein the number of primary targets of each drug composition is determined according to a method comprising determining the number of expression sets wherein (a) the expression sets each comprise a plurality of cellular constituents having similar inflection concentrations of the drug composition; (b) the inflection concentration of the drug composition for a cellular constituent is the level of exposure to the drug composition at which the cellular constituent is increased or decreased by the drug composition in a drug response; and (c) the drug response comprises measured amounts of the pluralities of cellular constituents in a cell of the cell type at a plurality of levels of exposure of said cell type to the drug composition, wherein each expression set indicates the presence of a different primary target of the drug composition. 74. The computer program product of claim 73, wherein the inflection concentration of the drug composition for the cellular constituent is the level of exposure to the drug composition at which the absolute slope of a plot of the measured amount of the cellular constituent in the drug response is maximum. 75. The computer program product of claim 74, wherein the inflection concentration of the drug composition for the cellular constituent is the level of exposure to the drug composition at which the measured amount of the cellular constituent in the drug response is one-half of its asymptotic value. 76. The computer program product of claim 73, wherein the measured amounts of cellular constituents in the drug response are interpolated. 77. The computer program product of claim 76, wherein the measured amounts of cellular constituents in the drug response are interpolated by spline fitting. 78. The computer program product of claim 76, wherein the measured amounts of cellular constituents in the drug response are interpolated by model fitting to a parameterized function. 79. The computer program product of claim 78, wherein the parameterized function is a Hill function. 80. The computer program product of claim 79, wherein the inflection concentration of a cellular constituent for the drug composition is the inflection point parameter of the Hill function. 81. The computer program product of claim 73, wherein the expression sets are identified from a histogram of the inflection concentrations of the pluralities of cellular constituents, each of the expression sets corresponding to a mode in the histogram. 82. The computer program product of claim 81, wherein the modes in the histogram are identified by visual inspection of the histogram. 83. The computer program product of claim 82, wherein the modes in the histogram are identified by an objective statistical test. 84. The computer program product of claim 83, wherein the objective statistical test is based on the Fisher Distance. 85. The computer program product of claim 84, wherein the objective statistical test based on the Fisher Distance is used to test for bimodality of the histogram. 86. The computer program product of claim 85, wherein the objective statistical test based on the Fisher Distance comprises determining the maximum Fisher Distance of the histogram, wherein values of the maximum Fisher Distance positively correlate with the levels of confidence that the histogram is bimodal. 87. The computer program product of claim 86, wherein the objective statistical test based on the Fisher Distance further comprises determining a confidence level for bimodality of the histogram, the confidence level being determined by a method comprising comparing the determined maximum Fisher Distance of the histogram to an empirical distribution of maximum Fisher Distance values for a hypothesis of unimodality. 88. The computer program product of claim 87, wherein the empirical distribution of maximum Fisher Distance values is a uniform distribution. 89. The computer program product of claim 87, wherein the empirical distribution of maximum Fisher Distance values is a triangular distribution. 90. The computer program product of claim 87 wherein the empirical distribution of maximum Fisher Distance values is a Gaussian distribution. 91. The computer program product of claim 87 wherein the confidence level for bimodality of the histogram is further determined from the probability that the determined maximum Fisher Distance of the histogram is from a unimodal distribution. 92. The computer program product of claim 91, herein the probability is the fraction of the empirical distribution of maximum Fisher Distance values having values greater than the determined maximum Fisher Distance. 93. The computer program product of claim 92, wherein the confidence level for bimodality of the histogram is the probability that the determined maximum Fisher Distance of the histogram is from a unimodal distribution subtracted from unity. 94. The computer program product of claim 91, wherein the confidence level for bimodality of the histogram is the probability that the determined maximum Fisher Distance of the histogram is from a unimodal distribution subtracted from unity. 95. The computer program product of claim 84, wherein the objective statistical test based on the Fisher Distance is used to test for levels of multimodality greater than bimodality. 96. The computer program product of claim 95 wherein the objective statistical test based on the Fisher Distance comprises: (a) dividing the histogram into subintervals suspected of containing two modes; and (b) testing the subinterval of the histogram for bimodality. 97. The computer program product of claim 73, wherein the cellular constituents comprise abundances of a plurality of RNA species. 98. The computer program product of claim 97, wherein the measured amounts of the pluralities of cellular constituents in a cell of the cell type are obtained by a method comprising contacting one or more gene transcript arrays (i) with RNA, or with cDNA derived therefrom, from a cell of the cell type that is exposed to the levels of exposure to the drug composition, and (ii) with RNA, or with cDNA derived therefrom, from a cell of the cell type that is not exposed to the levels of exposure to the drug composition. 99. The computer program product of claim 73, wherein the cellular constituents comprise abundances of a plurality of protein species. 100. The computer program product of claim 99, wherein the measured amounts of the abundances of the plurality of protein species are obtained by a method comprising contacting an antibody array with proteins from a cell of the cell type, wherein the antibody array comprises a surface with attached antibodies, the antibodies being capable of binding with the plurality of protein species. 101. The computer program product of claim 99, wherein the measured amounts of the abundances of the plurality of protein species are obtained by a method comprising performing two-dimensional electrophoresis of proteins from a cell of the cell type. 102. The computer program product of claim 73, wherein the cellular constituents comprise activities of a plurality of protein species present in the cell type. 