An articulated tracked vehicle that has a main section, which includes a main frame, and a forward section. The main frame has two sides and a front end, and includes a pair of parallel main tracks. Each main track includes a flexible continuous belt coupled to a corresponding side of the main frame. The forward section includes an elongated arm. One end of the arm is pivotally coupled to the main frame near the forward end of the main frame about a transverse axis that is generally perpendicular to the sides of the main frame. The arm has a length sufficiently long to allow the forward section to extend below the main section in at least some degrees of rotation of the arm, and a length shorter than the length of the main section. The center of mass of the main section is located forward of the rearmost point reached by the end of the arm in its pivoting about the transverse axis. The main section is contained within the volume defined by the main tracks and is symmetrical about a horizontal plane, thereby allowing inverted operation of the robot.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An articulated tracked vehicle comprising: a main section including a main frame having two sides and a front end, and including a pair of parallel main tracks coupled to a corresponding side of the main frame; and a forward section including an elongated arm having a proximal end and a distal end, the proximal end of the arm being pivotally coupled to the main frame near the forward end of the main frame about a transverse axis generally perpendicular to the sides of the main frame allowing continuous rotation of the arm about the transverse axis, the arm having a length sufficiently long to allow the forward section to pivot such that the forward section extends below the main section, and a length shorter than the length of the main section; wherein the vehicle includes a drive system for driving the main tracks to propel the vehicle in a first mode of locomotion, and for rotating the arm about the transverse axis to propel the vehicle in a second mode of locomotion. 2. The vehicle of claim 1 wherein the main section is contained within a volume defined by the main tracks, thereby allowing inverted operation of the robot. 3. The vehicle of claim 1 wherein the vehicle is configurable such that at a first adjusted angle between the main section and the forward section the forward section rises more than 7 inches above a plane formed by the main tracks, and at a second adjusted angle between the main section and the forward section, the length spanned by the combination of the main section and the forward section is greater than 26.1 inches, and wherein the center of gravity of the vehicle is located in a position so that the vehicle remains statically stable at the second adjusted angle when the vehicle is inclined at an angle corresponding to a rise of 7 inches in a horizontal run of 11 inches, whereby the vehicle is dimensioned for mounting a first stair and climbing a staircases with a rise of up to 7 inches and a tread of 11 inches per stair. 4. The vehicle of claim 1 wherein the forward section includes a second arm, also pivotably coupled to the main frame near the forward end of the main frame. 5. The vehicle of claim 4 wherein the center of mass of the main section is located forward of the rearmost point reached by the distal end of the arm in its pivoting about the transverse axis. 6. The vehicle of claim 5 wherein the drive system includes an articulator motor and the two arms are rigidly coupled and are rotated together by the articulator motor, the articulator motor providing sufficient torque between the main frame and the arms to raise the rear end of the main section thereby supporting the vehicle on the front section. 7. The vehicle of claim 6 wherein the drive system further includes a gear-reduction drive coupled between the articulator motor and the two arms and configured to provide a torque to the two arms greater than the torque provided to it by the articulator motor. 8. The vehicle of claim 6 wherein the drive system further includes a clutch coupled between the articulator motor and the two arms, wherein the clutch allows rotation of the arms without rotation of the motor if the torque between the arms and the main section exceeds a limit. 9. The vehicle of claim 4 wherein each arm is coupled to a different one of the two sides of the main frame. 10. The vehicle of claim 9 wherein the forward section includes a pair of flexible forward tracks one coupled to each of the two arms. 11. The vehicle of claim 6 wherein each of the two arms includes a forward track and the drive system is further for driving the forward tracks to propel the vehicle in a third mode of locomotion in which the entire vehicle is supported by the front section. 12. The vehicle of claim 7 wherein the gear-reduction drive includes a harmonic drive. 13. An invertible articulated tracked vehicle comprising: a main section including a main frame having two sides and a front end, and including a pair of parallel main tracks coupled to a corresponding side of the main frame; a forward section including a pair of elongated arms each having a proximal end and a distal end, the proximal ends of the arms being pivotally coupled to the main frame near the forward end of the main frame allowing rotation of the arms around a transverse axis that is generally perpendicular to the sides of the main frame, the forward section further including a pair of forward tracks one track coupled to each of the two arms; and on each side of the vehicle, a pair of drive pulleys for supporting and driving each of the main and forward tracks, respectively, the drive pulleys being coaxial with the transverse axis of rotation of the arms, and joined so that the main and forward tracks are driven together; wherein the main section is contained within a volume defined by the main tracks and the vehicle is configured to operate in two opposite vertical orientations. 14. The vehicle of claim 13 wherein the main section includes a pair of drive motors, each coupled to the main and forward drive pulleys on a corresponding side of the vehicle. 