The automated library system contains multiple independent robots for concurrently manipulating multiple media cartridges. The library system comprises a two-dimensional array that contains media cartridge storage cells and media cartridge players. A system of rails is used to guide robotic pods through all of the locations in the array, which eliminates the need for any steering or guide mechanism on board the robotic pods, resulting in a reduction in the mass of the robotic pods. The rail system also constrains the movement of the robotic pods into horizontal and vertical movements, thereby simplifying the control algorithms for collision avoidance that are required by a typical random moveable object handling system based on horizontal, vertical and diagonal degrees of freedom. The robotic pods contain a moveable carriage that is capable of transporting robotic components, such as media cartridge pickers, bar code reading devices, and other task oriented sub-modules, in the storage library rail system.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A media cartridge storage library system for the storage and retrieval of a plurality of media cartridges, comprising: a planar array comprising a plurality of media cartridge storage cells, each housing a single media cartridge, wherein said planar array comprises a plurality of media cartridge storage cells arranged in at least two rows, with said at least two rows being stacked in a vertical direction; a rail mechanism mounted on said planar array of media cartridge storage cells for providing a set of guide tracks that enable access to each of said plurality of media cartridge storage cells, wherein said rail mechanism comprises a plurality of guide rails, each arranged horizontally along a top side of a corresponding one of said rows, to support a plurality of robots; and said plurality of robots, each operable to move on said rail mechanism independent of others of said plurality of robots, to access said plurality of media cartridge storage cells. 2. The media cartridge storage library system of claim 1, further comprising: at least one elevator mechanism to transport at least one of the plurality of robots in a vertical direction row to row. 3. The media cartridge storage library system of claim 2, wherein said at least one elevator mechanism comprises: a vertically oriented set of guide rails, located proximate an end of said plurality of guide rails; an elevator platform mechanism operable to move on said vertically oriented set of guide rails for receiving a one of said plurality of robots; and an elevator drive mechanism to transport said elevator platform mechanism in a vertical direction from a first of said rows to a second selected one of said rows. 4. The media cartridge storage library system of claim 3, wherein said elevator platform mechanism comprises: a horizontally oriented set of guide rail segments positioned to align with two adjacent ones of said plurality of rail guides that are located at a top and a bottom of said selected one of said rows. 5. The media cartridge storage library system of claim 1, wherein each of said guide rails comprises: at least one containment groove formed in a side of said guide rail to receive guide rollers on said robots. 6. The media cartridge storage library system of claim 1, wherein each of said robots comprises: a media cartridge processing mechanism; and a robotic pod base mechanism for supporting said media cartridge processing mechanism and transporting said media cartridge processing mechanism along said rail mechanism to a selected one of said media cartridge storage cells. 7. The media cartridge storage library system of claim 6, wherein said robotic pod base mechanism comprises: at least one drive wheel for propelling each of said robots along said rail mechanism; a drive motor mechanism to drive said at least one drive wheel; and a wireless controller that activates said drive motor mechanism in response to commands received in a wireless mode of transmission. 8. The media cartridge storage library system of claim 7, wherein said robotic pod base mechanism comprises: a battery for providing a source of power for said drive motor mechanism. 9. The media cartridge storage library system of claim 6, wherein said media cartridge processing mechanism comprises: a media cartridge picker operable to remove a media cartridge from a selected one of said plurality of media cartridge storage cells. 10. The media cartridge storage library system of claim 6, wherein said media cartridge processing mechanism comprises: a media cartridge scanner operable to read media cartridge label data from a selected one of said plurality of media cartridges. 11. The media cartridge storage library system of claim 1, further comprising: at least one elevator mechanism to transport at least one of the plurality of robots in a vertical direction through said planar array. 12. The media cartridge storage library system of claim 1 wherein said planar array further comprises: at least one media cartridge player, responsive to receipt of a one of said plurality of media cartridges, for reading/writing data on a media housed within said one media cartridge. 13. A media cartridge storage library system for the storage and retrieval of a plurality of media cartridges, comprising: a planar array comprising a plurality of media cartridge storage cells, each housing a single media cartridge, wherein said planar array comprises a plurality of media cartridge storage cells arranged in at least two columns, with said at least two columns being stacked in a horizontal direction; a rail mechanism mounted on said planar array of media cartridge storage cells for providing a set of guide tracks that enable access to each of said plurality of media cartridge storage cells, wherein said rail mechanism comprises a plurality of guide rails, at least one guide rail arranged vertically along each side of a corresponding one of said columns, to support a plurality of robots; and said plurality of robots, each operable to move on said rail mechanism independent of others of said plurality of robots, to access said plurality of media cartridge storage cells. 14. The media cartridge storage library system of claim 13, wherein each of said guide rails comprises: at least one containment groove formed in a side of said guide rail to receive guide rollers on said robots. 15. The media cartridge storage library system of claim 13, wherein each of said robots comprises: a media cartridge processing mechanism; and a robotic pod base mechanism which supports said media cartridge processing mechanism and transports said media cartridge processing mechanism along said rail mechanism to a selected one of said media cartridge storage cells. 16. The media cartridge storage library system of claim 15, wherein said robotic pod base mechanism comprises: at least one guide wheel for guiding said robots along said rail mechanism; a cable gripper for selectively grabbing a cable that moves horizontally along a top of said at least two columns of media cartridge storage cells; and a wireless controller for activating said cable gripper in response to commands received in a wireless mode of transmission. 17. The media cartridge storage library system of claim 16, wherein said robotic pod base mechanism further comprises: a vertical guide roller brake for controlling movement of said robotic mechanism in a vertical direction from row to row. 18. The media cartridge storage library system of claim 16, wherein said robotic pod base mechanism comprises: a battery for providing a source of power for said cable gripper. 19. The media cartridge storage library system of claim 15, wherein said media cartridge processing mechanism comprises: a media cartridge picker operable to remove a media cartridge from a selected one of said plurality of media cartridge storage cells. 20. The media cartridge storage library system of claim 15, wherein said media cartridge processing mechanism comprises: a media cartridge scanner operable to read media cartridge label data from a selected one of said plurality of media cartridges. 21. A media cartridge storage library system for the storage and retrieval of a plurality of media cartridges, comprising: a planar array comprising a plurality of media cartridge storage cells arranged in at least two rows, with said at least two rows being stacked in a vertical direction; a rail mechanism comprising a set of guide rails that enable access to each of said plurality of media cartridge storage cells, at least one guide rail arranged horizontally along each side of a corresponding one of said rows, to support a plurality of robots; and said plurality of robots, each operable to move on said rail mechanism independent of others of said plurality of robots, to access said plurality of media cartridge storage cells. 22. The media cartridge storage library system of claim 21, wherein each of said guide rails comprises: at least one containment groove formed in a side of said guide rail to receive guide rollers on said robots. 23. The media cartridge storage library system of claim 21, wherein each of said robots comprises: a media cartridge processing mechanism; and a robotic pod base mechanism for sporting said media cartridge processing mechanism and transporting said media cartridge processing mechanism along said rail mechanism to a selected one of said media cartridge storage cells. 24. The media cartridge storage library system of claim 23, wherein said robotic pod base mechanism comprises: at least one drive wheel for propelling each of said robots along said rail mechanism; a drive motor mechanism to drive said at least one drive wheel; and a wireless controller that activates said drive motor mechanism in response to commands received in a wireless mode of transmission. 25. The media cartridge storage library system of claim 21, further comprising: at least one elevator mechanism to transport at least one of the plurality of robots in a vertical direction from row to row. 26. The media cartridge storage library system of claim 25, wherein said at least one elevator mechanism comprises: a vertically oriented set of guide rails, located proximate an end of said set of guide rails; an elevator platform mechanism operable to move on said vertically oriented set of guide rails for receiving a one of said plurality of robots; and an elevator drive mechanism to transport said elevator platform mechanism in a vertical direction from a first of said rows to a second selected one of said rows. 27. The media cartridge storage library system of claim 26, wherein said elevator platform mechanism comprises: a horizontally oriented set of guide rail segments positioned to align with two adjacent ones of said set of rail guides that are located at a top and a bottom of said selected one of said rows. 28. A media cartridge storage library system for the storage and retrieval of a plurality of media cartridges, comprising: a planar array comprising a plurality of media cartridge storage cells arranged in at least two columns, with said at least two columns being stacked in a horizontal direction; a rail mechanism comprising a set of guide rails that enable access to each of said plurality of media cartridge storage cells, at least one guide rail arranged vertically along each side of a corresponding one of said columns, to support a plurality of robots; and said plurality of robots, each operable to move on said rail mechanism independent of others of said plurality of robots, to access said plurality of media cartridge storage cells. 29. The media cartridge storage library system of claim 28, wherein each of said guide rails comprises: at least one containment groove formed in a side of said guide rail to receive guide rollers on said robots. 30. The media cartridge storage library system of claim 28, wherein each of said robots comprises: a media cartridge processing mechanism; and a robotic pod base mechanism for sporting said media cartridge processing mechanism and transporting said media cartridge processing mechanism along said rail mechanism to a selected one of said media cartridge storage cells. 31. The media cartridge storage library system of claim 30, wherein said robotic pod base mechanism comprises: at least one drive wheel for propelling each of said robots along said rail mechanism; a cable gripper for selectively grabbing a cable that moves horizontally along a top of said at least two columns of media cartridge storage cells; and a wireless controller that activates said drive motor mechanism in response to commands received in a wireless mode of transmission. 32. The media cartridge storage library system of claim 31, wherein said robotic pod base mechanism further comprises: a vertical guide roller brake for controlling movement of said robotic mechanism in a vertical direction from row to row. 