Surgical accessories are presented in vivo and used by surgical tools in the surgical site to perform additional tasks without the need to remove the tools from the surgical site for tool change or instrument loading. Examples of in vivo accessories include fastening accessories such as surgical clips for use with a clip applier, single working member accessories such as a blade which can be grasped and manipulated by a grasping tool for cutting, sheath accessories that fit over working members of a tool, flow tubes for providing suction or introducing a fluid into the surgical site, and a retraction member resiliently biased to retract a tissue to expose an area in the surgical site for treatment. The accessories can be introduced into the surgical site by a dedicated accessory introducer, or can be supported on the body of a surgical tool inserted into the surgical site and be manipulated using another surgical tool in the surgical site. The accessory introducer can be resiliently biased to bias the accessories toward a predetermined position in the surgical site.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of performing minimally invasive robotic surgery in a body cavity of a patient, the method comprising: introducing at least one surgical accessory into the cavity; introducing a robotic surgical tool into the cavity; and coupling the surgical accessory with the robotic surgical tool inside the cavity after introducing the surgical accessory and the robotic surgical tool into the cavity, wherein the surgical accessory is coupled with the robotic surgical tool by mating the surgical accessory with the robotic surgical tool to form a mated connection. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the robotic surgical tool is manipulated by a servomechanism from outside the cavity to couple the robotic surgical tool with the surgical accessory inside the cavity. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein the robotic surgical tool is connected with a robot arm which is disposed outside the cavity and robotically controlled to manipulate the robotic surgical tool. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the robotic surgical tool is a first robotic surgical tool, and wherein the surgical accessory is coupled with the first robotic surgical tool by introducing a second robotic surgical tool into the cavity and manipulating the surgical accessory with the second robotic surgical tool. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the at least one surgical accessory is introduced into the cavity through a cannula. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one surgical accessory includes at least one of a scalpel, a blade, a dissection finger, an electrode, a clip, a tube, and a hook. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the surgical accessory is supported by a surgical accessory support which is introduced into the cavity before the surgical accessory is coupled with the robotic surgical tool inside the cavity; further comprising decoupling the surgical accessory from the robotic surgical tool inside the cavity; and returning the decoupled surgical accessory to the surgical accessory support inside the cavity. 8. The method of claim 1, further comprising actuating a master control device located remotely from the patient to control the robotic surgical tool so as to cause the surgical accessory to interact with a portion of the patient's body. 9. A method of performing minimally invasive robotic surgery in a body cavity of a patient, the method comprising: introducing at least one surgical accessory into the cavity; introducing a robotic surgical tool into the cavity; and coupling the surgical accessory with the robotic surgical tool inside the cavity after introducing the surgical accessory and the robotic surgical tool into the cavity, wherein the at least one surgical accessory is introduced into the cavity supported by a surgical accessory support independently of a distal end effector of said tool, and is removable from the surgical accessory support within the cavity. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein the surgical accessory is coupled with the robotic surgical tool by grasping the surgical accessory with the robotic surgical tool. 11. The method of claim 10 further comprising actuating a portion of a master control device located remotely from the patient by a user to control the robotic surgical tool to grasp the surgical accessory. 12. The method of claim 9 wherein the surgical accessory support includes a container. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein the container includes a door, and wherein the method further comprises remotely manipulating the door between a closed position and an open position from outside the cavity. 14. The method of claim 9 wherein the surgical accessory support includes a block having a material which deflects to releasably secure one or more surgical accessories therein. 15. The method of claim 9 wherein the surgical accessory support is provided on the body of another robotic surgical tool introduced into the cavity. 16. The method of claim 9 wherein the surgical accessory support includes a cartridge releasably supporting a plurality of surgical accessories. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein the at least one surgical accessory includes a plurality of surgical clips supported on the cartridge, and wherein the robotic surgical tool comprises a clip applier, the method further comprising sequentially loading the surgical clips in the clip applier within the cavity and affixing the loaded clips to a target tissue with the clip applier. 18. The method of claim 9 wherein the at least one surgical accessory includes at least one of a scalpel, a blade, a dissection finger, an electrode, a clip, a tube, and a hook. 19. The method of claim 9 further comprising decoupling the surgical accessory from the robotic surgical tool inside the cavity. 20. The method of claim 19 wherein the surgical accessory is supported by a surgical accessory support which is introduced into the cavity before the surgical accessory is coupled with the robotic surgical tool inside the cavity, and wherein the decoupled surgical accessory is returned to the surgical accessory support inside the cavity. 21. The method of claim 19 wherein a plurality of surgical accessories are introduced into the cavity, the method further comprising coupling another surgical accessory inside the cavity with the robotic surgical tool after the decoupling step. 22. The method of claim 9 further comprising: manipulating the robotic surgical tool from outside the patient's body to position the surgical accessory within the body cavity; and causing the surgical accessory to interact with a portion of the body cavity. 23. The method of claim 22 wherein the surgical accessory is caused to interact with a portion of the body cavity by a user actuating the accessory from outside the patient's body. 24. The method of claim 9, wherein said robotic surgical tool is a first robotic surgical tool, and wherein the surgical accessory is coupled with the first robotic surgical tool by introducing a second robotic surgical tool into the cavity and manipulating the surgical accessory with the second robotic surgical tool. 25. A method of performing a minimally invasive robotic surgical procedure in a body cavity of a patient, the method comprising: introducing at least one surgical accessory into the cavity; introducing a robotic surgical tool into the cavity; and coupling the surgical accessory with the robotic surgical tool inside the cavity after introducing the surgical accessory and the robotic surgical tool into the cavity, wherein the surgical accessory is introduced into the cavity through an opening in a cavity wall by connecting the surgical accessory with a distal portion of an extension line and inserting the surgical accessory and the distal portion of the extension line into the cavity through the cavity wall, the surgical accessory being movable between a first position close to the opening and a second position away from the opening during the course of the surgical procedure. 26. The method of claim 25 wherein the surgical accessory is resiliently biased toward the first position. 27. The method of claim 25 wherein the accessory is introduced supported by a surgical accessory support, said support being connected to said extension line. 28. A method of performing minimally invasive robotic surgery in a body cavity of a patient, the method comprising: introducing at least one surgical accessory into the cavity; introducing a robotic surgical tool into the cavity; and coupling the surgical accessory with the robotic surgical tool inside the cavity after introducing the surgical accessory and the robotic surgical tool into the cavity, wherein the surgical accessory comprises a tool tip which is releasably mounted to a working member of the robotic surgical tool to form a tool tip of the tool. 29. The method of claim 28 wherein the tool tip comprises one of a scalpel, a blade, a dissection finger, an electrode, and a hook. 30. A method of performing minimally invasive robotic surgery in a body cavity of a patient, the method comprising: introducing at least one surgical accessory into the cavity; introducing a robotic surgical tool into the cavity; and coupling the surgical accessory with the robotic surgical tool inside the cavity after introducing the surgical accessory and the robotic surgical tool into the cavity, wherein the surgical accessory comprises at least one tool tip which is releasably coupled with a working member of the robotic surgical tool to form a tool tip of the tool; and wherein the robotic surgical tool includes a pair of working members and the at least one tool tip includes a pair of tool tips are releasably coupled with the pair of working members of the robotic surgical tool to form tool tips of the tool. 31. The method of claim 30 wherein the pair of tool tips includes at least one of forceps tips, scissors blades, grasper tips, needle holder tips, clamp members, stapler members and clip applier members. 32. A method of performing minimally invasive robotic surgery in a body cavity of a patient, the method comprising: introducing at least one surgical accessory into the cavity; introducing a robotic surgical tool into the cavity; and coupling the surgical accessory with the robotic surgical tool inside the cavity after introducing the surgical accessory and the robotic surgical tool into the cavity, wherein the surgical accessory comprises a sheath which is releasably coupled with the robotic surgical tool. 33. The method of claim 32 wherein at least a portion of the sheath is comprised of at least one of a resilient material, an elastomeric material and an electrically insulating material. 34. A method of performing minimally invasive robotic surgery in a body cavity of a patient, the method comprising: introducing at least one surgical accessory into the cavity; introducing a robotic surgical tool into the cavity; and coupling the surgical accessory with the robotic surgical tool inside the cavity after introducing the surgical accessory and the robotic surgical tool into the cavity, wherein the robotic surgical tool comprises a pair of working members, and wherein the surgical accessory comprises a pair of fingers movably supported on a collar which is releasably coupled with the robotic surgical tool in a coupled position, the pair of fingers mating with the pair of working members to be movable by the pair of working members in the coupled position. 35. The method of claim 34 wherein the pair of fingers includes at least one of forceps tips, scissors blades, grasper tips, needle holder tips, clamp members, stapler members and clip applier members. 36. A method of performing minimally invasive robotic surgery in a body cavity of a patient, the method comprising: introducing at least one surgical accessory into the cavity; introducing a robotic surgical tool into the cavity; coupling the surgical accessory with the robotic surgical tool inside the cavity after introducing the surgical accessory and the robotic surgical tool into the cavity, said coupling being by actuating a portion of a master control device located remotely from the patient by a user to control the robotic surgical tool to grasp the surgical accessory; and causing the robotic surgical tool to continue to grasp the surgical accessory without requiring the user to continue to actuate the actuatable portion of the master control device. 37. The method of claim 36 wherein the robotic surgical tool is caused to continue to grasp the surgical accessory by a latching mechanism, said latching mechanism acting on at least one of the actuatable portion of the master control device and the robotic surgical tool. 38. The method of claim 36 wherein the robotic surgical tool is caused to continue to grasp the surgical accessory by a user input to a input device sending a signal to a robotic control system. 39. The method of claim 36 wherein the robotic surgical tool is caused to continue to grasp the surgical accessory by a robotic control system, said control system sensing and determining a pattern of user tool manipulation inputs, and said system instructing a tool-actuating servomechanism to cause the tool to continue to grasp the accessory. 40. The method of claim 36 further comprising the step of moving the robotic surgical tool within the cavity by user inputs to a robotic control system, while said tool continues to grasp the surgical accessory without requiring the user to continue to actuate said actuatable portion of the master control device. 41. A method of performing minimally invasive robotic surgery in a body cavity of a patient, the method comprising: introducing a robotic fastening tool into the cavity; introducing a surgical accessory support into the cavity, the surgical accessory support supporting a plurality of fastening accessories; loading one of the fastening accessories in the robotic fastening tool inside the cavity; and affixing the loaded fastening accessory to a target tissue inside the cavity with the robotic fastening tool. 42. The method of claim 41 wherein the robotic fastening tool is a clip applier, and the fastening accessories include a plurality of surgical clips. 43. The method of claim 42 wherein the surgical accessory support includes a clip cartridge. 44. The method of claim 43 wherein the clip cartridge is provided on the body of another robotic surgical tool introduced into the cavity. 