A method and apparatus for detection of multiple target nucleic acids and/or antigens such as hormones, antibodies, or nerve agents in a sample, involves presenting the sample to a plurality of reporter binding sites wherein each reporter binding site comprises two partially hybridized molecules. A first of the two hybridized molecules is bound to the binding site and is complementary to a target nucleic acid or antigen, and it will therefore hybridize to the target nucleic acid or antigen and cause the release of the second hybridized molecule into the sample. The second hybridized molecule comprises a reporter nucleic acid sequence, which uniquely identifies the target nucleic acid or antigen. Subsequent PCR amplification of the unique reporter nucleic acid sequence using labeled primers results in multiple labeled copies of the unique nucleic acid sequence. The sample with the amplified and labeled copies of the unique nucleic acid sequence is then presented to a plurality of different collector binding sites where at least one of the sites comprises at least one collector molecule complimentary to the unique nucleic acid sequence. Unique nucleic acid sequences in the sample selectively hybridize to the bound complementary collector molecule and their presence is detected.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for detecting the presence of extremely low levels of multiple target nucleic acid sequences and/or multiple target antigens in a sample, comprising: (a) presenting a sample suspected of containing targets selected from the group consisting of nucleic acids, antigens, and mixtures of at least one nucleic acid and at least one antigen, to a plurality of collector molecules comprised of a first complementary molecule and a second complementary molecule, the first and second complementary molecules being hybridized and bound to one another, the first complementary molecule being attached to a support medium and the second complimentary molecule comprises a complimentary binding portion and a unique reporter oligonucleotide molecule flanked by primer binding sites such that the targets in the sample displace the second complementary molecule which is bound to the first complementary molecule and hybridize with the first complementary molecule thereby releasing the second complementary molecule into the sample; (b) washing the sample containing the released second complementary molecule; (c) mixing the sample containing the released second complementary molecule with labeled primers and polymerase chain reaction reagents; (d) amplifying the unique reporter oligonucleotide molecule and flanking primer binding sites of the second complementary molecule by passing the sample through a conduit in intimate contact with a surface having a temperature gradient suitable for amplification or reaction conditions; (e) presenting the sample containing amplified unique reporter nucleic acid molecules to a plurality of different binding sites arranged in a known order, with respect to each other, wherein a third molecule complementary to the amplified unique reporter molecule is bound to at least one of the collector binding sites; and (f) detecting at least one collector binding site for a light emission indicative of the presence of an amplified and labeled unique reporter molecule bound to the third complementary molecule. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising, before the detecting step: washing the different collector binding sites to remove unbound molecules from the collector binding sites. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising, before the first presenting step; mixing a sample suspected of containing target nucleic acids or antigens with buffered detergent; and, filtering to remove unwanted particulates. 4. The method of claim 2, further comprising: heating the sample to inactivate reactive substances and to denature nucleic acids between the mixing and filtering steps. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the first complementary molecule comprises a oligonucleotide sequence complementary to a unique sequence of the target nucleic acid and the complementary binding portion of the second complementary molecule comprises a complementary oligonucleotide sequence. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the first complementary molecule comprises a oligonucleotide sequence homologous to a unique sequence of the target nucleic acid and the complementary binding portion of the second complementary molecule comprises the oligonucleotide sequence partially complementary to the first complementary molecule. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the first complementary molecule comprises the target antigen and the complementary binding portion of the second complementary molecule comprises a complementary antibody which has a high specificity and low to moderate binding affinity for the target antigen. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the first complementary molecule comprises an antibody and the complementary binding portion of the second complementary molecule comprises the target antigen to which the antibody has a high specificity and low to moderate binding affinity. 9. An apparatus, comprising: (a) a reporter column having at least one sample inlet and outlet, (b) a support medium, wherein said support medium is enclosed and exposably arranged within the reporter column; (c) a collector molecule comprising a first partially complementary and a second partially complementary molecule, said first and second partially complementary molecule being partially hybridized and bound to one another, said second partially complementary molecule comprising a complementary binding portion and a unique reporter oligonucleotide molecule flanked by primer binding sites, and said first complementary molecule fixedly attached to said support medium; (d) a first mixer having at least one sample inlet, one sample outlet and one inlet for labeled primers and reagents, said sample inlet of the first mixer is conductively connected to the outlet of the reporter column; (e) a second mixer having at least one sample inlet, one sample outlet and one assay buffer inlet; (f) a collector column having at least one sample inlet and outlet, said sample inlet of the collector column is conductively connected to the sample outlet of the second mixer; (g) a conduit in intimate contact with a surface having a temperature gradient suitable for amplification or reaction conditions, the inlet of said conduit is conductively connected to the outlet of the first mixer, and the outlet of said conduit is conductively connected to the inlet of the second mixer inlet; (h) a plurality of different collector binding sites, arranged in a known order, with respect to each other wherein a third molecule complementary to the amplified unique reporter molecule is bound to at least one of the collector binding sites, said plurality of different collector binding sites are enclosed and exposably arrange within the collector column; and (i) an excitator/detector arrayed above the surface of the collector binding sites for electrically exciting at least one collector binding site and for detecting a light emission indicative of the presence of an amplified and labeled unique reporter molecule bound to the third complementary molecule. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, further comprising: (a) a third mixer having at least one sample inlet, one sample outlet, and one buffer detergent inlet; and (b) a filter having at least one inlet and outlet, said third mixer outlet conductively connected to the filter inlet and the filter outlet is conductively connected to the inlet of the reporter column. 11. The apparatus of claim 9, further comprising: (a) a third mixer having at least one sample inlet, one sample outlet and one buffer detergent inlet; (b) a heater having at least one inlet and one outlet; and (c) a filter having at least one inlet and outlet, said sample outlet of the third mixer is conductively connected to the inlet of the beater, the outlet of the heater is conductively connected to the inlet of the filter and the outlet of the filter is conductively connected to the inlet of the reporter column. 12. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein the first complementary molecule comprises an oligonucleotide sequence complementary to a unique sequence of the target nucleic acid and the complementary binding portion of the second complementary molecule comprises a partially complementary oligonucleotide sequence. 13. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the first complementary molecule comprises an oligonucleotide sequence homologous to a unique sequence of the target nucleic acid and the complementary binding portion of the second complementary molecule comprises the oligonucleotide sequence partially complementary to the first complementary molecule. 14. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the first complementary molecule comprises the target antigen and the complementary binding portion of the second complementary molecule comprises a complementary antibody which has a high specificity and low to moderate binding affinity for the target antigen. 15. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the first complementary molecule comprises an antibody and the complementary binding portion of the second complementary molecule comprises the target antigen to which the antibody has a high specificity and low to moderate binding affinity. 16. A thermal cycler, comprising; (a) a surface having differentially heated sectors; and (b) a conduit in intimate contact with the differentially heated sectors such that a sample containing reagents is alternatively heated and cooled by the differentially heated sectors as it passes through the conduit sufficiently to perform a desired process or chemical reaction, wherein the conduit has varying internal dimensions which slows or speeds up the flow of the sample to be heated or cooled. 