A system for interfacing a human user to a data processor which receives inputs from the user and includes associated storage resource information. The data processor generates outputs to the user and associated output devices. The interface system includes structure for receiving a statement generated by the human user in natural language on a word-by-word basis. The system analyzes the statement to identify a subject and object and searches the stored resource information for data related to the identified subject. Output devices are provided for generating to the user the data from the stored resource information related to the identified subject.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for interfacing a human user to a data processor, the data processor receiving inputs from the user and includes associated stored resource information, and which generates outputs to the user and associated output devices, the system comprising: means for receiving a statement generated by the human user in natural language on a word-by-word basis; means for analyzing the statement to identify a subject; means for searching the stored resource information for data related to said identified subject; means for providing to the user, data related to the identified subject; and means for providing an output to the user, said output having a human-like personality created by the data processor independent of a mood of the user. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein said analyzing means reformats statements presented in the form of questions into statements in the form of a sentence. 3. The system of claim 1 wherein said analyzing means reformats statements presented in the form of statement into a statement in the form of a question. 4. The system of claim 1 wherein said analyzing means identifies key words based on pre-stored words in the stored resource information. 5. The system of claim 1 wherein said searching means includes: a first storage area for storing resources associated with the user; a second storage area for storing resources associated with the system; and a third storage area for storing resources external to the system. 6. The system of claim 1 and further including: means for determining a mood of a user from statements generated by the user and for creating a human-like response presented by the system. 7. A method for interfacing a human user to a data processor, the data processor receiving inputs from the user and includes associated stored resource information, and which generates outputs to the user and associated output devices, the method comprising: receiving a statement generated by the human user in natural language on a word-by-word basis; analyzing the statement to identify a subject; searching the stored resource information for data related to the identified subject; providing to the user, data from the stored resource information related to the identified subject; and providing to the user an output having a human-like personality created by the data processor independent of a mood of the user. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein analyzing includes reformatting statements presented in the form of questions into statements in the form of a sentence. 9. The method of claim 7 wherein analyzing includes reformatting statements presented in the form of statements into statements in the form of a question. 10. The method of claim 7 wherein analyzing includes identifying key words based on pre-stored words in the stored resource information. 11. The method of claim 7 wherein searching includes: searching a first storage area for storing resources associated with the user; searching a second storage area for storing resources associated with the system; and searching a third storage area for storing resources external to the system. 12. The method of claim 7 and further including: determining a mood of a user from statements generated by the user and for creating a human-like response presented by the processor. 13. A system for interfacing a human user to a data processor, the data processor, receiving inputs from the user and includes associated stored resource information, and which generates outputs to the user and associated output devices, the system comprising: means for receiving a statement generated by the data processor; means for analyzing the statement to identify a subject; means for searching the stored resource information for data related to said identified subject; and means for providing an output to the user, said output having a human-like personality created by the data processor. 14. The system of claim 13 and further including: means for providing to the user, data related to the identified subject. 15. The system of claim 13 wherein the output having a human-like personality is created based upon a mood of the data processor. 16. The system of claim 13 wherein the output having a human-like personality is created based upon a mood of the human user determined by the data processor from statements generated by the human user. 17. The system of claim 13 and further including: means for providing to the user, a question relating to the identified subject. 