A semiconductor workpiece holder for use in processing a semiconductor workpiece includes a workpiece support operatively mounted to support a workpiece in position for processing. A finger assembly is operatively mounted upon the workpiece support and includes a finger tip. The finger assembly is movable between an engaged position in which the finger tip is engaged against the workpiece, and a disengaged position in which the finger tip is moved away from the workpiece. Preferably, at least one electrode forms part of the finger assembly and includes an electrode contact for contacting a surface of said workpiece. At least one protective sheath covers at least some of the electrode contact. According to one aspect of the invention, a sheathed electrode having a sheathed electrode tip is positioned against a semiconductor workpiece surface in a manner engaging the workpiece surface with said sheathed electrode tip and forming a seal.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A workpiece holder for use in processing a workpiece comprising: a workpiece support; at least one finger assembly mounted upon said workpiece support, said at least one finger assembly including at least one contact for contacting the workpiece; at least one finger actuator operable with said at least one finger assembly for moving said finger assembly between an engaged position wherein said finger assembly is in contact with the workpiece and a disengaged position wherein said finger assembly is disengaged from the workpiece, said at least one finger actuator having means for moving the at least one finger assembly in an axial movement toward and from the workpiece along a longitudinal axis, and means to rotate the at least one finger assembly in a rotational movement along said longitudinal axis; at least one electrode forming a part of said at least one finger assembly, said at least one electrode having an electrode contact for contacting a surface of said workpiece to provide electrical connection therewith, wherein said electrode contact is one of said at least one contact; at least one protective sheath covering at least a portion of the at least one finger assembly to protect the finger assembly from contact with a plating fluid, said at least one protective sheath being made from a dielectric material, said electrode contact being maintained in a generally retracted position within said at least one protective sheath when said at least one finger assembly is in said disengaged position, said electrode contact being moved out of said retracted position when said at least one finger assembly is moved into said engaged position. 2. The workpiece holder of claim 1 wherein said at least one finger actuator moves said at least one finger assembly in a reciprocal manner. 3. A workpiece holder for use in processing a workpiece comprising: a workpiece support; at least one finger assembly mounted upon said workpiece support, said at least one finger assembly including at least one contact for contacting the workpiece; at least one finger actuator operable with said at least one finger assembly for moving said finger assembly between an engaged position wherein said finger assembly is in contact with the workpiece and a disengaged position wherein said finger assembly is disengaged from the workpiece, said at least one finger actuator having means for moving the at least one finger assembly in an axial movement toward and from the workpiece along a longitudinal axis, and means to rotate the at least one finger assembly in a rotational movement along said longitudinal axis; at least one electrode forming a part of said at least one finger assembly, said at least one electrode having an electrode contact for contacting a surface of said workpiece to provide electrical connection therewith, wherein said electrode contact is one of said at least one contact; at least one protective sheath covering at least a portion of the at least one finger assembly to protect the finger assembly from contact with a plating fluid, said at least one protective sheath being made from a dielectric material, said at least one protective sheath including a yieldable terminal adjacent said electrode contact for engaging said workpiece and effectively sealing said electrode contact therewith when said at least one finger assembly is moved to said engaged position said electrode contact being maintained in a generally retracted position within said at least one protective sheath when said at least one finger assembly is in said disengaged position, said electrode contact being moved out of said retracted position when said finger assembly is moved into said engaged position. 4. An apparatus for use in providing electrical power to a substrate while a surface of the substrate is in contact with an electrolyte pursuant to forming one or more microelectronic components on the substrate, the apparatus comprising: one or more substrate support surfaces positioned to support the substrate as the substrate is received by or removed from the apparatus; a contact assembly comprising a contact actuator, a contact member having a first end connected for actuation by the contact actuator and a second end terminating at an electrode, the contact actuator being operable to move the contact member between a first position distal the one or more substrate support surfaces to thereby allow the substrate to be received by or removed from engagement with the one or more substrate support surfaces and a second position in which the electrode is driven into electrical contact with the surface of the substrate that is to contact the electrolyte; a dielectric sheath disposed proximate the second end of the contact member, the dielectric sheath terminating at a yieldable portion that extends beyond the electrode when the contact member is in the first position so that the electrode is retracted within a volume defined by the yieldable portion, the yieldable portion resiliently deforming when the contact member is moved to the second position, the resilient deformation being sufficient to allow the electrode to extend into electrical contact with the surface of the substrate while concurrently allowing the second end of the dielectric sheath to form a seal with the substrate to prevent the electrode from contacting the electrolyte during substrate processing. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein the contact actuator moves the contact member linearly along and rotationally about a single motion axis when the contact member is moved between the first and second positions. 6. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein the one or more support surfaces are formed by a plurality of support members. 7. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein the apparatus comprises a plurality of contact assemblies. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein the one or more support surfaces are formed by a plurality of support members respectively associated with each of the plurality of contact assemblies. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein the plurality of support members are positioned so that the support surfaces are disposed adjacent the second end of the respective contact member when the contact member is in the second position thereby causing the substrate to be gripped therebetween during processing of the substrate. 10. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein the contact assembly and the one or more support surfaces are mounted to a common frame and extend therefrom in the same direction. 