By making the fluid seal an integral part of either the filter element or the filter housing, the reliability of fluid filter assemblies is improved. In addition, the process for manufacturing filter assemblies and their individual components can be more easily automated.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A filter element comprising a cartridge filter of granular adsorbents or spiral wound membrane element, having an outer surface and a foam seal incorporated as an integral part of the outer surface. 2. The filter element of claim 1 wherein the filter element is a spiral wound membrane element. 3. The filter element of claim 2 wherein the integral seal is comprised of a foamed polyurethane material. 4. The filter element of claim 3 wherein the integral seal covers substantially the entire length of the outer surface of the filter element. 5. A filter housing adapted for receiving a corresponding filter element, wherein the housing includes an inner surface and a foam seal incorporated as an integral part of the inner surface, wherein the seal is adapted to contact with an outer surface of a corresponding filter element. 6. The filter housing of claim 5 wherein the seal is comprised of a foamed polyurethane material. 7. A filter element comprising a cartridge filter of granule adsorbents or spiral wound membrane element having an outer surface, a seal positioned about at least a portion of the outer surface, and a shrink wrap material covering the seal and outer surface of the filter element. 8. The filter element of claim 7 wherein the seal is a foam material. 9. The filter element of claim 8 wherein the seal covers substantially the entire length of the outer surface of the filter element. 10. A filter element having an cylindrical outer surface extending between two ends, a seal comprising a single band disposed about the outer surface of the filter element and which extends between the ends of the filter element and along substantially its entire length, and a shrink wrap material disposed over the seal. 11. The filter element of claim 10 wherein the filter element comprises a spiral wound filter element. 12. The filter element of claim 10 wherein the seal comprises a foamed material. 13. The filter element of claim 10 wherein the seal comprises a non-foam thermoplastic or non-foam thermoset material. 14. A filter housing adapted for receiving a cylindrically shaped filter element, wherein the housing includes a corresponding cylindrically shaped inner surface wherein the improvement comprises a foam seal incorporated as an integral part of the inner surface, wherein the seal is adapted to contact with an outer surface of the corresponding filter element. 