The inventive apparatus is comprised of a means for producing cavitation in a complex reaction mixture to enhance the yield of the selected reaction product, a means for controlling the temperature of the complex reaction mixture, especially during cavitation, and a means for affecting magnetic separation of paramagnetic beads to which the selected reaction product is attached from the complex reaction mixture. In one embodiment, the compound(s) or molecule(s) is synthesized in situ, and isolated using the inventive apparatus. The apparatus finds use in the fields of solid phase organic synthesis, and for isolation and purification of a selected compound(s) or molecule (s), especially where automation is desired.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for performing an organic chemical reaction comprising: a liquid bath; at least one reaction vessel arranged to be positioned in said liquid bath; at least one paramagnetic bead in said at least one reaction vessel; transporting means for positioning said at least one reaction vessel in said liquid bath; ultrasonic means external to said reaction vessel for providing an ultrasonic field in said reaction vessel; computer means for controlling said ultrasonic field; magnetic field means in said liquid bath for providing a magnetic field; and means for selectively exposing said reaction vessel to said ultrasonic field and to said magnetic field. 2. Apparatus as defined in claim 1 comprising computer means for selectively exposing said at least one reaction vessel. 3. Apparatus as defined in claim 2 wherein the means for selectively exposing includes means for activating and deactivating said ultrasonic means and means for controlling exposure of the magnetic field onto said at least one reaction vessel. 4. Apparatus as defined in claim 1 wherein said means for selectively exposing includes a motor operably connected to a drive mechanism, and a guide mechanism, said drive mechanism operably connected to said means for transporting, said guide mechanism operably connected to said drive mechanism and to said liquid bath. 5. Apparatus as defined in claim 4 wherein said motor is a stepper motor. 6. Apparatus as defined in claim 1 wherein said magnetic field is permanent. 7. Apparatus as defined in claim 6 wherein said magnetic field is provided by at least one neodymium magnetic disc. 8. Apparatus as defined in claim 6 wherein said magnetic field is provided by at least four neodymium magnetic discs arranged polyhedrally proximal to the base of said reaction vessel. 9. Apparatus as defined in claim 8 wherein the base of said at least one reaction vessel is planar and said reaction vessel is comprised of glass. 10. Apparatus as defined in claim 9 wherein said at least one reaction vessel is conical. 11. Apparatus as defined in claim 1 wherein the magnetic field is inducible. 12. Apparatus as defined in claim 1 wherein said means for providing said ultrasonic field is an ultrasonic transducer of the probe type. 13. Apparatus as defined in claim 1 wherein said means for providing said ultrasonic field is an ultrasonic transducer of the bath type. 14. Apparatus as defined in claim 1 wherein said liquid is water. 15. Apparatus for performing an organic chemical reaction comprising: a liquid bath; at least one reaction vessel arranged to be positioned in said liquid bath; at least one paramagnetic bead in said at least one reaction vessel; dispensing means for dispensing a solvent into said at least one reaction vessel; transporting means for positioning said at least one reaction vessel in said liquid bath; ultrasonic means external to said reaction vessel for providing an ultrasonic field in said reaction vessel; magnetic field means in said liquid bath for providing a magnetic field; and means for selectively exposing said reaction vessel to said ultrasonic field and to said magnetic field. 16. Apparatus as defined in claim 15 comprising aspirating means for aspirating said solvent. 17. Apparatus as defined in claim 16 comprising computer means for controlling said dispensing means and said aspirating means. 18. Apparatus as defined in claim 17 wherein said computer means includes at least one liquid handling robot. 19. Apparatus for performing an organic chemical reaction comprising: a liquid bath; at least one reaction vessel arranged to be positioned in said liquid bath; at least one paramagnetic bead in said at least one reaction vessel; transporting means for positioning said at least one reaction vessel in said liquid bath; said transporting means includes supply means for supplying an inert atmosphere to said reaction vessel; ultrasonic means external to said reaction vessel for providing an ultrasonic field in said reaction vessel; magnetic field means in said liquid bath for providing a magnetic field; and means for selectively exposing said reaction vessel to said ultrasonic field and to said magnetic field. 20. Apparatus as defined in claim 19 wherein said transporting means positions said at least one reaction vessel at a preselected depth and includes an inner compartment which is operably connected to said at least one reaction vessel, and further comprising means for maintaining a dry and inert atmosphere with a positive pressure including an inlet and outlet port which allows an inert atmosphere to circulate within said at least one reaction vessel and said inner compartment. 21. Apparatus for performing an organic chemical reaction comprising: a liquid bath; temperature control means for regulating the temperature of said liquid; at least one reaction vessel arranged to be positioned in said liquid bath; at least one paramagnetic bead in said at least one reaction vessel; transporting means for positioning said at least one reaction vessel in said liquid bath; ultrasonic means external to said reaction vessel for providing an ultrasonic field in said reaction vessel; magnetic field means in said liquid bath for providing a magnetic field; and means for selectively exposing said reaction vessel to said ultrasonic field and to said magnetic field. 22. Apparatus as defined in claim 21 wherein said temperature control means is computer controlled. 23. Apparatus as defined in claim 22 wherein said ultrasonic transducer is a 600 Watt 25 kHz immersible ultrasonic transducer. 24. Apparatus as defined in claim 22 wherein said ultrasonic transducer is a 600 Watt 40 kHz immersible ultrasonic transducer. 25. Apparatus for performing an organic chemical reaction in a plurality of reaction vessels positioned in a liquid bath, at least one of said reaction vessels provided with at least one non-paramagnetic bead, said apparatus comprising: a liquid bath; a plurality of reaction vessels positioned within said liquid bath; a reverse filtration system operably associated with said reaction vessels, said reverse filtration system separating solids from liquids within each of said plurality of said reaction vessels; ultrasonic means located in said liquid bath external to said reaction vessels for substantially simultaneously providing an ultrasonic field in all of said reaction vessels; and means for controlling the ultrasonic means by actuating and deactuating the ultrasonic means and for controlling the amplitude and duration of the ultrasonic field of said ultrasonic means to produce a field across said plurality of reaction vessels. 26. Apparatus as defined in claim 25 wherein said liquid is water. 27. Apparatus for performing an organic chemical reaction in a plurality of reaction vessels positioned in a liquid bath, said reaction vessels provided with a starting material dissolved in an organic solvent, said apparatus comprising: a liquid bath; a plurality of reaction vessels positioned within said liquid bath; ultrasonic means located in said liquid bath external to said reaction vessels for substantially simultaneously providing a substantially uniform ultrasonic field in all of said plurality of said reaction vessels; said ultrasonic means having an ultrasonic emitting surface area underlying all of said plurality of said reaction vessels; and means for controlling the ultrasonic means by actuating and deactuating the ultrasonic means and for controlling the amplitude and duration of the ultrasonic field of said ultrasonic means to produce a substantially uniform field across said plurality of reaction vessels. 28. Apparatus as defined in claim 27 wherein said liquid is water. 29. Apparatus for performing an organic chemical reaction comprising: a liquid bath; a plurality of reaction vessels arranged to be positioned in said liquid bath; at least one paramagnetic bead in at least one of said reaction vessels; transporting means operably connected to said reaction vessels for positioning said reaction vessels in said liquid bath; ultrasonic means external to said reaction vessels for providing an ultrasonic field in said reaction vessels; magnetic field means in said liquid bath for providing a magnetic field; and means for selectively exposing said reaction vessels to said ultrasonic field and to said magnetic field. 30. Apparatus as defined in claim 29 wherein said magnetic field is permanent. 31. Apparatus as defined in claim 30 wherein said magnetic field is provided by at least one neodymium magnetic disc. 32. Apparatus as defined in claim 29 further comprising temperature control means for regulating the temperature of said liquid. 