An apparatus for uniformly distributing parts on a conveyor surface which includes a storage bin for holding randomly oriented parts in bulk, a conveyor adjacent the storage bin for acquiring a fragment of the randomly oriented parts in the storage bin and delivering that fragment of randomly oriented parts to a chute, a vibratory conveyor receiving the fragment of randomly oriented parts from said chute, and a belt conveyor for receiving the randomly oriented parts from said vibratory conveyor. The vibratory conveyor includes at least one rib projecting upward therefrom and extending across at least a section of the vibratory conveyor perpendicular to the direction of conveyance, the at least one rib acting as a flow obstruction to cause the randomly oriented parts traveling on the vibratory conveyor to gather and spread across a width of said vibratory conveyor to thereby spread more uniformly on the vibratory conveyor after passing over the at least one rib.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for uniformly distributing parts on a conveyor surface: (a) a storage bin for holding randomly oriented parts in bulk; (b) an elevating conveyor adjacent said storage bin, said elevating conveyor acquiring a fragment of the randomly oriented parts in said storage bin, said elevating conveyor elevating said fragment of randomly oriented parts and delivering said fragment of randomly oriented parts to a chute; (c) a vibratory conveyor receiving said fragment of randomly oriented parts from said chute; (d) a belt conveyor for receiving the randomly oriented parts from said vibratory conveyor, said belt conveyor including a camera field of view area and a robot pick area; and (e) a trough positioned adjacent a downstream end of said belt conveyor for receiving any of the randomly oriented parts not retrieved from said belt conveyor, said trough returning the randomly oriented parts received therein to said storage bin. 2. An apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein: said vibratory conveyor includes at least one rib projecting upward therefrom and extending across at least a section of said vibratory conveyor perpendicular to a direction of conveyance of said vibratory conveyor, said at least one rib acting as a flow obstruction to cause the randomly oriented parts traveling on said vibratory conveyor to gather and spread across a width of said vibratory conveyor, the randomly oriented parts being spread more uniformly on said vibratory conveyor after passing over said at least one rib. 3. An apparatus as recited in claim 1, said elevating conveyor comprising: (a) a bulk elevator including a top surface, said bulk elevator reciprocating to a low point at which a portion of the randomly oriented parts in said storage bin move by gravity to reside on said top surface; and (b) a staging platform adjacent said bulk elevator, said bulk elevator reciprocating to a high point at which at least some of said portion of the randomly oriented parts transfer by gravity to said staging platform to thereby create a secondary reservoir of randomly oriented parts on said staging platform which is continually restocked by said bulk elevator. 4. An apparatus as recited in claim 3, said elevating conveyor further comprising: a reciprocating plate conveyor adjacent said staging platform, said reciprocating plate conveyor acquiring a fragment of said secondary reservoir of the randomly oriented parts, said reciprocating plate conveyor delivering said fragment of randomly oriented parts to said chute. 5. An apparatus as recited in claim 2, said vibratory conveyor comprising: (a) a support member with a generally planar top surface; (b) means for vibrating said support member; and (c) a vibratory surface material supported on said generally planar top surface, said at least one rib projecting upward through said vibratory surface material and extending across at least a section of said support member, said at least one rib being about perpendicular to a direction of conveyance of said vibratory conveyor, said at least one rib acting as a flow obstruction to cause the randomly oriented parts traveling on said vibratory surface material to gather and spread across a width of said planar member, the randomly oriented parts being spread more uniformly on said vibratory surface material after passing over said at least one rib. 6. A vibratory conveyor as recited in claim 5 further comprising: a backer member affixed to an underside of said vibratory surface material. 7. A vibratory conveyor as recited in claim 6 further comprising: a sheet material affixed to said support member. 8. A vibratory conveyor as recited in claim 7 wherein: said backer member is magnetically coupled to said sheet material. 9. A vibratory conveyor as recited in claim 6 wherein: said backer member is a magnetic material. 10. A vibratory conveyor as recited in claim 6 wherein: said backer member is a magnetic vinyl. 11. A vibratory conveyor as recited in claim 7 wherein: said sheet material is a magnetic material. 12. A vibratory conveyor as recited in claim 5 wherein: said rib includes a front face which is oriented at an angle of from about 10.degree. to about 30.degree. from vertical. 13. A vibratory conveyor as recited in claim 7 wherein: said sheet material is a magnetic vinyl. 14. A vibratory conveyor as recited in claim 5 wherein: said vibratory surface material is a pile material which includes a surface of fibers, said fibers oriented in a range of from about 50.degree. to about 80.degree. from vertical. 15. A vibratory conveyor as recited in claim 6 wherein: said rib is magnetically coupled to said backer member. 16. A vibratory conveyor as recited in claim 7 wherein: said rib is magnetically coupled to said sheet material. 17. A vibratory conveyor as recited in claim 5 wherein: there are at least two of said ribs and successive ones of said ribs decreasing in height in said direction of conveyance. 18. An apparatus as recited in claim 1, said vibratory conveyor comprising: (a) a pile material; and (b) a backer member affixed to an underside of said pile material. 19. An apparatus as recited in claim 18 further comprising: a sheet material affixed to said backer member. 20. An apparatus as recited in claim 18 wherein: said backer member is a magnetic material. 21. An apparatus as recited in claim 19 wherein: said sheet material is a magnetic material. 22. An apparatus as recited in claim 18 wherein: said pile material includes a surface of fibers, said fibers oriented in a range of from about 50.degree. to about 80.degree. from vertical. 23. An apparatus as recited in claim 18 further comprising: at least one rib projecting upward through said pile material and extending across at least a section of said support member, said at least one rib being about perpendicular to a direction of conveyance of said vibratory conveyor, said at least one rib acting as a flow obstruction to cause the randomly oriented parts traveling on said pile material to gather and spread across a width of said vibratory conveyor, the randomly oriented parts being spread more uniformly on said pile material after passing over said at least one rib, said rib being magnetically coupled to said backer member. 24. An apparatus as recited in claim 19 further comprising: at least one rib projecting upward through said pile material and extending across at least a section of said support member, said at least one rib being about perpendicular to a direction of conveyance of said vibratory conveyor, said at least one rib acting as a flow obstruction to cause the randomly oriented parts traveling on said pile material to gather and spread across a width of said vibratory conveyor, the randomly oriented parts being spread more uniformly on said pile material after passing over said at least one rib, said rib being magnetically coupled to said sheet material. 25. An apparatus as recited in claim 5 wherein: there are at least two of said ribs and successive ones of said ribs decreasing in height in said direction of conveyance. 26. An apparatus as recited in claim 1 further comprising: a short tansition plate between said vibratory conveyor and said belt conveyor over which the randomly oriented parts must pass to be transferred from said vibratory conveyor to said belt conveyor, said short transition plate not affecting part orientation or separation. 27. A vibratory conveyor as recited in claim 12 further comprising: means for vibrating said support member at an angle of from about 10.degree. to about 30.degree. from vertical, said angle of vibration being generally parallel to said angle of said front face of said rib. 28. An apparatus as recited in claim 27 further comprising: means for adjusting an amplitude of vibration of said vibratory conveyor. 29. An apparatus as recited in claim 26 wherein: said belt conveyor is driven at a speed which is not less than an average speed of the randomly oriented parts on said vibratory conveyor. 30. An apparatus as recited in claim 29 wherein: said short transition plate is inclined at an angle of not more than about 5.degree. from horizontal. 