A side-by-side robot workcell includes two tables each of which is movable from a work position to a load position. Linkages are connected to the tables and cause the tables to have a slow speed at the time the tables approach either the load or the work position, and a faster speed in the middle of the movement between the work and load positions.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A work piece cell comprising: a frame; a work piece table adapted to hold a work piece; a hinge mechanism connecting said work piece table to said frame for movement about a pivot axis from a load position to a work position; a link member connected to said hinge mechanism and being movable back and forth between a first position and a second position for causing said work piece table to move about said pivot axis between said load and said work positions respectively; a power member connected to said frame and to said link member for causing movement of said link member between said first and second positions; a counter biasing member connected to said frame and to said link member and exerting a counter biasing force on said link member in a direction opposite to a force exerted by said power member during at least a portion of the time that said power member moves said link member between said first and second positions. 2. The work piece cell according to claim 1 wherein said link member moves to an intermediate position between said first and second positions, said counter biasing member exerting a greatest counter biasing force on said link member when said link member is in said first or said second positions, and exerting a least counter biasing force on said link member when said link member is in said intermediate position. 3. The work piece cell according to claim 2 wherein said intermediate position of said link member is half way between said first and second positions. 4. The work piece cell according to claim 1 wherein said power member comprises a cylinder having a longitudinally extensible cylinder rod. 5. The work piece cell according to claim 1 wherein said counter biasing member comprises a shock absorber. 6. The work piece cell according to claim 5 wherein said shock absorber includes a longitudinal shock absorber axis and said link member includes a longitudinal link axis, said link member having an intermediate position between said first and second positions wherein said shock absorber axis and said link axis lie in a single line. 7. The work piece cell according to claim 1 wherein said link member and said work piece table are fixed to said hinge mechanism. 8. The work piece cell according to claim 7 wherein said hinge mechanism comprises an elongated post having a longitudinal post axis, said post being pivotally mounted to said frame for pivotal movement about said post axis. 9. A side by side work piece cell comprising: a frame; a first work piece table and a second work piece table; a first hinge mechanism mounting said first work piece table for pivotal movement about a first pivotal axis between a first work position and a first load position; a second hinge mechanism mounting said second work piece table for pivotal movement about a second pivotal axis between a second work position and a second load position; said first and second work piece tables being in side by side relation when in said first and second work positions, respectively; a first link member connected to said first hinge mechanism; a first power member connected to said frame and to said first link member and being capable of exerting a first power force on said first link member to cause said first work piece table to move about said first pivot axis between said first load position and said first work position; a first counter biasing member connected to said frame and to said first link member and exerting a first counter biasing force on said first link member in a direction opposite to said first power force exerted by said first power member during at least a portion of the time that said first power member moves said first work piece table between said first load position and said first work position; a second link member connected to said second hinge mechanism; a second power member connected to said frame and to said second link member and being capable of exerting a second power force said second link member to cause said second work piece table to move about said second pivot axis between said second load position and said second work position; a second counter biasing member connected to said frame and to said second link member and exerting a second counter biasing force on said second link member in a direction opposite to said second power force exerted by said second power member during at least a portion of the time that said second power member moves said second work piece table between said second load position and said second work position. 10. The work piece cell according to claim 9 wherein said first and second power members each comprise a cylinder having a longitudinally extensible cylinder rod. 11. The work piece cell according to claim 9 wherein each of said first and second counter biasing members each comprise a shock absorber. 12. The work piece cell according to claim 11 wherein each of said shock absorbers of said first and second counter biasing members includes a longitudinal shock absorber axis and each of said first and second link members includes a longitudinal link axis, said shock absorber axis of said first counter biasing member lying in a single line with said link member axis of said first link when said first work piece table is in said first intermediate position, said shock absorber axis of said second counter biasing member lying in a single line with said link axis of said second link member when said second work piece table is in said second intermediate position. 13. The work piece cell according to claim 9 wherein said first and second link members and said first and second work piece tables are fixed to said first and second hinge mechanisms respectively. 14. The work piece cell according to claim 13 wherein each of said first and second hinge mechanisms comprises an elongated post having a longitudinal post axis, said post being pivotally mounted to said frame for pivotal movement about said post axis. 15. The work piece cell according to claim 9 and further comprising said first work piece table being movable to a first intermediate position between said first work position and said first load position, said second work piece table being movable to a second intermediate position between said second work position and said second load position, said first and second counter biasing members exerting said first and second counter biasing forces with a minimum magnitude when said first and second work pieces are in said first and second intermediate positions, respectively and with a greater magnitude exceeding said minimum magnitude when said first and second work piece tables are in said first and second work positions respectively and in said first and second load positions respectively. 16. The work piece cell according to claim 15 wherein said first intermediate position of said first work piece table is half way between said first work position and said first load position, and said second intermediate position of said second work piece table is half way between said second work position and said second load position. 