A mobile expert machine that moves along a nominal predefined trajectory. The expert machine should be a substitute for unskilled labor performed at workstations characterized by repetitive activities. An expert machine is defined as a machine that performs a specific task; the knowledge applied to the machine should be used to perform a repetitive task professionally. Predefined trajectory is defined as the actual trajectory that the slave expert machine should follow. The slave expert machine should move along a known predefined trajectory whose parameters have been calculated prior to start-up of the motion. It is assumed that the trajectory is given as function of time and the disturbances are well known. A Master Expert Machine (MEM) is incorporated with sensors for sensing and reading joint motions. It features excellent follow-up attributes and records motion activity in its memory by a process of "machine learning" within the study area. A skilled worker transfers his professional knowledge to the master expert machine in the form of elementary motions and subdivided tasks. The required task would be implemented via superposition and concatenation of the elementary moves and subdivided tasks. Based on the assumption that every task can be partitioned into a defined set of "elementary trajectories", the master expert machine could be "loaded" by a skilled worker with the required data to implement any elementary trajectory. Using this strategy will enable implementation of long and compound tasks by identification of the "elementary trajectories" within a particular task. The Master Expert Machine transfers its recorded "knowledge" to a set of Slave Expert Machines (SEMs) in the study area or, in particular cases, remotely to SEMs located in the working area. The slave expert machine, after it has learned from the MEM, then works in the same manner performing the task independently.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of applying knowledge from a human operator to a mobile slave expert machine via a master expert machine, the knowledge serving for computing an optimal control law being required for performing professionally preferably repetitive tasks consisting of a sequence of elementary moves to be performed by the slave expert machine instead of a human operator, the method comprising the following main sequence of steps: (a) teaching of the master expert machine to perform the required professional task so as to create within the master expert machine a sharable data base for computing a control law for the task, (b) computing said control law for performing the task and dividing the task into subtasks, associated with elementary moves, (c) adapting of said sharable data base to said computed control law and to the slave expert machine, (d) transferring said adapted sharable data base and said control law from the master expert machine to the slave expert machine, whereby the slave expert machine can perform the task autonomously and independent of any form of connection to the master expert machine subsequent to said transfer, and, providing the slave expert machine with a programmed data associated with a particular task to be performed. 2. The method as defined in claim 1, in which said teaching is performed by tracking activity of the master expert machine, said tracking activity is carried out by the human operator so as to move the master expert machine spatially along a predefined trajectory corresponding to the task and said tracking activity is accompanied by generating of plurality of signals in response to movements of the master expert machine, said signals are converted into digital form and stored in said sharable data base. 3. The method as defined in claim 2 in which said plurality of signals defining movement of the master expert machine refers to at least one parameter chosen from the group comprising displacement, force, speed and acceleration. 4. The method defined in claim 3 in which tracking of the master expert machine is carried out along elementary trajectories corresponding to division of the task onto said sequence of elementary moves. 5. The method as defined in claim 2 in which said plurality of signals defining movement of the master expert machine refers to all four of the parameters: displacement, force, speed and acceleration. 6. The method as defined in claim 1 in which said sharable adapted data base and said computed control law are transferred from the master expert machine to the slave expert machine via a communication link chosen from the group comprising a remote control line or a wire communication link. 7. The method as defined in claim 1 in which said programmed data comprises spatial 3D representation of the task to be performed. 8. The method as defined in claim 1 in which the slave expert machine performs a task via superposition and concarenation of a plurality of subtasks and elementary moves transmitted by the master expert machine. 