A mechanism capable of achieving an arbitrarily specified spatial compliant behavior is presented. The mechanism is a parallel connection of multiple individual elastic components that connect a support body to a single compliantly floated body. Each elastic component is, in itself, a low friction 6 degrees of freedom (DOF) mechanism that provides compliant constraint along and/or about a single axis. The elastic components are of three functional types: 1) a "line spring" which resists only translation along its axis, 2) a "torsional spring" which resists only rotation about its axis, and 3) a "screw spring" which resists a specified combination of translation along and rotation about its axis. Through proper selection of the connection geometry, spring constant, and functional type of each elastic component, a spatial compliant mechanism capable of passive force guidance is realized.
Claims We claim: 1. An arrangement for obtaining an arbitrarily specified spatial compliant behavior for a passive elastic component having a longitudinal axis along and about which a force is resisted, the arrangement for said passive elastic component comprising: a support body; a floated body spaced from the support body; the passive elastic component comprising a shaft assembly having a support shaft, an intermediate shaft and a float shaft interposed between the support body and the float body, the support shaft and the float shaft each having an inner end and an outer end, the intermediate shaft having a pair of opposed ends; the arrangement further comprising a first gimbal interconnecting the support body with an outer end of the support shaft; a second gimbal interconnecting the floated body with an outer end of the float shaft; and the elastic component further comprising an unconstrained axis free joint joining one opposed end of the intermediate shaft to either inner end of the support shaft or float shaft; and a constrained axis elastic joint securing the other opposed end of the intermediate shaft to the other inner end of the float shaft or support shaft. 2. The arrangement of claim 1, wherein said axis elastic joint includes a pair of helical springs. 3. The arrangement of claim 1, wherein the elastic component is a line spring, the axis free joint is revolute and the axis elastic joint is prismatic. 4. The arrangement of claim 3, wherein the revolute axis free joint includes a pair of rotary bearings loaded against each other and mounted on the support shaft. 5. The arrangement of claim 3, wherein the prismatic axis elastic joint includes a linear bearing mounted on the intermediate shaft; a pair of compression springs mounted on the intermediate shaft to be engageable with opposed ends of the linear bearing; and a pair of snap rings, each being fixed to an opposed end of the intermediate shaft and engageable with one of the compression springs. 6. The arrangement of claim 1, wherein the elastic component is a torsion spring, the axis free joint is prismatic and the axis elastic joint is revolute. 7. The arrangement of claim 5, wherein the stiffness of the prismatic axis elastic joint is dependent upon the constraint of the compression springs. 8. The arrangement of claim 1, wherein the elastic component is a screw spring. 9. The arrangement of claim 8, wherein the screw spring is a rotational-type screw spring, the axis free joint is helical and the axis elastic joint is revolute. 10. The arrangement of claims 6 or 9, wherein the revolute axis elastic joint includes a pair of rotary bearings mounted adjacent each other on the float shaft, and a pair of helical torsional springs mounted on the float shaft on either side of the adjacent pair of rotary bearings. 11. The arrangement of claim 8, wherein the screw spring is a translational-type screw spring, the axis free joint is helical and the axis elastic joint is prismatic. 12. The arrangement of claims 11 or 9, wherein the helical axis free joint includes a ball nut mounted on the intermediate shaft, and a ball screw coupled to the support shaft for slidable and rotational movement relative to the ball nut. 13. The arrangement of claim 1, wherein the first gimbal and the second gimbal are universal joints lying along the longitudinal axis of the elastic component. 14. The arrangement of claim 1, wherein the specified spatial behavior is designed based on a spring constant of the axis elastic joint and a pitch of the axis free joint. 15. The arrangement of claim 6, wherein the prismatic axis free joint includes a ball spline mounted on the intermediate shaft, a ball spline nut movably mounted on the intermediate shaft and a pair of spaced slip rings fixed on the intermediate shaft to establish limited movement of the ball spline nut. 