The simultaneous synthesis of diverse organic compounds is performed in stackable modules which are moveable among nesting sites located on work station platforms. The reactor module includes a heat transfer block adapted to receive an array of reactor vessels, preferrably in the form of solid phase extraction cartridges without sorbent, each with an outlet port. A plurality of valves are located below the vessels. The valves consist of rows of gang-controlled stopcocks which regulate the passage of fluids from the reactor vessel outlet ports into aligned channels, each formed by a pair of threated Leur tip adapters. The reactor module may be situated over a discharge module. The inlet openings in the discharge module accept the threaded ends of the Leur tip adapters. The discharge module may consist of a multi-well collector block or a drain block. An introduction module, which includes a pressure plate having an array of openings and a septum, may be received over the reactor module. The downwardly projecting rim defining each pressure plate opening cooperates with the septum to engage the mouth of the aligned reactor vessel to maintain a fluid tight seal.
Claims We claim: 1. Apparatus for the simultaneous synthesis of multiple organic compounds, the apparatus comprising a reactor module adapted to receive an array of individual reactor vessels, a plurality of reactor vessels each having an outlet port and mechanical valve means for regulating the passage of fluids through said reactor vessel output ports, said valve means comprising an array of stopcocks, each of said stopcocks having an associated movable control arm and means for simultaneously rotating said control arms to open and close said stopcocks, said means for simultaneously rotating said control arms comprising first and second relatively moveable rails and means for connecting said control arms to each of said rails such that the relative movement of said rails simultaneously rotates said control arms connected thereto, each of said rails comprising a plurality of protrusions and recesses, said protrusions of one of said rails being received within said recesses of the other of said rails, when said rails are moved toward each other. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said stopcocks are arranged in rows and wherein said means for simultaneously rotating said control arms comprises first and second relatively moveable rails associated with each row of stopcocks, means for connecting the control arms associated with the stopcocks in each row to each of the rails associated with said row, such that the relative movement of the rails associated with a row of stopcocks simultaneously rotates said control arms associated with said stopcocks in said row. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 further comprising means for simultaneously moving said first and second rails associated with each row of stopcocks relative to each other. 4. The apparatus of claim 2 further comprising means for locking said first and second rails in a given relative position. 5. The apparatus of claim 2 further comprising a support plate associated with each stopcock and a base. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein said base comprises an array passages, each aligned with a different stopcock and a plurality of Leur tip adapter pairs, a different one of said Leur tip adapter pairs being situated in each of said passages. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein said stopcock array and said means for simultaneously rotating said control arms are situated between said stopcock support plate and said base. 8. Apparatus for the simultaneous synthesis of multiple organic compounds, the apparatus comprising a reactor module adapted to receive an array of individual reactor vessels, a plurality of reactor vessels each having an outlet port, valve means for regulating the passage of fluids through said reactor vessel output ports, an introduction module and means for mounting said introduction module over said rector module, said introduction module comprising a gas manifold, a pressure plate and a septum. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein said gas manifold comprises an array of openings and a plurality of downwardly extending gas inlet needles, each situated proximate a different one of said openings, each of said openings and the gas inlet needle proximate thereto being adapted to align with the mouth of a different one of said reactor vessels, when said introduction module is mounted on the reactor module. 10. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein said pressure plate comprises an array of openings, each of said openings in said pressure plate being aligned with a different one of said gas manifold openings and the gas inlet needle proximate thereto. 11. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein said pressure plate has a plurality of openings, each of said pressure plate openings being defined by a downwardly projecting rim which cooperates with a portion of said septum, each of said openings in said pressure plate aligning with a different one of said reactor vessels, such that said rim and septum portion are received within the mouth of the aligned reactor vessel, when said introduction module is received over said reactor module. 