Robot arm (16) end effectors (10, 110, 210) of this invention rapidly and cleanly transfer semiconductor wafers (12) between a wafer cassette (14) and a processing station. The end effectors include proximal and distal rest pads (24, 26, 124,126) having pad and backstop portions (32, 34, 132, 134) that support and grip the wafer either by wafer peripheral edge contact or within an annular exclusion zone (30) that extends inward from a peripheral edge of the wafer. An active contact point (50, 150, 222) is movable by a vacuum actuated piston (52, 152) between a retracted wafer-loading position and an extended position that urges the wafer against the distal rest pads to grip the wafer at its edge or within the exclusion zone. The end effector further includes fiber optic light transmission sensors (90, 102, 202, 214) for determining various wafer surface, edge, thickness, tilt, and location parameters. The sensors provide robot arm extension and elevation positioning data supporting methods of rapidly and accurately placing and retrieving a wafer from among a stack of closely spaced wafers stored in the wafer cassette. The methods effectively prevent accidental contact between the end effector and the wafers while effecting clean, secure gripping of the wafer at its edge or within its exclusion zone.
Claims We claim: 1. A specimen peripheral edge-gripping device that is adapted for operable coupling to a mechanism and gripping a specimen by its peripheral edge, comprising: a body having a proximal end and an opposed distal end; a distal rest pad attached to the distal end of the body and having a pad portion for supporting the peripheral edge of the specimen and a backstop portion that forms with the pad portion an included angle for gripping the peripheral edge of the specimen; a proximal rest pad coupled to the proximal end of the body for supporting the peripheral edge of the specimen; and a proximal end active contact point movable between a retracted specimen-loading position and an extended specimen-gripping position established by the size of the specimen, the loading position providing sufficient clearance for placement of the specimen on the body and the extended specimen-gripping position urging the peripheral edge of the specimen into the included angle formed in the distal rest pad. 2. The edge-gripping device of claim 1, in which the proximal end active contact point is formed as part of the proximal rest pad. 3. The edge-gripping device of claim 1, in which the active contact point is operably connected to a fluidic pressure-actuated piston mounted for reciprocation within a bore associated with the proximal end of the body. 4. The edge-gripping device of claim 1, in which the distal rest pad is of a shape that conforms to a segment of the periphery of the specimen. 5. The edge-gripping device of claim 1, in which the distal rest pad is a first distal rest pad and further comprising a second distal rest pad that is spaced apart from the first distal rest pad. 6. The edge-gripping device of claim 1, in which the body defines a generally planar specimen support surface to which the distal rest pad is attached, and in which the distal rest pad includes a rest pad portion inclined relative to the generally planar specimen support surface to provide a ramp surface for the specimen as the movable contact point in the extended specimen-gripping position urges the peripheral edge of the specimen into the included angle. 7. The edge-gripping device of claim 6, in which the included angle formed between the inclined rest pad portion and the backstop portion is less than 180.degree.. 8. The edge-gripping device of claim 1, further comprising an active contact point actuating mechanism that is operatively connected to the active contact point to move it between the retracted specimen-loading and extended specimen-gripping positions, the actuating mechanism including a biasing device that applies a biasing force to extend the active contact point to the extended specimen-gripping position and a fluidic pressure-controlled device that selectively overcomes the biasing force to retract the active contact point to the retracted specimen-loading position. 9. The edge-gripping device of claim 8, further comprising a position indicator operatively connected to the active contact point and operatively associated with a pair of spaced-apart reference position indicating devices, each reference position indicating device monitoring the movement of the active contact point to indicate a fully retracted specimen-loading position and a filly extended position of the active contact point with no specimen gripped. 10. The edge-gripping device of claim 1, in which the distal rest pad includes an inclined rest pad portion to provide a ramp surface for the specimen as the movable contact point in the extended specimen-gripping position urges the peripheral edge of the specimen into the included angle, and in which an included angle of less than 180.degree. is formed between the inclined rest pad portion and the backstop portion, and further comprising an active contact point actuating mechanism that is operatively connected to the active contact point to move it between the retracted specimen-loading and extended specimen-gripping positions, the actuating mechanism including a biasing device that applies a biasing force to extend the active contact point to the extended specimen-gripping position and a fluidic pressure-controlled device that selectively overcomes the biasing force to retract the active contact point to the retracted specimen-loading position, thereby to provide a fail-safe mechanism to hold the specimen between the distal rest pad and the active contact point in the event of loss of fluid pressure to the fluidic pressure-controlled device. 11. The edge-gripping device of claim 1, further comprising an active contact point actuating mechanism that is operatively connected to the active contact point to move it between the retracted specimen-loading and extended specimen-gripping positions, the actuating mechanism including a biasing device and a fluidic pressure-controlled device, the biasing device applying a biasing force to the active contact point to accomplish one of extending the active contact point to the extended specimen-gripping position and retracting the active contact point to the retracted specimen-loading position, and the fluidic pressure-controlled device selectively overcoming the biasing force to accomplish the other one of extending the active contact point to the extended specimen-gripping position and retracting the active contact point to the retracted specimen-loading position not accomplished by the biasing device. 12. A method of using an end effector to determine the position of a specimen having a perimeter, comprising: providing an end effector having a body operatively connected to a light source and a light receiver, the light source and light receiver having spaced-apart respective source light path and receiver light path openings between which a light beam propagates along a light transmission pathway, the source light path and receiver light path openings being dimensioned so that the light beam is of known beam shape; imparting relative motion between the specimen and the body to cause them to converge in space; positioning, in coordination with the imparting of relative motion, the specimen to intersect the light transmission pathway and thereby interrupt the light beam of known beam shape; and establishing in response to the interruption of the light beam of known beam shape a location of the perimeter of the specimen relative to a spatial reference. 13. The method of claim 12, in which the imparting of relative motion includes moving the body and the specimen toward each other along a travel path while changing a relative position of the light beam of known beam shape and the specimen in a direction transverse to the travel path and, upon the intersection of the light beam of known beam shape, ceasing the relative movement of the body and specimen toward each other preparatory to establishing a defining location of the perimeter of the specimen. 14. The method of claim 13, in which the specimen has first and second opposed major surfaces separated by a separation distance and in which the changing of a relative position of the light beam of known beam shape and the specimen in a direction transverse to the travel path includes imparting relative movement to the light beam of known beam shape and the specimen in an undulating pattern between spatial locations separated by a spatial distance that is greater than the surface distance. 15. The method of claim 12, in which the positioning in coordination with the imparting of relative motion is accomplished by manual alignment of the body with the specimen to interrupt the light beam of known beam shape. 16. The method of claim 12, in which the imparting of relative motion is accomplished by manual positioning of the body and the specimen in proximal distance between each other. 17. A specimen position sensing end effector, comprising: a body including a mechanism that is capable of two or more degrees of freedom; and a light source operatively connected to the body and including a source light path opening and a light receiver including a receiver light path opening, the source and receiver light path openings being spaced apart and dimensioned to form between them a light transmission pathway along which a light beam of known beam shape propagates from the light source to the light receiver, the light transmission pathway being of sufficient length to detect an interruption of the light beam of known beam shape caused by a specimen positioned in proximity to the body and within a predetermined distance relative to a spatial reference. 18. The end effector of claim 17, in which the body includes proximal and distal ends, and the source and receiver light path openings are positioned to face each other in proximity to the proximal end so that the light transmission pathway is interrupted by a defining point of a specimen supported by a carrier. 19. The end effector of claim 17, in which the body includes proximal and distal ends, and the source and receiver light path openings are positioned to face each other in proximity to the distal end so that the light transmission pathway is interrupted by a specimen supported by a carrier positioned in proximity to the body as the mechanism causes the distal end of the body and the specimen to approach each other. 20. The end effector of claim 17, in which the body includes proximal and distal ends, and the source and receiver light path openings being positioned to face each other in proximity to the proximal end so that the light transmission pathway is interrupted by first and second opposed surface areas of a specimen supported by a carrier. 21. A specimen position sensing robotic end effector, comprising: a body; a holding mechanism operatively associated with the body to enable holding of a specimen in place by the body; and a light source operatively connected to the body and including a source light path opening and a light receiver including a receiver light path opening, the source and receiver light path openings being spaced apart and being dimensioned to form between them a light transmission pathway along which a light beam of known beam shape propagates from the light source to the light receiver, the light transmission pathway being of sufficient length to detect an interruption of the light beam of known beam shape caused by a specimen positioned in proximity to the body and within a predetermined distance relative to a spatial reference. 22. The end effector of claim 21, further comprising a coupler adapted for operable coupling of the body to a robot arm and in which the body includes proximal and distal ends, of which the proximal end is positioned nearer to the coupler, the source and receiver light path openings being positioned to face each other in proximity to the proximal end so that the light transmission pathway is interrupted by a defining point of a specimen supported by a carrier before the specimen is held by the body. 23. The end effector of claim 22, in which the spatial reference corresponds to a stop position of the specimen when it is held in place by the carrier. 24. The end effector of claim 21, further comprising a coupler adapted for operable coupling of the body to a robot arm and in which the body includes proximal and distal ends, of which the proximal end is positioned nearer to the coupler, the source and receiver light path openings being positioned to face each other in proximity to the distal end so that the light transmission pathway is interrupted by a specimen supported by a carrier positioned in proximity to the body as the robot arm causes the distal end of the body and the specimen to approach each other. 25. The end effector of claim 21, further comprising a coupler adapted for operable coupling of the body to a robot arm and in which the body includes proximal and distal ends, of which the proximal end is positioned nearer to the coupler, the source and receiver light path openings being positioned to face each other in proximity to the proximal end so that the light transmission pathway is interrupted by first and second opposed surface areas of a specimen supported by a carrier before the specimen is held by the body. 