A vehicle assembly tool includes a base and a frame pivotably coupled to the base. The frame is configured for holding a plurality of vehicle parts to be welded together. A motor is coupled to the frame via a gear system to move the frame relative to the base. Per the present disclosure, the base can be juxtaposed with a plurality of robotic welders, each having an end effector with six degrees of freedom, and the frame then moved relative to the base to essentially provide a seventh degree of freedom for welding the parts together. Also, the frame can be programmed to return, after welding, to one of several user-defined load positions, each of which load positions can be tailored to a respective individual for facilitating ergonomic loading of parts into the frame by the particular individual.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A computer program product comprising: a data storage device readable by a digital processing system; and a computer program embodied in the storage device and including instructions executable by the digital processing system for performing method steps for establishing a plurality of preselected work positions for a vehicle assembly apparatus having a base and a frame movably engaged with the base, such that the frame can be moved to establish a seventh degree of freedom in a system that includes robotic welders having six degrees of freedom, the method steps comprising: (a) moving the frame to a desired work orientation relative to the base; (b) generating a set signal when the frame is in the desired work orientation; (c) generating a position signal representative of the work orientation; and (d) correlating the position signal to a preselected work orientation. 2. The computer program product of claim 1, in combination with the frame and a motor coupled to the frame. 3. The combination of claim 2, further in combination with a position sensor associated with the frame for generating the position signal. 4. The combination of claim 3, further in combination with a data entry device for generating the set signal. 5. A computer-implemented method for establishing a plurality of preselected work positions for a vehicle assembly apparatus having a base and a frame movably engaged with the base, such that parts of a vehicle can be oriented at a plurality of orientations relative to a robotic welder during processing, comprising: (a) moving the frame to a desired work orientation relative to the base; (b) generating a set signal when the frame is in the desired work orientation; (c) generating a position signal representative of the work orientation; and (d) correlating the position signal to a preselected work orientation. 6. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, further comprising coupling a motor to the frame. 7. The method of claim 6, further comprising associating a position sensor with the frame for generating the position signal. 8. The method of claim 7, further comprising providing a data entry device for generating the set signal. 9. A system for promoting assembly line versatility during vehicle assembly using a plurality of movable robotic welders, comprising: a base juxtaposed with the welders; a frame movably coupled to the base; a means for moving the frame relative to the base; a controller electrically connected to the moving means; a position sensor electrically connected to the controller for generating a position signal representative of the orientation of the frame relative to the base; a data input device electrically connected to the controller for generating a set signal; and computer code elements accessible to the controller and embodying machine-readable instructions for executing method steps comprising: receiving the position signal; and recording the orientation of the frame upon receipt of the set signal, based on the position signal. 10. The system of claim 9, wherein the recording step further comprises: (a) moving the frame to a desired work orientation relative to the base; and (b) correlating the position signal to a preselected work orientation. 