Several methods and subsystems are provided for aligning a workpiece as it is being loaded into a die space of a bending apparatus, and for performing sensor-based control of a robot as it moves a workpiece from one location to another within a bending apparatus environment. A backgaging mechanism is provided with finger gaging mechanisms having force sensors for sensing forces in directions perpendicular to and parallel to a die. In addition, a robot gripper sensor is provided for sensing either or both of shear forces and normal forces created by movement of a workpiece being held by the gripper. Several sensor-based control modules are disclosed, including a bend-following control module, a speed control module, a module for actively damping vibrations in a workpiece, a module for controlling active compliance/contact between a workpiece and an obstacle, a module for performing a guarded move to intentionally bring a workpiece into contact with an obstacle, and a module for detecting unintentional impacts between a workpiece and an obstacle. Several droop sensing methods and systems are also provided, including methods for performing droop sensing and compensation with the use of a vision-based droop sensor, a compound break-beam droop sensor, and a single break-beam droop sensor. In addition, an angle sensor is provided, along with a springback control method utilizing the disclosed angle sensor.
Claims What is claimed: 1. Apparatus for controlling a rate of change of velocity of a robot gripper holding a workpiece, said apparatus comprising: monitoring means for monitoring a force between said workpiece and said robot gripper; determining means for determining if the monitored force is greater than or equal to a threshold value; and decreasing means for decreasing the rate of change of the velocity of said workpiece by lowering the acceleration of said robot gripper when the monitored force is determined to be greater than or equal to said threshold value. 2. Apparatus for actively damping vibration of a workpiece being held by a robot gripper during movement of said workpiece by a robot, said apparatus comprising: part geometry parameter reading means for reading part geometry parameters related to the workpiece being held by said robot gripper; force reading means for reading an amount of force between said workpiece and said robot gripper; frequency determining means for determining an approximate frequency of vibration of said workpiece based upon the force readings made by said force reading means; and robot movement control means for controlling said robot to move said robot gripper in a direction opposite to the force readings with the frequency determined by said frequency determining means. 3. Apparatus for controlling a robot having a robot gripper holding a workpiece, so that said workpiece is moved while maintaining contact between said workpiece and a desired object, said apparatus comprising: robot control means for controlling movement of said robot so that said workpiece moves in a desired direction; monitoring means for monitoring a force between said workpiece and said robot gripper; determining means for determining if the monitored force is within a certain range of a desired contact force between said workpiece and said desired object; and adjusting means for adjusting the direction of movement of said workpiece to either increase or decrease the contact force, as indicated by the monitored force between said workpiece and said robot gripper, in order to bring the monitored force within the certain range of the desired contact force. 4. Apparatus for controlling movement of a workpiece held by a robot gripper toward an obstacle until said workpiece contacts said obstacle, said apparatus comprising: robot control means for controlling movement of said workpiece by a predetermined increment toward said obstacle; force monitoring means for monitoring an amount of force between said workpiece and said robot gripper; determining means for determining if the monitored force is greater than or equal to a threshold value; and repeating means for repeating movement of said workpiece toward said obstacle until it is determined that the monitored force is greater than or equal to the threshold value. 5. Apparatus for controlling movement of a workpiece held by a robot gripper, and for detecting an unplanned impact between said workpiece and an obstacle, said apparatus comprising: monitoring means for monitoring an amount of force between said workpiece and said robot gripper; determining means for determining if the monitored force is greater than or equal to an impact threshold value; and stopping means for stopping movement of the robot when the monitored force is determined to be greater than or equal to said impact threshold value. 6. The apparatus according to claim 5, wherein said determining means comprises means for determining if the monitored force is greater than or equal to a minor impact threshold value, and for determining if the monitored force is greater than or equal to a major impact threshold value; said apparatus further comprising means for modifying movement of said robot in order to move said workpiece away from said obstacle when the monitored force is determined to be greater than or equal to said minor impact threshold value but less than said major impact threshold value. 7. A system for loading a workpiece into a die space of a bending apparatus, said system comprising: measuring means for measuring an amount of droop offset of a leading edge of said workpiece before said workpiece is loaded into said die space; means for moving said workpiece in an upward direction by the measured droop offset; and loading means for loading said workpiece into said die space. 8. The apparatus according to claim 7, wherein said measuring means comprises a back-lit vision-based droop sensor. 9. The apparatus according to claim 7, wherein said measuring means comprises a vision-based droop sensor. 10. The apparatus according to claim 7, wherein said measuring means comprises a mechanism for sensing when each of a plurality of light beams have been intersected by said workpiece as said workpiece is moved toward said die space. 11. The apparatus according to claim 7, wherein said measuring means comprises a single break-beam detecting mechanism for detecting when a single light beam has been broken by movement of said workpiece toward said die space. 12. An angle sensor for detecting an angle of a flange portion of a workpiece as the flange portion is being bent by a bending apparatus, said angle sensor comprising: a member having a reflective surface; holding means for holding said member with said reflective surface against said flange portion of said workpiece; light emitting means for emitting a light beam onto said reflective surface; and light detecting means for detecting a position of said light beam as said light beam is reflected by said reflective surface, the detected position being indicative of the angle of said flange portion of said workpiece. 13. A system for controlling springback of a bent flange portion of a workpiece as a bend operation is performed by a bending apparatus utilizing a die and a tool punch, said springback control system comprising: angle measurement means for measuring an angle of said flange portion of said workpiece as a bend is being performed; and springback calculating means for calculating a predicted amount of springback expected to occur in said flange portion of said workpiece after completion of the bend operation. 