A method for preventing collisions between robots by causing a first robot to stop or pause so that a second robot may safely pass by or perform a specified operation. Once the second robot has completed its operation then the first robot is allowed to resume operation. Each robot automatically stops when it reaches a certain point in its job. The robots communicate with a central controller which allows the robots to resume operation when the central controller has determined that all of the robots have reached their respective correct positions. This prevents collisions between robots which are operating in the same area, especially those robots operating on the same workpiece. This method works with existing robot welders, does not require modifications to the robots, and does not require expensive spatial analysis computer programs, which may not even be available for the type of processor used in a particular robot. The present invention also provides a method for specifying a compartment entry point for a welding operation based upon data provided from a CAD program. The present invention also provides a method for automatically determining the starting and ending coordinates of a weld using a touch-sensing capability of the robot. The present invention also provides a method for automatically tracking the joint for a welding seam by periodically measuring the coordinates of the components by using the touchsensing feature of the robot. The present invention also provides a method for automatically determining the position of a torch to provide for an optimum angle of attack for a welding operation based upon data, such as beam height and flange overhang, provided from a CAD program. The present invention also provides a method for automatically tracking the joint for a welding seam by weaving (dithering) the torch along the desired path, measuring the arc welding current at peak deviations from the travel path, and comparing the measured current on the two different sides of the weld to determine whether the torch is on the seam. The present invention also uses this method to automatically track the edge of a component for applying a welding bead to the edge of the component. The present invention also provides for automatically selecting a welding program from a standard set of welding programs based upon data from a CAD program.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus for programming a robot, said robot having a pendant for providing program instructions to said robot, said pendant having a plurality of buttons for entering said program instructions, said apparatus comprising: a plurality of solenoids; means for holding said solenoids in a predetermined configuration, said predetermined configuration being such that each solenoid of said plurality of solenoids strikes a predetermined button of said plurality of buttons when said solenoid is activated; and means for controlling said activation of said solenoids, including activating a said solenoid to cause said robot to store said program instructions. 2. An apparatus for programming a robot to execute a predetermined program, said robot having a pendant for providing program instructions to said robot, said pendant having a plurality of buttons for entering said program instructions, said apparatus comprising: a plurality of solenoids; means for holding said solenoids in a predetermined configuration, said predetermined configuration being such that each solenoid of said plurality of solenoids strikes a predetermined button of said plurality of buttons when said solenoid is activated; and a controller for reading a first instruction from said computer program, for determining a solenoid to be activated to enter said first instruction into said robot, for activating said solenoid, for reading a second instruction from said computer program, for determining a solenoid to be activated to enter said second instruction into said robot, for activating said solenoid, and for activating a said solenoid to cause said robot to store said program instructions. 3. An apparatus for controlling a robot, said robot having a pendant for controlling said robot, said pendant having a plurality of buttons for entering commands, said apparatus comprising: a plurality of solenoids; means for holding said solenoids in a predetermined configuration, said predetermined configuration being such that each solenoid of said plurality of solenoids strikes a predetermined button of said plurality of buttons when said solenoid is activated; and means for controlling said activation of said solenoids. 4. An apparatus for controlling a robot, said robot having a pendant for providing instructions to said robot, said pendant having a plurality of buttons for entering commands, said apparatus comprising: a plurality of solenoids; means for holding said solenoids in a predetermined configuration, said predetermined configuration being such that each solenoid of said plurality of solenoids strikes a predetermined button of said plurality of buttons when said solenoid is activated; and a controller for reading a first instruction from said computer program, for determining a solenoid to be activated to enter said first instruction as a command to said robot, for activating said solenoid, for reading a second instruction from said computer program, for determining a solenoid to be activated to enter said second instruction as a command to said robot, and for activating said solenoid. 5. A method for controlling a robot by using a plurality of solenoids to program a robot to execute a predetermined program, said robot having a pendant for providing program instructions to said robot, said pendant having a plurality of buttons for entering said program instructions, said solenoids being in a predetermined configuration such that each solenoid of said plurality of solenoids strikes a predetermined button of said plurality of buttons when said solenoid is activated, said method comprising the steps of: reading a first instruction from said computer program; determining a solenoid to be activated to enter said first instruction into said robot; activating said solenoid; reading a second instruction from said computer program; determining a solenoid to be activated to enter said second instruction into said robot; activating said solenoid; and activating a solenoid to cause said robot to store said program instructions. 6. A method for controlling a robot by using a plurality of solenoids to control a robot, said robot having a pendant for providing instructions to said robot, said pendant having a plurality of buttons for entering commands, said solenoids being in a predetermined configuration such that each solenoid of said plurality of solenoids strikes a predetermined button of said plurality of buttons when said solenoid is activated, said method comprising the steps of: reading a first instruction from said computer program; determining a solenoid to be activated to enter said first instruction as a command to said robot; activating said solenoid; reading a second instruction from said computer program; determining a solenoid to be activated to enter said second instruction as a command to said robot; and activating said solenoid. 