A new class of actuators and mechanisms use opposing repulsive magnetic forces. The repulsive forces are typically generated between a stationary magnet and a moving magnet, where the moving magnet is coupled to the mechanism output member. The mechanisms are generally configured such that the repulsive force from one electromagnet is opposed by a repulsive force from another electromagnet, where the opposing forces are simultaneously applied to the mechanism's output member. This configuration is similar in certain aspects to the way biological flexor and extensor muscles are configured in a musculoskeletal system. The opposing configuration allows for open loop control of position and stiffness. The actuator mechanism may have both rotary and linear motion output, and may have either a single degree of freedom or multiple degrees of freedom. Permanent magnets can be used to create a baseline repulsive force without electric power, and electromagnets can modulate the repulsive force magnitude. The actuator can provide high fidelity motion and force output, and is well suited for human interface devices, such as force feedback joysticks. Other applications include adjustable stiffness devices, and high bandwidth mechanisms.
Claims Having described the invention, what is claimed is: 1. An actuator comprising: a. an electromagnet, fixed relative to a reference body; b. a second magnet, movable relative to said reference body; c. a third magnet, fixed relative to said reference body and oriented relative to said second magnet such that magnetic repulsion arises between said second and third magnets; and d. a travel guide, arranged to constrain motion of said second magnet relative to said reference body, so that said second magnet is movable relative to said travel guide and so that magnetic repulsion between said second and third magnets is maintained non-zero; said electromagnet being shaped and spaced relative to said second and third magnets to generate a magnetic field that: i. counters any magnetic repulsion that arises between said second and third magnets it current is applied to said electromagnet in a first direction; ii. enhances any magnetic repulsion that arises between said second and third magnets if current is applied to said electromagnet in a second, opposite direction; and iii. one of said electromagnet and said second magnet, has an internal open space, sized and arranged relative to the other of said electromagnet and said second magnet, such that a portion of the other of said electromagnet and said second magnet is locatable inside said internal open space. 2. The actuator of claim 1, further comprising a fourth magnet, movable relative to said reference body, said fourth magnet being spaced from said second magnet and arranged such that magnetic repulsion arises between said second and fourth magnets, said fourth magnet being constrained in its motion so that said magnetic repulsion between said second and fourth magnets is maintained non-zero. 3. The actuator of claim 1, said internal open space of one of said electromagnet and said second magnet comprising a circular space. 4. The actuator of claim 1, where in s aid magnet having said open internal space is said electromagnet. 5. The actuator of claim 1, wherein said magnet having said open internal space is said movable second magnet. 6. The actuator of claim 1, said travel guide comprising a rod located within said internal open space. 7. An actuator comprising: a. an electromagnet; b. a second magnet, movable relative to a reference body; c. a third magnet, fixed relative to said reference body and oriented relative to said second magnet such that magnetic repulsion arises between said second and third magnets; d. a fourth magnet, movable relative to said reference body and said second magnet and oriented relative to said second magnet such that magnetic repulsion arises between said second and fourth magnets; and d. a travel guide, arranged to constrain motion of said second and fourth magnets relative to said reference body, so that said second and fourth magnets are movable relative to said travel guide and so that magnetic repulsion between said second and third magnets and between said second and fourth magnets is maintained non-zero; said electromagnet being shaped and located relative to said first, second and fourth magnets to generate a magnetic field that: i. counters any magnetic repulsion that arises between said second and third magnets if current is applied to said electromagnet in a first direction; and ii. enhances any magnetic repulsion that arises between said second and third magnets if current is applied to said electromagnet in a second, opposite direction. 8. The actuator of claim 7, said electromagnet being located concentric with said second magnet. 9. The actuator of claim 7, said electromagnet being fixed relative to said reference, and being located between said third and said second magnets. 10. The actuator of claim 9, further comprising a fifth magnet, which is an electromagnet, being fixed relative to one of said movable second and fourth magnets, being located between said third and said second magnets, to generate a magnetic field that: a. counters any magnetic repulsion that arises between said second and fourth magnets if current is applied to said electromagnet in a first direction; and b. enhances any magnetic repulsion that arises between said second and fourth magnets if current is applied to said electromagnet in a second, opposite direction. 11. An actuator comprising: a. at least one electromagnet; b. a second magnet, movable relative to a reference body; c. a third magnet, fixed relative to said reference body and oriented relative to said second magnet such that magnetic repulsion arises between said second and third magnets; d. a fourth magnet, movable relative to said reference body and said second magnet and oriented relative to said second magnet such that magnetic repulsion arises between said second and fourth magnets; and d. a travel guide, arranged to constrain motion of said second and fourth magnets relative to said reference body, so that said second and fourth magnets are movable relative to said travel guide and so that magnetic repulsion between said second and third magnets and between said second and fourth magnets is maintained non-zero; and e. a current director that controls the flow of current to said electromagnet based on the location of said second magnet relative to said reference body; said electromagnet being shaped and located relative to said first, second and fourth magnets to generate a magnetic field that: i. counters any magnetic repulsion that arises between said second and fourth magnets if current is applied to said electromagnet in a first direction; and ii. enhances any magnetic repulsion that arises between said second and fourth magnets if current is applied to said electromagnet in a second, opposite direction. 12. The actuator of claim 11, said current director comprising a sliding electrical contact between said second magnet and said travel guide. 13. An actuator unit comprising: a. a first actuator member comprising: i. a first magnetic region; and ii. a second magnetic region, coupled to said first magnetic region such that motion of one magnetic region with respect to a reference results in motion of the other region with respect to said reference; b. a second actuator member, comprising: i. a first magnetic region, arranged to magnetically repel said first magnetic region of said first actuator member; and ii. a second magnetic region, arranged to simultaneously magnetically repel said second magnetic region of said first actuator member; said second actuator member being arranged relative to said first actuator member such that said first and second magnetic regions are in opposition relative to each other; c. an electromagnet, arranged with respect to said first magnetic regions of said first and second actuator members to generate a magnetic field that: i. counters any magnetic repulsion that arises between said first magnetic regions, if current is applied to said electromagnet in a first direction; and ii. enhances any magnetic repulsion that arises between said first magnetic regions if current is applied to said electromagnet in a second, opposite direction. 14. The actuator unit of claim 13, said first magnetic actuator member comprising a permanent magnet. 15. The actuator unit of claim 14, said second magnetic actuator member comprising a permanent magnet. 16. The actuator unit of claim 13, said first and second magnetic regions comprising spaced apart regions of said permanent magnet. 17. The actuator unit of claim 13, further comprising a travel guide, coupled to said first magnetic actuator member such that it is supported during motion through an actuator member DOF in response to variations in said magnetic repulsion arising between said first regions of said first and second actuator members, such that the magnitude of said opposing magnetic repulsion is maintained non-zero. 