A semi-automated machine for preparing double-armed sutures, i.e., a suture with a surgical needle at either end of the suture, from a bulk supply of surgical needles and an indefinite length of suture material is described. Each of the surgical needles has a suture receiving opening formed therein for receiving a suture. The machine includes a needle singulation station, a precise positioning station, a suture feeding and cutting station, a swage station, a pull-test station and an off-load station. A universal gripper mounted on a rotary indexing device automatically receives each individual needle in a predetermined orientation and conveys the needle for sequential processing from station to station to form the needle-suture assembly. A suture drawing and cutting station automatically inserts an end of the indefinite length of suture into the first of the pair of needles that form the double-armed suture. A swage station is provided for swaging the needle to close the suture receiving opening about the suture to secure said suture thereto. The suture drawing and cutting station then cuts the indefinite length, and inverts the cut end for insertion into the second of the pair of needles. The swage station then swages the second needle to close the suture receiving opening about the suture to secure said suture thereto and thereby form the double-armed suture.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A needle threading and swaging apparatus for attaching a single suture to either a single suture or a pair of surgical needles, each needle having a suture receiving opening formed therein, said apparatus comprising: (a) at least two universal grippers, each gripper sequentially receiving a first surgical needle and indexing said first surgical needle in a predetermined orientation from a first predetermined location through a swage station, (b) a suture cutting and inserting station located at a second predetermined location for automatically cutting an indefinite length of suture material to a definite length, said definite length having a first end and a second end, said suture cutting and inserting station having a first gripper for inserting a first end of said suture into the suture receiving opening formed in the first surgical needle, and a second invertible gripper for gripping the indefinite length suture, and after the suture has been cut, automatically inserting said suture into said suture receiving opening formed in a second surgical needle; (c) a rotatable carriage for said second invertible gripper, to rotate said second gripper and invert a cut end of said suture for insertion into said second surgical needle in the event double-armed sutures are to be formed; (d) a swage station for sequentially swaging each surgical needle to close the suture receiving openings of each surgical needle about a definite length of suture, wherein the first needle is secured to the first end of said definite length of suture and the second needle to the second end of said definite length of suture when a double-armed needle and suture assembly is to be formed. 2. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said second invertible gripper includes a motor for rotating the rotatable carriage and gripper after the suture has been cut from said indefinite length when a double-armed suture is to be formed. 3. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the suture cutting and inserting station located at said second predetermined location further comprises: (a) a drawing frame, said frame having a first and a second longitudinal member and defining a drawing axis parallel thereto; (b) means for feeding a flexible indefinite length suture strand to said drawing axis for drawing and cutting; (c) said first gripper and said second invertible gripper mounted for reciprocal movement on said first and said second longitudinal members respectively; (d) a cutter assembly for cutting said indefinite length suture strand. 4. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the second invertible gripper is reciprocated to a start position along said drawing axis above said cutter assembly, while said first gripper is drawing said indefinite length suture strand to an insertion zone located a predetermined distance beyond said cutter assembly when a double-armed suture is to be formed. 5. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 4, wherein during the formation of a double-armed suture, said second invertible gripper inverts a second end of said definite length suture and reciprocates it to an insert position along said drawing axis above said cutter assembly to enable the second end of said cut suture strand to be inserted within said suture receiving opening of said second surgical needle for swaging thereto. 6. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the suture cutting and inserting station located at said second predetermined location further comprises first and second drive motors for enabling reciprocal movement of respective first and second grippers. 7. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 6 wherein the apparatus further comprises a computer control means for said invertible gripper, said cutter assembly and said first and second drive motors to selectively form single armed sutures or double-armed sutures from said indefinite length of suture. 8. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 7 wherein the apparatus further comprises a moveable carrier mounted for selective movement along said drawing axis, said movable carrier having said cutter assembly mounted thereon. 9. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 8 wherein the suture cutting and inserting station further includes means for tensioning said indefinite length suture during at least the drawing and cutting thereof. 10. A needle threading and swaging apparatus for attaching a suture to a pair of surgical needles, each needle having a suture receiving opening formed therein to form a double-armed suture, said apparatus comprising: (a) at least a first and a second universal gripper for sequentially receiving a first and a second surgical needle of said pair at a first predetermined location and transferring said needles in a predetermined orientation to a swaging station; (b) a suture drawing and cutting station for automatically cutting an indefinite length of suture material to a definite length and automatically inserting a first end of said definite length suture into said suture receiving opening formed in the first surgical needle and automatically inverting and inserting a second end of said definite length suture into said suture receiving opening formed in the second surgical needle after the indefinite length of suture has been cut; (c) a swage station for sequentially swaging the first and the second of said pair of surgical needles to close the respective suture receiving openings in the first and the second surgical needles about the first and second ends of said definite length suture to secure said suture thereto and form therefrom a double-armed needle and suture assembly; whereby surgical needles and an indefinite length of suture material are formed into a plurality of double-armed surgical needle and suture assemblies. 11. A needle threading and swaging apparatus for attaching a suture to a pair of surgical needles as claimed in claim 10, wherein said apparatus further comprises a cutter assembly for cutting said indefinite length suture to a definite length, and means for tensioning said indefinite length suture during at least the drawing and cutting thereof. 12. A needle threading and swaging apparatus for attaching a suture to a pair of surgical needles to form a double armed suture wherein said apparatus further comprises: (a) a cutter assembly for cutting said indefinite length suture to a definite length, (b) means for tensioning said indefinite length suture during at least the drawing and cutting thereof, (c) first and second grippers having retractable gripping elements having a first engaged position and a second retracted position, wherein one of said first and second grippers traverses the drawing axis on a draw stroke with gripping elements engaged, and the other of said first and second grippers reciprocates along the same axis with the gripping elements retracted to avoid mechanical interference therewith, at least one of said grippers being an invertible gripper which enables swaging of said indefinite length suture to a pair of needles to form a double armed suture. 13. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 11 wherein the suture drawing and cutting station further includes a tipping station for heat treating a portion of said indefinite length strand of suture material while under tension at to form a treated portion of said indefinite length strand. 14. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 13 wherein at least one of said tipping station or said cutter assembly is mounted on a movable carrier to enable said cutter assembly to cut a plurality of definite lengths of sutures from said indefinite length, with each cut occurring in a treated zone on said indefinite length of suture. 15. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 14 wherein said indefinite length strand is supported at a free end adjacent an insertion position by said first gripper while said tipping station is heating a portion of said strand at a treatment zone remote from said insertion position and said cutter assembly. 16. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 15 wherein said cutter assembly cuts said indefinite length suture in a treated portion remote from said treatment zone to create a suture strand of definite length supported at the first end by said first needle, and at said second end by said second gripper. 17. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 11 wherein said cutter assembly includes a retractable cutter having a cutting blade mounted for at least reciprocal movement transverse to a first axis defined by said indefinite length strand from a first retracted position to a second cutting position and a suture support for accurately positioning said indefinite length strand of suture material for cutting thereof, and for supporting said strand as the cutting blade traverses said first axis as it reciprocates from said retracted position to said cutting position. 18. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 11, wherein the suture drawing and cutting station further comprises a drawing frame which defines a drawing axis and a means for feeding a flexible indefinite length suture strand to said drawing axis for drawing and cutting, wherein said first gripper and second invertible gripper are mounted for reciprocal movement on either side of said drawing axis. 19. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 18, wherein the second invertible gripper is reciprocal to a start position along said drawing axis above said cutter assembly, while said first gripper is drawing said indefinite length suture strand to an insertion zone located a predetermined distance beyond said cutter assembly, whereby said indefinite length suture strand is inserted within said suture receiving opening of the first of said pair of needles and cut to a predetermined length by said cutter assembly after said first needle has been swaged. 20. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 19, wherein said second invertible gripper inverts a second end of said definite length suture and reciprocates it to an insert position along said drawing axis above said cutter assembly to enable the second end of said cut suture strand to be inserted within said suture receiving opening of the second of said pair of needles for swaging thereto. 21. A method of forming a double-armed suture, wherein the suture is swaged to a pair of surgical needles, said method comprising: (a) sequentially positioning a first and then a second surgical needle in a predetermined position in a swage station for subsequent sequential swaging; (b) automatically inserting and swaging a first end of an indefinite length of suture material into a suture receiving opening in the first of said needles, thereby drawing said indefinite length to a definite length, said definite length having a first end and a second end; (c) cutting said definite length of suture from said indefinite length of suture material along a cut axis; (d) inverting the second end of said definite length of suture, and automatically inserting and swaging second end of said indefinite length of suture material into a suture receiving opening in the second of said needles to thereby form a double-armed suture assembly. 22. A method of forming a double-armed suture as claimed in claim 21 which further includes the step of rotating an invertible gripper to invert the second end of said definite length of suture material to enable insertion into the second of said needles. 23. A method of forming a double-armed suture as claimed in claim 21 which further includes the steps of: (a) feeding a flexible indefinite length suture strand along a drawing axis for drawing and cutting; (b) reciprocating a first gripper and a second invertible gripper on either side of said drawing axis, wherein said first gripper draws said indefinite length suture strand to an insertion position located a predetermined distance beyond a suture cutter assembly while said second invertible gripper is reciprocated to a start position along said drawing axis above said cutter assembly; and then (c) performing the swaging step (b) and then the cutting step (c) of claim 21. 24. A method of forming a double-armed suture as claimed in claim 23 wherein said inverting step includes the step of gripping the second end of said definite length of suture with said invertible gripper, rotating the gripper, and reciprocating it to an insert position along said drawing axis above said cutter assembly to enable the second end of said cut suture strand to be inserted within said suture receiving opening of the second of said pair of needles, and then swaging said second needles. 25. A method of forming a double-armed suture as claimed in claim 24, which further includes the step of tensioning said indefinite length suture during at least the drawing and cutting thereof. 26. A method of forming a double-armed suture as claimed in claim 21, which further includes the step of heating a portion of said strand at a heat treatment zone remote from said cut axis. 27. A method of forming a double-armed suture as claimed in claim 26 which further includes the steps of reciprocating a tipping station which heats the suture and a cutter assembly which cuts the suture along the drawing axis to enable said cutter assembly to cut a plurality of definite lengths of sutures from said indefinite length of suture, with each cut occurring in a treated zone on said indefinite length of suture. 28. A method of forming a double-armed suture as claimed in claim 27 which further includes the step of supporting said indefinite length strand at a free end adjacent the first of said surgical needles with a first gripper while said tipping station is heating a portion of said indefinite length strand at a treatment zone remote from said cutter assembly. 29. A method of forming a double-armed suture as claimed in claim 27 wherein said cutter assembly cuts said indefinite length suture in a treated portion remote from said treatment zone to create a suture strand of definite length supported at the first end by said first needle, and at said second end by said second invertible gripper. 30. A method of forming a double-armed suture as claimed in claim 26 which further includes the step of cooling the suture after said heating step and before said cutting step. 