The present invention relates generally to an improved laser welded work piece, such as an automotive body panel, and a system and method for the manufacture thereof. The invention is also directed to an improved system for manufacturing the welded work piece including an improved laser welder and a laser weld inspection device and system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A welded work piece comprising: a first blank of steel sheet stock having a pair of exterior surfaces with a first thickness of between approximately 0.50 and 0.75 millimeters and having at least one first precision sheared edge; a second blank of steel sheet stock having a pair of exterior surfaces with a second thickness different than the first thickness of between approximately 1.25 and 1.50 millimeters and having at least one second precision sheared edge; a laser welded seam permanently joining the respective first and second precision sheared edges; wherein the respective first and second precision sheared edges of the respective first and second blanks are aligned to form a minimized gap therebetween of between approximately zero and 0.8 millimeters before being welded; and wherein the laser welded seam is formed with a beam from a continuous wave Nd-YAG laser, the beam being at a compound angle to the minimized gap and having a leading angle .theta. of between approximately 5 and 15 degrees and a leaning angle .gamma. of between approximately 1 and 10 degrees; and wherein the beam is focused substantially into an elliptical shaped spot about the minimized gap and approximately 70 to 85 percent of the cross-sectional area of the beam is incident on the first blank; whereby the welded seam has a tensile strength exceeding approximately 9,000 pounds per square inch. 2. The welded work piece according to claim 1 wherein the minimized gap is approximately 0.04 millimeters. 3. The welded work piece according to claim 1 wherein the first blank thickness is approximately 0.7 millimeters and the second blank thickness is approximately 1.4 millimeters. 4. The welded work piece according to claim 1 wherein the welded seam is at least approximately 30 inches. 5. The welded work piece according to claim 1 wherein one of the respective exterior surfaces of each of the first and second blanks are coplanar. 6. The welded work piece according to claim 1 wherein neither of the respective exterior surfaces of the first and second blanks are coplanar. 