High-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) methods and systems are disclosed that combine sequential, serial injection of a plurality of samples into mobile-phases supplied in parallel to two or more chromatographic columns, such that staggered, parallel separation of the plurality of samples is effected. Because injection of samples is relatively fast as compared to separation, substantial efficiencies are gained with respect to overall sample throughput. The disclosed HPLC methods and systems are preferably applied in connection with combinatorial chemistry, combinatorial material science and more particularly, combinatorial synthesis and screening of polymeric materials
Claims I claim: 1. A method for characterizing a plurality of non-biological polymer samples with a liquid chromatography system, the method comprising continuously supplying a mobile phase in parallel through each of first and second chromatographic columns of a liquid chromatography system, serially loading first and second samples into a common injector, serially and distributively injecting the first and second samples into the continuously supplied mobile phase of the first and second chromatographic columns, respectively, separating at least one sample component of the injected first and second samples from other sample components thereof substantially simultaneously in the respective chromatographic columns, and detecting a property of at least one of the separated sample components of the first and second samples. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein ten or more samples are serially injected into the mobile phase of the first and second chromatographic columns. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein forty or more samples are serially injected into the mobile phase of the first and second chromatographic columns. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein eighty or more samples are serially injected into the mobile phase of the first and second chromatographic columns. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein 96*N samples are serially injected into the mobile phase of the first and second chromatographic columns, where N is an integer ranging from 1 to 5. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein ten or more different samples are serially injected into the mobile phase of the first and second chromatographic column. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein the samples are polymer samples. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein four or more samples are serially injected into the mobile phase of the first and second chromatographic column, at least two of the samples being injected into the mobile phase of the first column such that they overlap with respect to separation or detection, and at least two of the samples being injected into the mobile phase of the second column such that they overlap with respect to separation or detection. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein a property of at least one of the separated sample components of the first and second samples is detected in series. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein a property of at least one of the separated sample components of the first and second samples is detected in parallel. 11. The method of claim 1 wherein a property of at least one of the separated sample components of the first and second samples is detected with an optical detector. 12. The method of claim 1 further comprising determining a property of interest from the detected property. 13. The method of claim 1 further comprising after the separation step and before the detection step, treating the at least one separated sample component of the first and second samples to change an optical property of at least one separated sample component, wherein an optical property of the at least one treated, separated sample component of the first and second samples is detected with an optical detector. 14. A method for characterizing components of a combinatorial library of non-biological polymer samples with a liquid chromatography system, the method comprising providing a library comprising ten or more different non-biological polymer samples, the non-biological polymer samples being polymerization product mixtures resulting from polymerization reactions that are varied with respect to reaction conditions, reactants, catalysts, catalyst precursors, initiators, additives or the relative amounts thereof, continuously supplying a mobile phase in parallel through four or more chromatographic columns of a liquid chromatography system, serially loading the ten or more non-biological polymer samples into a common injector, serially and distributively injecting the ten or more different non-biological polymer samples into the mobile phase of the four or more chromatographic columns, separating at least one sample component of four or more of the injected samples from other sample components thereof substantially simultaneously in the respective four or more chromatographic columns, and detecting a property of at least one of the separated sample components of the four or more samples. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein forty or more non-biological polymer samples are serially injected into the mobile phase of the four or more chromatographic columns. 16. The method of claim 14 wherein eighty or more non-biological polymer samples are serially injected into the mobile phase of the four or more chromatographic columns. 17. The method of claim 14 wherein 96*N non-biological polymer samples are serially injected into the mobile phase of the four or more chromatographic columns, where N is an integer ranging from 1 to 5. 18. The method of claim 14 wherein the non-biological polymer samples are polymerization product mixtures resulting from synthesis in a parallel polymerization reaction. 19. The method of claim 14 wherein a property of at least one of the separated sample components of the four or more samples is detected with an optical detector. 20. The method of claim 14 further comprising determining a property of interest from the detected property. 21. The method of claim 14 further comprising after the separation step and before the detection step, selectively precipitating at least one separated sample component of the four or more samples, wherein an optical property of the at least one precipitated, separated sample component of the four or more samples is detected with an optical detector. 22. The method of claim 14 wherein the library comprises the ten or more non-biological polymer samples spatially separated on a common substrate. 23. The method of claim 14 wherein the library comprises the ten or more non-biological polymer samples in ten or more reaction vessels or glass-lined reaction vessels, the method further comprising serially withdrawing each of the ten or more non-biological polymers samples from the reaction vessels or glass-lined reaction vessels for corresponding serial loading into the injector. 24. The method of claim 14 wherein the ten or more non-biological polymer samples are injected on a regular recurring time interval. 25. The method of claim 14 wherein the ten or more non-biological polymer samples are injected on a regular recurring time interval of not more than about once every two minutes. 26. The method of claim 14 wherein injection of the ten or more non-biological polymer samples is triggered by a control signal based on detection. 27. A method for characterizing components of a plurality of samples with a liquid chromatography system, the method comprising pumping a mobile phase in parallel through four or more chromatographic columns of a liquid chromatography system, the mobile phase being supplied continuously to each of the four or more chromatographic columns through a flow path comprising one or more flow restrictors, serially loading ten or more different samples into an injector, serially and distributively injecting the ten or more samples through a multi-port switching valve into the mobile phase of the four or more chromatographic columns, controlling the multi-port switching valve such that the ten or more samples are distributively injected into the mobile phase of a first, a second, a third and a fourth of the four or more chromatographic columns, separating at least one sample component of the injected ten or more samples from other sample components thereof in the respective chromatographic columns, and detecting a property of at least one of the separated sample components of the ten or more samples. 28. The method of claim 27 wherein the liquid chromatography system comprises four columns, and the multi-port switching valve is controlled such that a first of the ten or more samples is injected into a mobile phase of the first column, a second of the ten or more samples is injected into a mobile phase of the second column, a third of the ten or more samples is injected into a mobile phase of the third column, a fourth of the ten or more samples is injected into a mobile phase of the fourth column, a fifth of the ten or more samples is injected into a mobile phase of the first column, a sixth of the ten or more samples is injected into a mobile phase of the second column, a seventh of the ten or more samples is injected into a mobile phase of the third column, an eighth of the ten or more samples is injected into a mobile phase of the fourth column, a ninth of the ten or more samples is injected into a mobile phase of the first column, and a tenth of the ten or more samples is injected into a mobile phase of the second column. 29. The method of claim 27 wherein the ten or more samples are non-biological polymer samples. 30. A method for evaluating interactions between a plurality of liquid samples and one or more solid or supported materials, the method comprising supplying a mobile phase in parallel through four or more columns comprising solid or supported materials, the mobile phase being supplied continuously to each of the four or more columns through a flow path comprising one or more flow restrictors, serially loading ten or more different liquid samples into an injector, serially and distributively injecting the ten or more samples through a multi-port switching valve into the mobile phase of the four or more columns, controlling the multi-port switching valve such that the ten or more samples are distributively injected into the mobile phase of a first, a second, a third and a fourth of the four or more columns, and evaluating the interactions between one or more components of the injected ten or more samples and the solid or supported materials. 