The disclosed invention provides a novel method for analyzing genomic DNA and expressed sequences using auxiliary oligonucleotides, preannealed to the single-stranded target nucleic acid to form a partially duplex target molecule, offers several advantages in the analysis of nucleic acid sequences by hybridization to genosensor arrays or "DNA chips". Also provided is a method for directly analyzing and comparing patterns of gene expression at the level of transcription in different cellular samples.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for analyzing nucleic acids comprising the steps of: preparing a target nucleic acid/labeled probe mixture by mixing a heat-denatured nucleic acid sample comprising a target nucleic acid with a molar excess of one or more labeled probes wherein said labeled probes are oligonucleotides with lengths and sequences selected for optimal annealing to unique positions within the target nucleic acid; hybridizing said target nucleic acid/labeled probe mixture to an array of surface-tethered capture probes wherein said capture probes are oligonucleotides designed to anneal to the target nucleic acid in tandem with at least one of said labeled probes, wherein said capture probes are surface-tethered at one end to a specific region of a solid phase support material, and wherein hybridization conditions are selected such that a capture probe from said array can bind to said target nucleic acid only when hybridized in tandem with at least one labeled probe, forming stable, contiguously stacked labeled probe/capture probe duplex structures containing no base mismatches at or near the junctions of said labeled probes and said capture probes; and analyzing the resulting pattern of binding of label across the surface of said solid phase support material to reveal the presence of sequences in the target nucleic acid complementary to tandemly hybridized complexes of said labeled probes and said capture probes. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said target nucleic acid/labeled probe mixture is preannealed and incubated under stringent hybridization conditions to enable binding of said labeled probes to unique positions within the nucleic acid sample, prior to hybridization of said mixture to said array of surface-tethered capture probes. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein said stringent hybridization conditions are near the Tm of the duplex structures of the labeled and capture probes. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said target nucleic acid/labeled probe mixture is applied directly to said array of surface-tethered capture probes and incubated under hybridization conditions permitting said labeled probes to bind specifically to complementary sequences within the nucleic acid sample, wherein said surface-tethered capture probes form a stable duplex structure with the target nucleic acid only if said surface-tethered capture probes hybridize in tandem with said labeled probes. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein probes selected from the group consisting of the labeled probes and the capture probes contain 5'-phosphate groups. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein said labeled probes and said capture probes are covalently joined by means of an enzymatic reaction catalyzed by DNA ligase and wherein said labeled probes and said capture probes are not stabilized through hybridization and said labeled probes are not washed from the oligonucleotide array at elevated temperatures. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein two or more labeled probes are designed to hybridize to the target nucleic acid in the region to which the capture probe hybridizes, and wherein said labeled probes are mixed in molar excess with the heat-denatured nucleic acid sample to form a bubble structure, wherein said bubble structure has improved accessibility to hybridization with the capture probe, and, wherein said bubble structure inhibits the formation of interfering interstrand or intrastrand secondary structure at the site of hybridization of capture probe with the target strand. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein said solid phase support material is selected from the group consisting of glass, silicon, silicon dioxide, ceramic, plastic, latex, metal and metal oxide. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein said solid phase support material comprises a flowthrough porous layer selected from the group consisting of glass fiber filters, etched silicon structures, microchannel glass, micromachined ceramics, porous plastics, and metal oxide membranes. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein one or more of said labeled probes have lengths of 6-50 nucleotides and said surface-tethered capture probes have lengths of 5-15 nucleotides. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein said labeled probes and said surface-tethered capture probes are selected to be complementary to known, unique nucleotide sequences within the target nucleic acid, wherein sequences corresponding to Alu, LINE, SINE and other repetitive genomic sequence elements are excluded from said labeled probes and from said capture probes. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein said surface-tethered capture probes and said labeled probes represent a collection of known sequence variations within regions of the nucleic acid target complementary to the labeled probes and the capture probes, wherein a quantitative pattern of binding of label to the array of surface-tethered capture probes reveals sequence variations identifying an allele and whether said nucleic acid target is homozygous or heterozygous for said allele. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein said surface-tethered capture probes and said labeled probes represent a collection of sequences unique for known genomic sequences, wherein a quantitative pattern of binding of label to the array of surface-tethered capture probes reveals the presence and/or relative abundance of known species, strains or subtypes in a biological sample from which said nucleic acid sample is derived. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein said surface-tethered capture probes and said labeled probes represent a collection of sequences unique for known expressed gene sequences, wherein a quantitative pattern of binding of label to the array of surface-tethered capture probes reveals the relative transcription levels among different genes. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein a label is introduced into an oligonucleotide to form the labeled probe by a means selected from the group consisting of polynucleotide kinase catalysis, DNA polymerase catalysis, terminal deoxynucleotidyltransferase catalysis, and incorporation of at least one labeled residue during chemical synthesis of the oligonucleotide. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein said labeled probes comprise a label selected from the group consisting of a radioactive tag, a fluorescent tag, a chemiluminescent tag, a tag of unique molecular structure, identifiable by mass spectroscopy, a protein tag, an enzymatic tag, and a ligand. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein multiplex nucleic acid sequence analysis is enabled via the use of specific mixtures of distinguishable labeled probes, each being targeted to a unique sequence in the nucleic acid sample and each containing a single distinguishable label. 18. The method of claim 16, wherein multiplex nucleic acid sequence analysis is enabled via the use of a mixture of labels of distinguishable composition, selected to specify a unique, identifiable signature for each of said labeled probes. 19. A method for directly analyzing sequence variations between two or more samples of genomic DNA, comprising the steps of: extracting a first extracted genomic DNA sample from a first biological sample; preparing a first genomic DNA/labeled probe mixture by heat-denaturing said first genomic DNA sample and mixing it with a molar excess of one or more labeled probes, the length and sequence of each labeled probe selected to permit annealing at a unique position within the genome; hybridizing said first genomic DNA labeled probe mixture to an array of end-tethered capture probes selected to hybridize in tandem with said labeled probes, the hybridization conditions selected such that an individual capture probe can bind to a genomic DNA strand only if it hybridizes to the genomic DNA target in tandem with a labeled probe; acquiring a quantitative hybridization pattern for said first genomic DNA/labeled probe mixture; extracting a second extracted genomic DNA sample from a second biological sample; preparing a second genomic DNA/labeled probe mixture by heat-denaturing and mixing said second genomic DNA sample with a molar excess of one or more labeled probes, the length and sequence of each labeled probe selected to permit annealing at a unique position within the genome; hybridizing said second genomic DNA/labeled probe mixture to an array of end-tethered capture probes selected to hybridize in tandem with said labeled probes, the hybridization conditions selected such that the capture probes cannot form stable hybrids with the genomic DNA unless they hybridize in tandem with labeled probes on the genomic DNA target; acquiring a quantitative hybridization pattern for said second genomic DNA/labeled probe mixture; and comparing the quantitative hybridization patterns obtained from said first, said second, and any additional genomic DNA samples, to reveal the allele status, i.e., wild-type, mutant or polymorphic variation, and homozygous or heterozygous condition at each of the sites of sequence variation in the genomic DNA, represented by the tandemly hybridizing labeled and capture probes. 20. A method for directly analyzing and comparing patterns of gene expression at the level of transcription in different cellular samples, comprising the steps of: isolating a first preparation of expressed sequences from a first biological sample, wherein said isolation is by extraction of cellular mRNA or by conversion of extracted cellular RNA to cDNA using reverse transcriptase; preparing a first mixture of expressed sequences and labeled probes by heat-denaturing said first preparation of expressed sequences and mixing it with one or more labeled probes in molar excess over said expressed sequences, the length and sequence of each labeled probe selected to permit annealing at a unique position within the expressed sequences; hybridizing said first mixture of expressed sequences and labeled probe(s) to an array of end-tethered capture probes selected to hybridize to expressed sequences in tandem with said labeled probes; acquiring a quantitative hybridization pattern for said first preparation of expressed sequences; comparing quantitative binding of said first mixture of expressed sequences and labeled probe(s) at different sites within said array of end-tethered capture probes, to reveal the relative abundance of different gene transcripts within said first biological sample; isolating a second preparation of expressed sequences from a second biological sample; preparing a second mixture of expressed sequences and labeled probe(s) by heat-denaturing said second preparation of expressed sequences and mixing it with one or more labeled probes in molar excess over said expressed sequences, the length and sequence of each labeled probe selected to permit annealing at a unique position within the expressed sequences; hybridizing said second mixture of expressed sequences and labeled probe(s) to an array of end-tethered capture probes selected to hybridize to expressed sequences in tandem with said labeled probes; acquiring a quantitative hybridization pattern for said second preparation of expressed sequences; comparing quantitative binding of said second mixture of expressed sequences and labeled probe(s) at different sites within said array of end-tethered capture probes, to reveal the relative abundance of different gene transcripts within said second biological sample; and comparing the quantitative hybridization patterns obtained from said first preparations of expressed sequences, second preparations of expressed sequences, and any additional preparations of expressed sequences, to reveal the relative abundance of gene transcripts in different biological samples. 21. The method of claim 20, wherein each analyzed expressed sequence is represented by a unique pair of tandemly hybridizing capture probe and labeled probe, targeted to a unique nucleotide sequence in each mRNA. 22. The method of claim 20, wherein a universal labeled probe anneals to the poly(A) sequence adjacent to the 3'-untranslated region of any polyadenylated mRNA, or to the corresponding poly(dT) region of cDNA, and wherein each analyzed expressed sequence hybridizes to a unique capture probe in tandem with the universal labeled probe. 23. The method of claim 20, wherein said labeled probes anneal to mRNA or cDNA in the region comprising the 3'-poly(A) tails of mRNA or to the corresponding 5'-poly(dT) tails of cDNA, respectively, plus 1-5 nucleotides of mRNA or cDNA immediately adjacent to said poly(A) or poly(dT) tail, and whereas the array of capture probes comprises a complete collection of all possible 5 mer, 6 mer or 7 mer oligonucleotides or a substantial subset thereof. 