A method is provided for performing array microcrystallizations to determine suitable crystallization conditions for a molecule. The method comprises forming an array of microcrystallizations, each microcrystallization comprising a drop containing a molecule to be crystallized, the drop having a volume of less than 1 .mu.L; storing the array of microcrystallizations under conditions suitable for molecule crystals to form in the drops in the array; and detecting molecule crystal formation in the drops.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for performing array microcrystallizations to determine suitable crystallization conditions for a molecule, the method comprising: forming an array of microcrystallizations, each microcrystallization comprising a drop comprising a mother liquor solution whose composition varies within the array and a molecule to be crystallized, the drop having a volume of less than 1 microliter; storing the array of microcrystallizations under conditions suitable for molecule crystals to form in the drops in the array; and detecting molecule crystal formation in the drops. 2. The method according to claim 1 wherein the molecule is a macromolecule. 3. The method according to claim 1 wherein the molecule is a protein. 4. The method according to claim 1 wherein the macromolecule has a molecular weight of at least 500 daltons. 5. The method according to claim 1 wherein the drop has a volume of less than about 750 nL. 6. The method according to claim 1 wherein the drop has a volume of less than about 500 nL. 7. The method according to claim 1 wherein the drop has a volume of less than about 250 nL. 8. The method according to claim 1 wherein the drop has a volume of between about 1 nL-750 nL. 9. The method according to claim 1 wherein the drop has a volume of between about 1 nL-500 nL. 10. The method according to claim 1 wherein the drop has a volume of between about 1 nL-250 nL. 11. The method according to claim 1 wherein each microcrystallization further includes a volume of mother liquor solution separate from the drop, the mother liquor solution contained in the volume having the same composition as the mother liquor solution contained in the drop, the volume comprising less than about 500 microliters of the mother liquor solution. 12. The method according to claim 1 wherein each microcrystallization further includes a volume of mother liquor solution separate from the drop, the mother liquor solution contained in the volume having the same composition as the mother liquor solution contained in the drop, the volume comprising less than about 250 microliters of the mother liquor solution. 13. The method according to claim 1 wherein the mother liquor solutions have at least 4 components which are varied within the array. 14. The method according to claim 1 wherein the mother liquor solutions have at least 5 components which are varied within the array. 15. The method according to claim 1 wherein the array includes greater than 96 microcrystallizations. 16. The method according to claim 1 wherein the array includes greater than 192 microcrystallizations. 17. The method according to claim 1 wherein forming the array of microcrystallizations includes using greater than 48 stock solutions to form the mother liquor solutions used in the array. 18. The method according to claim 1 wherein forming the array of microcrystallizations includes using greater than 96 stock solutions to form the mother liquor solutions used in the array. 19. The method according to claim 1 wherein forming the array of microcrystallizations includes using greater than 192 stock solutions to form the mother liquor solutions used in the array. 20. The method according to claim 1 wherein forming the array of microcrystallizations includes forming the drops within a volume range of less than about 25 nL. 21. The method according to claim 1 wherein forming the array of microcrystallizations includes forming the drops within a volume range of less than about 20 nL. 22. The method according to claim 1 wherein forming the array of microcrystallizations includes forming the drops within a volume range of less than about 15 nL. 23. A method for performing array microcrystallizations to determine suitable crystallization conditions for a molecule, the method comprising: forming an array of microcrystallizations, each microcrystallization comprising a hanging drop comprising a mother liquor solution whose composition varies within the array and a molecule to be crystallized, the drop having a volume of less than 1 microliter; storing the array of microcrystallizations under conditions suitable for molecule crystals to form in the drops in the array; and detecting molecule crystal formation in the drops. 24. A method for performing arrat microcrystallizations to determine suitable crystallization conditions for a molecule, the method comprising: forming an array of microcrystallizations, each microcrystallization comprising a sitting drop comprising a mother liquor solution whose composition varies within the array and a molecule to be crystallized, the drop having a volume of less than 1 microliter; storing the array of microcrystallizations under conditions suitable for molecule crystals to form in the drops in the array; and detecting molecule crystal formation in the drops. 25. A method for performing array microcrystallizations to determine suitable crystallization conditions for a molecule, the method comprising: forming a first array of microcrystallizations, each microcrystallization comprising a drop comprising a mother liquor solution whose composition varies within the array and a molecule to be crystallized, the drop having a volume of less than 1 microliter; storing the first array of microcrystallizations under conditions suitable for molecule crystals to form in the drops in the array; detecting molecule crystal formation in the drops; forming a second array of microcrystallizations, each microcrystallization comprising a drop comprising a molecule to be crystallized and a mother liquor solution whose composition varies within the array and is based on one or more mother liquor solutions used in the first array in which molecule crystals were detected; storing the second array of microcrystallizations under conditions suitable for molecule crystals to form drops in the array; and detecting molecule crystal formation in the drops. 26. The method according to claim 25 wherein drop is a hanging drop. 27. The method according to claim 25 wherein drop is a sitting drop. 28. The method according to claim 25 wherein drops formed in the second array have a volume of less than 1 microliter. 29. A method for forming submicroliter drops for use in an array microcrystallization to determine suitable crystallizationi conditions for a molecule, the method comprising: delivering to a plurality of drop regions within a volume range of less than about 25 nl submicroliter volues of mother liquor solutions whose compositions vary within the array; and delivering to the plurality of drop regions submicroliter volumes of a solution containing a molecule to be crystallized within a volume range of less than about 25 nL; wherein a total volume of the submicroliter volumes delivered to each drop region is less than 1 microliter. 30. The method according to claim 29 wherein the submicroliter volumes delivered to each drop region is less than about 750 nL. 31. The method according to claim 29 wherein the submicroliter volumes delivered to each drop region is less than about 500 nL. 32. The method according to claim 29 wherein the submicroliter volumes delivered to each drop region is less than about 250 nL. 33. The method according to claim 29 wherein the submicroliter volumes delivered to each drop region is between about 1 nL-750 nL. 34. The method according to claim 29 wherein the submicroliter volumes delivered to each drop region is between about 1 nL-500 nL. 35. The method according to claim 29 wherein the submicroliter volumes delivered to each drop region between about 1 nL-250 nL. 36. The method according to claim 29 wherein the submicroliter volumes delivered to each drop region is within a volume range of less than about 20 nL. 37. The method according to claim 29 wherein the submicroliter volumes delivered to each drop region is within a volume range of less than about 15 nL. 38. A method for forming submicroliter hanging drops on cover slips for use in an array microcrystallization to determine suitable crystallization conditions for a molecule, the method comprising: taking a plurality of coverslips; removing mother liquor from a plurality of wells of a multiwell plate; delivering submicroliter volumes of the mother liquor to the plurality of coverslips within a volume range of less than about 25 nL; and delivering submicroliter volumes of a solution containing molecule to be crystallized to the plurality of coverslips within a volume range of less than about 25 nL; wherein a total volume of the submicroliter volumes delivered to each coverslip is less than 1 microliter. 39. A method for forming a submicroliter sitting drops for use in an array microcrystallization to determine suitable crystallization conditions for a molecule, the method comprising: taking a multiwell plate comprising a plurality of regions, each region including a sitting drop region and a well comprising liquor solution whose composition varies within the regions of the multiwell plate; delivering submicroliter volumes of the mother liquor solutions from the wells to the sitting drop regions within a volume range of less than about 25 nL; and delivering submicroliter volumes of a solution containing a molecule to be crystallized to the sitting drop regions within a volume range of less than about 25 nL; wherein a total volume of the submicroliter volumes delivered to each sitting drop reguib is less than 1 microliter. 40. A method for performing array microcrystallizations to determine suitable crystallization conditions for a molecule, the method comprising: forming an array of microcrystallizations, each microcrystallization comprising a microcrystallization volume comprising a mother liquor solution whose composition varies within the array and a molecule to be crystallized, the microcrystallization volume having a volume of less than 1 microliter; storing the array of microcrystallizations under conditions suitable for molecule crystals to form in the microcrystallization volumes; and detecting molecule crystal formation in the microcrystallization volumes. 41. The method according to claim 40 wherein the molecule is a macromolecule. 42. The method according to claim 40 wherein the molecule is a protein. 43. The method according to claim 40 wherein the macromolecule has a molecular weight of at least 500 daltons. 44. The method according to claim 40 wherein the microcrystallization volume has a volume of less than about 750 nL. 45. The method according to claim 40 wherein the microcrystalization volume has a volume of less than about 500 nL. 46. The method according to claim 40 wherein the microcrystalization volume has a volume of less than about 250 nL. 47. The method according to claim 40 wherein the microcrystalization volume has a volume of between about 1 nL-750 nL. 48. The method according to claim 40 wherein the microcrystalization volume has a volume of between about 1 nL-500 nL. 49. The method according to claim 40 wherein the microcrystalization volume has a volume of between about 1 nL-250 nL. 50. The method according to claim 40 wherein the mother liquor solutions have at least 4 components which are varied within the array. 51. The method according to claim 40 wherein the mother liquor solutions have at least 5 components which are varied within the array. 52. The method according to claim 40 wherein the array includes greater than 96 microcrystallizations. 53. The method according to claim 40 wherein the array includes greater than 192 microcrystallizations. 54. The method according to claim 40 wherein forming the array of microcrystallizations includes using greater than 48 stock solutions to form the mother liquor solutions used in the array. 55. The method according to claim 40 wherein forming the array of microcrystallizations includes using greater than 96 stock solutions to form the mother liquor solutions used in the array. 56. The method according to claim 40 wherein forming the array of microcrystallizations includes using greater than 192 stock solutions to form the mother liquor solutions used in the array. 57. The method according to claim 40 wherein forming the array of microcrystallizations includes forming the microcrystallization volumes within a volume range of less than about 25 nL. 58. The method according to claim 40 wherein forming the array of microcrystallizations includes forming the microcrystallization volumes within a volume range of less than about 20 nL. 59. The method according to claim 40 wherein forming the array of microcrystallizations includes forming the microcrystallization volumes within a volume range of less than about 15 nL. 