The invention provides structure and method for achieving a uniformly polished or planarized substrate such as a semiconductor wafer including achieving substantially uniform polishing between the center of the semiconductor wafer and the edge of the wafer. In one aspect the invention provides a polishing apparatus including a housing, a carrier for mounting a substrate to be polished, a retaining ring circumscribing the carrier for retaining the substrate, a first coupling attaching the retaining ring to the carrier such that the retaining ring may move relative to the carrier, a second coupling attaching the carrier to the housing such that the carrier may move relative to the housing, the housing and the first coupling defining a first pressure chamber to exert a pressure force against the retaining ring, and the housing and the second coupling defining a second pressure chamber to exert a pressure force against the subcarrier. In one embodiment, the couplings are diaphragms. In another embodiment, the invention includes a single-or multiple-chambered wafer carrier or subcarrier capable of modifying a differential polishing pressure across the surface of the wafer or other substrate. The chambered-subcarrier permits customization of polishing pressure across the surface of the wafer to achieve greater material removal uniformity. The invention also provides a retaining ring having a special edge profile that assists in smoothing an pre-compressing the polishing pad to increase polishing uniformity. A method for polishing and a semiconductor manufacture is also provided by embodiments of the invention.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A disc-shaped semiconductor wafer carrier for mounting a semiconductor wafer substrate to be polished or planarized in a semiconductor wafer processing apparatus, said semiconductor wafer carrier comprising: a disk-shaped block of substantially non-porous material having a first surface for mounting said semiconductor wafer, a second surface, and a third substantially cylindrical surface connecting said first and second surfaces; said first surface being substantially planar except for a plurality of concentric annular non-planar cavities extending from said substantially planar surface into an interior portion of said wafer carrier; a fluid communication channel extending from each said cavity to communicate pressurized fluids from external sources of pressurized fluid to said cavities; said first surface adapted to receive a flexible membrane to cover said cavities and form a plurality of concentric pressure chambers each capable of holding a pressure when said pressurized fluids are communicated from said external sources of pressurized fluids to said cavities; and said membrane expanding locally proximate said non-planar cavities when said pressurized fluids are communicated to said chambers and exerting forces on a semiconductor wafer mounted to said membrane. 2. A polishing apparatus comprising: a housing; a disc shaped carrier having a mounting surface for mounting a backside surface of a substrate to be polished; a retaining ring substantially circumscribing said carrier for retaining said substrate in a pocket formed by said retaining ring and a surface of said carrier; a first flexible coupling attaching said retaining ring to said carrier such that said retaining ring may translate in at least one dimension and tilt about an axis relative to said carrier; a second flexible coupling attaching said carrier to said housing such that said carrier may translate in at least one dimension and tilt about an axis relative to said housing; said housing and said first flexible coupling defining a first chamber in fluid communication with a first source of pressurized gas such that when gas at a first pressure is communicated to said first chamber a first force is exerted against said retaining ring; and said housing and said second flexible coupling defining a second chamber in fluid communication with a second source of pressurized gas such that when gas at a second pressure is communicated to said second chamber a second force is exerted against said carrier; said carrier mounting surface defining a groove proximate a peripheral edge of said carrier and covered by a substantially non-porous thin flexible sheet of material; said material covered groove forming a third chamber in fluid communication with a third source of pressurized gas such that when gas at a third pressure is communicated to said third chamber a third force is exerted against said material and through said material to said substrate backside surface proximate said groove to thereby modify a polishing pressure proximate the peripheral edge of said substrate. 3. The polishing apparatus in claim 2, wherein said translation and tilt of said carrier is independent of said translation and tilt of said retaining ring. 4. The polishing apparatus in claim 2, wherein said translation and tilt of said carrier is coupled to a predetermined extent with said translation and tilt of said retaining ring. 5. The polishing apparatus in claim 2, wherein said translation and tilt of said carrier and said translation and tilt of said retaining ring each have a component that is independent of the other and a component that is dependent on the other. 6. The polishing apparatus in claim 5, wherein the extent to which said translation and tilt components of said carrier and said ring are coupled is dependent on material characteristics of said first and second flexible couplings and geometry characteristics of said first flexible coupling attaching said retaining ring to said carrier and said second flexible coupling attaching said carrier to said housing. 7. The polishing apparatus in claim 6, wherein said material characteristics that affect the extent of coupling include elasticity, stiffness, and spring constant; and said geometry characteristics include distance between attachment locations between said ring and said carrier and distance between attachment locations between said carrier and said housing; the geometry of an interface between said first and second flexible couplings and adjacent structures of said housing, said retaining ring, and said carrier. 8. The polishing apparatus in claim 2, wherein said first pressure, said second pressure, and said third pressure are different pressures. 9. The polishing apparatus in claim 2, wherein said first pressure and said second pressure are substantially equal pressures. 10. The polishing apparatus in claim 2, wherein said first pressure and said second pressure are substantially equal pressures and the force exerted on said retaining ring and on said carrier are determined by the surface area of said retaining ring and said carrier over which each said pressure is applied, and wherein said third pressure either greater than or less than said second pressure. 11. The polishing apparatus in claim 2, wherein said first pressure, said second pressure, and said third pressure may independently be positive pressure or negative pressure. 12. The polishing apparatus in claim 11, wherein the depth of a pocket formed by a surface of said carrier and an inner cylindrical surface of said retaining ring is established during a substrate loading phase by said first pressure and said second pressure. 13. The polishing apparatus in claim 2, wherein said substrate comprises a semiconductor wafer. 14. The polishing apparatus in claim 2, wherein said retaining ring further comprises: a lower surface for contacting an external polishing pad during polishing; an inner cylindrical surface disposed adjacent to an outer circumferential surface of said carrier at a periphery of said substrate mounting surface of said carrier, said inner cylindrical surface and said carrier mounting surface forming a pocket for maintaining said substrate during polishing; and a pad conditioning member disposed at a lower outer radial portion of said retaining ring where said retaining ring contacts said pad during polishing and defining a shape profile transitioning between a first planar surface substantially parallel to a plane of said polishing pad and a second planar surface substantially perpendicular to said polishing pad. 15. The polishing apparatus in claim 2, wherein said first pressure on said carrier is in the range between substantially 1.5 psi and substantially 10 psi and the second pressure on said retaining ring is in the range between substantially 1.5 psi and substantially 9.0 psi. 16. The polishing apparatus in claim 2, wherein said flexible coupling comprises a diaphragm. 17. The polishing apparatus in claim 2, wherein said diaphragm is formed from a material selected from the group consisting of: metal, plastic, rubber, polymer, titanium, stainless-steel, carbon fibre composite, and combinations thereof. 18. The polishing apparatus in claim 2, wherein said carrier is formed from ceramic material. 19. A polishing apparatus comprising: a housing; a disc shaped carrier having a mounting surface for mounting a backside surface of a semiconductor wafer substrate to be polished; a retaining ring substantially circumscribing said carrier for retaining said substrate in a pocket formed by said retaining ring and a surface of said carrier; a first flexible coupling attaching said retaining ring to said carrier such that said retaining ring may translate in at least one dimension and tilt about an axis relative to said carrier; and a second flexible coupling attaching said carrier to said housing such that said carrier may translate in at least one dimension and tilt about an axis relative to said housing; said housing and said first flexible coupling defining a first chamber in fluid communication with a first source of pressurized gas such that when gas at a first pressure is communicated to said first chamber a first force is exerted against said retaining ring; said housing and said second flexible coupling defining a second chamber in fluid communication with a second source of pressurized gas such that when gas at a second pressure is communicated to said second chamber a second force is exerted against said carrier; said disc shaped carrier further comprises: at least one cavity formed into said wafer substrate mounting surface of said carrier; a fluid communication channel extending from said at least one cavity to an external source of pressurize fluid; said wafer mounting surface adapted to receive a flexible membrane, said membrane covering said at least one cavity to form a third chamber capable of holding a pressure when said pressurized fluid is communicated from said external source of pressurized fluid to said at least one cavity; and said membrane expanding when said pressurized fluid is communicated to said third chamber and exerting a force on a wafer mounted between said membrane and an external polishing pad during polishing. 20. A polishing apparatus comprising: a housing; a disc shaped carrier for mounting a substrate to be polished; a retaining ring substantially circumscribing said carrier for retaining said substrate in a pocket formed by said retaining ring and a surface of said carrier; a first flexible coupling attaching said retaining ring to said carrier such that said retaining ring may translate in at least one dimension and tilt about an axis relative to said carrier; and a second flexible coupling attaching said carrier to said housing such that said carrier may translate in at least one dimension and tilt about an axis relative to said housing; said housing and said first flexible coupling defining a first chamber in fluid communication with a first source of pressurized gas such that when gas at a first pressure is communicated to said first chamber a first force is exerted against said retaining ring; said housing and said second flexible coupling defining a second chamber in fluid communication with a second source of pressurized gas such that when gas at a second pressure is communicated to said second chamber a second force is exerted against said subcarrier; said disk-shaped carrier comprises: a disk-shaped block of substantially non-porous material having a first surface for mounting said substrate, a second surface, and a third substantially cylindrical surface connecting said first and second surfaces; said first surface being substantially planar except for a non-planar cavity extending from said substantially planar surface into an interior portion of said substrate carrier; a fluid communication channel extending from said cavity to either said second surface or to said third surface to communicate a pressurized fluid from an external source of pressurized fluid to said cavity; said first surface adapted to receive a flexible membrane to cover said cavity and form a chamber capable of holding a pressure when said pressurized fluid is communicated from said external source of pressurized fluid to said cavity; and said membrane expanding when said pressurized fluid is communicated to said third chamber and exerting a force on a substrate mounted to said membrane. 21. The polishing apparatus in claim 20, wherein said non-planar cavity comprises an annular groove having at least two substantially cylindrical parallel sidewalls and a substantially flat bottom wall extending between said sidewalls. 22. The polishing apparatus in claim 20, wherein said non-planar cavity comprises an annular V-shaped groove. 23. The polishing apparatus in claim 20, wherein said non-planar cavity comprises an annular C-shaped groove. 24. The polishing apparatus in claim 20, wherein: said first surface further including a plurality of said non-planar cavities extending from said substantially planar surface into an interior portion of said wafer carrier; a fluid communication channel extending from said plurality of said cavities to communicate a pressurized fluid from an external source of pressurized fluid to said cavity; each said cavity being covered by said flexible membrane to form a plurality of chambers capable of holding pressure when said pressurized fluids are communicated from said external sources of pressurized fluid to said cavities; and said flexible membrane expanding when said pressurized fluid is communicated to said third chamber and exerting a force on a wafer mounted to said membrane. 25. The polishing apparatus in claim 20, wherein said non-planar cavity comprises an annular groove having at least two substantially cylindrical parallel sidewalls and a substantially flat bottom wall extending between said sidewalls. 26. A semiconductor wafer processing apparatus comprising: a housing; a disc shaped carrier for mounting a semiconductor wafer substrate to be polished or planarized; a retaining ring substantially circumscribing said carrier for retaining said substrate in a pocket formed by said retaining ring and a surface of said carrier; a first flexible coupling attaching said retaining ring to said carrier such that said retaining ring may translate in at least one dimension and tilt about an axis relative to said carrier; and a second flexible coupling attaching said carrier to said housing such that said carrier may translate in at least one dimension and tilt about an axis relative to said housing; said housing and said first flexible coupling defining a first chamber in fluid communication with a first source of pressurized gas such that when gas at a first pressure is communicated to said first chamber a first force is exerted against said retaining ring; said housing and said second flexible coupling defining a second chamber in fluid communication with a second source of pressurized gas such that when gas at a second pressure is communicated to said second chamber a second force is exerted against said subcarrier; and said disk-shaped carrier comprises: a disk-shaped block of substantially non-porous material having a first surface for mounting said semiconductor wafer, a second surface, and a third substantially cylindrical surface connecting said first and second surfaces; said first surface being substantially planar except for a plurality of concentric annular non-planar cavities extending from said substantially planar surface into an interior portion of said wafer carrier; a fluid communication channel extending from each said cavity to communicate pressurized fluids from external sources of pressurized fluid to said cavities; said first surface adapted to receive a flexible membrane to cover said cavities and form a plurality of concentric pressure chambers each capable of holding a pressure when said pressurized fluids are communicated from said external sources of pressurized fluids to said cavites; and said membrane expanding locally proximate said non-planar cavities when said pressurized fluids are communicated to said chambers and exerting forces on a semiconductor wafer mounted to said membrane. 27. The polishing apparatus in claim 26, wherein said non-planar cavity comprises an annular V-shaped groove. 28. The polishing apparatus in claim 26, wherein said non-planar cavity comprises an annular C-shaped groove. 