An assembly for moving a robotic device along selected axes includes a programmable logic controller (PLC) for controlling movement of the device along selected axes to effect movement of the device to a selected disposition. The PLC includes a plurality of single axis motion control modules, and a central processing unit (CPU) in communication with the motion control modules. A human-machine interface is provided for operator selection of configurations of device movements and is in communication with the CPU. A motor drive is in communication with each of the motion control modules and is operable to effect movement of the device along the selected axes to obtain movement of the device to the selected disposition.
Claims We claim: 1. An assembly for moving a robotic device along selected axes, said assembly comprising: a programmable logic controller (PLC) for controlling movement of the device along selected axes to effect movement of the device to a selected disposition; a human-machine interface (HMI) for operator selection of configurations of device movements and in communication with said a central processing unit (CPU); and a motor drive system in communication with each of said motion control modules and operable to effect movement of said device along the selected axes to obtain the selected disposition of said device; wherein said PLC comprises plurality of single axis motion control modules; and a central processing unit a central processing unit (CPU) in communication with said motion control modules; said PLC being adapted to execute a predefined motion profile using pre-programmed motion commands upon receipt of a command source from said HMI; and being adapted for re-programming of motion profiles in situ during operation of the assembly by an operator of said HMI; and to execute immediately the re-programmed motion profiles, and wherein said device is in communication with a plurality of actuators, each of said actuators being adapted to move and said device along at least one of said selected axes in response to actuation of a motor drive of said motor drive system; and wherein said device comprises a probe and said actuators are mounted on a fluid flow conduit, said actuators being adapted each to move its respective probe along said one of said axes, to position said probe for fluid flow parameter monitoring at a selected point in the conduit. 2. The assembly in accordance with claim 1 wherein said probe is a nulling probe. 3. The assembly in accordance with claim 2 wherein said nulling probe is adapted to follow a signal from pressure differential measuring means external to the HMI, the measuring means comprising a proportional/integral/derivative (PID) control loop operating around a positioning loop for an axis of the nulling probe, the PID being adapted to accept pressure signals from a pressure transducer and to calculate a desired position for the nulling probe, which the PID conveys to the PLC for immediate repositioning of the nulling probe, such repositioning not exceeding limits entered in the HMI by the operator. 4. An assembly for moving a rigid probe in a fluid flow conduit along selected axes, said assembly comprising: a programmable logic controller (PLC) for controlling movement of the rigid probe along the selected axes, including rotatively around a central axis, to effect movement of the probe to a selected disposition, said PLC comprising: a plurality of single axis motion control modules; and a central processing unit (CPU) in communication with said motion control modules; a human-machine interface (HMI) for operator selection of configurations of probe movements and in communication with CPU; and a motor drive system in communication with each of said motion control modules and operable to effect movement of said probe along the selected axes to obtain the selected disposition of said device in the fluid flow conduit; wherein said probe is in communication with a plurality of actuators, each of said actuators being adapted to move said probe along one of said selected axes in response to actuation of said motor drive system; and wherein said rigid probe and said actuators are mounted on the fluid flow conduit, said actuators being adapted each to move said rigid probe along said one of said axes, to position said probe for fluid flow parameter monitoring at a selected point in the conduit. 5. The assembly in accordance with claim 4 herein said probe comprises a fluid flow measuring probe. 6. The assembly in accordance with claim 5 wherein said fluid flow measuring probe is a nulling probe. 7. The assembly in accordance with claim 6 wherein said nulling probe is adapted to follow a signal from pressure differential measuring means external to the HMI, the measuring means comprising a proportional/integral/derivative (PID) control loop operating around a positioning loop for an axis of the nulling probe, the PID being adapted to accept pressure signals from a pressure transducer and to calculate a desired position for the nulling probe, which the PID conveys to the PLC for immediate repositioning of the nulling probe, such repositioning not exceeding limits entered in the HMI by the operator. 