A system for facilitating wafer transfer comprises a susceptor unit consisting of an inner susceptor section which rests within an outer susceptor section. A vertically movable and rotatable support spider located beneath the susceptor unit can rotate into positions to engage either the inner or the outer susceptor sections. When the inner section is engaged, the support spider lifts the inner section vertically out of the outer section. When the outer section is engaged, the support spider raises and lowers the entire susceptor unit. A robotic arm end effector engaging only the lower surface of the outer edge of the wafer permits hot wafer pick-up and unloading by the inner susceptor section. Several end effectors are disclosed that minimize non-uniform thermal effect on the substrate.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for supporting and handling a substrate in a substrate processing system, comprising: a forked end effector for transferring a thin, flat substrate to or from an inner section of a two-piece support unit, said end effector having a pair of spaced support arms joined by a closed end portion and defining an open end, said arms being spaced sufficiently to straddle the inner section and permit relative vertical movement between the end effector and said inner section, said arms being spaced less than a maximum side-to-side dimension of said substrate so that relative vertical movement of the inner section and said tool will transfer the substrate between the inner section and the tool support arms, said tool being formed to engage the lower surface of the outer portion of said substrate. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said tool has an upwardly extending projection near the tip of each of said arms and on the closed end portion, said projections being spaced to engage said substrate close to an outer edge of the substrate. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein said projections extend above the upper surface of said tool a sufficient amount such that only said projections will engage the substrate when it is being sorted by the end effector. 4. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein said projections are located to engage the lower surface of said substrate in an annular band on the substrate between the edge of the substrate and less than two inches radially inwardly from the edge, but preferably less than one inch, but more preferably less than one half inch. 5. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein said projections have smoothly rounded polished upper surfaces. 6. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein said projections extend above the upper surface of the support arms about 0.010-0.080 inches. 7. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein said projections include surfaces to engage the substrate that are sloped in a manner to minimize contact with the substrate. 8. A method of transferring a substrate with respect to a susceptor in a chamber comprising the steps of: producing relative vertical movement between an inner susceptor section and an outer susceptor section so that the inner section is spaced above the outer section; moving a substrate with a forked tool into a position spaced above said susceptor with the tool engaging the lower surface of the substrate adjacent the outer periphery of substrate; providing relative vertical movement between said inner section and said outer section and between said inner section and said tool to engage the substrate with the inner section and transfer the substrate to the inner section, with portions of the substrate overlapping the inner section; withdrawing the tool; and producing relative vertical movement between said susceptor sections to cause the inner section to fit within and be supported by the outer susceptor section forming a susceptor unit for supporting said substrate. 9. The method of claim 8, further comprising: lowering a rotatable support for said inner section until it is disengaged from said inner section; rotating the support to a position wherein it is beneath said outer susceptor section; and raising said rotatable support to engage said outer susceptor section and lift the susceptor unit from a second support beneath said outer section and into a process position. 10. The method of claim 9, including: lowering said susceptor unit so that it rests solely upon the second support; lowering said rotatable support further and rotating it so that it is beneath said inner susceptor section; raising said inner susceptor section to lift said substrate above said outer susceptor section; moving said tool between the susceptor sections; producing relative vertical movement between the inner susceptor section and the tool to transfer the substrate to the tool; and withdrawing the tool horizontally to remove the substrate from vertical alignment with the susceptor unit. 11. An apparatus for processing semiconductor wafers comprising: a process chamber; a wafer support; a robotic arm having an end effector mounted thereon for supporting a semiconductor wafer, the end effector being adapted to be inserted into and withdrawn from said chamber; said end effector having a pair of spaced support arms which are joined at one end and adapted to be connected to said robotic arm, said end effector arms defining an open end, said end effector arms being spaced so that when inserted into said chamber, the arms are positioned to be vertically aligned with only peripheral portions of said wafer support so that structure for transferring a wafer to and from the wafer support will fit between the end effector arms, and so that the end effector arms will only engage the bottom surface of peripheral portions of a wafer. 12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein said susceptor includes a central section and a surrounding annular section, said central section being movable vertically with respect to said outer section and with respect to said end effector. 13. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein said susceptor includes one or more portions to selectively project above the remainder of the susceptor to assist in transferring a wafer to and from the susceptor. 14. A method of transferring a substrate within a chamber, comprising the steps of: producing relative vertical movement between a substrate and an outer susceptor section to position said substrate on support structure spaced above the outer section; inserting a forked end effector spaced beneath the substrate and above the outer section, the end effector having support arms which are spaced sufficiently to straddle said support structure; and producing relative vertical movement between the support structure and the end effector to cause the substrate to be transferred to a plurality of end effector projections engaging said substrate only adjacent its outer edge. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein said substrate is transferred to said end effector while the substrate is at a temperature above 600.degree. C. 16. The method of claim 14, wherein the substrate is transferred to the end effector while the substrate temperature is above 700.degree. C. 17. The method of claim 14, wherein the substrate is transferred to the end effector when the substrate temperates above 800.degree. C. 18. The method of claim 14, wherein the substrate is transferred to the end effector when the substrate, temperature is about 900.degree. C. 19. A method of transferring a thin, flat substrate to a susceptor comprising the steps of: inserting a forked end effector into a chamber above a susceptor with said substrate supported on the end effector, said end effector having a pair of spaced support arms joined at one end and having free ends defining an open end, said arms engaging the lower surface of said substrate adjacent an outer edge of the substrate; vertically separating the substrate from the end effector; withdrawing the end effector from the chamber; and transferring the substrate to the susceptor. 20. The method of claim 19, including the steps of: processing the substrate; vertically separating the substrate from at least a peripheral portion of the susceptor; inserting the end effector arms beneath but spaced from the substrate adjacent the outer edge of the substrate; producing relative vertical movement between the substrate and the end effector to cause the end effector to engage the lower surface of the substrate adjacent its outer edge and to support the substrate. 21. A method of transferring a thin, flat substrate comprising the steps of: positioning said substrate on a forked end effector having a pair of spaced support arms joined at one end and having free ends defining an open end, said end effector being configured to only engage the lower surface of said substrate adjacent an outer edge of the substrate; inserting the end effector and the substrate into a chamber above the susceptor; and transferring the substrate to structure which fits within the arms of the end effector by producing relative vertical movement between the end effector and said structure. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein said positioning step includes positioning the substrate on three projections extending upwardly from the end effector. 23. The method of claim 22, wherein one of said projections is positioned near the tip of one of said support arms, another of said projections is positioned near the tip of the other support arm, and the third projection is positioned at a closed end of the end effector. 24. A method of processing a thin, flat substrate comprising: positioning a substrate on a susceptor in a process chamber, said susceptor having an inner section and a surrounding annular section with a mating line between the sections on the upper surface of the susceptor; and heating said susceptor and substrate in a manner to keep the temperature of the substrate and the susceptor substantially the same while depositing a layer on the substrate so that there is no crystallographic slip in said substrate at said line and there is no substantial difference in the thickness of said layer at said line and the areas of said substrate adjacent said line. 25. The method of claim 24, wherein said heating step is performed by heating the substrate and the susceptor from a heat source spaced above the substrate and heating said substrate and said susceptor from a heat source spaced below said substrate. 26. The method of claim 25, wherein said susceptor and substrate are positioned within a chamber having quartz upper and lower walls spaced above and below the susceptor and said heating step is provided by a heat source positioned above said upper wall and a heat source positioned below said lower wall. 27. The method of claim 24, including supporting said substrate with spaced support elements that engage support portions of said annular section that extend beneath portions of said inner section to support the inner section, and with said mating line being positioned radially outwardly from said support elements. 28. The method of claim 27, wherein said mating line is circular. 29. An apparatus for supporting and handling a substrate in a substrate processing system comprising: an end effector including a frame formed of thin-walled tubing which can withstand chemical vapor deposition temperatures; and a plurality of support elements mounted on said frame and configured to engage the periphery of a substrate at spaced locations to support the substrate and space the substrate from the tubing while having a minimal thermal effect on the substrate. 30. The apparatus of claim 29, wherein said frame includes a pair of spaced arms joined by a closed end portion and defining an open end, said arms being spaced sufficiently to straddle a substrate lifter adapted to lift the substrate above a susceptor, and said arms being spaced to permit relative vertical movement between the end effector and said lifter, said arms being spaced less than a maximum side-to-side dimension of said substrate so that relative vertical movement of the lifter and said end effector will transfer the substrate between the lifter and the support arms, one of said elements being located on a tip of each of said arms. 31. At The apparatus of claim 30, wherein a third one of said elements is centrally located on said closed end portion. 32. The apparatus of claim 29, wherein said tubing is made of quartz. 33. The apparatus of claim 29, wherein said frame includes a pair of generally straight, spaced tubes, and a cross-piece extending between and connected to said pair of support tubes, said tubes include an element positioned on a free end of each of said tubes and a support element positioned on said cross-piece, said elements being spaced from each other to define a three point support to engage the undersurface of the periphery of said substrate, said support arms having a minimal thermal effect on said substrate. 34. The apparatus of claim 33, wherein said tubes extend rearwardly from said cross-piece and are connected to a bracket for a connection to a robotic arm. 35. An apparatus for supporting and handling a substrate in a substrate processing system comprising a paddle and a plurality of support elements mounted to the paddle and extending above the paddle, said elements being configured to engage and support the periphery of a substrate, said elements being sufficiently tall to space the substrate above the paddle a sufficient distance to prevent the paddle from having any substantial thermal effect on aid substrate. 36. The apparatus of claim 35, wherein said paddle is generally rectangular. 37. The apparatus of claim 35, wherein said elements space the substrate at least about 2 millimeters above the upper surface of the paddle. 38. An apparatus for supporting and handling a substrate in a substrate processing system comprising an end effector to be mounted on a robotic arm, said end effector including a support that extends generally parallel to a substrate to be carried by the end effector, and a plurality of support elements attached to said support configured to engage the periphery of the substrate at spaced locations and to hold the substrate closely spaced and substantially parallel to said support, said support having an area adjacent the substrate which is at least about 80% that of the substrate so that any thermal effect on the substrate caused by said support is substantially uniform. 39. The apparatus of claim 38, wherein said support is a generally circular disk and said support elements are attached to the periphery of the disc, said disc having one or more slots opening to a forward end of the disc and extending rearwardly, said one or more slots being configured to receive lifter pins for lifting a substrate above a susceptor to facilitate the transfer of the substrate between the pins and the end effector. 40. The apparatus of claim 39, wherein said one or more slots include a pair of spaced slots that divide said disc into a central prong and a pair of side prongs, said slots being spaced so as to receive a pair of lifter pins in one slot and a third pin in the other slot. 41. The apparatus of claim 39, including an upper disc supported above the slotted disc sufficiently to be spaced above the substrate. 42. The apparatus of claim 41, wherein said upper disc is supported by upper ends of said support elements. 43. The apparatus of claim 38, wherein said support comprises a substantially circular disc, said support elements being attached to the lower peripheral portion of said disc and having inwardly extending ledges spaced beneath said disc and adapted to receive peripheral portions of a substrate whereby the substrate is carried beneath and slightly spaced below, said disc. 44. The apparatus of claim 43, wherein said disc has a diameter slightly greater than the substrate to be supported by the end effector. 