The present invention generally provides a robot that can transfer workpieces, such as silicon wafers, at increased speeds and accelerations and decelerations. More particularly, the present invention provides a robot wrist associated with the robot arm for mechanically clamping a workpiece to a workpiece handling member attached to the arm. The wafer clamp selectively applies sufficient force to hold the workpiece and prevent slippage and damage to the workpiece during rapid rotation and linear movement of the handling member. In a particular embodiment, a clamp for securing silicon wafers uses a flexure assembly to position and hold the wafer with minimal particle generation and wafer damage. The clamp is designed so that the wafers are normally clamped near full extension of the workpiece handling member to deliver or pick up a wafer. A particular embodiment uses a pneumatic cylinder to actuate the flexure assembly so that the flexure assembly moves outwardly and rearwardly away from the wafer when actuated at or near full extension of the workpiece handling member.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot arm assembly, comprising: a pair of frog-leg type robot arms, each robot arm having a distal end with a clamp wrist attached thereto; the clamp wrist comprising: a wrist housing pivotally coupled to the robot arm; a flexure assembly disposed in the wrist housing and adapted to positively grip a wafer; and a pneumatic cylinder disposed in the wrist housing and operatively connected to the flexure assembly to cause the flexure assembly to flex away from the wafer being gripped; wherein the flexure assembly includes at least one leaf spring and is adapted to flex outwardly and rearwardly away from the wafer upon engagement of the flexure assembly by the pneumatic cylinder. 2. The robot arm assembly of claim 1, wherein the flexure assembly is rotatably connected to a piston rod of the pneumatic cylinder. 3. The robot arm assembly of claim 2, wherein at least one flexure member is affixed to the wrist housing to cause at least one tip end to rotate outwardly as the flexure assembly is engaged by the pneumatic cylinder. 4. The robot arm assembly of claim 3, wherein the wrist housing has a wafer blade extending therefrom for receiving a wafer. 5. The robot arm assembly of claim 4, wherein the wafer blade includes a pin extending upward therefrom and a roller rotatably retained thereby for capturing and retaining the wafer on the wafer blade. 6. The robot arm assembly of claim 5, wherein the wafer blade includes a plurality of pads mounted thereon for supporting the wafer above the surface of the wafer blade. 7. The robot arm assembly of claim 6, wherein each of the pads have a teardrop shape for assisting the capture and retention of the wafer on the blade. 