A reactor for plating a metal onto a surface of a workpiece is set forth. The reactor comprises a reactor bowl including an electroplating solution disposed therein and an anode disposed in the reactor bowl in contact with the electroplating solution. A contact assembly is spaced from the anode within the reactor bowl. The contact assembly includes a plurality of contacts disposed to contact a peripheral edge of the surface of the workpiece to provide electroplating power to the surface of the workpiece. The contacts execute a wiping action against the surface of the workpiece as the workpiece is brought into engagement therewith The contact assembly also including a barrier disposed interior of the plurality of contacts. The barrier includes a member disposed to engage the surface of the workpiece to assist in isolating the plurality of contacts from the electroplating solution. In one embodiment, the plurality of contacts are in the form of discrete flexures while in another embodiment the plurality of contacts are in the form of a Belleville ring contact. A flow path may be provided in the contact assembly for providing a purging gas to the plurality of contacts and the peripheral edge of the workpiece. The purging gas may be used to assist in the formation of the barrier of the contact assembly. A combined electroplating/electroless plating tool and method are also set forth.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A reactor for electrochemically processing a microelectronic workpiece, the reactor comprising: one or more walls defining a processing fluid chamber; a reactor head connected for automatic movement between a processing position in which one more surfaces of the microelectronic workpiece are brought to a position proximate the processing fluid chamber for processing thereof, and at least one other reactor head position, the reactor head including a housing; a workpiece support comprising a primary support structure having an inner wall defining an open region sized larger than the workpiece and at least first and second shafts projecting from the primary support structure, and including one or more members disposed to contact at least one surface of the microelectronic workpiece during processing of the workpiece; and a latching assembly operable to releasably attach the workpiece support assembly to the housing, wherein the latching mechanism has a first aperture configured to receive the first shaft, a second aperture configured to receive the second shaft when the first shaft is received in the first aperture, a first latch arm with a first channel configured to hold the first shaft in the first aperture in a lock position, and a second latch arm with a second channel configured to hold the second shaft in the second aperture in the lock position, wherein the first and second latch arms are moveable from the lock position to a release position in which the first and second shafts can be removed from the first and second apertures, respectively. 2. A reactor as claimed in claim 1 wherein the one or more members are in the form of a plurality of microelectronic workpiece contacts positioned to contact a peripheral portion of the microelectronic workpiece. 3. A reactor as claimed in claim 2 wherein the workpiece support further comprises a barrier member disposed adjacent the plurality of contacts to engage a peripheral surface of the workpiece. 4. A reactor as claimed in claim 3 wherein the workpiece support further comprises one or more channels defining a flow path positioned to direct a purging gas toward a peripheral portion of the workpiece and about the plurality of contacts. 5. A reactor as claimed in claim 2 wherein the plurality of contacts are formed from a conductive material to thereby assist in establishing electrical contact between the microelectronic workpiece and a source of electrical power. 6. A reactor as claimed in claim 2 wherein the plurality of contacts are formed from a dielectric material. 7. A reactor as claimed in claim 1 wherein the latching assembly comprises: a latching arm having a fixed portion and a conforming portion; a corresponding mating member that is shaped for engagement with the conforming portion of the latching arm. 8. A reactor as claimed in claim 7 wherein the latching assembly further comprises a locking member disposed to releasably secure the latching arm with the corresponding mating member when the workpiece support is secured to the reactor. 