Methods for assembling, handling, and fabricating are disclosed in which targets used on objects are located. The targets can be specifically applied to the object, or can be an otherwise normal feature of the object. Conveniently, the targets are removable from the object or covered by another object during an assembling process. One or more robots and imaging devices for the targets, especially for infrared radiation, are used. The robots can be used to handle or assemble a part, or a fixture may be used in conjunction with the robots. Conveniently, the CAD design system is used in designing the targets as well as for the assembly process using the targets. A plurality of targets can also be used to monitor and inspect a forming process such as on a sheet panel.
Claims I claim: 1. A method for determining the location of a target provided on an object, said target being reflective of radiation outside of the visible wavelengths, said method comprising: providing on an object a special target which reflects infra red radiation; illuminating said object with infra red radiation projected from an infra red radiation source; electro-optically detecting infra red radiation reflected from the infra red radiation source which is reflected from said target with an electro-optical sensing means, said electro-optical sensing means having an output; and processing an output of said electro-optical sensing means to determine the location of said target. 2. A method according to claim 1, wherein said target is a retro-reflecfive target and said target is illuminated by said infra red radiation source on an axis substantially parallel to the axis on which reflected radiation is detected by said electro-optical sensing means. 3. A method according to claim 1, wherein said infra red radiation is detected with an electro-optical sensing means comprising a photodetector array. 4. A method according to claim 1, wherein a microcomputer is used for said processing. 5. A method according to claim 1, wherein said projecting step illuminates all of the object facing the IR radiation source with the IR radiation. 6. A method according to claim 1, wherein said IR radiation source is an LED. 