A method and apparatus in an automated data storage library for identifying a location of a robot in the automated data storage library. Signals are transmitted from a set of transmitters in the automated data storage library, wherein a location of the set of transmitters is known. The signals transmitted from the set of transmitters are received at a receiver located on the robot to form a set of received signals. The location of the robot is determined using the set of received signals and the location of the set of transmitters.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method in an automated data storage library for identifying a location of a robot in the automated data storage library, the method comprising: transmitting signals from a set of transmitters in the automated data storage library, wherein a location of the set of transmitters is known; receiving the signals transmitted from the set of transmitters at a receiver located on the robot to form a set of received signals; and determining the location of the robot using the set of received signals and the location of the set of transmitters. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the transmitting step comprises: transmitting the signals from the set of transmitters at known intervals. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the determining step comprises: determining intervals at which the signals are received to form a set of received intervals; identifying a distance between each transmitter within the set of transmitters and the receiver to form a set of distances; and determining the location of the robot using the set of distances and the locations of the set of transmitters. 4. The method of claim 2, wherein the receiver is part of a transponder including a transmitter and wherein the step of determining comprises: responsive to the signals, returning responses from the transponder to the transmitters; determining a distance from each of the set of transmitters to the transponder based on the responses to form a set of distances; and determining the location of the robot using the set of distances and the locations of the set of transmitters. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the determining step is performed by a library control unit located within the automated data storage library. 6. The method of claim 1 further comprising: controlling movement of the robot using the location of the robot within the automated data storage library. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the receiver is located on a hand on the robot, wherein the location of the robot in the automated data storage library is the location of the hand in the automated data storage library. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the automated data storage library is a library storage module. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the automated data storage library holds tape cartridges. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the automated data storage library holds magnetic media. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the automated data storage library holds digital versatile discs. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the set of transmitters comprises three transmitters. 13. A method in an automated data storage library for identifying a location of a robot in the automated data storage library, the method comprising: transmitting signals from a transmitter located on the robot, receiving the signals at a set of receivers to form a set of received signals, wherein a location of the set of receivers is known; and determining the location of the robot using the set of received signals and the location of the set of receivers. 14. An automated data storage library system comprising: a storage structure for receiving a plurality of data storage units; a set of transmitters having known locations, wherein the transmitters transmit signals; a robot, wherein the robot manipulates data storage units within the automated data storage library; a receiver located on the robot, wherein the receiver receives the signals to form a set of received signals; and a control system, wherein the control system determines a distance between the robot and each of the transmitters using the set of received signals to form a set of distances and determines a location of the robot within the automated data storage library using the location of the set of transmitters and the set of distances. 15. The automated data storage library of claim 14, wherein the set of transmitters transmit the signals at known time intervals. 16. The automated data storage library of claim 15, wherein the control system determines the location of the robot within the automated data storage library using the location of the set of transmitters and the set of distances by determining time intervals at which the signals are received to form a set of received intervals, identifying a distance between each transmitter within the set of transmitters and the receiver to form a set of distances using the set of received time intervals and the known time intervals, and determining the location of the robot using the set of distances and the locations of the set of transmitters. 17. The automated data storage library of claim 14, wherein the control system controls the transmission of the signals. 18. The automated data storage library of claim 14, wherein the control system controls the robot using the location of the robot. 19. The automated data storage library of claim 14, wherein the control system is a computer. 20. The automated data storage library of claim 14, wherein the automated data storage library holds tape cartridges. 21. The automated data storage library of claim 14, wherein the automated data storage library holds magnetic media. 22. The automated data storage library of claim 14, wherein the automated data storage library hold digital versatile discs. 23. An automated data storage library system comprising: a storage structure for receiving a plurality of data storage units; a robot, wherein the robot manipulates data storage units within the automated data storage library; a transmitter located on the robot, wherein the transmitter transmits signals; a set of receivers having known locations, wherein the set of receivers has a known location and received the signals to form a set of received signals; and a control system, wherein the control system determines a distance between the robot and each of the transmitters using the set of received signals to form a set of distances and determines a location of the robot within the automated data storage library using the location of the set of transmitters and the set of distances. 24. An apparatus in an automated data storage library for identifying a location of a robot in the automated data storage library, the apparatus comprising: transmitting means for transmitting signals from a set of transmitters in the automated data storage library, wherein a location of the set of transmitters is known; receiving means for receiving the signals transmitted from the set of transmitters at a receiver located on the robot to form a set of received signals; and determining means for determining the location of the robot using the set of received signals and the location of the set of transmitters. 25. The apparatus of claim 24, wherein the transmitting means comprises: transmitting means for transmitting the signals from the set of transmitters at known intervals. 26. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein the determining means comprises: first determining means for determining intervals at which the signals are received to form a set of received intervals; identifying means for identifying a distance between each transmitter within the set of transmitters and the receiver to form a set of distances; and second determining means for determining the location of the robot using the set of distances and the locations of the set of transmitters. 27. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein the receiver is part of a transponder including a transmitter and wherein the determining means comprises: returning means, responsive to the signals, for returning responses from the transponder to the transmitters; first determining means for determining a distance from each of the set of transmitters to the transponder based on the responses to form a set of distances; and second determining means for determining the location of the robot using the set of distances and the locations of the set of transmitters. 28. The apparatus of claim 24, wherein the determining means is performed by a library control unit located within the automated data storage library. 29. The apparatus of claim 24 further comprising: controlling means for controlling movement of the robot using the location of the robot within the automated data storage library. 30. The apparatus of claim 24, wherein the receiver is located on a hand on the robot, wherein the location of the robot in the automated data storage library is the location of the hand in the automated data storage library. 31. The apparatus of claim 24, wherein the automated data storage library is a library storage module. 32. The apparatus of claim 24, wherein the automated data storage library holds tape cartridges. 33. The apparatus of claim 24, wherein the automated data storage library holds magnetic media. 34. The apparatus of claim 24, wherein the automated data storage library holds digital versatile discs. 35. The apparatus of claim 24, wherein the set of transmitters comprises three transmitters. 36. An apparatus in an automated data storage library for identifying a location of a robot in the automated data storage library, the apparatus comprising: transmission means for transmitting signals from a transmitter located on the robot, reception means for receiving the signals at a set of receivers to form a set of received signals, wherein a location of the set of receivers is known; and determining means for determining the location of the robot using the set of received signals and the location of the set of receivers. 37. A computer program product in a computer readable medium for identifying a location of a robot in an automated data storage library, the computer program product comprising: first instructions for transmitting signals from a set of transmitters in the automated data storage library, wherein a location of the set of transmitters is known; second instructions for receiving the signals transmitted from the set of transmitters at a receiver located on the robot to form a set of received signals; and third instructions for determining the location of the robot using the set of received signals and the location of the set of transmitters. 