A novel rapid thermal process (RTP) reactor processes a multiplicity of wafers or a single large wafer, e.g., 200 mm (8 inches), 250 mm (10 inches), 300 mm (12 inches) diameter wafers, using either a single or dual heat source. The wafers or wafer are mounted on a rotatable susceptor supported by a susceptor support. A susceptor position control rotates the wafers during processing and raises and lowers the susceptor to various positions for loading and processing of wafers. A heat controller controls either a single heat source or a dual heat source that heats the wafers to a substantially uniform temperature during processing. A gas flow controller regulates flow of gases into the reaction chamber. Instead of the second heat source, a passive heat distribution is used, in one embodiment, to achieve a substantially uniform temperature throughout the wafers. Further, a novel susceptor is used that includes a silicon carbide cloth enclosed in quartz.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A rapid thermal process reactor for processing a single substrate having a diameter selected from a group of diameters including 125 mm, 150 mm, 200 mm, 250 mm, and 300 mm diameters, said rapid thermal process reactor comprising: a rapid thermal process reaction chamber; a rotatable rapid thermal process susceptor mounted within the rapid thermal process reaction chamber, and having a first surface adapted for mounting said single substrate having a diameter selected from the group of diameters including 125 mm, 150 mm, 200 mm, 250 mm, and 300 mm diameters thereon and a second surface; and a rapid thermal process radiant heat source mounted outside said rapid thermal process reaction chamber so that radiant heat from said rapid thermal process radiant heat source directly heats said rotatable rapid thermal process susceptor and said single substrate, wherein said rapid thermal process radiant heat source raises the temperature of said single substrate to a substantially uniform processing temperature in a time period characteristic of a rapid thermal process reactor; and said rapid thermal process reactor can process substrates having diameters including 125 mm, 150 mm, 200 mm, 250 mm, and 300 mmdiameters so that said rapid thermal process reactor can be used to process substrates having a multiplicity of diameters. 2. The rapid thermal process reactor for processing a single substrate as in claim 1 further comprising a heater mounted in said rapid thermal process reaction chamber in proximity of said second surface of said rotatable rapid thermal process susceptor. 3. The rapid thermal process reactor for processing a single substrate as in claim 2 wherein said heater is a resistance heater. 4. The rapid thermal process reactor for processing a single substrate as in claim 3 further comprising an insulated electrical supply line connected to said resistance heater wherein insulation on said insulated electrical supply line has a temperature rating that is less than a rapid thermal process reaction chamber operating temperature. 5. The rapid thermal process reactor for processing a single substrate as in claim 4 further comprising: an annular shaft having: a wall; a first end fixedly attached to said resistance heater; a second end; and a channel extending, in a direction perpendicular to said ends, from said second end to said first end through said wall; wherein said second end of said annular shaft is exterior to said rapid thermal process reaction chamber; and said insulated electrical supply line passes through said channel to said resistance heater thereby thermally insulating said insulated electrical supply line from said rapid thermal process reaction chamber operating temperature. 6. The rapid thermal process reactor for processing a single substrate as in claim 5 further comprising a screw wherein said screw connects said insulated electrical supply line to said resistance heater. 7. The rapid thermal process reactor for processing a single substrate as in claim 6 wherein said screw comprises a molybdenum screw. 8. The rapid thermal process reactor for processing a single substrate as in claim 5 wherein said annular shaft is a graphite annular shaft. 9. The rapid thermal process reactor for processing a single substrate as in claim 1 wherein said rotatable rapid thermal process susceptor is a quartz rotatable rapid thermal process susceptor. 10. The rapid thermal process reactor for processing a single substrate as in claim 9 wherein said first surface of said quartz rotatable rapid thermal process susceptor is bead-blasted. 11. The rapid thermal process reactor for processing a single substrate as in claim 9 wherein said second surface of said quartz rotatable rapid thermal process susceptor is flame-polished. 12. The rapid thermal process reactor for processing a single substrate as in claim 1 wherein said first surface of said rotatable rapid thermal process susceptor has a center and further includes a pocket having a center. 13. The rapid thermal process reactor for processing a single substrate as in claim 12 where said center of said pocket is coincident with said center of said first surface of said rotatable rapid thermal process susceptor. 14. The rapid thermal process reactor for processing a single substrate as in claim 12 where said center of said pocket is removed from said center of said first surface of said rotatable rapid thermal process susceptor. 15. The rapid thermal process reactor for processing a single substrate as in claim 12 further comprising silicon carbide cloth wherein said silicon carbide cloth is placed in said pocket. 16. The rapid thermal process reactor for processing a single substrate as in claim 12 wherein said pocket has a depth; and said rapid thermal process reactor for processing a single substrate further comprises an insert having an outer edge surface and a maximum dimension less than a maximum dimension of said pocket so that upon placement of said insert into said pocket, a uniform recess is formed between said outer edge of said insert and an outer edge of said pocket. 17. The rapid thermal process reactor for processing a single substrate as in claim 16 further comprising a substrate surround ring mounted in said recess. 18. The rapid thermal process reactor for processing a single substrate as in claim 17 wherein said insert has a depth less than said depth of said pocket. 19. The rapid thermal process reactor for processing a single substrate as in claim 1 further comprising a passive heat distributor mounted in said rapid thermal process reaction chamber in proximity of said second surface of said rotatable rapid thermal process susceptor. 20. The rapid thermal process reactor for processing a single substrate as in claim 19 wherein said passive heat distributor further comprises silicon carbide cloth contained within a quartz structure. 21. The rapid thermal process reactor for processing a single substrate as in claim 1 further comprising a plurality of gas jets mounted in said rapid thermal process reaction chamber. 22. The rapid thermal process reactor for processing a single substrate as in claim 1 further comprising a center gas injection head. 23. The rapid thermal process reactor for processing a single substrate as in claim 1 wherein said rapid thermal process reaction chamber is bounded by vessel having a water-cooled side wall, a water-cooled bottom wall, and a forced-air-cooled top wall. 24. The rapid thermal process reactor for processing a single substrate as in claim 23 wherein said forced-air-cooled top wall further comprises a circular dome-shaped quartz wall. 25. The rapid thermal process reactor for processing a single substrate as in claim 1 wherein said rapid thermal process radiant heat source further comprises a plurality of lamp banks wherein each lamp bank includes at least one lamp. 26. The rapid thermal process reactor for processing a single substrate as in claim 25 wherein said at least one lamp comprises a quartz-halogen lamp. 27. The rapid thermal process reactor for processing a single substrate as in claim 26 wherein said quartz-halogen lamp has a tungsten filament. 28. The rapid thermal process reactor for processing a single substrate as in claim 25 wherein one of said plurality of lamp banks includes 7 lamps. 29. The rapid thermal process reactor for processing a single substrate as in claim 25 wherein said plurality of lamp banks raise the temperature of said single wafer at a rate of about 20.degree. C. per second. 