A control system for operating any mechanical system, such as a non-linear robotic system, obtains and applies exact control forces so that the non-linear mechanical system satisfies desired trajectory requirements. The system enables a user to set trajectory requirements and allocate weighting factors to the control forces, the weighting factors being set at any values deemed appropriate to optimize the control forces. The trajectory requirements have a functional dependence on a physical measurement vector and time, a velocity of the physical measurement vector and time; or a combination of the two functional dependencies, the physical measurement vector being related to the displacement of one or more locations within the mechanical system. A microprocessor control computer of the system, being programmed with computational techniques that stabilize and speed the determination of the exact control forces, stores and processes the trajectory requirements and weighting factors with the measurements and plant characteristics, the computer sending a signal to the mechanical system to effect the control forces for exactly generating the desired trajectory while minimizing plant operating costs at every instant of time. In one embodiment, measurement of the displacement of an end-effector of a robot arm determines the control forces. Also disclosed is a method for operating the system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A control system for operating a physical plant having interrelated mechanical elements and a response characteristic described by M(x,t)x=F(x,x,t) in generalized coordinates x(t) to follow predetermined desired trajectory requirements, wherein forces that can act on the elements include inertial forces, externally applied forces and control forces, F being exclusive of control forces, the system comprising: (a) a control computer; (b) means for storing in the computer values corresponding to M and F of the response characteristic; (c) means for measuring a p-vector y(t) related to x(t); (d) means for specifying the trajectory requirements as h.sub.i (y,y,t)=0,i=1,2, . . . , s and/or g.sub.i (y,t)=0,i=1,2, . . . , (m-s); (e) means for transforming and storing in the computer the trajectory requirements as h=-.function..sup.(1) (h,t) and/or g=-.function..sup.(2) (g,g,t), wherein a fixed point h=0=g=g is asymptotically stable within a domain of attraction that includes deviations from the trajectory requirements; (f) means for determining control forces as ##EQU16## (g) means for driving the plant by the control forces, thereby to generate the desired trajectory therein. 2. The control system of claim 1, wherein the response characteristic of the plant is nonlinear. 3. The control system of claim 1, further comprising: (a) means for storing a positive definite matrix N for weighting of control forces; and (b) wherein the means for determining control forces is further responsive to the matrix N, whereby ##EQU17## G* being any {1,4} inverse of BM.sup.-1 ; and any {1,4} inverse of B(N.sup.1/2 M).sup.-1. 4. The control system of claim 3, wherein the response characteristic of the plant is nonlinear. 5. The control system of claim 3, wherein the trajectory transformation equations h=-.function..sup.(1) (h,t) and g=-.function..sup.(2) (g,g,t) are globally asymptotically stable at the point h=0=g=g. 6. The control system of claim 5, wherein the response characteristic of the plant is nonlinear. 7. The control system of claim 1, wherein the p-vector is linearly related to the response vector x(t). 8. The control system of claim 7, wherein the response characteristic of the plant is nonlinear. 9. The control system of claim 1, wherein the means for specifying the p-vector further comprises: (a) means for specifying a k-subvector being linearly related to the system response vector x(t); (b) means for specifying a (p-k)-subvector having components being nonlinear functions of elements of the vector x(t) and possibly the time t; and (c) means for determining physical values of the elements of the vector x(t) that are in the (p-k)subvector. 10. The control system of claim 9, wherein the response characteristic of the plant is nonlinear. 11. A method for controlling a plant having interrelated mechanical elements and a response characteristic described by M(x,t)x=F(x,x,t) in generalized coordinates x(t) to follow predetermined desired trajectory requirements, wherein forces that can act on the elements include inertial forces, externally applied forces and control forces, wherein F is exclusive of control forces, the method comprising the steps of: (a) providing a control computer; (b) determining and storing in the computer a response characteristic of the plant as a matrix of force elements being related to a matrix of mass elements and acceleration in a vector of generalized coordinates x(t); (c) specifying a measurement p-vector y(t) related to x(t); (d) specifying the trajectory requirements as h.sub.i (y,y,t)=0,i=1,2, . . . , s and/or g.sub.i (y,t)=0, i=1,2, . . . , (m-s); (e) transforming and storing in the computer the trajectory requirements as h=-.function..sup.(1) (h,t) and/or g=-.function..sup.(2) (g,g,t), wherein a fixed point h=0=g=g is asymptotically stable within a domain of attraction that includes deviations from the trajectory requirements; (f) determining and storing in the computer measurements of the p-vector; (g) determining control forces as ##EQU18## G* being any {1,4} inverse of BM.sup.-1 ; (h) applying the control forces; and (i) repeating steps (f-h) for generating a control trajectory of the plant corresponding to the desired trajectory. 12. The method of claim 11, comprising the further step of specifying a positive definite matrix N for weighting of control forces, and wherein the step of determining control forces uses ##EQU19## G* being any {1,4} inverse of B(N.sup.1/2 M).sup.-1. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the response characteristic of the plant is nonlinear. 14. The method of claim 12, wherein the trajectory transformation equations h=-.function..sup.(1) (h,t) and g=-.function..sup.(2) (g,g,t) are globally asymptotically stable at the point h=0=g=g. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the response characteristic of the plant is nonlinear. 16. The method of claim 11, wherein the p-vector is linearly related to the response vector x(t). 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the response characteristic of the plant is nonlinear. 18. The method of claim 11, wherein the step of specifying the p-vector comprises the further steps of: (a) specifying a k-subvector being linearly related to the system response vector x(t); (b) specifying a (p-k)-subvector having components being nonlinear functions of elements of the vector x(t) and possibly the time t; and (c) determining physical values of the elements of the vector x(t) that are in the (p-k)-subvector. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein the response characteristic of the plant is nonlinear. 