A data processing device is used with peripheral devices having addressees and differing communication response periods. The data processing device includes a digital processor adapted for selecting different ones of the peripheral devices by asserting addresses of each selected peripheral device. Addressable programmable registers hold wait state values representative of distinct numbers of wait states corresponding to different address ranges. Circuitry responsive to an asserted address to the peripheral devices asserted by the digital processor generates the number of wait states represented by the value held in one of the addressable programmable registers corresponding to the one of the address ranges in which the asserted address occurs, thereby accommodating the differing communication response periods of the peripheral devices.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A digital signal processor integrated circuit comprising: A. a substrate of semiconductor material; B. digital signal processor circuits formed on the substrate, the processor circuits having data leads and address leads, the processor circuits being capable of receiving data at the data leads a first period of time after sending address signals, the processor circuits including multiplier circuits coupled to arithmetic and logic unit circuits with the multiplier and arithmetic and logic circuits being coupled to the data leads, the processor circuits including: i. peripheral address bus leads, carrying peripheral address signals, connected to the address leads; ii. data address bus leads carrying data address signals; iii. a decoder select lead carrying a decoder select signal; iv. data bus leads carrying data signals, connected to the data leads; v. a decoder connected to at least part of the peripheral address bus leads, the decoder receiving at least part of the peripheral address signals and producing individual select signals in response to different combinations of the peripheral address signals, the different combinations of the peripheral address signals defining different segments within a peripheral memory address space, the decoder being connected to the data address bus leads and the decoder select lead, and the decoder producing individual select signals in response to different combinations of the data address signals during a decoder select signal; vi. wait state registers each having at least two portions, each portion being connected to and selected by a separate select signal, each portion containing a number defining a number of wait states and each portion having an output, each wait state register being connected to the data bus leads and each wait state register receiving data signals, representing a number of wait states, from the data bus leads in response to at least one select signal from the decoder; and vii. a wait state generator connected to and receiving from a selected portion of a wait state register the number contained in that portion, the generator producing a output signal corresponding to the number of wait states defined by the number in the selected portion of the wait state register. 2. The integrated circuit of claim 1 in which each wait state register contains two portions. 3. The integrated circuit of claim 1 in which each portion contains four binary bits. 