An analytical instrument has a sample handler for inputting racks of containers, including various types and sizes of test tubes, both capped and uncapped, and inserts, into the instrument. The sample handler has an infeed, an outfeed and a cross-feed between the infeed and outfeed. The infeed and outfeed advance the racks of containers using walking beam mechanisms which lift the racks by tabs on the right and left sides of the rack, which are positioned at a substantially identical height. Racks input into the infeed are transferred by the walking beam mechanism to a track on the cross-feed. They are then pushed, by a transport subassembly having a platform with pivotable pusher fingers to cam the rack and to push it in only one direction, from behind the infeed to a fixed position behind the outfeed.
Claims We claim: 1. A sample handler for an analytical instrument, said sample handler handling a rack which holds a plurality of containers, said rack having a left side and a right side with tabs located thereon, said rack being transported within said sample handler, said sample handler comprising: a feeder for feeding said rack comprising a first set of side walls from which said rack is suspended by said tabs, a movable tray having a second set of side walls said tray being placed within said feeder so that the first and second sets of side walls are vertically aligned, wherein said tray has guide rails which run parallel to each other along the longitudinal length of said tray to prevent said rack from skewing in said tray; and a walking beam mechanism for sequentially moving said tray in an upward direction, a first lateral direction, a downward direction and a second lateral direction, opposite said first lateral direction; whereby when said tray is moved in an upward direction the tabs of said rack are engaged and lifted by said second side walls, disengaging the tabs from said first side walls. 2. The sample handler of claim 1 wherein said guide rails are placed asymmetrically between said second set of side walls. 3. The sample handler of claim 1 wherein said feeder is an infeed into which said rack is input. 4. The sample handler of claim 3 wherein said infeed has a front and a rear and a range sensor is located behind said rear of said infeed to detect the inputting of said rack into said tray. 5. The sampler handler of claim 4 wherein said feeder is an outfeed which outputs said rack from said sampler handler. 6. The sample handler of claim 5 wherein said outfeed and said tray have a front area and a rear area, and said first and second sets of side walls each have a top rim which in said rear area has at least two detents, in which said tabs on said rack may sit, separated by a ridge. 7. The sample handler of claim 6 wherein said detents on said first and second set of side walls have a trapezoidal shape. 8. The sample handler of claim 7 wherein said ridge has a length between said detents and said walking beam mechanism has a cam having a profile that allows said tray to lift said rack above said ridge on said first set of side walls and move said rack from a first of said detents on said first set of side walls to a second of said detents. 9. The sample handler of claim 6 wherein said top rim of said second set of side walls in said front area has an undercut and said walking beam mechanism for said outfeed has a cam that does not lift said top rim of second set of side walls in said front area above said top rim of said first set of side walls in said front area. 10. The sample handler of claim 8 wherein said front area of said tray is operator-accessible and said tray has a finger stop extending between at least a portion of said front and rear areas to minimize a possibility of an operator from pushing said rack sitting in a frontmost of said plurality of detents on said first or second sets of side walls backwards. 11. The sample handler of claim 6 wherein said front area of said tray is operator-accessible and said outfeed further comprises clamps mounted to said first set of side walls adjacent said frontmost of said plurality of said detents on said first set of side walls to coact with said tabs on said rack to hold said rack in said frontmost detents in said first set of side walls to prevent an operator from pushing said rack backwards. 12. The sample handler of claim 1 wherein said walking beam means operates in a bidirectional manner such that the first lateral direction is in a rearward direction toward the rear of said feeder or in a forward direction toward the front of said feeder. 