A method of detecting object scratching during robotic arm movement of the object. The method includes providing a robotic arm for grasping and placing of an object into a cassette and providing a cassette having an entrance for receiving an object therein. A vibration sensor is placed on at least one of the robotic arm or under the cassette control of the robotic arm is provided in response to a malfunction indication at least one of the vibration sensors. There can further be provided an air flow across the entrance of the cassette with placement of a particle counter at the downstream end of the air flow across cassette entrance, wherein the control of said robotic arm is provided in response to a malfunction indication at least one of the vibration sensors and the particle counter. The control can also be provided in response to both of the vibration sensors or one or both of the vibration sensors and the particle counter. The control can be one or more of making a record of the malfunction, providing an alarm signal or terminating operation of the arm. The object is preferably some form of disc or disc-shaped object.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of detecting object scratching or rubbing during robotic arm movement of the object which comprises the steps of: (a) providing a robotic arm for grasping and placing of an object into a cassette; (b) providing a cassette having an entrance for receiving said object therein; (c) placing a vibration sensor on at least one of said robotic arm or under said cassette; and (d) providing control of said robotic arm in response to a malfunction indication at at least one of said vibration sensors. 2. The method of claim 1 further including providing an air flow across said entrance and placing a particle counter at the downstream end of said air flow across said entrance, wherein said control of said robotic arm is provided in response to a malfunction indication at at least one of said vibration sensors and said particle counter. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein said control is provided in response to at least two of said vibration sensors and said particle counter. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein said control is one of making a record of said malfunction. 5. The method of claim 3 wherein said control is at least one of making a record of said malfunction and providing an alarm signal. 6. The method of claim 3 wherein said control is at least one of making a record of said malfunction, providing an alarm signal and terminating operation of said arm. 7. The method of claim 3 wherein said control is at least two of making a record of said malfunction, providing an alarm signal and terminating operation of said arm. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein said object is a semiconductor wafer. 9. The method of claim 7 wherein said object is a magnetic disc for a memory product. 10. The method of claim 7 wherein said object is an optical disc. 11. The method of claim 7 wherein said object is a photomask. 12. The method of claim 2 wherein said control is one of making a record of said malfunction. 13. The method of claim 2 wherein said control is at least one of making a record of said malfunction and providing an alarm signal. 14. The method of claim 2 wherein said control is at least one of making a record of said malfunction, providing an alarm signal and terminating operation of said arm. 15. The method of claim 2 wherein said control is at least two of making a record of said malfunction, providing an alarm signal and terminating operation of said arm. 16. The method of claim 1 wherein said control is provided in response to both of said vibration sensors. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein said control is provided in response to all of said vibration sensors and said particle counter. 18. The method of claim 16 wherein said control is one of making a record of said malfunction. 19. The method of claim 16 wherein said control is at least one of making a record of said malfunction and providing an alarm signal. 20. The method of claim 16 wherein said control is at least one of making a record of said malfunction, providing an alarm signal and terminating operation of said arm. 21. The method of claim 16 wherein said control is at least two of making a record of said malfunction, providing an alarm signal and terminating operation of said arm. 22. The method of claim 1 wherein said control is one of making a record of said malfunction. 23. The method of claim 1 wherein said control is at least one of making a record of said malfunction and providing an alarm signal. 24. The method of claim 1 wherein said control is at least one of making a record of said malfunction, providing an alarm signal and terminating operation of said arm. 25. The method of claim 1 wherein said control is at least two of making a record of said malfunction, providing an alarm signal and terminating operation of said arm. 26. The method of claim 1 wherein said object is a semiconductor wafer. 27. The method of claim 1 wherein said object is a magnetic disc for a memory product. 28. The method of claim 1 wherein said object is an optical disc. 29. The method of claim 1 wherein said object is a photomask. 30. A method of providing one of an alarm or control for an out-of tolerance plural disc holding cassette which comprises the steps of: (a) measuring the actual dimensions of said holding cassette; (b) comparing the measured dimensions of said holding cassette with a known standard; (c) determining whether at least one of the dimensions of the holding cassette is out-of-tolerance relative to the known standard on a disc by disc basis; and (d) providing an indication of an out-of-tolerance condition and the location of said out-of-tolerance condition. 31. The method of claim 30 further including the step of preventing removal of a disc from said cassette in response to said indication of an out-of tolerance condition. 