The described invention concerns a device enabling the spatial movement of bodies, especially persons, consisting of a contraption allowing a spherical movement, of at least on device capable of holding a person, one steering device, and of at least one input device.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A device for moving people in space, comprising: a mechanism for producing a spherical movement; at least one device for holding a person on the mechanism producing spherical movement; at least one input device for at least one of planning and influencing the spherical movement; and a controller connected to both the mechanism for producing spherical movement and the input device. 2. The device of claim 1, further comprising: at least one mechanism for producing translation. 3. The device of claim 2, wherein the mechanism for producing spherical movement is arranged on the mechanism for producing translation. 4. The device of claim 2, wherein the controller is connected to the mechanism for producing translation. 5. The device of claim 2, wherein the mechanism for producing translation has at least one drive. 6. The device of claim 5, wherein the drive is an electric drive. 7. The device of claim 5, wherein the drive is a hydropneumatic drive. 8. The device of claim 1, wherein the mechanism for producing spherical movement is made up of a system of segments that are generally orthogonal to one another. 9. The device of claim 8, wherein at least one of the segments is designed to be angular in shape. 10. The device of claim 8, wherein at least one of the segments is designed to be circular in shape. 11. The device of claim 8, wherein the segments are designed to be quarter-circle segments. 12. The device of claim 8, wherein the segments of the mechanism for producing spherical movement has at least one drive. 13. The device of claim 12, wherein the at least one drive is arranged on an end of at least one of the segments. 14. The device of claim 12, wherein the at least one drive is controlled by the input device. 15. The device of claim 1, wherein the device is collapsible. 16. The device of claim 1, wherein the mechanism for producing spherical movement has at least one drive. 17. The device of claim 16, wherein the drive is an electric drive. 18. The device of claim 16, wherein the drive is a hydropneumatic drive. 19. The device of claim 1, wherein the at least one holding device includes a shell case that at least partially encloses the body of the person. 20. The device of claim 1, wherein the holding device includes a sitting or lying device. 21. The device of claim 1, wherein the holding device includes an airbag to stop the person. 22. The device of claim 1, wherein the holding device includes at least one bar to stop the person. 23. The device of claim 1, wherein the holding device includes at least one belt to stop the person. 24. The device of claim 1, wherein the at least one input device is arranged outside of the device. 25. The device of claim 1, wherein the at least one input device is arranged outside of the device. 26. The device of claim 1, wherein the at least one input device permits mechanical entry. 27. The device of claim 1, wherein the at least one input device permits acoustical entry. 28. The device of claim 1, wherein the at least one input device permits optical entry. 29. The device of claim 1, wherein the at least one input device includes at least one sensory analysis element. 30. The device of claim 1, further comprising: at least one information output device. 31. The device of claim 30, wherein the at least one information output device outputs information optically. 32. The device of claim 30, wherein the at least one information output device outputs information acoustically. 33. The device of claim 30, wherein the at least one information output device outputs information by scanning. 34. The device of claim 30, wherein the information output device is a data home. 35. The device of claim 30, wherein the information output device has at least one update element. 36. The device of claim 30, wherein the controller is also connected to the information output device. 37. The device of claim 1, wherein the holding device includes at least one of sensory analysis and update elements. 38. The device of claim 1, wherein the device can be used for at least one of therapy purposes, control production facilities, control and setting up of robots, study movement routines, and screen work place. 