A riveting system is operable to join two or more workpieces with a rivet. In another aspect of the present invention, a self-piercing rivet is employed. Still another aspect of the present invention employs an electronic control unit and one or more sensors to determine a riveting characteristic and/or an actuator characteristic.
Claims. Stresses in Rivets and Plates, prior to Jul. 20, 1998, pp. 1-3. . An Offer with Gaps, Blech '90 [Plate '90] in Essen: Element and Equipment for Joining, prior to Jul. 20, 1998, pp. 1-5. . Quality Assurance in Riveting Technology, Lothar Budde, Uwe Klemens, Wilhelm Lappe, Oct. 9, 1990, pp. 1-16. . Sheet Metal Industries, Advanced Car Bodies Trigger New Fastening Technology, Oct. 1992, pp. 14, 16. . Henrob Rivet Setter Drawing, believed to have been offered for sale, publicly used or known prior to Jul. 20, 1998. . Nissan Motor Co. Ltd., Patent Abstract of Japan 07108497, Processing Gun Using Piezoelectric Element and its Control Device, Dec. 10, 1993. . German Patent No. DE 44 19 065 Abstract (English Translation), Dec. 7, 1995. . Emhart/Tucker, Operating Manual Self-Piercing Riveting System, entire manual.. Primary Examiner: Hughes; S. Thomas Assistant Examiner: Omgba; Essama Attorney, Agent or Firm: Harness, Dickey & Pierce, P.L.C. Parent Case Text CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS This application is a continuation-in-part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09/119,255, filed on Jul. 20, 1998, entitled "Process for Forming a Punch Rivet Connection and a Joining Device for Punch Rivets". Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A riveting system comprising: a riveting tool including: (a) an electric motor; (b) a transmission operable to convert rotary motion caused by energization of the electric motor to linear motion; (c) a punch linearly movable in response to actuation by the transmission; a die aligned with the punch and spaced away from the punch when the punch is in a retracted position; at least one electronic control unit electrically connected to the riveting tool, the electronic control unit being operable to control energization and deenergization of the electric motor; a self-piercing rivet operably moved toward the die by advancement of the punch, the rivet being operably prevented from directly contacting against the die when the rivet is in an optimum workpiece-engaging position between the punch and the die; a first feeder; a first feed tube coupled to the first feeder, the first feeder and feed tube operably carrying a first size of the rivet; a second feeder; a second feed tube coupled to the second feeder, the second feeder and feed tube operably carrying a second size of the rivet different than the first size; and a selector connected to the first feed tube, the second feed tube and the electronic control unit; the electronic control unit being operable to control which size rivet the selector will transfer to the riveting tool. 2. The system of claim 1 further comprising a first sensor located in the riveting tool and electrically connected to the electronic control unit, the sensor operably sending a signal to the electronic control unit indicating a riveting characteristic. 3. The system of claim 2 wherein the sensor is an electrical switch. 4. The system of claim 3 wherein the switch is a proximity switch. 5. The system of claim 2 further comprising: at least two workpieces desirably joined together by the rivet; wherein the riveting characteristic indicates the thickness of the workpieces. 6. The system of claim 2 wherein the riveting characteristic indicates the length of the rivet. 7. The system of claim 2 wherein the riveting characteristic indicates the quality of the riveted joint. 8. The system of claim 2 wherein the sensor indicates the quantity of force applied by the punch. 9. The system of claim 2 further comprising: a clamp linearly advancing at least partially with the punch; wherein the sensor sends a signal responsive to a force applied by the clamp. 10. The system of claim 2 wherein the sensor is a load cell. 11. The system of claim 2 wherein the electronic control unit deenergizes the electric motor and sends an error signal if the electronic control unit determines that the riveting characteristic is undesirable. 12. The system of claim 2 wherein the electronic control unit allows the riveting tool to operate in a subsequent riveting cycle if the electronic control unit determines that the characteristic is acceptable. 13. The system of claim 2 wherein the sensor is a resolver operable to indicate a characteristic of the electric motor. 14. The system of claim 1 further comprising a robot operable to move the riveting tool relative to the electronic control unit. 15. The system of claim 1 further comprising: at least one sensor operably associated with at least one of the feed tubes operable to indicate the feeding condition of the rivet being transferred through the feed tube, the sensor operably sending a signal to the electronic control unit. 16. The system of claim 1 wherein the transmission includes a spindle mechanism and a reduction gear set, the reduction gear set operably rotating in response to rotation of the electric motor, the spindle mechanism further including: a substantially cylindrical housing having a linearly elongated slot, the housing being prevented from rotating; a nut operably rotating inside the housing in response to rotation of the gear set; and a spindle having a set of external threads enmeshing with a set of internal threads of the nut, rotation of the nut causing the spindle to linearly translate inside the housing, the punch advancing and retracting in response to linear translation of the spindle. 17. A riveting system comprising: a riveting tool including: (a) an electric motor; (b) a transmission operable to convert rotary motion caused by energization of the electric motor to linear motion; (c) a rivet advancing member linearly movable in response to actuation by the transmission; at least one electronic control unit electrically connected to the riveting tool, the electronic control unit being operable to control energization and deenergization of the electric motor; a rivet operably driven by the punch; a first sensor located in the riveting tool and electrically connected to the electronic control unit, the sensor operably sending a signal to the electronic control unit indicating a riveting characteristic; a first feeder; a first feed tube coupled to the first feeder, the first feeder and feed tube operably carrying a first size of the rivet; a second feeder: a second feed tube coupled to the second feeder, the second feeder and feed tube operably carrying a second size of the rivet different than the first size; and a selector connected to the first feed tube, the second feed tube and the electronic control unit; the electronic control unit being operable to control which size rivet the selector will transfer to the riveting tool. 18. The system of claim 17 wherein the sensor indicates the quantity of force applied by the rivet advancing member. 19. The system of claim 17 wherein the sensor is a load cell operable to sense force applied by the rivet advancing member on the rivet. 20. The system of claim 17 wherein the sensor is an electrical switch. 21. The system of claim 17 wherein the sensor is a resolver operable to measure a characteristic of the electric motor. 22. The system of claim 17 further comprising: at least one sensor operably associated with at least one of the feed tubes operable to indicate the feeding condition of the rivet being transferred through the feed tube, the sensor operably sending a signal to the electronic control unit. 23. The system of claim 17 wherein the transmission includes a spindle mechanism and a reduction gear set, the reduction gear set operably rotating in response to rotation of the electric motor, the spindle mechanism further including: a substantially cylindrical housing having a linearly elongated slot, the housing being prevented from rotating; a nut operably rotating inside the housing in response to rotation of the gear set; and a spindle having a set of external threads enmeshing with a set of internal threads of the nut, rotation of the nut causing the spindle to linearly translate inside the housing, the punch advancing and retracting in response to linear translation of the spindle. 24. A riveting system comprising: a riveting tool including an automatic actuator and a rivet pushing member operably driven by the actuator; an electronic control unit electrically connected to the riveting tool, the electronic control unit being operable to control energization and deenergization of the actuator; a first set of rivets operably driven by the member; a first feeder storing the first rivets; a first feed tube coupled to the first feeder, the first feed tube operably transporting at least one of the first rivets from the first feeder; a second set of rivets operably driven by the member, the second rivets having a different characteristic than the first rivets; a second feeder storing the second rivets; a second feed tube coupled to the second feeder, the second feed tube operably transporting at least one of the second rivets from the second feeder; and a selector connected to the first feed tube, the second feed tube and the electronic control unit, the electronic control unit being operable to control which of the first and second rivets the selector will transfer to the riveting tool. 25. The system of claim 24 wherein the different rivet characteristic is rivet size. 26. The system of claim 25 wherein the rivet size is length. 27. The system of claim 24 wherein the rivet is a self-piercing rivet that is shaped so as not to completely pierce through all workpieces joined by the rivet when an acceptable joint is formed. 28. The system of claim 24 further comprising: the actuator is an electric motor; and a transmission operable to convert rotary motion caused by energization of the electric motor to linear motion; the rivet pushing member is a punch linearly movable in response to actuation by the transmission. 29. The system of claim 24 further comprising at least one sensor associated with one of the feed tubes operable to indicate the feeding condition of a rivet being transferred through the one feed tube, the sensor operably sending a signal to the electronic control unit. 30. The system of claim 24 wherein the first feeder includes a rotary drum, an escapement mechanism and pneumatic actuators operably driving the drum and mechanism. 