In a method of automatically feeding and milking animals which are allowed to visit individually a milking parlor provided with a milking robot and a feeding station as well as a separate feeding stall provided with a further feeding station, an animal visiting the milking parlor is identified and the current value of an individual milking parameter for the animal is determined, on the basis of which current value there is decided whether or not the animal will be milked and fed during milking. When visiting the separate feeding stall, an animal is identified and the current value of the individual milking parameter for the animal is determined as well, while, on the basis of said current value there is decided whether or not the animal will be fed. In this manner it is achieved that the animals, while visiting the milking robot sufficiently often, are also enabled to eat enough feed/concentrate.
Claims Having disclosed our invention, what we claim as new and to be secured by Letters Patent of the United States of America is: 1. A method of automatically feeding and milking animals which are allowed to walk about freely in an area intended therefor and to visit individually a milking compartment provided with a milking robot and a feeding station, as well as to visit a separate feeding stall provided with a further feeding station, in which method an animal visiting the milking compartment is identified and the current value of an individual milking parameter for the animal is determined, on the basis of which value there is further determined whether or not the animal will be milked and fed during its current visit to said milking compartment, the method further comprising that an animal visiting the separate feeding stall is identified and the current value of the individual milking parameter for said animal is determined, on the basis of which value there is further determined whether or not the animal will be fed in said separate feeding stall. 2. A method in accordance with claim 1, wherein said individual milking parameter comprises a first range and a second range, and if and only if the current value of the individual milking parameter of an animal is within said first range, the relevant animal, when visiting the milking compartment, will be milked and fed during milking, and if and only if the current value of the individual milking parameter of the animal is within said second range, the relevant animal, when visiting the feeding stall, will be fed, said first range and said second range not overlapping one with another. 3. A method in accordance with claim 2, wherein said first range and said second range are not directly adjacent but are separated by a third range, while, if the current value of the individual milking parameter of the animal is within the third range, the animal, when visiting the milking compartment, will not be milked and, when visiting the separate feeding stall, will not be fed. 4. A method in accordance with claim 3, wherein the number of milkings effected since the last milking of a relevant animal comprises an individual milking parameter for the relevant animal. 5. A method in accordance with claim 4, wherein values above a specific adjustable threshold value comprise said first range and the values below a selected percentage of said adjustable threshold value comprise said second range. 6. A method in accordance with claim 5, wherein said selected percentage is about eighty percent. 7. A method in accordance with claim 3, wherein a selected period of time which elapsed since the last milking of a relevant animal comprises an individual milking parameter for the relevant animal. 8. A method in accordance with claim 7, wherein values above a specific adjustable threshold time comprise said first range and values below a selected percentage of said adjustable threshold time comprise said second range. 9. A method in accordance with claim 8, wherein said selected percentage is about eighty percent. 10. A method in accordance with claim 3, wherein the current estimated milk yield of a relevant animal comprises an individual milking parameter for said relevant animal. 11. A method in accordance with claim 10, wherein values above a specific adjustable threshold value comprise said first range and values below an adjustable percentage of said adjustable threshold value comprise said second range. 12. A method in accordance with claim 11, wherein said adjustable percentage is about eighty percent. 13. A method in accordance with claim 1, wherein said feeding station and said further feeding station provide feed which consists of concentrate or silage or both is provided to said animals. 14. An implement for milking and feeding animals comprising a milking compartment which is provided with a milking robot, an animal identification means and a feeding station, a separate feeding stall which is provided with a further feeding station and further animal identification means, a computer control means associated with said milking compartment and said feeding station which controls the availability of a relevant animal to be milked in said milking compartment during a first range and a second range which are non-overlapping by denying said relevant animal to be again milked immediately following a milking of the relevant animal during said second range while permitting said relevant animal to consume feed at said further feeding station during said second range, which commences when said relevant animal has been milked, said first range commencing when it is determined that said relevant animal is again entitled to be milked wherein said relevant animal is permitted to enter said milking compartment and consume feed from said feeding station therein but is not permitted to consume feed from said further feed station. 15. A method of controlling a fully automated system of milking animals wherein the animals which are milked voluntarily visit a milking compartment having a robotic means for milking and simultaneously feeding animals that enter therein, and wherein the animals are also provided feeding stalls for feeding animals that enter said stalls, said milking compartments and said stalls being provided with animal identification means and computer control means, the method comprising: determining for each animal a first range between when the relevant animal becomes eligible to be milked and when it has been milked and a second range commencing after the relevant animal has been milked and is not yet eligible to be milked again; limiting the availability of said animals to be milked again immediately after having been milked during said second range; making said stalls available for each animal to be fed during said second range only; limiting the availability of each said animal to be fed in said stalls during a third range which commences for each relevant animal after said second range has been completed, and thereafter making said milking compartment available for milking and simultaneously feeding each said animal during said first range; and limiting the availability of both said milking compartment and said stalls for feeding purposes to said animals during said third range. 16. A method in accordance with claim 15, wherein each said animal is provided with an individual threshold value which marks for such animal the end of said third range and the beginning of said first range. 17. A method in accordance with claim 16, wherein said threshold value is based on the number of other animals that have been milked since such animal was last milked. 18. A method in accordance with claim 16, wherein said threshold value for each animal is based at least in part on the amount of milk provided by each relevant animal during its last milking. 19. A method in accordance with claim 15, wherein said third range is approximately one-fourth of said second range. 