An automatic rotary access port for a robotic tape library machine includes an operator access port door in the form of a shell mounted about a stationary tape cartridge holder. The shell is controllably rotatable between an open position that allows an operator access to insert or remove tape cartridges from the stationary holder, and a closed position allowing cartridge access by a robotic tape handling mechanism located within the library machine. Cartridges are inserted and removed with labels facing a robot side of the library and remain fixed in an initial cell position within the holder. The shell is formed with an opening therein that is dimensioned to permit insertion of a tape cartridge into the holder when the shell is in the open position. The shell is configured relative to a corresponding access opening in the housing of the library machine such that a portion of the shell always blocks any direct contact between an operator and the inside of the library machine.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An access port mounted to an automated tape cartridge library housing for allowing insertion and removal of tape cartridges from the library, said access port comprising: a cartridge access opening formed in the library housing; a stationary cartridge retainer mechanism positioned within the cartridge access opening so that tape cartridges can be loaded and unloaded through the cartridge access opening; and a shell rotatably mounted adjacent the access opening and positioned to rotate about the stationary cartridge retainer mechanism, said shell comprising an opening in the surface thereof to allow operator loading and unloading of a tape cartridge from the stationary cartridge retainer when the shell is rotated to an open position, and library access to the stationary cartridge retainer when the shell is rotated to a closed position, wherein the rotatable shell and the shell opening are dimensioned relative to the cartridge access opening such that a portion of the shell is always positioned between an operator side of the access port and the inside of the tape library. 2. The access port of claim 1 wherein the shell is cylindrical shaped. 3. The access port of claim 2 the shell has a diameter large enough so that the shell opening and the cartridge access opening are large enough to accept the dimension of a tape cartridge, but smaller than a 90 degree arc of the shell circumference. 4. The access port of claim 1 further comprising a motor connected to the shell to control rotation between the open position in which the shell opening and the cartridge access opening are aligned and opposed to allow operator access to the tape retainer mechanism, and the closed position in which the shell opening is aligned and opposed to a robot tape handling mechanism located inside the tape library. 5. The access port of claim 1 wherein the stationary cartridge retainer mechanism comprises a vertical stack of cells each arranged to retain a tape cartridge, thereby allowing insertion of multiple tape cartridge volumes into the library machine at the same time. 6. The access port of claim 1 wherein the stationary cartridge retainer mechanism is oriented relative to the cartridge access opening and a robotic tape mechanism in the library so that cartridges are inserted and removed with labels facing the inside of the tape library housing. 7. A method for controlling access to a stationary tape retainer mechanism positioned within an access opening in an automated tape cartridge library housing for allowing insertion and removal of tape cartridges from the library, said method comprising: positioning a door to rotate about the stationary cartridge retainer mechanism, the door comprising an opening in the surface thereof to allow operator loading and unloading of a tape cartridge from the stationary cartridge retainer when the door is rotated to an open position, and library access to the stationary cartridge retainer when the shell is rotated to a closed position; selectively operating the door to rotate to either a closed position which allows a robotic mechanism within the library housing access to the tape retainer mechanism, or an open position which provides a barrier between the access opening and the inside of the library housing; and dimensioning the door and door opening relative to the cartridge access opening such that a portion of the door is always positioned between an operator side of the access port and the inside of the tape library irrespective of whether the door is in the open or closed position. 