An implantable medical device such as a defibrillator is described. The device includes an hermetically sealed housing containing a flat electrolytic capacitor and an energy source such as a battery. The battery is connected to the capacitor and provides charge thereto. The capacitor stores the charge at a relatively high voltage. The charge stored in the capacitor is discharged through a defibrillation lead to a site on or in the heart when fibrillation of the heart is detected by the implantable medical device. Methods of making and using the implantable medical device, the capacitor, and their various components are disclosed.
Claims We claim: 1. An hermetically sealed implantable medical device, comprising: (a) an hermetically sealed housing; (b) an energy source disposed within the housing; (c) a substantially flat electrolytic capacitor connected to the energy source and disposed within the housing, the capacitor comprising: (1) at least one flat cathode layer formed of cathode foil and having a first perimeter of a first overall length, the cathode layer having top and bottom surfaces and at least a first cathode means for connecting projecting from the first perimeter at a first predetermined perimeter location; (2) a plurality of flat anode layers formed of anode foil, the plurality of anode layers forming an anode sub-assembly having top and bottom surfaces, at least one of the plurality of anode layers being a first anode layer having a second perimeter of a second overall length and at least a second anode means for connecting projecting from the second perimeter at a second predetermined perimeter location; (3) at least a first separator layer formed of separator material, the first separator layer defining a third perimeter having a third physical dimension; (4) a first cathode feedthrough means for connecting to the first cathode connecting means, the first cathode feedthrough means having a cathode feedthrough pin extending therefrom; (5) a second anode feedthrough means for connecting to the second anode connecting means, the second anode feedthrough means having an anode feedthrough pin extending therefrom; (6) a case having sidewalls extending upwardly from a flat planar base to form an open end; wherein the at least one cathode layer, the plurality of anode layers and the first separator layer are vertically stacked to form an electrode assembly such that the first separator layer is disposed between the at least one cathode layer and the anode sub-assembly, the first cathode connecting means is aligned with a first predetermined registration position in the electrode assembly, the second anode connecting means is aligned with a second predetermined registration position in the electrode assembly, the first cathode feedthrough connecting means is connected to the first cathode connecting means, the second anode connecting means is connected to the second anode connecting means, and the cover is sealingly disposed over the open end of the case. 2. The implantable medical device of claim 1, further comprising a second cathode layer formed of cathode foil and having a third perimeter, and a second separator layer formed of separator material, the second cathode layer having top and bottom surfaces and at least a third cathode means for connecting projecting from the third perimeter at a third predetermined perimeter location, the second cathode layer and the second separator layer being included within the electrode assembly such that the second separator layer is disposed between the anode sub-assembly and the second cathode layer, the first cathode connecting means and the third cathode connecting means being vertically aligned such that the first predetermined registration location of the electrode assembly coincides vertically with the third predetermined registration location of the electrode assembly, the first cathode feedthrough connecting means being connected to the first cathode connecting means and the third cathode connecting means. 3. The implantable medical device of claim 1, further comprising a third separator layer formed of separator material and a second anode sub-assembly having top and bottom surfaces and comprising a plurality of anode layers formed of anode foil, at least one of the plurality of anode layers of the second anode sub-assembly being a fourth anode layer having a fourth perimeter, at least a fourth anode means for connecting projecting from the fourth perimeter at a fourth predetermined perimeter location, vertically stacking the second anode sub-assembly and the third separator layer in the stacked electrode assembly such that the third separator later is disposed between the at least one cathode layer and the second anode sub-assembly, and vertically aligning the second anode means for connecting and the fourth anode means for connecting such that the second predetermined registration location of the electrode assembly coincides vertically with the fourth predetermined registration location of the electrode assembly, the second anode feedthrough connecting means being connected to the second anode connecting means and the fourth anode connecting means. 4. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the first cathode feedthrough means for connecting to the first cathode connecting means is a proximal end of the cathode feedthrough pin, the proximal end of the cathode feedthrough pin being coiled around the first cathode connecting means. 5. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the first anode feedthrough means for connecting to the first anode connecting means is a proximal end of the anode feedthrough pin, the proximal end of the anode feedthrough pin being coiled around the first anode connecting means. 6. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the first cathode feedthrough means for connecting to the first cathode connecting means is selected from the group consisting of a crimp, a cold weld, a laser weld, an ultrasonic weld and a resistance weld. 7. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the first anode feedthrough means for connecting to the first anode connecting means is selected from the group consisting of a crimp, a cold weld, a laser weld, an ultrasonic weld and a resistance weld. 8. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the first cathode feedthrough means for connecting to the first cathode connecting means further comprises an intermediate strain relief component disposed between the proximal end of the first cathode feedthrough means for connecting to the first cathode connecting means and the cathode feedthrough pin. 9. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the first anode feedthrough means for connecting to the first anode connecting means further comprises an intermediate strain relief component disposed between the proximal end of the first anode feedthrough means for connecting to the first anode connecting means and the anode feedthrough pin. 10. The device of claim 1, wherein the cathode layer is formed from aluminum cathode foil. 11. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the anode layers are formed of through-etched aluminum anode foil. 12. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein each anode layer has a specific capacitance selected from the group consisting of at least about 0.3 microfarads/cm.sup.2, at least about 0.5 microfarads/cm.sup.2, and at least about 0.8 microfarads/cm.sup.2. 13. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein each anode layer has a thickness selected from the group consisting of from about 20 micrometers to about 300 micrometers, from about 40 micrometers to about 200 micrometers, from about 60 micrometers to about 150 micrometers, and from about 70 micrometers to about 140 micrometers. 14. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the cathode layer is formed from a highly etched cathode foil. 15. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the cathode layer is formed from a aluminum cathode foil having a specific capacitance selected from the group consisting of at least about 100 microfarads/cm.sup.2, at least about 200 microfarads/cm.sup.2, at least about 250 microfarads/cm.sup.2, and at least about 300 microfaradslcm.sup.2. 16. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the cathode layer is formed from aluminum foil having a thickness selected from the group consisting of from about 10 micrometers to about 200 micrometers, from about 15 micrometers to about 150 micrometers, from about 20 micrometers to about 100 micrometers, from about 25 micrometers to about 75 micrometers, and about 30 micrometers. 17. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the anode sub-assembly comprises a plurality of non-notched anode layers and at least to one notched anode layer. 18. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the anode layers in the anode sub-assembly are cold welded together. 19. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein at the first separator layer is pressure bonded to the anode sub-assembly. 20. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the top and bottom surfaces of the anode sub-assembly are covered by the first separator layer and a second separator layer. 21. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the separator layer has a perimeter extending beyond the perimeter of the anode sub-assembly. 22. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the implantable medical device is selected from the group consisting of a PCD, an AID, an ICD, a defibrillator, an implantable pulse generator and a pacemaker. 23. The implantable medical device claim 1, wherein the energy source is selected from the group consisting of a battery, an electrochemical cell, a primary electrochemical cell, a secondary or rechargeable electrochemical cell, an electrochemical cell comprising a lithium-containing anode, an electrochemical cell comprising a silver vanadium oxide-containing cathode, an electrochemical cell comprising a (CF.sub.n).sub.x -containing cathode, an electrochemical cell comprising a cathode containing a mixture of silver vanadium oxide and (CF.sub.n).sub.x, a spirally wound electrochemical cell, an electrochemical cell having a plurality of plate-shaped electrodes, and an electrochemical cell having at least one serpentine electrode disposed therewithin. 24. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the plurality of anode layers is connected electrically to the case. 25. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the at least one cathode layer is electrically connected to the case. 26. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the case is connected electrically to neither the at least one cathode layer nor to the plurality of anode layers. 27. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the electrode assembly is secured by means for securing the electrode assembly to prevent electrode assembly movement or shifting. 28. The implantable medical device of claim 27, wherein the means for securing the electrode assembly comprises an electrode wrap and corresponding adhesive strip. 29. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein at least portions of the first separator layer are secured together at the periphery thereof to corresponding portions of a second separator layer by at least one of crimping, stitching, adhesive bonding, ultrasonic paper welding or direct pressure bonding. 30. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the case is formed of aluminum or aluminum alloy. 31. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the at least one cathode layer has no holes for registration disposed therethrough. 32. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the plurality of flat anode layers have no holes for registration disposed therethrough. 33. A method of making an hermetically sealed implantable medical device, comprising the steps of (a) providing a housing for the implantable medical device; (b) providing and disposing an energy source within the housing; (c) providing components for a substantially flat electrolytic capacitor, comprising the steps of: (i) providing at least one flat cathode layer formed of cathode foil and having a first perimeter of a first overall length, the cathode layer having top and bottom surfaces and at least a first cathode means for connecting projecting from the first perimeter at a first predetermined perimeter location; (ii) providing a plurality of flat anode layers formed of anode foil, the plurality of anode layers forming an anode sub-assembly having top and bottom surfaces, at least one of the plurality of anode layers being a first anode layer having a second perimeter of a second overall length and at least a second anode means for connecting projecting from the second perimeter at a second predetermined perimeter location; (iii) providing at least a first separator layer formed of separator material, the first separator layer defining a third perimeter having a third physical dimension; (iv) providing a first cathode feedthrough means for connecting to the first cathode connecting means, the first cathode feedthrough means having a cathode feedthrough pin extending therefrom; (v) providing a second anode feedthrough means for connecting to the second anode connecting means, the second anode feedthrough means having an anode feedthrough pin extending therefrom; (vi) providing a case having sidewalls extending upwardly from a flat planar base to form an open end; (vii) providing a cover for sealing the open end of the case; (d) assembling the components of the capacitor such that the at least one cathode layer, the plurality of anode layers and the first separator layer are vertically stacked in the case, the first separator layer being disposed between the at least one cathode layer and the anode sub-assembly, the first cathode connecting means being aligned with a first predetermined registration position in the electrode assembly, the second anode connecting means being aligned with a second predetermined registration position in the electrode assembly, the first cathode feedthrough connecting means being connected to the first cathode connecting means, the second anode connecting means being connected to the second anode connecting means, the cover being sealingly disposed over the open end of the case; (e) placing the capacitor in the housing and connecting the energy source to the capacitor, and (f) hermetically sealing the housing of the implantable medical device. 34. The method of claim 33, wherein the steps of providing and assembling capacitor components further comprise the steps of providing a second cathode layer formed of cathode foil and having a third perimeter, and providing a second separator layer formed of separator material, the second cathode layer having top and bottom surfaces and at least a third cathode means for connecting projecting from the third perimeter at a third predetermined perimeter location, vertically stacking the second cathode layer and the second separator in the electrode assembly such that the second separator layer is disposed between the anode sub-assembly and the second cathode layer, vertically aligning the first cathode connecting means and the third cathode connecting such that the first predetermined registration location of the electrode assembly coincides vertically with the third predetermined registration location of the electrode assembly, and connecting the first cathode feedthrough connecting means to the first cathode connecting means and the third cathode connecting means. 35. The method of claim 33, wherein the steps of providing and assembling capacitor components further comprise the steps of providing a second separator layer formed of separator material, providing a second anode sub-assembly having top and bottom surfaces and comprising a plurality of anode layers formed of anode foil, at least one of the plurality of anode layers of the second anode sub-assembly being a fourth anode layer having a fourth perimeter, providing at least a fourth anode means for connecting projecting from the fourth perimeter at a fourth predetermined perimeter location, vertically stacking the second anode sub-assembly and the second separator layer in the stacked electrode assembly such that the second separator layer is disposed between the at least one cathode layer and the second anode sub-assembly, and vertically aligning the second anode means for connecting and the fourth anode means for connecting such that the second predetermined registration location of the electrode assembly coincides vertically with the fourth predetermined registration location of the electrode assembly, and connecting the second anode feedthrough connecting means to the second anode connecting means and the fourth anode connecting means. 36. The method of claim 33, wherein the assembling step further comprises the step of connecting the first cathode feedthrough connecting means to the first cathode connecting means by placing a coiled proximal end of the cathode feedthrough pin over and around the first cathode connecting means. 37. The method of claim 33, wherein the assembling step further comprises the step of connecting the first anode feedthrough connecting means to the first anode connecting means by placing a coiled proximal end of the anode feedthrough pin over and around the first anode connecting means. 38. The method of claim 33, wherein the assembling step further comprises the step of connecting the first cathode feedthrough means to the first cathode connecting means by crimping, cold welding, laser welding, ultrasonically welding or resistance welding the feedthrough means to the connecting means. 39. The method of claim 33, wherein the assembling step further comprises the step of connecting the first anode feedthrough means to the first anode connecting means by crimping, cold welding, laser welding, ultrasonically welding or resistance welding the feedthrough means to the connecting means. 40. The method of claim 33, wherein the assembling step further comprises placing and connecting an intermediate strain relief component between a proximal end of the first cathode feedthrough means for connecting to the first cathode connecting means and the cathode feedthrough pin. 41. The method of claim 33, wherein the assembling step further comprises placing and connecting an intermediate strain relief component between a proximal end of the first anode feedthrough means for connecting to the first anode connecting means and the anode feedthrough pin. 42. The method of claim 33, wherein the cathode layer providing step is preceded by a step of forming the at least one cathode layer to have no holes for registration disposed therethrough. 43. The method of claim 33, wherein the plurality of flat anode layer providing step is preceded by a step of forming the plurality of anode layers to have no holes for registration disposed therethrough. 