An EMI filter feedthrough terminal assembly includes at least one conductive terminal pin, a feedthrough filter capacitor which has a passageway through which the terminal pin extends, and a conductive substrate through which the terminal pin passes in non-conductive relation. The conductive substrate includes a capture flange having a height that is less than an axial thickness of the capacitor and which is configured to at least partially surround an outer periphery of the capacitor. The height of the capture flange is preferably one-quarter to three-quarters of the axial thickness of the capacitor. A first set of capacitor electrodeplates is conductively coupled to the terminal pin, and a second set of electrode plates is conductively coupled to the capture flange by means of a thermal-setting conductive material disposed between the outer periphery of the capacitor and the capture flange. A related process is provided for manufacturing an EMI filter feedthrough terminal assembly that advantageously utilizes the capture flange.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An EMI filter feedthrough terminal assembly, comprising: at least one conductive terminal pin; a feedthrough filter capacitor having first and second sets of electrode plates and a passageway through which the terminal pin extends in conductive relation the first set of electrode plates; and a conductive substrate through which the terminal pin passes in non-conductive relation, the conductive substrate including a capture flange having a height that less than an axial thickness of the capacitor and configured to at least partially surround an outer periphery of the capacitor. 2. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the height of the capture flange is one-quarter to three-quarters of the axial thickness of the capacitor. 3. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the second set of electrode plates is conductively coupled to the capture flange. 4. The assembly of claim 3, including a conductive material disposed between the outer periphery of the capacitor and the capture flange, to conductively couple the second set of electrode plates to the conductive substrate. 5. The assembly of claim 4, wherein the conductive material is a thermal-setting material taken from the group of conductive epoxy, conductive polyimide, or solder paste, a solder preform, a solder paste, or a braze alloy. 6. The assembly of claim 1, including an insulator supported by the conductive substrate through which the at least one terminal pin passes, the insulator being spaced from a face of the capacitor to form an air gap therebetween. 7. The assembly of claim 6, wherein the capture flange entirely surrounds the outer periphery of the capacitor, and wherein the assembly includes a conductive material disposed between discrete segments of the outer periphery of the capacitor and the capture flange. 8. The assembly of claim 6, including a first noble metal hermetic terminal seal joint between the terminal pin and the insulator, and a second noble metal hermetic seal joint between the insulator and the conductive substrate. 9. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the capture flange includes a countersink to facilitate robotic dispensing of a thermal-setting material between the capacitor and the capture flange. 10. The assembly of claim 9, wherein peripheral edges of the capacitor are axially rounded. 11. The assembly of claim 1, including a first noble metal hermetic terminal seal joint between the terminal pin and the feedthrough filter capacitor, and a second noble metal hermetic seal joint between the feedthrough filter capacitor and the conductive substrate. 12. An EMI filter feedthrough terminal assembly, comprising: at least one conductive terminal pin; a feedthrough filter capacitor having first and second sets of electrode plates and a passageway through which the terminal pin extends in conductive relation with the first set of electrode plates; a conductive substrate through which terminal pin passes in non-conductive relation, the conductive substrate including a capture flange having a height that is less than an axial thickness of the capacitor and configured to at least partially surround an outer periphery of the capacitor, wherein the second set of electrode plates is conductively coupled to the capture flange; and an insulator supported by the conductive substrate through which the at least one terminal pin passes, the insulator being positioned adjacent to a face of the capacitor. 13. The assembly of claim 12, wherein the insulator is spaced from the face of the capacitor to form an air gap therebetween. 14. The assembly of claim 13, wherein the capture flange entirely surrounds the outer periphery of the capacitor, and wherein the assembly includes a conductive material disposed between discrete segments of the outer periphery of the capacitor and the capture flange. 15. The assembly of claim 14, including a first noble metal hermetic terminal seal joint between the terminal pin and the insulator, and a second noble metal hermetic seal joint between the insulator and the conductive substrate. 16. The assembly of claim 13, wherein the height of the capture flange is one-quarter to three-quarters of the axial thickness of the capacitor. 17. The assembly of claim 16, including a thermal-setting conductive material disposed between the outer periphery of the capacitor and the capture flange, to conductively couple the second set of electrode plates to the conductive substrate. 18. The assembly of claim 12, including a first noble metal hermetic terminal seal joint between the terminal pin and the feedthrough filter capacitor, and a second noble metal hermetic seal joint between the feedthrough filter capacitor and the conductive substrate. 19. The assembly of claim 12, wherein the capture flange includes a countersink to facilitate robotic dispensing of a thermal-setting material between the capacitor and the capture flange, and wherein peripheral edges of the capacitor are axially rounded. 