A method and device are provided for controlling access to data. Portions of the data are protected and rules concerning access rights to the data are determined. Access to the protected portions of the data is prevented, other than in a non-useable form; and users are provided access to the data only in accordance with the rules as enforced by a mechanism protected by tamper detection. A method is also provided for distributing data for subsequent controlled use of those data. The method includes protecting portions of the data; preventing access to the protected portions of the data other than in a non-useable form; determining rules concerning access rights to the data; protecting the rules; and providing a package including: the protected portions of the data and the protected rules. A user is provided controlled access to the distributed data only in accordance with the rules as enforced by a mechanism protected by tamper protection. A device is provided for controlling access to data having protected data portions and rules concerning access rights to the data. The device includes means for storing the rules; and means for accessing the protected data portions only in accordance with the rules, whereby user access to the protected data portions is permitted only if the rules indicate that the user is allowed to access the portions of the data.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of distributing data, the method comprising: protecting portions of the data; and openly distributing the protected portions of the data, whereby each and every access to an unprotected form of the protected portions of the data is limited in accordance with rules defining access rights to the data as enforced by an access mechanism, so that unauthorized access to the protected portions of the data is not to the unprotected form of the protected portions of the data. 2. A method as in claim 1, wherein the protecting of portions of the data comprises encrypting the portions of the data, whereby unauthorized access to the protected data is not to the un-encrypted form of the protected data. 3. A method as in claim 2, wherein the encrypting of portions of the data encrypts the portions of the data with a data encrypting key, the data encrypting key having a corresponding data decrypting key, the method further comprising: encrypting the data encrypting key. 4. A method as in claim 3, further comprising: providing a decrypting key corresponding to the key encrypting key. 5. A method as in claim 1, wherein the data represent at least one of software, text, numbers, graphics, audio, and video. 6. A method as in claim 1, wherein the rules indicate which users are allowed to access the protected portions of the data, the method further comprising allowing the user access to the unprotected form of a protected portion of the data only if the rules indicate that the user is allowed to access that portion of the data. 7. A method as in claim 1 wherein the rules indicate distribution rights of the data, the method further comprising: allowing distribution of the unprotected form of the protected data portions only in accordance with the distribution rights indicated in the rules. 8. A method as in claim 1, wherein the rules indicate access control rights of the user, the method further comprising: allowing the user to access the unprotected form of the protected data portions only in accordance with the access control rights indicated in the rules. 9. A method as in claim 8, wherein the access control rights include at least one of: local display rights, printing rights, copying rights, execution rights, transmission rights, and modification rights. 10. A method as in claim 1, wherein the rules indicate access control quantities, the method further comprising: allowing access to the unprotected form of the protected data portions only in accordance with the access control quantities indicated in the rules. 11. A method as in claim 10, wherein the access control quantities include at least one of: a number of allowed read-accesses to the data; an allowable size of a read-access to the data; an expiration date of the data; an intensity of accesses to the data; an allowed level of accuracy and fidelity; and an allowed resolution of access to the data. 12. A method as in claim 1, wherein the rules indicate payment requirements, the method further comprising: allowing access to the unprotected form of the protected data portions only if the payment requirements indicated in the rules are satisfied. 13. A method as in claim 1, wherein the rules relate to at least one of: characteristics of users; characteristics of protected data; and environmental characteristics. 14. A method as in claim 1 wherein the rules defining access rights include at least one internal rule built in the access mechanism. 15. A method as in claim 14 wherein the at least one internal rule cannot be made less restrictive by any other rules. 16. A method as in claim 14 wherein the access mechanism is contained in a stand-alone device. 17. A method as in claim 16 wherein the stand-alone device is selected from the group consisting of: a facsimile machine, a television, a VCR, a laser printer, a telephone, a laser disk player, and a computer system. 18. A method as in claim 1, wherein the access mechanism is contained in a stand-alone device selected from the group comprising: a facsimile machine, a television, a VCR, a laser printer, a telephone, a laser disk player, and a computer system; and wherein the rules defining access rights include at least one internal rule built-in to the access mechanism; and wherein the at least one internal rule comprises access control rights to the data. 19. A method as in claim 1, further comprising: providing a distribution rule, wherein the rules defining access rights comprise the distribution rule and at least one internal rule built in to the access mechanism. 20. A method as in claim 19 wherein the protecting of portions of the data comprises encrypting the portions of the data using a data encrypting key having a corresponding data decrypting key, and wherein the distribution rule comprises a data decrypting key. 21. A method of distributing data for subsequent controlled use of the data by a user, the method comprising: protecting portions of the data; protecting rules defining access rights to the data; and openly distributing the protected portions of the data and the protected rules, whereby controlled access to an unprotected form of the protected portions of the data is provided only in accordance with the rules as enforced by an access mechanism, so that unauthorized access to the protected portions of the data is not to the unprotected form of the protected portions of the data. 22. A method of distributing data for subsequent controlled use of the data by a user, some of the data having access rules already associated therewith, the access rules defining access rights to the data, the method comprising: protecting portions of the data; providing rules defining access rights to the data; combining the provided rules with rules previously associated with the data; protecting the combined rules; and openly distributing the protected portions of the data and the protected combined rules, whereby controlled access to the unprotected form of the protected portions of the data is provided only in accordance with the combined rules as enforced by an access mechanism, so that unauthorized access to the protected portions of the data is not to the unprotected form of the protected portions of the data. 23. A method of controlling secondary distribution of data, the method comprising: protecting portions of the data; protecting rules defining access rights to the data; openly providing the protected portions of the data and the protected rules to a device having an access mechanism; and limiting transmission of the protected portions of the data from the device (a) only as protected data or (b) in accordance with the rules as enforced by the access mechanism, so that unauthorized access to the protected portions of the data is not to an unprotected form of the protected portions of the data. 24. A method of accessing openly distributed data, the method comprising: obtaining openly distributed data having protected data portions and rules defining access rights to the protected data portions; and limiting each and every access to an unprotected form of the protected data portions in accordance with the rules as enforced by an access mechanism, so that unauthorized access to the protected portions of the data is not to the unprotected form of the protected data portions. 25. A device for displaying images represented by data comprising protected data portions and rules defining access rights to the data, the device comprising: means for storing the rules; an access mechanism for accessing the data only in accordance with the rules, whereby user access to an unprotected form of the protected data portions is permitted by the access mechanism only if the rules indicate that the user is allowed to access the protected portions of the data, the access being enforced by the access mechanism; and means for displaying the images represented by the accessed data. 26. A device as in claim 25 wherein the rules defining access rights include at least one internal rule built in the access mechanism. 27. A device as in claim 26 wherein the internal rules cannot be made less restrictive by any other rules. 28. A device as in claim 26 wherein the internal rules limit the device only to being an output device. 29. A device as in claim 26 wherein the device is selected from the group consisting of: a VCR, a laser disk player, and a computer system. 30. A device for outputting images represented by data comprising protected data portions and rules defining access rights to the data, the device comprising: means for storing the rules; an access mechanism for accessing the data only in accordance with the rules, whereby user access to an unprotected form of the protected data portions is permitted by the access mechanism only if the rules indicate that the user is allowed to access the protected portions of the data, the access being enforced by the access mechanism; and means for outputting the images represented by the accessed data. 31. A device for outputting an audio signal represented by data comprising protected data portions and rules defining access rights to the data, the device comprising: means for storing the rules; an access mechanism for accessing the data only in accordance with the rules, whereby user access to an unprotected form of the protected data portions is permitted by the access mechanism only if the rules indicate that the user is allowed to access the protected portions of the data, the access being enforced by the access mechanism; and means for outputting the audio signal represented by the accessed data. 32. A device for outputting an output signal based on data comprising protected data portions and rules defining access rights to the data, the device comprising: means for storing the rules; an access mechanism for accessing the data only in accordance with the rules, whereby user access to an unprotected form of the protected data portions is permitted by the access mechanism only if the rules indicate that the user is allowed to access the protected portions of the data, the access being enforced by the access mechanism; and means for outputting the output signal represented by the accessed data. 33. A device for generating an output signal corresponding to data comprising protected data portions and rules defining access rights to the digital data, the device comprising: means for storing the rules; an access mechanism for accessing the digital data only in accordance with the rules, whereby user access to an unprotected form of the protected data portions is permitted by the access mechanism only if the rules indicate that the user is allowed to access the protected portions of the data; and means for generating the output signal from the accessed data. 34. A device for distributing data for subsequent controlled use of the data by a user, the device comprising: means for protecting portions of the data; means for protecting rules defining access rights to the data; and means providing the protected portions of the data and the protected rules; whereby a user is provided controlled access to the data only in accordance with the rules as enforced by an access mechanism, so that unauthorized access to the protected portions of the data is not to an unprotected form of the protected portions of the data. 35. A device for distributing data for subsequent controlled use of the data by a user, some of the data having access rules already associated therewith, the access rules defining access rights to the data, the device comprising: means for protecting portions of the data; means for providing rules concerning access rights to the data; means for combining the provided rules with rules previously associated with the data; means for protecting the combined rules; and means for providing the protected portions of the data and the protected combined rules; whereby the user is provided controlled access to an unprotected form of the protected portions of the data only in accordance with the combined rules as enforced by an access mechanism, so that unauthorized access to the protected portions of the data is not to the unprotected form of the protected portions of the data. 36. A process control system comprising a device for controlling access to data, the data comprising protected data portions and rules defining access rights to the data, the device comprising: means for storing the rules; and an access mechanism for accessing the unprotected form of the protected data portions only in accordance with the rules, whereby output of an unprotected form of the protected data portions is permitted by the access mechanism only in such manner as is permitted by the rules. 37. A process control system as in claim 36 wherein the rules defining access rights include at least one internal rule built in the access mechanism. 38. A general purpose computer system comprising a device for controlling access to data, the data comprising protected data portions and rules defining access rights to the data, the device comprising: storage means for storing the rules; and an access mechanism for accessing the unprotected form of the protected data portions only in accordance with the rules, whereby user access to an unprotected form of the protected data portions is permitted by the access mechanism only if the rules indicate that the user is allowed to access the protected portions of the data. 39. A computer system as in claim 38 wherein the rules defining access rights include at least one internal rule built in the access mechanism. 40. A computer system as in claim 38 wherein the system is implemented at various levels, and wherein at least one low level effectively defines a virtual machine in which the access mechanism is implemented, and wherein mechanisms implemented at each level of system implementation can invoke the levels below their level of implementation. 41. A computer system as in claim 40 wherein the various levels of the computer system comprise: an application environment level; an operating system (OS) level which is at a lower level than the application environment level; and a Basic Input/Output System (BIOS) level which is lower than OS level, and wherein the access mechanism is preferably implemented at or below the BIOS level. 42. A computer system as in claim 40 wherein the implementation of the access mechanism prevents a user from by-passing the access mechanism and thereby prevents a user circumventing rule enforcement by the access mechanism. 43. A computer system as in claim 40 wherein a mechanism implemented at a particular level can invoke only its implementation level and the level immediately below its implementation level. 