A method and apparatus for decomposing a layer of silicon oxide on a silicon wafer is described which employs the application of a heated mist of aqueous HF to the cooled wafer surface. The technique is applied to the analysis of silicon wafers for trace impurities using a scanning fluid drop to collect the residue containing the impurities after the silicon oxide has been decomposed. The novel method offers an order of magnitude increase in the rate of silicon oxide decomposition over the prior art which uses a vapor phase decomposition technique. In addition the novel method provides better control and safer disposition of the corrosive vapors over the prior art. The apparatus comprises a movable dome fitted with a carrier gas supply and a means for injecting a heated aqueous HF mist generated by a specially designed mist generator into the carrier gas flow. The flow mist droplets are drawn from the flow onto the cooled wafer surface providing a thin layer of liquid aqueous HF which reacts with the oxide layer at a faster rate than previously used HF vapor.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for rapid decomposition of a silicon oxide layer on a silicon wafer by the controlled application of a mist containing HF comprising: (a) a table for supporting a silicon wafer; (b) a cylindrical dome assembly positioned over said table comprising: (i) a first portion which is dome shaped having an opening at its apex and a lower lip with a diameter greater than the diameter of said wafer and a spacing which is formed between the plane of said wafer and said lip when said dome assembly is lowered concentrically over said wafer; and (ii) a second portion comprising a tube disposed axially to said first portion and having a lower section extending through and sealed to said opening terminating within said first portion and an upper section fitted with at least one sidearm and a gas inlet comprising a vortex tube; (c) means for providing a first gas flow to said vortex tube; (d) means for raising and lowering said dome assembly; (e) means for recovery and disposition of exhaust gases; and (f) a mist generator having a discharge tube connected to said at least one sidearm, said mist generator comprising: (i) A body having a lower portion which forms a reservoir for a liquid and an upper portion containing baffles; (ii) means for heating said reservoir; (iii) a bubbler located in said reservoir; (iv) means for providing a second gas flow to said bubbler; and (v) means for heating a mist flow in said discharge tube. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said table is rotatable and is fitted with a vacuum chuck. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said dome assembly is formed of polypropylene. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said spacing is between about 0.5 and 1.0 cm. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said means for raising and lowering said dome assembly comprises a pneumatic cylinder and a double action pivot mechanism. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said dome assembly is contoured to provide a uniform radial laminar flow of a mist flow over said wafer. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said means for heating said mist flow in said discharge tube is directional microwave. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said means for heating said mist flow in said discharge tube is a resistance heater. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said means for heating said mist flow in said discharge tube is an rf power source. 10. An apparatus for rapid decomposition of a silicon oxide layer on a silicon wafer by the controlled application of a mist containing HF comprising: (a) a table for supporting a silicon wafer; (b) a cylindrical dome assembly positioned over said table comprising: (i) a first portion which is dome shaped having an opening at its apex and a lower lip with a diameter greater than the diameter of said wafer and a spacing which is formed between the plane of said wafer and said lip when said dome assembly is lowered concentrically over said wafer; and (ii) a second portion comprising a tube disposed axially to said first portion and having a lower section extending through and sealed to said opening terminating within said first portion and an upper section provided with at least two sidearms; (c) means for raising and lowering said dome assembly; (d) means for recovery and disposition of exhaust gases; and (e) a first mist generator having a first discharge tube connected to one of said at least two sidearms, said first mist generator comprising: (i) A body having a lower portion which forms a reservoir for a liquid and an upper portion containing baffles; (ii) means for heating said reservoir; (iii) a bubbler located in said reservoir; (iv) means for delivery of a gas flow to said bubbler; and (v) means for heating a mist flow in said first discharge tube; (f) a second mist generator having a second discharge tube connected to one of said at least two sidearms said second mist generator comprising: (i) A body having a lower portion which forms a reservoir containing water and an upper portion containing baffles; (ii) a bubbler located in said reservoir; and (iii) means for providing a gas flow to said bubbler. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein said table is rotatable and is fitted 10 with a vacuum chuck. 12. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein said dome assembly is formed of polypropylene. 13. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein said spacing is between about 0.5 and 1.0 cm. 14. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein said means for raising and lowering said dome assembly comprises a pneumatic cylinder and a double action pivot mechanism. 15. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein said dome assembly is contoured to provide a uniform radial laminar flow of a mist flow over said wafer. 16. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein said means for heating said mist flow in said first discharge tube is directional microwave. 17. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein said means for heating said mist flow in said first discharge tube is a resistance heater. 18. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein said means for heating said mist flow in said discharge tube is an rf power source. 