A recirculating device receives parts in bulk which are bunched together. The device includes a cone-shaped rotating disk which receives the parts and redistributes the parts into separate units. The parts are delivered to an inner periphery of the cone of the cone-shaped disk and then slide down the inclined slope of the cone. As the parts slide down the rotating cone, they become spaced further apart due to the increase in radius of the outer periphery of the cone as compared with the radius of the inner periphery of the cone. The separated parts may then be effectively handled by a picker-type robot utilizing a vision system or sensors to discriminate the individual parts.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An article recirculating system comprising: a reservoir for receiving a plurality of articles therein; a rotatable feeding device located in said reservoir for feeding said articles from said central reservoir; and an article separating device rotatable about said reservoir for receiving said articles fed from said feeding device, said article separating device including an inclined surface down which said articles slide which aids separation of said articles from one another, and a flat surface located adjacent an outermost peripheral portion of said inclined surface for receiving thereon said articles from said inclined surface and which permits radial spreading of said articles on said flat surface. 2. The article recirculating system according to claim 1, said article separating device further comprising a rim located adjacent an outermost peripheral portion of said flat surface and extending upwardly above a level of said flat surface. 3. The article recirculating system according to claim 1, wherein said inclined surface and said flat surface are formed as a one-piece unitary member. 4. The article recirculating system according to claim 1, wherein at least a portion of said flat surface is transparent. 5. The article recirculating system according to claim 1, wherein at least a portion of said flat surface is opaque. 6. The article recirculating system according to claim 1, wherein said flat surface is generally horizontal. 7. The article recirculating system according to claim 1, wherein said inclined surface is straight. 8. The article recirculating system according to claim 1, wherein said inclined surface is concave. 9. The article recirculating system according to claim 1, wherein said inclined surface is convex. 10. The article recirculating system according to claim 1, wherein said article separating device is rotatable about a substantially vertical first axis, and said feeding device is rotatable about a second axis tilted with respect to said first axis. 11. The article recirculating system according to claim 10, further comprising a drive mechanism for rotating said article separating device and said feeding device about said first axis and said second axis, respectively. 12. The article recirculating system according to claim 1, further comprising a scraping mechanism extending along a portion of said flat surface and a portion of said inclined surface for returning articles to said reservoir. 13. The article recirculating system according to claim 12, wherein said scraping mechanism includes a belt conveyor to assist movement of said articles up said inclined surface. 14. The article recirculating system according to claim 1, further comprising a robotic device for removing said articles from said article separating device. 15. The article recirculating system according to claim 14, wherein said robotic device includes a vision system for locating said articles on said article separating device. 16. The article recirculating system according to claim 1, further comprising a hopper for supplying said articles to said reservoir. 17. A method of separating articles in bulk comprising the following steps: providing a plurality of articles in a reservoir; feeding said articles from said reservoir to an article separating device having an inclined surface and a flat surface located adjacent an outermost peripheral portion of said inclined surface; rotating said article separating device while receiving said articles fed from said reservoir on said inclined surface of said article separating device; and allowing said articles to slide downwardly along said inclined surface and spread radially outwardly along said flat surface as said article separating device rotates, thereby separating said articles on said flat surface from one another. 18. The method according to claim 17, further comprising the step of sliding said articles onto a flat surface surrounding said inclined surface. 19. The method according to claim 18, further comprising the step of picking said articles off of said flat surface utilizing a robotic pick-up device. 20. The method according to claim 17, wherein said article separating device is rotatable about a substantially vertical first axis, and said articles are fed from said reservoir by a feeding device rotatable about a second axis titled with respect to said first axis. 