GPS satellite (4) ranging signals (6) received (32) on comm1, and DGPS auxiliary range correction signals and pseudolite carrier phase ambiguity resolution signals (8) from a fixed known earth base station (10) received (34) on comm2, at one of a plurality of vehicles/aircraft/automobiles (2) are computer processed (36) to continuously determine the one's kinematic tracking position on a pathway (14) with centimeter accuracy. That GPS-based position is communicated with selected other status information to each other one of the plurality of vehicles (2), to the one station (10), and/or to one of a plurality of control centers (16), and the one vehicle receives therefrom each of the others' status information and kinematic tracking position. Objects (22) are detected from all directions (300) by multiple supplemental mechanisms, e.g., video (54), radar/lidar (56), laser and optical scanners. Data and information are computer processed and analyzed (50,52,200,452) in neural networks (132, FIGS. 6-8) in the one vehicle to identify, rank, and evaluate collision hazards/objects, an expert operating response to which is determined in a fuzzy logic associative memory (484) which generates control signals which actuate a plurality of control systems of the one vehicle in a coordinated manner to maneuver it laterally and longitudinally to avoid each collision hazard, or, for motor vehicles, when a collision is unavoidable, to minimize injury or damage therefrom. The operator is warned by a heads up display and other modes and may override. An automotive auto-pilot mode is provided.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A computer controlled collision avoidance and warning method comprising the acts of: receiving continuously from a network of satellites on a first communication link at one of a plurality of automobiles GPS ranging signals for initially accurately determining the one automobile's position on a highway on a surface of the earth; receiving continuously at the one automobile on a second communication link from one of a plurality of stations having a known fixed position on the surface of the earth DGPS auxiliary range signals, including correction signals for correcting propagation delay errors in the GPS ranging signals and pseudolite signals for assistance in making further measurements for still further improving the accuracy of the GPS ranging signals and of determining the one automobile's position on the highway on a surface of the earth; determining continuously at the one automobile from the GPS, DGPS, and pseudolite signals the one automobile's kinematic tracking position on the surface of the earth with centimeter accuracy; communicating the one automobile's status information including the kinematic tracking position to each other one of the plurality of automobiles and to the one station or one of a plurality of control centers; analyzing the kinematic tracking positions and status information to identify and evaluate an inconsistent driving pattern of the one automobile relative to each other one of the plurality of automobiles; determining in a fuzzy logic associative memory the one automobile's expert driving response relative to the inconsistent driving pattern and for each collision hazard; generating expert driving response control signals for actuating a plurality of control systems of the one automobile in a coordinated manner; intelligibly indicating a warning of the inconsistent driving pattern; and coordinately actuating the control systems of the one automobile with the control signals to operate the one automobile laterally and longitudinally in real time to terminate the inconsistent driving pattern. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the act of intelligibly indicating a warning includes the act of alerting police of the inconsistent driving pattern and the current location of the one automobile. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the act of terminating the inconsistent driving pattern includes the act of operating the one automobile laterally and longitudinally in real time to a position off the highway. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the analyzing act includes analyzing the kinematic positions and status information to identify and evaluate each potential collision hazard relative to the one automobile. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the analyzing act further comprises: analyzing inputs from the one automobile's speedometer, environmental inputs, and inputs describing characteristics of the operator of the one automobile. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the warning act further comprises the act of: visually indicating the existence of a hazardous condition. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein the act of visually indicating further comprises the act of: displaying a visually perceptible symbol on a windshield of the one automobile. 8. The method of claim 6 wherein the act of visually indicating further comprises the act of: displaying the relative position and motion between the one automobile and any collision hazard. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein the warning act further comprises the act of: repeatedly actuating a headlight system, a horn system, or a collision warning light system. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein the warning act further comprises the act of: generating sounds of select speech of warning of a hazardous condition. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein the generating sounds of select speech act further comprises the act of: recommending an expert driving response. 12. The method of claim 1 further comprising the act of: repeatedly repeating the communicating act. 13. The method of claim 1 further comprising the act of monitoring the driver actions and reactions using a driver monitoring computer. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein the monitoring computer constantly monitors vehicle attitude and the driver actions and reactions. 15. The method of claim 13 wherein the monitoring of driver actions and reactions includes determining driver fatigue and erratic driving patterns. 16. A computer controlled collision avoidance and warning method comprising the acts of: receiving continuously from a network of satellites on a first communication link at one of a plurality of automobiles GPS ranging signals for initially accurately determining the one automobile's position on a highway on a surface of the earth; receiving continuously at the one automobile on a second communication link from one of a plurality of stations having a known fixed position on the surface of the earth DGPS auxiliary range signals, including correction signals for correcting propagation delay errors in the GPS ranging signals and pseudolite signals for assistance in making further measurements for still further improving the accuracy of the GPS ranging signals and of determining the one automobile's position on the highway on a surface of the earth; determining continuously at the one automobile from the GPS, DGPS, and pseudolite signals the one automobile's kinematic tracking position on the surface of the earth with centimeter accuracy; communicating the one automobile's status information including the kinematic tracking position to each other one of the plurality of automobiles and to the one station or one of a plurality of control centers; analyzing the kinematic tracking positions and status information to identify and evaluate an inconsistent driving pattern of the one automobile relative to each other one of the plurality of automobiles; determining in a fuzzy logic associative memory the one automobile's expert driving response relative to the inconsistent driving pattern and for each collision hazard; generating expert driving response control signals for actuating a plurality of control systems of the one automobile in a coordinated manner; intelligibly indicating a warning of the inconsistent driving pattern in the one automobile; and coordinately actuating the control systems of the one automobile with the control signals to operate the one automobile laterally and longitudinally in real time sufficiently in due time to terminate the inconsistent driving pattern; generating expert driving response control signals for actuating a plurality of control systems of each other one of the plurality of automobiles in a coordinated manner, whereby the each other one of the plurality of automobiles is operated to avoid a collision with the one automobile. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein the act of intelligibly indicating further comprises the act of: displaying the relative position and motion between the one automobile and each other one of the plurality of automobiles in the other automobile. 18. The method of claim 16 wherein the warning act further comprises the act of: repeatedly actuating a headlight system, a horn system, or a collision warning light system on the one automobile. 19. The method of claim 16 wherein the warning act further comprises the act of: generating sounds of select speech of warning of a hazardous condition in the other one of the plurality of automobiles. 20. The method of claim 19 wherein the generating sounds of select speech act further comprises the act of: recommending an expert driving response. 