Methods and systems consistent with the invention provide a robot network that can optimally reconfigure the control logic on-board each robot of the network on a real-time basis. Each robot of the network performs an assigned task according to a control logic. While performing the assigned task, each robot transmits performance data defining a fitness level of the robot for achieving the assigned task. A set of the plurality of robots is then selected based on the performance data transmitted by each robot, and the control logic of the selected set of robots is then sent to the other robots in the network. The robots that receive the control logic then optimize their control logic by producing a new control logic based on the received control logic.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot network having a plurality of robots, wherein each of the plurality of robots performs an assigned task according to a control logic, each robot of the network comprising: a wireless transmitter which transmits performance data indicating a fitness level of the robot associated with the assigned task; a wireless receiver which receives the control logic of a selected set of the plurality of robots while the robot continues to operate, the control logic being selected based on the performance data transmitted by each robot; and a processor which reconfigures the control logic of the robot by producing a new control logic based on the received control logic. 2. The network of claim 1, wherein the transmitter transmits position data defining the position of the robot. 3. The network of claim 1, further including: a sensor for detecting environmental data from the environment of the robot. 4. The network of claim 3, wherein the performance data transmitted by the transmitter corresponds to a signal strength of the sensor. 5. The network of claim 3, wherein the performance data transmitted by the transmitter corresponds to a first output of the sensor obtained at a first time relative to a second output of the sensor obtained at a second time. 6. The network of claim 3, wherein the control logic is a motion control logic that defines a motion of the robot in response to the detected environmental data. 7. The network of claim 3, wherein the control logic is a signal processing control logic that processes the detected environmental data. 8. The network of claim 1, wherein the network further includes: a network command center, and wherein the transmitter transmits the performance data to the network command center, and wherein the network command center selects the selected set of the plurality of robots using the transmitted performance data. 9. The network of claim 1, wherein the transmitter transmits the performance data to each of the other robots of the plurality of robots, wherein each robot selects the selected set of the plurality of robots using the transmitted performance data. 10. The network of claim 1, wherein the transmitter transmits the performance data every preset period of time. 11. The network of claim 10, wherein the processor reconfigures the control logic during each preset period of time. 12. The network of claim 1, wherein the processor further includes: a genetic programming execution unit which reconfigures the control logic using genetic programming techniques executed in accordance with a predefined set of genetic programming rules. 13. The network of claim 1, wherein the processor replaces the control logic of the robot with the new control logic. 14. A method for reconfiguring a network of robots, each robot performing an assigned task according to a control logic, the method comprising the steps of: wirelessly transmitting performance data indicating a fitness level of each robot associated with the assigned task; selecting a subset of the robots based on the performance data transmitted by each robot; wirelessly transmitting the control logic of the selected subset of robots to other robots of the network while the other robots of the network continue to operate; and reconfiguring the control logic of each robot receiving the control logic by producing a new control logic based on the received control logic. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the step of transmitting performance data further includes the substep of: transmitting position data defining the position of the robot. 16. The method of claim 14, further including the step of: detecting environmental data from the environment of the robot. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the step of transmitting performance data further includes the substep of: transmitting performance data corresponding to a signal strength of the detected environmental data. 18. The method of claim 16, wherein the step of transmitting performance data further includes the substep of: transmitting performance data corresponding to the environmental data detected at a first time relative to the environmental data detected at a second time. 19. The method of claim 16, wherein the control logic is a motion control logic that defines a motion of the robot in response to the detected environmental data. 20. The method of claim 16, wherein the control logic is a signal processing control logic that processes the detected environmental data. 21. The method of claim 14, wherein the network further includes a network command center, and wherein the step of transmitting performance data further includes the substep of: transmitting the performance data to the network command center. 22. The method of claim 14, wherein the step of transmitting performance data further includes the substep of: transmitting the performance data to each of the other robots of the network. 23. The method of claim 14, wherein the step of transmitting performance data further includes the substep of: transmitting the performance data every preset period of time. 24. The method of claim 23, wherein the reconfiguring step further includes the substep of: reconfiguring the control logic during each preset period of time. 25. The method of claim 14, wherein the reconfiguring step further includes the substep of: reconfiguring the control logic using genetic programming techniques executed in accordance with a predefined set of genetic programming rules. 26. The method of claim 14, wherein the reconfiguring step further includes the substep of: replacing the control logic of the robot with the new control logic. 27. A robot performing an assigned task according to a first control logic, the robot comprising: a wireless transmitter which transmits performance data indicating a fitness level of the robot associated with the assigned task; a wireless receiver which receives a second control logic determined based on the performance data transmitted by the robot while the robot continues to operate; and a processor which reconfigures the first control logic of the robot by producing an reconfigured control logic based on the received second control logic. 28. The network of claim 8, wherein the network further includes: an airborne control unit forwarding data between the network command center and the robots of the network. 29. The method of claim 21, wherein an airborne control unit forwards data between the network command center and the robots of the network. 