A method and system for managing a multi-volume data set request in an automated storage library. The library includes automatic means for prioritizing and selecting the optimum peripheral data storage device (PDSD) for mounting a data volume belonging to the requested multi-volume data set. The optimum PDSD is that one PDSD having the closest proximity to all volumes of a multi-volume data set. The automatic means include means for determining the location of each data volume in the requested multi-volume set and means for comparing the location of each volume to the location of peripheral data storage devices. The library system employs a weighted score based on the proximity of each PDSD to each volume in a multi-volume data set to prioritize and select the optimum PDSD when a multi-volume data set is requested. Each PDSD subsystem may include one or more PDSDs.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for allocating a peripheral data storage device (PDSD) when a collection of data volumes, defining a multi-volume data set, is requested in an automated storage library having a plurality of data volumes and a plurality of PDSDs, the method comprising: assigning weighted scores to said PDSDs based on their physical proximity to data volumes of said collection of data volumes; and selecting a PDSD having a weighted score indicating closest proximity to said data volumes. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein assigning includes determining a physical proximity of an available PDSD with a data volume by comparing a location of said data volume and a location of said available PDSD. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein selecting includes selecting said PDSD from a list of eligible PDSDs ordered according to said weighted scores, said ordered list including available PDSDs. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein said PDSD is first in said ordered list. 5. The method of claim 1 where said PDSD is a tape drive. 6. The method of claim 1 where said PDSD is a disk drive. 7. An automated storage library, comprising: a plurality of storage bins, each storage bin for storing a data storage medium, each data storage medium including at least one data volume; a plurality of peripheral data storage devices (PDSDs), each PDSD capable of having a data volume mounted therein; a picker for transferring a data storage medium between any PDSD and any storage bin; and machine executed means coupled for issuing commands to the picker to move a plurality of requested data volumes contained on said storage mediums from said storage bins to a selected PDSD of said PDSDs for mounting therein, where the requested data volumes belong to a multi-volume data set; the machine executed means including means for determining said PDSD by: assigning a weighted score to each said PDSD representing its physical proximity to each said requested data volume; and determining said selected PDSD as a PDSD having a weighted score indicating closet proximity to each said requested data volume. 8. The automated storage library of claim 7, wherein the machine-executed means for determining said selected PDSD includes means for determining a physical proximity of each PDSD with each requested data volume by comparing a location of each said requested data volume and a location of each available PDSD. 9. The automated storage library of claim 8, wherein the machine-executed means for determining said selected PDSD includes means for producing a list of eligible PDSDs ordered according to said weighted score, said ordered list including each available PDSD. 10. The automated storage library of claim 8, wherein said selected PDSD having the highest weighted score is first in said ordered list thereby indicating closest proximity of all available PDSDs to each requested data volume. 11. The automated storage library of claim 6, wherein said PDSD is a tape drive. 12. The automated storage library of claim 6, wherein said PDSD is a disk drive. 13. The library manager device of claim 12, including means for producing an ordered list of eligible PDSDs according to said assigned weighted score, said ordered list including each available PDSD. 14. The library manager device of claim 12, wherein a PDSD having the highest weighted score is first in said ordered list thereby indicating closest proximity of said PDSD to each said data volume. 15. The library manager device of claim 12, wherein said PDSD is a tape drive. 16. The library manager device of claim 12 wherein said PDSD is a disk drive. 17. A library manager device for allocating a peripheral data storage device (PDSD) from a plurality of PDSDs when data volumes, defining a multi-volume data set, are requested in an automated storage library, comprising: discriminator means for determining physical proximity of a PDSD to each data volume in said multi-volume data set by comparing a location of each said data volume and each available PDSD; means for assigning a weighted score to each said PDSD representing its physical proximity to each said data volume; and selection means for selecting a PDSD having a weighted score indicating having a closest proximity to each said data volume. 