A method and system for automatically filing the narrow gap between facing end walls of adjacent first and second railway rails by depositing vertically spaced layers of molten metal in the gap with an electric arc welding torch using a robotic mechanism that moves the torch in a pattern controlled by a low level robotic execute program from a spatial position to a next spatial position, said method and system comprising: constructing a data array for a specific gap, said array constituting a series of positions making up an idealized progression of said torch to fill said gaps in vertically spaced layers made up of multiple positions, each of said fixed positions identified by at least four coordinates, including (1) at least x, y and z, (2) the layer in which said position is a part and (3) the welding parameters to be executed while said torch moves toward the next position; outputting data relating to a specific position from said data array; processing said welding parameters associated with said outputted data using said robotic execute program; then, outputting the new fixed data relating to the next position in said series of points; processing said welding parameters associated with said new data using said robotic execute program; and, repeating said outputting and processing acts until said positions in said data array relating to a specific layer have been processed. Thereafter the method or system repeats the layer or processes the next layer comprising multiple stored positions.
Claims Having thus defined the invention, the following is claimed: 1. A method for automatically filing the narrow gap between facing end walls of adjacent first and second railway rails by depositing vertically spaced layers of molten metal in said gap with an electric arc welding torch using a robotic mechanism that moves said torch in a pattern controlled by a low level robotic execute program from a spatial position to a next spatial position, said method comprising: (a) constructing a data array for a specific gap, said array constituting a series of positions making up an idealized progression of said torch to fill said gaps in vertically spaced layers made up of multiple positions, each of said fixed positions identified by at least four coordinates, including (1) at least x, y and z, (2) the layer in which said position is a part and (3) the welding parameters to be executed while said torch moves toward the next position; (b) outputting data relating to a specific position from said data array; (c) processing said welding parameters associated with said outputted data using said robotic execute program; (d) then, outputting the new fixed data relating to the next position in said series of points; (e) processing said welding parameters associated with said new data using said robotic execute program; and, (f) repeating said outputting and processing acts until said positions in said data array relating to a specific layer have been processed. 2. A method as defined in claim 1 further including: (g) sensing the actual z coordinate of said torch before said processing; (h) modifying said z coordinate of said outputted data by said sensed z position; and, (i) then processing said welding parameters with said modified z coordinate. 3. The method as defined in claim 2 wherein said modifying replaces said z coordinate of said data array with said sensed actual z coordinate. 4. The method as defined in claim 3 wherein said sensing is accomplished by a KAREL program. 5. A method as defined in claim 4 further including: (j) recording the spatial location of a first point on the end wall of said first rail; (k) recording the spatial location of a second point on the end wall of said first rail; (l) recording the spatial location of a third point on the end wall of said first rail; (m) calculating a first reference plane using said first, second and third points on said first rail; (n) recording the spatial location of a first point on the end wall of said second rail; (o) recording the spatial location of a second point on the end wall of said second rail; (p) recording the spatial location of a third point on the end wall of said second rail; (q) calculating a second reference plane using said first, second and third points on said second rail; and, (r) using one of said planes as the reference of said coordinates during said processing of the data associated with said positions. 6. A method as defined in claim 3 further including: (j) recording the spatial location of a first point on the end wall of said first rail; (k) recording the spatial location of a second point on the end wall of said first rail; (l) recording the spatial location of a third point on the end wall of said first rail; (m) calculating a first reference plane using said first, second and third points on said first rail; (n) recording the spatial location of a first point on the end wall of said second rail; (o) recording the spatial location of a second point on the end wall of said second rail; (p) recording the spatial location of a third point on the end wall of said second rail; (q) calculating a second reference plane using said first, second and third points on said second rail; and, (r) using one of said planes as the reference of said coordinates during said processing of the data associated with said positions. 7. The method as defined in claim 2 wherein said sensing is accomplished by a KAREL program. 8. A method as defined in claim 7 further including: (j) recording the spatial location of a first point on the end wall of said first rail; (k) recording the spatial location of a second point on the end wall of said first rail; (l) recording the spatial location of a third point on the end wall of said first rail; (m) calculating a first reference plane using said first, second and third points on said first rail; (n) recording the spatial location of a first point on the end wall of said second rail; (o) recording the spatial location of a second point on the end wall of said second rail; (p) recording the spatial location of a third point on the end wall of said second rail; (q) calculating a second reference plane using said first, second and third points on said second rail; and, (r) using one of said planes as the reference of said coordinates during said processing of the data associated with said positions. 9. A method as defined in claim 2 further including: (j) sensing the actual z coordinate of said torch after said processing act at the end of the series of points constituting a specific layer; (k) comparing said actual z coordinate with a value representative of the layer height of said specific layer if said specific layer can be repeated; and, (l) repeating the processing of the positions constituting said specific layer if said comparison indicates that the actual z coordinate is lower than the desired height of said specific layer. 10. The method as defined in claim 9 wherein said sensing is accomplished by a KAREL program. 11. A method as defined in claim 10 further including: (m) recording the spatial location of a first point on the end wall of said first rail; (n) recording the spatial location of a second point on the end wall of said first rail; (o) recording the spatial location of a third point on the end wall of said first rail; (p) calculating a first reference plane using said first, second and third points on said first rail; (q) recording the spatial location of a first point on the end wall of said second rail; (r) recording the spatial location of a second point on the end wall of said second rail; (s) recording the spatial location of a third point on the end wall of said second rail; (t) calculating a second reference plane using said first, second and third points on said second rail; and, (u) using one of said planes as the reference of said coordinates during said processing of the data associated with said positions. 12. A method as defined in claim 9 further including: (m) recording the spatial location of a first point on the end wall of said first rail; (n) recording the spatial location of a second point on the end wall of said first rail; (o) recording the spatial location of a third point on the end wall of said first rail; (p) calculating a first reference plane using said first, second and third points on said first rail; (q) recording the spatial location of a first point on the end wall of said second rail; (r) recording the spatial location of a second point on the end wall of said second rail; (s) recording the spatial location of a third point on the end wall of said second rail; (t) calculating a second reference plane using said first, second and third points on said second rail; and, (u) using one of said planes as the reference of said coordinates during said processing of the data associated with said positions. 13. A method as defined in claim 2 further including: (j) recording the spatial location of a first point on the end wall of said first rail; (k) recording the spatial location of a second point on the end wall of said first rail; (l) recording the spatial location of a third point on the end wall of said first rail; (m) calculating a first reference plane using said first, second and third points on said first rail; (n) recording the spatial location of a first point on the end wall of said second rail; (o) recording the spatial location of a second point on the end wall of said second rail; (p) recording the spatial location of a third point on the end wall of said second rail; (q) calculating a second reference plane using said first, second and third points on said second rail; and, (r) using one of said planes as the reference of said coordinates during said processing of the data associated with said positions. 14. A method as defined in claim 1 further including: (g) sensing the actual z coordinate of said torch after said processing act at the end of the series of points constituting a specific layer; (h) comparing said actual z coordinate with a value representative of the layer height of said specific layer if said specific layer can be repeated; and, (i) repeating the processing of the positions constituting said specific layer if said comparison indicates that the actual z coordinate is lower than the desired height of said specific layer. 15. The method as defined in claim 14 wherein said sensing is accomplished by a KAREL program. 16. A method as defined in claim 15 further including: (j) recording the spatial location of a first point on the end wall of said first rail; (k) recording the spatial location of a second point on the end wall of said first rail; (l) recording the spatial location of a third point on the end wall of said first rail; (m) calculating a first reference plane using said first, second and third points on said first rail; (n) recording the spatial location of a first point on the end wall of said second rail; (o) recording the spatial location of a second point on the end wall of said second rail; (p) recording the spatial location of a third point on the end wall of said second rail; (q) calculating a second reference plane using said first, second and third points on said second rail; and, (r) using one of said planes as the reference of said coordinates during said processing of the data associated with said positions. 17. A method as defined in claim 14 further including: (j) recording the spatial location first point on the end wall of said first rail; (k) recording the spatial location of a second point on the end wall of said first rail; (l) recording the spatial location of a third point on the end wall of said first rail; (m) calculating a first reference plane using said first, second and third points on said first rail; (n) recording the spatial location of a first point on the end wall of said second rail; (o) recording the spatial location of a second point on the end wall of said second rail; (p) recording the spatial location of a third point on the end wall of said second rail; (q) calculating a second reference plane using said first, second and third points on said second rail; and, (r) using one of said planes as the reference of said coordinates during said processing of the data associated with said positions. 18. A method as defined in claim 1 including the acts of: (g) recording the spatial location of a first point on the end wall of said first rail; (h) recording the spatial location of a second point on the end wall of said first rail; (i) recording the spatial location of a third point on the end wall of said first rail; (j) calculating a first reference plane using said first, second and third points on said first rail; (k) recording the spatial location of a first point on the end wall of said second rail; (l) recording the spatial location of a second point on the end wall of said second rail; (m) recording the spatial location of a third point on the end wall of said second rail; (n) calculating a second reference plane using said first, second and third points on said second rail; and, (o) using one of said planes as the reference of said coordinates during said processing of the data associated with said positions. 19. A method for automatically filling the narrow gap between facing end walls of adjacent first and second railway rails by depositing vertically spaced layers of molten metal in said gap with an electric arc welding torch using a robotic mechanism that moves said torch in a path in said gap in a pattern controlled by a low level robotic executive program from a spatial position to a next spatial position, said method comprising: (a) providing a master data array for an ideal gap configuration, said master data array constituting a series of positions making up an idealized progression of said torch to fill said ideal gap in a number of vertically spaced layers made up of multiple positions, each of said positions identified by (1) at least four coordinates, (2) the layer in which the torch position is a part and (3) the welding parameters to be executed until the torch reaches the next fixed position; (b) outputting said series of positions from said data array for causing movement of said torch from position to position to perform said welding parameters; (c) constructing a first reference plane by sensing points on the end wall of said first rail; (d) constructing a second reference plane by sensing points on the end wall of said second rail; (e) using said first and second reference planes to construct a representation of the actual gap being filled; (f) modifying the outputted positions form said data array for use in controlling movement of said torch based upon deviation of said actual gap from said ideal gap. 20. The method as defined in claim 19 wherein said causing is by a robotic program and said modifying is by a background program. 21. The method as defined in claim 20 wherein said background program is a KAREL program. 22. A method as defined in claim 21 further including: (g) sensing the actual z coordinate of said torch; (h) after movement of said torch to the last position in a specific layer, determining if the layer can be repeated, and if so determining if said torch is at a z coordinate indicative of proper completion of a layer; (i) if said determination is negative, repeating processing the positions constituting said specific layer. 23. The method as defined in claim 22 wherein said sensing is accomplished by a KAREL program. 24. The method as defined in claim 23 wherein said sensing is accomplished by a KAREL program. 25. A system for automatically filling the narrow gap between facing end walls of adjacent first and second railway rails by depositing vertically spaced layers of molten metal in said gap with an electric arc welding torch using a robotic mechanism that moves said torch in a path in said gap in a patter controlled by a low level robotic executive program from a spatial position to a next spatial position, said system comprising a master data array for an ideal gap configuration, said master data array constituting a series of positions making up an idealized progression of said torch to fill said ideal gap in a number of vertically spaced layers made up of multiple positions, each of said positions identified by at least (1) four coordinates, (2) the layer in which the torch position is a part and (3) the welding parameters to be executed until the torch reaches the next fixed position; a computer for outputting said series of positions from said data array for use by said robotic mechanism to cause movement of said torch from position to position to perform said welding parameters; a program for constructing a first reference plane by sensing points on the end wall of said first rail and a second reference plane by sensing points on the end wall of said second rail; a basic background program using said first and second reference planes to construct a representation of the actual gap being filled; a background program modifying the outputted positions form said data array for use in controlling movement of said torch based upon deviation of said actual gap from said ideal gap. 26. A system as defined in claim 25 wherein a stylus carried by said torch is used to sense said points prior to using said robotic mechanism for filling said gap. 27. A system as defined in claim 26 including means for sensing the actual z coordinate of said torch; means for determining if said torch is at a z coordinate indicative of completion of a specific layer; means for repeating movement determined by the positions constituting said specific layer if the sensed z coordinate indicates that said specific layer is not completed. 28. A system as defined in claim 25 including means for sensing the actual z coordinate of said torch; means for determining if said torch is at a z coordinate indicative of completion of a specific layer; means for repeating movement determined by the position constituting said specific layer if the sensed z coordinate indicates that said specific layer is not completed. 