A method and apparatus for dispensing multi-component foamable fluid plastic materials such as polyurethane foams. The apparatus includes a mixing chamber defined by an axial passage in a support body structure. The mixing chamber receives reactant fluids for mixing then allows the fluids to exit through an opening at one end of the axial passage. Two fluid inlet openings in a wall of the axial passage admit reactant fluid into the mixing chamber. Two mixing chamber fluid inlets formed in the support body structure communicate reactant fluid sources with the mixing chamber through the inlet openings. When retracted, a valve needle in the axial passage exposes the inlet openings to admit reactant fluids into the mixing chamber. When advanced, the needle closes off the inlet openings and pushes the mixed fluids from the mixing chamber. The valve needle includes three parallel helical grooves that help purge the mixing chamber of unreacted and reacted fluids. The grooves are arranged so that none of them can provide a fluid path between inlet openings when the needle is not retracted. Another embodiment of the apparatus includes three fluid inlet openings arranged to prevent reactant fluids from crossing over to opposing inlet openings. The method includes pre-filling the grooves before assembling the apparatus rather than allowing them to fill with foamable material during use.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for mixing and applying a foamable resin, the method including the steps of: providing a support body structure and a mixing chamber supported in the support body structure, the mixing chamber configured to receive reactant fluids for mixing through fluid inlet openings, the mixing chamber defined by an axial passage disposed generally transverse to the inlet openings and configured to allow reactant fluids to exit the mixing chamber through an opening at an axial outer end of the axial passage; providing an elongated valve needle having at least one helical groove; supporting the valve needle in the mixing chamber for reciprocal longitudinal movement between a forward closed and a rearward open position, the valve needle configured to expose the inlet openings when retracted to the rearward open position to permit the reactant fluids to flow into the mixing chamber from the respective inlet openings and impingement mix therein, and close off the inlet openings and dispense the mixed fluids from the mixing chamber through the axial passage while being advanced to the forward closed position, the helical groove in the needle configured to aid in purging the mixing chamber of unreacted and reacted fluid; and pre-filling the grooves with a suitable material before supporting the valve needle in the mixing chamber. 2. The method of claim 1 in which the step of pre-filling the grooves with a suitable material includes prefilling the grooves with a one-part heat cure epoxy. 3. An apparatus for dispensing and applying multi-component foamable fluid plastic materials such as polyurethane foams; the apparatus comprising: a support body structure; a mixing chamber defined by an axial passage in the support body structure and configured to receive reactant fluids for mixing and to allow the mixed reactant fluids to exit through an opening at an axial outer end of the axial passage; two generally transverse fluid inlet openings formed in a wall of the axial passage and configured to admit reactant fluid into the mixing chamber; two mixing chamber fluid inlets formed in the support body structure and configured to provide fluid communication between reactant fluid sources and the mixing chamber through the respective inlet openings; and an elongated valve needle supported in the axial passage for reciprocal longitudinal movement between forward closed and a rearward open positions, the valve needle configured to expose the inlet openings when retracted to the rearward open position to permit the reactant fluids to flow into the mixing chamber from the respective inlet openings and impingement mix therein, and to close off the inlet openings and dispense the mixed fluids from the mixing chamber through opening at the outer end of the axial passage while being advanced to the forward closed position, the valve needle including a first helical groove configured to purge the mixing chamber of unreacted and reacted fluids; the valve needle including second and third helical grooves disposed generally parallel to the first helical groove in a triple-start helix configuration to reduce metal-to-metal surface area contact between the rod and the mixing chamber and to provide increased scraping action along inner walls of the mixing chamber and the faces of the inlet openings. 4. An apparatus as defined in claim 3 in which the grooves are configured such that no single groove can provide substantial fluid communication between the mixing chamber inlet openings while the needle is out of the open position. 5. An apparatus for dispensing and applying multi-component foamable fluid plastic materials such as polyurethane foams; the apparatus comprising: a support body structure; a mixing chamber defined by an axial passage in the support body structure and configured to receive reactant fluids for mixing and to allow the mixed reactant fluids to exit through an opening at an axial outer end of the axial passage; two generally transverse fluid inlet openings formed in a wall of the axial passage and configured to admit reactant fluid into the mixing chamber; two mixing chamber fluid inlets formed in the support body structure and is configured to provide fluid communication between reactant fluid sources and the axial passage and to admit reactant fluid into the mixing chamber; two mixing chamber fluid inlets formed in the support body structure and configured to provide fluid communication between reactant fluid sources and the mixing chamber through an opening at the outer end of the axial passage while being advanced to the forward closed position, the valve needle including a first helical groove configured to purge the mixing chamber of unreacted and reacted fluids; and a third generally transverse fluid inlet opening formed in the wall of the axial passage and configured to admit reactant fluid into the mixing chamber, the three fluid inlet openings angled to direct the reactant fluids toward each other in three reactant fluid streams such that the three streams generally impinge upon one another at a common impingement point within the mixing chamber to eliminate crossovers of reactant fluid from one inlet opening to another. 6. An apparatus as defined in claim 5 in which the three fluid inlet openings are positioned and angled to direct the reactant fluids toward each other at a radially-directed aspect angle selected to provide a better mix by balancing stream forces that the reactant fluid streams exert upon one another at the common impingement point. 7. An apparatus as defined in claim 5 in which the mixing chamber is defined by a mix sleeve supported in a sleeve receptacle in the support body structure, the fluid inlet openings being disposed in a wall of the sleeve. 8. An apparatus as defined in claim 7 in which: the support body structure comprises a ported block that defines the sleeve receptacle; the sleeve receptacle comprises a longitudinal bore of the ported block; and the ported block includes fluid channels configured to deliver reactant fluid to the fluid inlet openings. 9. An apparatus as defined in claim 5 in which one of the fluid inlets is configured to direct reactant fluid into the mixing chamber through two of the three fluid inlet openings. 10. An apparatus as defined in claim 9 in which: the fluid inlet that directs reactant fluid through two of the inlet openings is a prepolymer inlet configured to direct prepolymer through those two inlet openings; and the fluid inlet that directs reactant fluid through the remaining inlet opening is a curative inlet configured to direct curative through the remaining inlet opening. 11. An apparatus as defined in claim 10 in which: the apparatus is configured to produce 24:1 ratio low MDI foam; the prepolymer inlet openings are angled to direct two prepolymer streams into the mixing chamber at an approximate 165.degree. radially-directed aspect angle to one another; and the curative inlet opening is positioned to direct a curative stream into the mixing chamber at an approximate 97.5.degree. radially directed aspect angle to each of the prepolymer inlet openings. 