A data processing device is used with peripheral devices having addressees and differing communication response periods. The data processing device includes a digital processor adapted for selecting different ones of the peripheral devices by asserting addresses of each selected peripheral device. Addressable programmable registers hold wait state values representative of distinct numbers of wait states corresponding to different address ranges. Circuitry responsive to an asserted address to the peripheral devices asserted by the digital processor generates the number of wait states represented by the value held in one of the addressable programmable registers corresponding to the one of the address ranges in which the asserted address occurs, thereby accommodating the differing communication response periods of the peripheral devices.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A digital signal processor comprising: A. a first data bus carrying first data signals; B. a first address bus carrying first address signals indicating the address of the first data signals in a first address space; C. a second data bus separate from the first data bus and carrying second data signals; D. a second address bus separate from the first address bus and carrying second address signals indicating the address of the second data signals in a second address space; E. arithmetic and logic circuitry coupled to the first and second data buses, the arithmetic and logic circuitry including multiplier circuitry coupled to an input of an arithmetic and logic unit and an accumulator coupled to an output of the arithmetic and logic unit; and F. a memory wait state register coupled to the first data bus and the first address bus, the wait state register having plural portions. 2. The processor of claim 1 in which the first address space is segmented into plural portions and a portion of the memory wait state register corresponds to a segment in the first address space. 3. The processor of claim 1 in which the memory wait state register has at least four portions. 4. The processor of claim 1 in which each portion of the memory wait state register contains four bits of information. 5. The processor of claim 1 in which the first data bus is a data bus and the second data bus is an instruction bus. 6. The processor of claim 1 in which each portion of the memory wait state register contains at least three bits of information. 7. The processor of claim 1 in which the memory wait state register is connected to the first data bus to receive wait state data signals from the first data bus. 8. The processor of claim 1 in which the memory wait state register has 16 portions. 