A group of bolts are suppled into a placing surface of a tray, an isolated bolt is searched for by a visual sensor, and its deviation from a standard position at the time of teaching is determined. The isolated bolt is picked up by a robot that has been taught how to pick up an isolated bolt laying in a standard position. The position of the robot's hand is corrected according to the deviation from the standard position before the robot attempts to pick up the located isolated bolt. If no isolated bolt is found, a shaking device 1 is operated to loosen the piled-up bolts, and a new isolated bolt is again searched for by the visual sensor. The isolated bolt, if found, is picked up. The picking-up operation may be performed by searching for an isolated small set of bolts using a three-dimensional visual sensor. The oscillating excitation can also be provided by a robot. Also, the piled-up bolts may be loosened or disentangled using a robot equipped with a tool for leveling the pile of bolts or by using a gas jet.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic apparatus for picking up objects placed in a pile on a surface, comprising: dispersing means for dispersing the objects placed in a pile to provide isolated objects and isolated groups of piled objects, each one of the isolated groups of piled objects having a top object; a visual sensor searching the objects on the surface to find each one of the isolated objects and each one of the isolated groups of piled objects, and obtaining position data for each isolated object found and each isolated group of piled objects found; and a robot grasping and picking up each isolated object found and the top object of each isolated group of piled objects. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said visual sensor is a two-dimensional visual sensor. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein each isolated group of piled objects is determined according to a surface area occupied by the isolated group on the surface and a height of the pile of objects in the group. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said visual sensor is a three-dimensional visual sensor. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein each isolated group of piled objects is determined according to a surface area occupied by the isolated group on the surface and a height of the pile of objects in the group. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein each isolated group of piled objects is determined according to a surface area occupied by the isolated group on the surface and a height of the pile of objects in the group. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said dispersing means provides an oscillating motion. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said dispersing means is a shaking device oscillating the surface. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said dispersing means is said robot oscillating the surface. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said dispersing means is said robot contacting the objects piled on the surface with a leveling member. 11. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said dispersing means disperses the objects piled on the surface using a gas injecting device with a gas jet. 12. A robotic apparatus for picking up objects placed in a pile on a surface, comprising: dispersing means for dispersing the objects placed in a pile to provide isolated objects and isolated groups of piled objects, each one of the isolated groups of piled objects having a top object; a visual sensor searching the objects on the surface to find each one of the isolated groups of piled objects, and obtaining position data for each isolated group of piled objects found; and a robot grasping and picking up the top object of each isolated group of piled objects. 13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein said visual sensor searches the objects on the surface to find each isolated object and obtains position data for each isolated object, and said robot grasps and picks up each isolated object using the position data. 14. A method for picking up objects placed in a pile on a surface, comprising: dispersing the objects placed in a pile to provide isolated objects and isolated groups of piled objects, each one of the isolated groups of piled objects having a top object; searching the objects on the surface by a visual sensor to find each one of the isolated groups of piled objects, and obtaining position data for each isolated group of piled objects found; and picking up, by a robot, the top object of each isolated group of piled objects. 15. The method of claim 14, further comprising: searching the objects on the surface for isolated objects and obtaining position data for each isolated object; and picking up each isolated object using the position data. 