A process for preweakening the inside of an automotive trim piece cover layer of various constructions by use of a laser beam so as to enable formation of an air bag deployment opening in the trim piece formed at the time the air bag deploys. The laser beam impinges the inside surface of the cover to form a groove scoring or spaced perforations to form a preweakening pattern. A robot arm may be used to move a laser generator so as to form the preweakening pattern. The laser beam can be controlled in accordance with sensed conditions to achieve accurate preweakening, and may also be used to trim substrate panels and to perform other cutting operations.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A process for constructing a preweakened automotive interior trim piece covering an air bag installation at a particular location, said preweakening applied in a pattern enabling formation of an air bag deployment opening in said trim piece, said opening formed by pressure exerted by deployment of an air bag from said air bag installation, said trim piece having an inside surface and an outer visible surface extending smoothly and uninterruptedly across said preweakening at said particular location, said preweakening accomplished by directing a CO.sub.2 laser beam generator onto said inside surface of said trim piece to preweaken said trim piece by scoring said trim piece along a predetermined pattern and controlling said preweakening effect of said laser beam to remove material by said laser to an extent forming a preweakening having a stepped depth configuration along said predetermined pattern in a region of said trim piece near said outer surface of said trim piece without completely penetrating said outer surface. 2. The process according to claim 1 wherein said stepped depth preweakening in said trim piece is produced by intermittent operation of said laser beam generator. 3. The process according to claim 1 wherein said trim piece includes a substrate layer with an overlying covering layer, and wherein in said step of controlling said preweakening effect of said laser, a continuous groove completely penetrating said substrate layer is formed in said predetermined pattern. 4. The process according to claim 3 wherein said trim piece further includes a foam layer between said covering layer and said substrate layer. 5. The process according to claim 1 wherein the intensity of said laser beam is varied and the laser beam and trim piece are relatively moved at a controlled rate to create a predetermined depth and width of said stepped depth preweakening. 6. The process according to claim 1 wherein said laser is pulsed during said laser scoring step. 7. The process according to claim 1 further including the steps of sensing the remaining thickness of said trim piece along preweakening pattern locations and adjusting said preweakening effect accordingly to leave a predetermined thickness of said trim piece material at each point above said stepped depth preweakening. 8. The process according to claim 1 further including the steps of sensing thickness of said trim piece along preweakening pattern locations and adjusting said laser beam preweakening effect accordingly to produce a predetermined depth of preweakening. 9. The process according to claim 8 further including the step of measuring the preweakening depth after removing material to confirm that a predetermined depth of said stepped preweakening has been achieved. 10. The process according to claim 8 further including the step of measuring the depth of preweakening after removal of material by said laser beam to confirm that a predetermined thickness of material above said stepped depth preweakening remains. 11. The process according to claim 1 further including the step of mounting said laser beam generator to a robot arm to direct a laser beam from said laser beam generator at said trim piece to carry out said material removal thereof. 12. The process according to claim 11 further including the step of mounting a gauging device on said robot arm to measure trim piece thickness variance prior to preweakening said trim piece. 13. The process according to claim 11 further including the step of mounting a gauging device on said robot arm to measure the thickness of remaining material during preweakening of said trim piece. 14. A process for constructing a preweakened automotive interior trim piece, said preweakening extending in a deployment door pattern enabling formation of an air bag deployment opening in said trim piece at a particular location overlying said airbag, by pressure exerted by a deploying air bag mounted behind an inside surface of said trim piece at said particular location, said trim piece having an outer visible surface extending smoothly and uninterruptedly across said preweakening deployment door pattern, said preweakening applied by directing a laser beam at said inside surface of said trim piece and controlling a material removal effect of said laser beam to partially score said trim piece along a predetermined pattern overlying said airbag, said partial scoring step including the step of controlling said laser beam so as to form a continuous groove along said predetermined pattern extending into said inside surface of said trim piece, and further including forming perforations extending partially into said trim piece from the inside side of said continuous groove but not completely penetrating said outer visible surface of said trim piece, said perforations forming a stepped depth in said continuous groove. 15. The process according to claim 14 wherein the laser is pulsed during directing of said laser beam along said predetermined pattern. 16. The process according to claim 14 wherein said laser is a CO2 laser. 17. Apparatus for prescoring into an inner side of an automotive interior trim piece having a continuous outer surface comprising: a laser beam generator of sufficient power to partially weaken said interior trim piece; means for supporting said trim piece and relatively moving said supported trim piece and said laser beam generator to score a pattern in said interior trim piece with a laser beam to allow formation of an air bag deployment door therein by a deploying air bag; and control means including sensor means sensing the extent of said scoring of said trim piece during the scoring of said pattern into said inner side of said interior trim piece, and means controlling said laser beam generator in response to said sensor means to produce only a predetermined level of preweakening of said interior trim piece by said laser beam at points along said scoring pattern by forming a preweakening extending into said inner side of said trim piece, said preweakening not completely penetrating said trim piece and having a continuous portion adjacent said inner side of said trim piece, but a stepped depth bottom portion lying just below said continuous outer surface. 18. The apparatus according to claim 17 wherein said relative motion between said trim piece and said laser beam generator is provided by a robot. 19. The apparatus according to claim 17 wherein said relative motion between said trim piece and said laser beam generator is provided by an X-Y positioning device. 20. A process for constructing a preweakened automotive interior trim piece covering an air bag installation, said preweakening extending in a pattern enabling formation of an air bag deployment opening in said trim piece, by pressure exerted by a deploying air bag mounted on the inside of said trim piece at a particular location, said trim piece having a plurality of layers including an outer layer and an inner layer, said outer layer having an outer visible surface extending smoothly and uninterruptedly across said preweakening at said particular location, said preweakening accomplished by directing a CO.sub.2 laser beam onto an inside surface of said inner layer of said trim piece while relatively moving said trim piece to preweaken said trim piece by removing material in a predetermined pattern, but without completely penetrating the outer layer of the said trim piece, said outer layer having material removed by said laser beam to have a stepped bottom configuration lying along said predetermined pattern. 21. The process according to claim 20 wherein said laser beam completely penetrates said inner layer to form a continuous groove extending into said inside surface of said inner layer. 22. The process according to claim 20 wherein said trim piece has a substrate layer comprising said inner layer, a foam layer extending over said substrate layer, and a covering layer extending over said foam layer, said covering layer comprising said outer layer. 23. The process according to claim 20 wherein the step of relatively moving said trim piece is carried out by a robot. 24. The process according to claim 20 wherein the step of relatively moving said trim piece is carried out by an x-y table. 25. The process according to claim 20 wherein said stepped depth configuration forms partial perforations in an inside surface of said outer layer. 