The loader device is made of a thermostructural composite material and comprises a base (20), a loading pole (30) secured to the base and extending at least over the full height of the loader device, and a plurality of loading trays (40) each provided with a central passage through which the loading pole can pass. Each loading tray carries a plurality of spacers (50) enabling the trays to be mounted in succession at predetermined intervals, each tray carrying the same number of spacers which are in alignment so that after the trays have been assembled the spacers make up load-carrying columns extending over the height of the loader device, and at least one of the spacers carried by each tray has a disposition and/or a size that differs from the other spacers carried by the same tray so as to enable the trays to be indexed during assembly. Each tray (40) has means (45) for positioning parts at predetermined locations.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A loader device for supporting parts to be subjected to heat treatment in a furnace, said device being made of thermostructural composite material and comprising a plurality of trays spaced apart from one another by means of spacers, the device being characterized in that it comprises: a base; a loading pole secured to the base, projecting from the central portion of the base and extending over at least the full height of the loader device; a plurality of loading trays each provided with a central passage for passing the loading pole; and each loading tray carrying a plurality of spacers enabling successive trays to be assembled at predetermined intervals, each tray carrying the same number of spacers, with the spacers being aligned so that, once the trays have been assembled, the spacers make up load-carrying columns extending up the height of the loader device, and at least one of the spacers carried by each tray having a disposition and/or a size that is different from the other spacers carried by the same tray so as to enable the trays to be indexed while they are being assembled. 2. A device according to claim 1, characterized in that each tray has spacer-receiving means (50) suitable for receiving the ends of the spacers carried by a tray situated beneath it. 3. A device according to claim 1, characterized in that each tray has part-positioning means (45; 50) for positioning parts in predetermined locations. 4. A device according to claim 3, characterized in that the loader device has first trays on which the part-positioning means occupy first positions relative to the spacers, and second trays on which the part-positioning means occupy second positions relative to the spacers, which second positions are different from the first positions, and in that the first trays alternate with the second trays so that the part-positioning means are not all in vertical alignment. 5. A device according to claim 4, characterized in that on each tray, the disposition of at least one spacer relative to the axis of the pole is different from that of the other spacers, and at least one spacer is of a size that is different from that of the other spacers so that two identical trays cannot be mounted one immediately above the other and so that the trays can be assembled only in the required angular positions around the axis of the pole. 6. A device according to claim 3, characterized in that the positioning means comprise at least some of the spacers. 7. A device according to claim 1, characterized in that each spacer is secured to the tray that carries it. 8. A device according to claim 7, characterized in that the disposition of at least one spacer on each tray relative to the axis of the pole is different from the disposition of the other spacers, and/or the size thereof is different from that of other spacers so that identical trays can be assembled together only in predetermined angular positions about the axis of the pole. 9. A device according to claim 1, characterized in that the loader device has an odd number of trays. 10. A device according to claim 1, characterized in that the spacers carried by the base and by each tray are situated at the vertices of an irregular polygon. 11. A device according to claim 1, characterized in that each spacer carried by each tray has at its end a portion that is designed to engage in a corresponding housing in a tray above. 12. A device according to claim 11, characterized in that at least one of the spacers carried by each tray presents at its end a portion of small size that is different from the portions of small size at the ends of the other spacers carried by the same tray. 13. A device according to claim 1, characterized in that the spacers extend between two trays having one or more trays located between them, the trays forming a plurality of groups with the trays in each group occupying the same angular position that is different from the angular position of any other group. 14. A device according to claim 1, characterized in that the base constitutes a loading tray. 15. A device according to claim 2, characterized in that: each tray has part-positioning means for positioning parts in predetermined locations; the loader device has first trays on which the part-positioning means occupy first positions relative to the spacers, and second trays on which the part-positioning means occupy second positions relative to the spacers, which second positions are different from the first positions, and in that the first trays alternate with the second trays so that the part-positioning means are not all in vertical alignment; on each tray, the disposition of at least one spacer relative to the axis of the pole is different from that of the other spacers, and at least one spacer is of a size that is different from that of the other spacers so that two identical trays cannot be mounted one immediately above the other and so that the trays can be assembled only in the required angular positions around the axis of the pole. 16. A device according to claim 6, characterized in that each spacer is secured to the tray that carries it; the disposition of at least one spacer on each tray relative to the axis of the pole is different from the disposition of the other spacers, and/or the size thereof is different from that of other spacers so that identical trays can be assembled together only in predetermined angular positions about the axis of the pole; the loader device has an odd number of trays; the spacers carried by the base and by each tray are situated at the vertices of an irregular polygon. 17. A device according to claim 8, characterized in that each spacer carried by each tray has at its end a portion that is designed to engage in a corresponding housing in a tray above; at least one of the spacers carried by each tray presents at its end a portion of small size that is different from the portions of small size at the ends of the other spacers carried by the same tray; the spacers extend between two trays having one or more trays located between them, the trays forming a plurality of groups with the trays in each group occupying the same angular position that is different from the angular position of any other group; and the base constitutes a loading tray. 