Briefly, a preferred embodiment of the present invention includes a wafer carrier buffer for storage of a plurality of carriers containing wafers either waiting to be taken for processing in an adjacent wafer processing system, or waiting to be taken from the buffer following the processing. The buffer has a sliding carrier first input apparatus for taking a carrier from outside the buffer through a buffer input door and into the buffer interior. A buffer controller is included for directing robotic apparatus to take the carrier from the input apparatus and place it on a selected one of a plurality of carrier storage locations, and from a carrier storage location to a first output for delivery of wafers to processing. The robotic apparatus also delivers an empty carrier to a second input apparatus for receiving wafers from the processing area, and for delivery of a carrier with processed wafers to a second sliding output apparatus for removal from the buffer through a buffer output door. The controller is programmed to direct an automatic calibration of all of the carrier storage locations and the input and output positions. The robotic apparatus includes a sensor for detecting the position of a flange on a calibration fixture that is placed by the robot at a carrier storage location. The flange is accurately positioned on the fixture to correspond to a similar flange on each carrier that is used to engage with a tool on the robotic apparatus for moving the carrier. The calibration is preferably done by directing the robotic apparatus to place the calibration fixture at a location in need of calibration and then sensing the precise position of the fixture flange with the sensor apparatus. The controller then calculates the coordinates required to place a carrier accurately in that location. This process is repeated for each carrier storage location and the input and output locations.
Claims It is claimed that: 1. A wafer carrier storage system comprising: a buffer for storing a plurality of wafer carrier, said buffer including (a) a plurality of locations, each location for placement of a carrier; (b) a robotic apparatus for moving a selected carrier from a first location to a second location, said robotic apparatus including (i) a tool apparatus for engagement with a selected carrier; (ii) a sensor apparatus for detecting a precision structure at each said location and outputting a corresponding signal; (c) a controller for directing operation of said robotic apparatus, said controller programmed to perform automatic calibration by directing said robotic apparatus for determining precision location data of each said precision structure at each said location, and for calculating at least one accurate coordinate for use in placement of a carrier on a selected said location. 2. A storage system as recited in claim 1 wherein (a) each said location includes a positioning apparatus for reproduceable location of a wafer carrier at said location; and (b) said precision structure provides an accurately known position relative to said positioning apparatus. 3. A storage system as recited in claim 2 wherein said controller is further programmed to include approximate location data of said positioning apparatus at each said location. 4. A storage system as recited in claim 3 wherein said automatic calibration includes using said approximate location data to direct said robotic apparatus to move said sensor to a selected carrier storage location and perform said detecting. 5. A storage system as recited in claim 4 wherein said calculating further includes calculating said accurate coordinate from said signal, said coordinate for directing said robotic apparatus to move a selected carrier from a first location to a second location. 6. A storage system as recited in claim 2 wherein said precision structure is a moveable calibration fixture including (a) a fixture base dimensioned to correspond to dimensions of a storage carrier base for allowing said fixture to be precisely located on a selected carrier storage location relative to said positioning apparatus; and (b) a fixture flange precisely attached to and positioned from said fixture base to correspond to a position of a corresponding carrier flange positioned in reference to said carrier base. 7. A storage system as recited in claim 2 wherein said precision structure is a separate structure permanently attached to each said location. 8. A storage system as recited in claim 2 wherein said positioning apparatus includes at least two dowel pins. 9. A storage system as recited in claim 8 wherein said precision structure includes said at least two dowel pins. 10. A storage system as recited in claim 1 wherein said sensor is a optical emitter-detector. 11. A storage system as recited in claim 1 wherein said sensor is a touch sensor. 12. A storage system as recited in claim 1 wherein said sensor apparatus detects two coordinates of said precision structure. 13. A storage system as recited claim 1 wherein said sensor apparatus detects three coordinates of said precision structure. 14. A storage system as recited in claim 6 further comprising: (a) a fixture height sensor for detecting when said tool engages said fixture flange for lifting said fixture; and (b) wherein said controller receives a signal from said fixture height sensor and calculates a height of said flange as said fixture is lifted from a rest position. 15. A method of operation of a wafer carrier buffer comprising: (a) first programming a controller with approximate coordinates of each of a plurality of buffer locations, each location having facility for holding a carrier; (b) first directing a robotic arm in proximity to a said location using said approximate coordinates; (c) second directing a sensor associated with said robotic arm to sense a structure associated with said location, said sensor to output a signal indicative of a position of said structure; (d) calculating from said signal, precision coordinates for accurately placing a carrier at said location; (e) repeating steps b, c and d until coordinates for accurately placing a carrier are calculated for all said locations. 16. A method as recited in claim 15 further comprising placing a calibration fixture at said location using said robotic arm, said placing using said approximate coordinates and said placing performed prior to said first directing; wherein said calibration fixture has a flange in a position corresponding to a flange of a carrier; and wherein said flange is said structure. 17. A method as recited in claim 15 further comprising picking up a carrier at a first location and placing said carrier in a second location, wherein said placing includes said controller using said precision coordinates to direct a tool associated with said arm for engaging said carrier. 18. A method as recited in claim 15 wherein said sensor is a optical emitter-detector. 19. A method as recited in claim 15 wherein said sensor is a touch sensor. 20. A method as recited in claim 15 further comprising: (a) detecting when a tool positionable by said arm engages a carrier flange and makes contact with said flange for lifting said carrier; and (b) calculating a height of said flange as said carrier is moved in a vertical direction, said calculating being performed by said controller. 