A robotic library system having a self-discoverable inter-library connectivity capability, and methods of operating the robotic library system are provided. Each library of the multi-library system has a unique identifier with which it is associated. The identifiers are adapted to be readable by identifier readers in adjoining libraries connected by pass through ports. In operation, knowledge of the library identity on each side of the pass through ports can be used to control transfers of the data cartridges among the libraries. Data cartridge transfers between connected libraries may be initiated when just the source library and pass through port are ready, then completed when the destination library becomes ready. Transfer paths spanning several libraries may be discovered by querying adjoining libraries for their identity until all possible paths are discovered. In an alternative method, the data cartridge and the identity of the destination library may be transferred from library to library in a random or predetermined order until the data cartridge reaches the destination library.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic library system containing a plurality of data cartridges, the robotic library system comprising: a plurality of libraries operative to store the plurality of data cartridges; a plurality of ports connecting the plurality of libraries, wherein each port of the plurality of ports is operative to move one at a time at least one data cartridge of the plurality of data cartridges between a respective pair of libraries of the plurality of libraries; a plurality of identifier readers, wherein one identifier reader of the plurality of identifier readers is coupled respectively to each library of the plurality of libraries; and a plurality of identifiers, wherein at least one identifier of the plurality of identifiers is associated respectively with each library of the plurality of libraries, and wherein each identifier is adapted to be read by the respective identifier reader coupled to the other library of the respective pair of libraries. 2. The robotic library system of claim 1 further comprising a plurality of communication channels linking the plurality of libraries, wherein each communication channel is operative to transfer both identifiers of the plurality of identifiers between both libraries of the respective pair of libraries to facilitate reading by the respective identifier readers. 3. The robotic library system of claim 2 wherein each communication channel of the plurality of communication channels is routed through a respective port of the plurality of ports. 4. The robotic library system of claim 1 wherein each port of the plurality of ports is in communications with both libraries of the respective pair of libraries. 5. The robotic library system of claim 1 wherein each identifier is an optical pattern. 6. The robotic library system of claim 1 wherein the each identifier is a memory device. 7. A robotic library system containing a plurality of data cartridges, the robotic library system comprising: a first library and a second library operative to store the plurality of data cartridges; a port connecting the first library to the second library, wherein the port is operative to move one at a time at least one data cartridge of the plurality of data cartridges between the first library and the second library; a first identifier reader and a second identifier reader coupled to the first library and the second library respectively; and a first identifier and a second identifier associated with the first library and the second library respectively, wherein the first identifier is adapted to be read by the second identifier reader, and the second identifier is adapted to be read by the first identifier reader. 8. The robotic library system of claim 7 further comprising a communication channel linking the first library to the second library, wherein the communication channel is operative to transfer the first identifier to the second library, and transfer the second identifier to the first library to facilitate reading by the second identifier reader and the first identifier reader respectively. 9. The robotic library system of claim 8 wherein the communication channel is routed through the port. 10. The robotic library system of claim 7 wherein the port is in communications with the first library and the second library. 11. The robotic library system of claim 7 wherein each identifier is an optical pattern. 12. The robotic library system of claim 7 wherein the each identifier is a memory device. 13. A method of operating a robotic library system having a plurality of libraries that store a plurality of data cartridges, one identifier reader disposed in each library of the plurality of libraries, and a plurality of ports connecting the plurality of libraries, wherein each port is operative to move one at a time at least one data cartridge of the plurality of data cartridges between a respective pair of libraries of the plurality of libraries, the method comprising: providing a plurality of identifiers, wherein at least one identifier of the plurality of identifiers is associated with each library of the plurality of libraries respectively to provide each library with a unique identity; and reading each identifier of the plurality of identifiers using the respective identifier reader coupled to the other library of the respective pair of libraries to identify which libraries of the plurality of libraries are interconnected. 14. The method of claim 13 further comprising combining each identifier read by each respective identifier reader to produce an inter-library connectivity model for the robotic library system, in response to reading each identifier. 15. The method of claim 13 further comprising transferring the plurality of identifiers through the respective plurality of ports prior to reading each identifier to facilitate reading by the respective identifier readers. 16. The method of claim 13 wherein both libraries of each pair of libraries are in communications with each other, the method further comprising: receiving a command at a source library of the plurality of libraries to move a first data cartridge of the plurality of data cartridges to a destination library of the plurality of libraries, after reading each identifier; querying each library in communication with the source library for each path to the destination library, in response to receiving the command to move the first data cartridge; repeatedly querying to other libraries in communications with each library receiving the query for each path to the destination library when the source library and the destination library are non connected directly to each other by a port; generating an answer for each query received, in response to the destination library being queried; repeatedly relaying each answer back to the source library when the source library and the destination library are non connected directly to each other by a port; selecting a path from the source library to the destination library, in response to the source library receiving the answers; and moving the first data cartridge from the source library to the destination library along the selected path. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein selecting a path includes identifying a shortest path through a fewest number of libraries of the plurality of libraries using the respective identifiers. 18. The method of claim 16 wherein selecting a path includes identifying a quickest path to the destination library. 19. The method of claim 16 wherein selecting a path includes identifying an idle path to the destination library. 20. The method of claim 13 further comprising: receiving a command at a source library of the plurality of libraries to move a first data cartridge of the plurality of data cartridges to a destination library of the plurality of libraries, after reading each identifier; determining from the respective identifiers if the destination library is directly connected to the source library by the plurality of ports, in response to being commanded to move the first data cartridge; moving the first data cartridge to the destination library in response to determining that the destination library is directly connected to the source library by the plurality of ports; moving the first data cartridge to another library of the plurality of libraries connected to the source library by the plurality of ports in response to determining that the destination library is not directly connected to the source library; repeatedly determining, by the other library receiving the first data cartridge, from the respective identifiers if the other library is directly connected to the destination library by the plurality of ports, in response to receiving the first data cartridge; moving the first data cartridge to the destination library in response to determining that the destination library is directly connected to the other library receiving the first data cartridge; and repeatedly moving the first data cartridge to yet another library of the plurality of libraries in response to determining that the destination library is not directly connected to the other library receiving the first data cartridge. 21. The method of claim 13 wherein the plurality of libraries includes a source library and a destination library directly connected to each other by a first port of the plurality of ports, method further comprising: receiving a command at the source library to move a first data cartridge of the plurality of data cartridges to the destination library, after reading each identifier; requesting the first port, by the source library, to position itself to receive the first data cartridge from the source library, in response to the source library receiving the command to move the first data cartridge; positioning the first port to receive the first data cartridge from the source library, in response to being requested to position itself to receive the first data cartridge from the source library; notifying the source library, by the first port, that the first port is positioned to receive the first data cartridge from the source library, in response to completing the positioning to receive the first data cartridge from the source library, moving the first data cartridge from the source library to the first port, in response the source library receiving notification that the first port is positioned; notifying the first port, by the source library, that the first data cartridge has been moved to the first port; repositioning the first data cartridge within the first port to move the first data cartridge to the destination library, in response to notification that the first data cartridge has been moved to the first port; notifying the destination library, by the first port, that the first data cartridge is available, in response to repositioning the first data cartridge; and moving the first data cartridge from the first port into the destination library, in response to notification that the first data cartridge is available. 