An end effector for handling stacks of plastic cups, dishes, and similar items. The end effector includes a bracket for coupling the end effector to the end of a robot arm. A main plate or body with a top side, a bottom side, and a plurality of apertures is connected to the bracket and supports the major components of the end effector. The end effector includes at least one bay positioned in the bottom side of the main body. Within each bay is a multiple-piece blade support block that helps guide the blades located within the bay. One or more roller blocks are positioned at predetermined points along the length of the bay, preferably between two pieces of the blade support block. Each roller block has an arcuate track that holds a roller assembly. Each roller assembly has a link which extends through one of the apertures in the main body. Each roller assembly is also coupled to a curved blade. One or more linear actuators are positioned on the top side of the main body. The driven rod of each actuator is coupled to one or more of the roller assembly links. When the actuators are activated, the roller assemblies move in their tracks and the blades slide between an open position and a closed position.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An end effector comprising: a main body having at least one aperture, a first side, and a second side; a roller assembly coupled to the second side of the main body and having a shaft, at least a portion of the shaft inserted through the at least one aperture in the main body; a blade coupled to the roller assembly and adjacent a side wall; and an actuator mounted on the first side of the main body and coupled to the shaft. 2. The end effector as in claim 1, further comprising a bay positioned under the second side of the main body and wherein the roller assembly and blade are positioned within the bay. 3. The end effector as in claim 2, further comprising a roller block coupled to the second side of the main body, the roller block having an arcuate track and holding the roller assembly. 4. The end effector as in claim 3, wherein the roller assembly includes a first arm, a second arm with a shaft, a connecting member coupling the first arm to the second arm, and a plurality of rollers. 5. An end effector comprising: a plate-like main body having a plurality of apertures, a first side, and a second side; a plurality of bays positioned under the main body, each bay including a support block, a roller block positioned adjacent to the support block and having an arcuate track; a roller assembly held by the roller block and having a link inserted through one of the apertures in the main body; a blade coupled to the roller assembly; and an actuator coupled to the link. 6. The end effector as in claim 5, wherein the roller block has an arcuate track. 7. The end effector as in claim 6, wherein the roller assembly includes a plurality of rollers that ride in the arcuate track. 8. The end effector as in claim 5, wherein the main body further includes two side walls. 9. The end effector as in claim 8, further comprising a serpentine blade positioned adjacent to the two side walls. 10. An end effector comprising: a main body having a plurality of apertures, a first side, a second side, a third side and a fourth side, wherein two side walls are mounted on the second side and the fourth side; a plurality of bays positioned under the main body, each bay including a support block, a roller block positioned adjacent to the support block and having an arcuate track; a roller assembly held by the roller block and having a link inserted through one of the apertures in the main body, a first blade coupled to the roller assembly, and a first actuator coupled to the link; and a second actuator mounted on the first side of the main body, an arm coupled to the second actuator and a second blade coupled to the arm, wherein the second blade is moveable between a first position, above the body, and a second position, adjacent the two side walls. 11. An end effector comprising: a main body having a plurality of apertures; a plurality of bays positioned under the main body, each bay having a multiple-piece support block, a first of two roller blocks, each roller block positioned between two pieces of the multiple-piece support block and having an arcuate track; a first roller assembly held by the first roller block and having a link; a first blade coupled to the first roller assembly; a second roller block positioned between two pieces of the support block and having an arcuate track; a second roller assembly held by the second roller block and having a link; a second blade coupled to the second roller assembly; a first actuator coupled to the links of the first roller assemblies; and a second actuator coupled to the links of the second roller assemblies. 12. The end effector as in claim 11, further comprising a first actuator extender coupled between the first actuator and the links of the first roller assemblies; and a second actuator extender coupled between the second actuator and the links of the second roller assemblies. 