An improvement to conventional electrical wiring that provides a visible indication of wear abrasion before an electrical hazard is created in high wear, high abrasion cable applications is disclosed. The improvement to conventional wiring cable construction is the use of contrasting colors between the extruded insulator and the outer jacket materials in the cable. When the outer jacket of the cable is worn down, cut or damaged, the underlying insulator of a contrasting color becomes visible against the outer jacket thereby indicating a hazard condition.
Claims I claim: 1. An improved electrical wiring cable for use in a high wear, high abrasion electrical wiring application and including a conductor, an insulator covering the conductor, and an outer jacket covering the insulator, the improvement comprising: the jacket being composed of a colored material and the insulator being composed of a colored material that is visibly contrasted to the color of the jacket, such that the color contrast between the materials of the jacket and insulator constitutes means for visually indicating a wear abrasion and physical damage to the cable, whereby the color contrast between the materials of the jacket and insulator is visible when the insulator is exposed through abrasions and cuts in the jacket caused by wear or physical damage to the cable and the jacket. 2. The improved electrical wiring cable of claim 1 wherein the color of the insulator is yellow and the color of the jacket is orange. 3. An improved electrical wiring cable for use as an electrical power cable in automated articulated resistance welding apparatus and including a conductor, an insulator covering the conductor, and an outer jacket covering the insulator, the improvement comprising: means for visually indicating a wear abrasion and physical damages to the cable wherein the jacket is composed of a colored material and the insulator is composed of a colored material that is visibly contrasted to the color of the jacket such that the color contrast between the materials of the jacket and insulator is visible when the insulator is exposed through abrasions and cuts in the jacket caused by wear or physical damage to the cable and the jacket. 4. The improved electrical wiring cable of claim 3 wherein the color of the insulator is yellow and the color of the jacket is orange. 5. An improved electrical wiring cable for use in high wear, high abrasion electrical wiring applications and including a conductive part, a first covering part enclosing the conductive part, and a second covering part enclosing the first covering part, the improvement comprising: the first covering part being composed of a colored material and the second covering part being composed of a colored material that is visibly contrasted to the color of the first covering part, such that color contrast between the materials of the first and second covering parts constitutes means for visually indicating a wear abrasion and physical damage to the cable, whereby the color contrast between the materials of the first and second covering parts is visible when the first covering part is exposed through abrasions and cuts in the second covering part caused by wear or physical damage to the cable and second covering part. 6. The improved electrical wiring cable of claim 5 wherein the color of the first covering part is yellow and the color of the second covering part is orange. 