An apparatus and method for sealing an underground junction between a lateral service line and a main pipeline from the inside-out. One embodiment provides a substantially rigid patching apparatus which may be positioned and installed with a robotic device within a main pipeline. The patching apparatus has a flange shaped to fit the internal diameter of the main pipeline and a tubular stem or sleeve which penetrates into the lateral service line. The patching apparatus contains an interconnection substrate such as felt, sponge or other similar material. The interconnection substrate may be impregnated with a bonding agent which sealingly interconnects the patching apparatus to the main pipeline and lateral service line, and may be heated by utilizing a heating element within a support cage, thus reducing the time required for curing.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for remotely installing a patch to an underground junction between a main pipeline and a lateral service line, comprising the steps of: (a) providing a patch comprising: a tubular stem having a first end, a second end and a first length, for communication with the lateral service line; a convex flange having an exterior surface, an interior surface and a cutout portion operatively sized and interconnected to the first end of said tubular stem, wherein the second end of said tubular stem extends away from the exterior surface of said convex flange; and a sealing substrate positioned on said exterior surface of said convex flange for providing sealing engagement between said convex flange and an interior surface of the main pipeline; (b) determining a location of the junction between the main pipeline and the lateral service line; (c) removably attaching said patch to a support cage having a heating element; (d) positioning said patch proximate to the location of the underground junction; (e) activating a lateral extender to move said support cage from a first traveling position to a second engagement position so that said patch is positioned with said tubular stem within the lateral service line and said sealing substrate is positioned against an internal surface of the main pipeline proximate to said lateral service line; (f) providing a heat source to said sealing substrate through said heating element to accelerate the curing of said sealing substrate, wherein said patch becomes fixedly connected to the internal surface of the main pipeline; (g) deactivating the lateral extender to move said support cage from the second engagement position to the first traveling position; and (h) removing said lateral extender and said support cage from the main pipeline. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said support cage is comprised of a metallic material. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said support cage has an integral heating element which is interconnected to a remote-controlled energy source which can be selectively activated and deactivated to provide an electrical current to said heating element. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said heat energy is provided to said heating element by at least one battery. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein heat energy is provided to said heating element when said lateral extender is activated to move said support cage from a first traveling position to said second engagement position. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein said support cage may reach a temperature between about 50.degree. F. and 40.degree. F. when providing heat energy to said sealing substrate. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein said support cage has a flange interconnected to a stem portion, wherein said support flange matingly engages said patch. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein said heating-element is interconnected to an exterior surface of said support cage. 9. A support cage adapted for supporting a patch for sealing a junction between a lateral pipeline and a main pipeline comprising: a flange having an interior surface and an exterior surface, said exterior surface having a convex shape for opposing an internal surface of the main pipeline; a stem extending outwardly from said exterior surface of said flange and adapted for supporting the patch; and a heating means in operable contact with at least a portion of said support cage for providing heat energy to the patch. 10. The support cage of claim 9, further comprising a weep hole extending through said stem to allow drainage of any fluid. 11. The support cage of claim 9, wherein said support cage has an eternal geometric shape which matingly engages a least a portion of the patch. 12. The support cage of claim 9, said heating means comprising at least one conductive wire for carrying an electrical current. 13. The support cage of claim 9, wherein said flange and said stem are comprised of a metallic material. 14. The support cage of claim 9, wherein said stem has a threaded end adapted for interconnection to said metallic flange. 15. The support cage of claim 9, wherein said heating means further comprises at least one battery. 16. The support cage of claim 9, wherein said heating means is capable of heating said support cage to a temperature of between about 50.degree. F. and 400.degree. F. 17. The support cage of claim 9, wherein said flange and said stem are comprised of aluminum. 18. The support cage of claim 9, wherein said flange has at least one aperture for receiving attachment hardware for interconnecting said flange to said stem. 