An ultra-clean environment for fabrication of semiconductor devices which includes an air transmissive conveyor for conveying semiconductor wafers thereon and a plurality of robotic elements. A clean channel encloses the conveyor. The clean channel includes a filtered air intake extending from one surface of the conveyor and an air exhaust region extending in a direction opposite the air intake. The robotic elements is disposed external to and communicating with the clean channel. Laminar flow of filtered air is provided from the air intake to the air exhaust. The conveyor preferably traverses a serpentine path. The path of the conveyor is substantially bi-directional in that it travels in a first direction in then in the opposite direction immediately adjacent the portion traveling in the first direction. Robotic elements are disposed external to the clean channel, communicate with the clean channel and are at a reduced pressure relative to the clean channel. A plurality of said conveyors can be disposed within the clean channel, preferably stacked one floor atop the other. Each tool has its support skid immediately adjacent to the tool it serves.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An ultra-clean environment for fabrication of semiconductor devices which comprises: (a) a conveyor for conveying semiconductor wafers thereon, said conveyor is air transmissive; (b) a plurality of robotic elements; (c) a clean channel enclosing said conveyor, said clean channel including a filtered air intake extending from one surface of said clean channel conveyor and an air exhaust region extending in a direction opposite said air intake, said robotic elements being disposed external to and communicating with said clean channel and disposed in a region of reduced pressure relative to said clean channel; and (d) a laminar flow structure providing a laminar flow of filtered air from said air intake to said air exhaust. 2. The environment of claim 1 wherein at least a portion of said air flow is through said conveyor. 3. The environment of claim 1 wherein said conveyor traverses a serpentine path. 4. The environment of claim 1 wherein said conveyor traverses a serpentine path. 5. The environment of claim 2 wherein said conveyor traverses a serpentine path. 6. The environment of claim 1 wherein said conveyor traverses a substantially bi-directional path. 7. The environment of claim 6 wherein said conveyor traverses a substantially bi-directional path. 8. The environment of claim 1 further including a plurality of said conveyors within said clean channel. 9. The environment of claim 8 wherein said conveyors are stacked one atop the other. 10. The environment of claim 1 further wherein the air pressure within said clean channel is greater than the air pressure external to said clean channel and wherein said robotic elements are manually operable from a location external to said clean channel. 11. An ultra-clean environment for fabrication of semiconductor devices which comprises: (a) a conveyor for conveying semiconductor wafers thereon, said conveyor in an transmissive; (b) a plurality of robotic elements; (c) a clean channel enclosing said conveyor, said clean channel including a filtered air intake extending from one surface of said clean channel and an air exhaust region extending in a direction opposite said air intake, said robotic elements being disposed external to and communicating with said clean channel and disposed in a region of reduced pressure relative to said clean channel; and (d) a laminar flow structure providing a laminar flow of filtered air from said air intake to said air exhaust; (e) the air pressure within said clean channel being greater than the air pressure external to said clean channel. 12. An ultra-clean environment for fabrication of semiconductor devices which comprises: (a) a conveyor for conveying semiconductor wafers thereon, said conveyor is an transmissive; (b) a plurality of robotic elements; (c) a clean channel enclosing said conveyor, said clean channel including a filtered air intake extending from one surface of said clean channel and an air exhaust region extending in a direction opposite said air intake, said robotic elements being disposed external to and communicating with said clean channel and disposed in a region of reduced pressure relative to said clean channel; and (d) a laminar flow structure providing a laminar flow of filtered air from said air intake to said air exhaust; (e) said robotic elements being manually operable from a location external to said clean channel. 