A method to generate recognition, auto-adaptation and self-organization in autonomous mechanisms and organisms. A number of sensing elements generate analog signals whose amplitudes are classified into different classes of perception intensity. The currently occurring elapse times between phase transitions are recorded and compared with prior recorded elapse times in order to find covariant time sequences and patterns. A motion actuating system can be coupled to the assembly, which is controlled by pulse sequences that have been modulated in accordance with the covariant time sequences. In this way the mechanism or organism in motion is prompted to emulate the found covariant time sequences, while being able to recognize its own motion course and adapting itself to changes of environment.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method to generate recognition, auto-adaptation and self-organizing processes in autonomous systems, including the steps of: a) providing a device for sensing the temporal-spatial variations between the physical state of said system and the physical state of the surroundings of said system, the device comprising: sensor means coupled to said system to produce analog signals; receiving means connected to said sensor means to receive said analog signals; threshold value detector means connected to said receiving means to classify said received; analog signals into classes according to signal amplitudes; time recording means connected to said threshold value detector means to record elapse times; time analyzing means connected to said time recording means; b) recording the current elapse times between phase transitions through said threshold values, c) analyzing said elapse times to find covariant elapse time sequences within currently recorded elapse times, said elapse time sequences being covariant with sequences of prior recorded elapse times. 2. A method as set forth in claim 1, including the further steps of: providing a sub-device to control the motions of said autonomous system, the device comprising: control means programmed by said covariant elapse time sequences found by said analyzing means; motion actuator means regulated by said control means. 3. A method as set forth in claim 2, wherein said found covariant elapse time sequence program said control means for the regulation of said motion actuator means, whereby said autonomous system in motion is prompted to emulate said covariant elapse time sequences. 4. A method as set forth in claims 3, wherein said motion actuator means comprise propulsion means, braking means and steering means. 5. A method as set forth in claim 1, wherein said time recording means record the time counting pulses used in the acquisition of those elapse times that represent the variations between the physical state of said system and the physical state of the surroundings of said system. 6. A method as set forth in claim 5, wherein said time recording means additionally record the time counting pulses used in the acquisition of those elapse times that represent the velocity of said system relative to said physical surroundings. 7. A method as set forth in claim 6, wherein the frequency of said time counting pulses used in the acquisition of those elapse times that represent the variations between the physical state of said system is continually adapted to the velocity of said system relative to the physical surroundings. 8. A method as set forth in claim 5, wherein the time base frequency for said elapse time recording is increased or decreased in order to scale the time values in the sequences of said elapse times, whereby the velocity of the emulated motion of said system is scaled proportionally. 9. A method as set forth in claim 1, wherein said autonomous system comprises a molecular/biological organism. 10. A method as set forth in claim 3, wherein said autonomous system comprises a robot vehicle. 11. A method as set forth in claim 4, wherein said autonomous system comprises a sports training vehicle. 