A wafer polishing tool is disclosed which includes a polishing platen which is rotatable about a central platen axis, and a wafer carrier which supports a wafer for rotational movement to cause a portion of a surface of the wafer to only intermittently contact a polishing surface of the platen while the wafer rotates. The polishing tool may include a plurality of vertically stacked polishing platens which are rotatable about a central platen axis, and a plurality of stacked wafer carriers, wherein each carrier supports a wafer for rotational movement and vertical movement into contact with one of the polishing platens. During polishing, the carrier pack maintains the wafers in uninterrupted contact with the platen over less than entire surfaces of the wafers.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A wafer polishing tool, comprising: a polishing platen rotatable about a central platen axis; a wafer carrier supporting a wafer for rotational movement to cause a portion of a surface of said wafer to only intermittently contact a polishing surface of said platen while said wafer rotates during polishing, while a center of said wafer at least intermittently contacts said polishing surface during said polishing, said wafer carrier having a center-driven wafer bed, wherein said center-driven wafer bed is rotated by a belt-drive mechanism coupled to transmit rotational force from a motor onto a pulley secured to said wafer bed. 2. A wafer polishing tool, comprising: a polishing platen rotatable about a central platen axis; a wafer carrier supporting a wafer for rotational movement to cause a portion of a surface of said wafer to only intermittently contact a polishing surface of said platen while said wafer rotates during polishing, while a center of said wafer at least intermittently contacts said polishing surface during said polishing, wherein said wafer carrier rotates said wafer from an edge thereof. 3. The wafer polishing tool of claim 2 wherein said wafer carrier includes a wafer bed gear having an outer perimeter located approximately at an edge of said wafer. 4. The wafer polishing tool of claim 3 wherein said wafer carrier further includes a drive gear positioned near said wafer edge in drivable relation to said wafer bed gear. 5. A wafer polishing tool, comprising: a polishing platen rotatable about a central platen axis; and a wafer carrier supporting a wafer for rotational movement and in uninterrupted contact with said platen over less than an entire surface of said wafer while said wafer rotates during polishing while a center of said wafer at least intermittently contacts said polishing surface during said polishing, said wafer carrier having a center-driven wafer bed, wherein said center-driven wafer bed is rotated by a belt-drive mechanism coupled to transmit rotational force from a motor onto a pulley secured to said wafer bed. 6. A wafer polishing tool, comprising: a polishing platen rotatable about a central platen axis; and a wafer carrier supporting a wafer for rotational movement and in uninterrupted contact with said platen over less than an entire surface of said wafer while said wafer rotates during polishing while a center of said wafer at least intermittently contacts said polishing surface during said polishing, wherein said wafer carrier rotates said wafer from an edge thereof. 7. The wafer polishing tool of claim 6 wherein said wafer carrier includes a wafer bed gear having an outer perimeter located approximately at an edge of said wafer. 8. The wafer polishing tool of claim 7 wherein said wafer carrier further includes a drive gear positioned near said wafer edge in drivable relation to said wafer bed gear. 9. A wafer polishing tool, comprising: a polishing platen rotatable about a central platen axis; and a wafer carrier supporting a wafer for rotational movement and in uninterrupted contact with said platen over less than an entire surface of said wafer while said wafer rotates during polishing while a center of said wafer at least intermittently contacts said polishing surface during said polishing, wherein said wafer carrier further comprises a pivotable frame member and a selectively engageable frame member, said pivotable and said selectively engageable frame members permitting said wafer carrier to pivot between a platen engaged position and a platen disengaged position and wherein said wafer carrier imparts oscillating motion to said wafer in a direction about said pivotable frame member. 10. A wafer polishing tool, comprising: a plurality of vertically stacked polishing platens rotatable about a central platen axis; a plurality of vertically stacked wafer carriers, each said carrier supporting a wafer for rotational movement and vertical movement into contact with one of said polishing platens. 11. A wafer polishing tool, comprising: a plurality of vertically stacked polishing platens rotatable about a central platen axis; and a wafer carrier pack imparting rotational motion to a plurality of wafers, said carrier pack maintaining said wafers in uninterrupted contact with said platen over less than entire surfaces of said wafers. 12. The wafer polishing tool of claim 11 wherein said wafer carrier pack further comprises a plurality of wafer carriers each supporting a wafer in a respective parallel plane and at least a pair of rails for permitting movement between a platen engaged position and a platen disengaged position. 13. The wafer polishing tool of claim 12 wherein said wafer carrier pack imparts oscillating motion to said wafers along a direction of towards and away from said polishing platens. 14. The wafer polishing tool of claim 11 wherein said wafer carriers are fastened to each other at points outside the perimeter of said wafers. 15. The wafer polishing tool of claim 11 further comprising a voice coil motor coupled to said wafer carrier pack to apply a vertical force thereto. 16. The wafer polishing tool of claim 11 further comprising a force transducer located on said wafer carrier pack to provide a feedback input to said voice coil motor. 17. The wafer polishing tool of claim 11 wherein said wafer carrier pack further comprises a pivotable frame member and a selectively engageable frame member, said pivotable and said selectively engageable frame members permitting said wafer carrier pack to pivot between a platen engaged position and a platen disengaged position. 18. The wafer polishing tool of claim 17 wherein said carrier pack imparts oscillating motion to said wafers in a direction about said pivotable frame member. 19. The wafer polishing tool of claim 11 wherein said polishing tool further comprises a brush positioned to contact a portion of said polished surface of said wafer while another portion of said surface contacts said platen. 20. The wafer polishing tool of claim 11 wherein said wafer carriers support said wafers in face up orientation and polishing pad surfaces of said rotatable platens face down towards said face up wafer surfaces. 21. The wafer polishing tool of claim 20 further comprising a porous material slurry applicator for maintaining in contact with a polishing surface of said platen during a polishing cycle. 22. The wafer polishing tool of claim 20 wherein said polishing tool further comprises a brush positioned to contact said face up wafer surface during polishing. 23. The wafer polishing tool of claim 11 wherein said wafer carriers support said wafers in face down orientation and polishing pad surfaces of said rotatable platens face up towards said face down wafer surfaces. 24. The wafer polishing tool of claim 11 further comprising a process monitor positioned to obtain process monitoring information from said polished surface of said wafer while said wafer carrier pack is engaged in said platen assembly. 25. The wafer polishing tool of claim 11 wherein said wafer carrier pack includes a plurality of center-driven wafer carriers. 26. The wafer polishing tool of claim 1 wherein said center-driven wafer carriers include a belt-drive mechanism coupled to transmit rotational force from a motor onto a pulley secured to a wafer bed. 27. The wafer polishing tool of claim 11 wherein said wafer carrier pack includes a plurality of edge-driven wafer carriers. 28. The wafer polishing tool of claim 27 wherein each said edge-driven wafer carrier includes a wafer bed gear having an outer perimeter located approximately at an edge of said wafer. 29. The wafer polishing tool of claim 28 wherein said wafer carrier pack further includes a drive gear positioned near said wafer edge in drivable relation to said wafer bed gear. 