A novel technique and apparatus for receiving, holding and/or transporting thin planar workpieces and the like that involves radially supporting circumferentially spaced thin and flexible annular ring sectors about a fixed planar central circular disc upon which the workpiece is to be received, and by limitedly rotationally bending the ring sectors about the disc, causing circumferential leaf springs bridging the successive ring sectors and carrying workpiece holding fingers to deform and thereby expand (or retract) the radial position of the fingers to accommodate the edges of the workpiece.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A holder for a thin, planar circular workpiece comprising a substantially thin and flexible substantially planar circular sheet having a central circular disc portion surrounded by a concentric annular ring portion, with the ring portion being segmented into successive separated circumferentially spaced ring sectors; structural supporting means interconnecting the respective ring sectors with the corresponding circumferential sectors of the central disc portion for supporting the same in place therefrom; the ring sectors being peripherally provided with external arcuate leaf springs circumferentially bridging spaced points of adjacent ring sectors to which the ends of the leaf springs are respectively connected, and with an arcuate gap between the sectors and the leaf springs; each leaf spring intermediately carrying a radially protruding holder finger for receiving and contacting an edge region of a circular workpiece to be placed on the holder; and means operable while the central disc portion is held fixed, for flexibly rotationally bending the ring sector to move limitedly circumferentially relative to the central disc portion to cause beam-like deflections of the structural means and ring sectors that correspondingly radially distort the leaf springs and bow their gaps, radially extending and retracting the positions of the fingers carried by the leaf springs to enable insertion and removal of the workpiece. 2. The holder of claim 1 wherein the rotational movement of one ring sector is mechanically coupled by the deflection of the structural supporting means simultaneously to bow adjacent ring sector leaf springs. 3. The holder of claim 1 wherein the structural supporting means comprises radially extending groups of radial rib spokes. 4. The holder of claim 3 wherein at least three substantially equilaterally circumferentially disposed leaf springs and fingers are provided cooperative with at least three ring sectors. 5. The holder of claim 4 wherein two adjacent ring sectors each subtend angles of about and preferably slightly greater than 90.degree., serving as adjacent top quadrants of the circular sheet portion, and a third ring sector subtends an angle of less than 90.degree. of a lower quadrant. 6. The holder of claim 5 wherein a group of rib spokes supports each of the top quadrant ring sectors from the corresponding top quadrants of the central circular disc portion, and a further group of rib spokes supports the third ring sector from a corresponding lower quadrant of the central circular disc portion. 7. The holder of claim 6 wherein a top leaf spring bridges the top quadrant ring sectors, and a further leaf spring bridges said third ring sector and an adjacent point of the upper quadrant ring sector. 8. The holder of claim 7 wherein the bending means comprises a longitudinal lever inwardly connected to said third ring sector and disposed at a side of a fixed main longitudinal strip integrally connected with said central disc portion and longitudinally separated therefrom by a longitudinal slit to enable flexible rotational bending of the lever sidewise of the main strip and central portion; and wherein the further leaf spring is connected between a point of such inward lever connected to said third ring sector and said adjacent upper quadrant ring sector. 9. The holder of claim 8 wherein the region of inward connection of the main longitudinal strip to said central disc portion serves also as the other lower quadrant ring sector, with a third leaf spring bridging from that region to a point of the adjacent upper quadrant ring sector. 10. The holder of claim 8 wherein the bending means comprises actuator means connected, when operable, to effect limited rotational bending movement of at least one of the ring sectors. 11. The holder of claim 10 wherein the actuator means is mounted upon the fixed main strip to move the levers sidewise therefrom. 12. The holder of claim 3 wherein the groups of the rib spokes have rib spacings of about 4.degree. to 5.degree.. 13. The holder of claim 1 wherein the bending means comprises a longitudinal strip of the sheet connected to an adjacent ring sector and extending longitudinally outward from the circular sheet to serve as an integral lever, flexibly rotationally bendable sidewise relative to the fixed central disc portion. 14. The holder of claim 13 wherein said lever is disposed at a side of a fixed main longitudinal strip integrally connected with said central disc portion and longitudinally separated therefrom by a longitudinal slit to enable flexible sidewise rotational bending of the lever with support to the fixed main strip and central disc portion. 15. The holder of claim 14 wherein a second similar lever is provided substantially symmetrically disposed along the other side of the fixed main longitudinal strip, connected to an adjacent ring sector on such other side. 16. The holder of claim 15 wherein four ring sectors are provided, with two adjacent ring sectors each subtending angles of about and preferably slightly greater than 90.degree., serving as adjacent top quadrants with a top leaf spring bridging the top quadrant ring sectors; and the other two ring sectors subtending angles of less than 90.degree. in the adjacent lower quadrants, each having a leaf spring bridging the respective lower quadrants and adjacent points of the respective upper quadrant ring sectors. 17. The holder of claim 16 wherein a group of rib spokes supports each of the top quadrant ring sectors from the corresponding top quadrants of the central disc portion, and a further group of such rib spokes supports each of the lower quadrant ring sectors from the corresponding lower quadrants of the central disc portion. 18. The holder of claim 17 wherein the bending means comprises a pair of longitudinal levers respectively inwardly connected to the lower quadrant ring sectors on opposite sides of a fixed main longitudinal strip that is integrally connected with said central disc portion, and longitudinally separated therefrom by longitudinal slits to enable flexible sidewise rotational bending of the levers with respect to the main strip and central disc portion. 19. The holder of claim 13 wherein the actuator means is mounted upon the fixed main strip to move the levers sidewise therefrom. 20. The holder of claim 1 wherein the annular ring formed by the successive spaced ring sectors has a circular outer perimeter, and the leaf springs are formed as part of the perimeter with their gaps formed by reduced width end edges of the adjacent ring sectors. 21. A method of providing adjustment in the receiving and holding of thin, planar circular workpieces, that comprises, providing a central thin circular disc upon which a workpiece of greater dimensions is to be positioned, and fixing disc against movement; mechanically supporting a concentric annular ring of segmented successive separated circumferentially spaced thin flexible ring sectors in place about the disc and in the plane thereof, with the support being rigid in the radial direction but flexibly tangentially perpendicular thereto; providing ring sectors with external arcuate leaf springs intermediately carrying radially protruding fingers for holding the edges of a workpiece; and circumferentially bridging spaced points of adjacent ring sectors with gaps therebetween; and flexibly rotationally bending at least one ring sector to cause limited circumferential moving thereof about the fixed central disc to cause corresponding radial distortion of the corresponding leaf spring and bowing of its gap, thereby extending or retracting the positions of the fingers caused by the leaf springs to enable insertion and removal of the workpiece. 22. The method of claim 21 wherein the mechanical supporting couples the limited rotational movement of said at least one ring sector to adjacent ring sectors and their respective leaf springs. 23. The method of claim 21 wherein the mechanical supporting is effected by groups of radial rib spokes connecting the ring sectors with corresponding sectors of the central disc. 24. The method of claim 23 wherein the bending is effected by providing a flexible lever connected to said ring segment, and moving the lever rotationally sidewise of said central disc. 25. The method of claim 24 wherein the disc, ring sectors, leaf springs, fingers and lever are all formed of an integral thin sheet. 