Haptic feedback control devices of the present invention include several embodiments. One embodiment includes a housing and a pair of moveable pincher members coupled to the housing. Each pincher member is contacted by a finger of the user when the device is operated and moveable in a degree of freedom approximately within a single plane. An actuator outputs force feedback on the pincher members and a sensor detects a position of the pincher members in the degrees of freedom. The device housing can include a fixed portion and a moveable portion, where the user contacts both fixed and moveable portions. A coupling, such as a flexure, allows the moveable portion to move relative to the fixed portion in a direction parallel to an outer surface of the moveable portion contacted by the user. An actuator outputs a force on the flexure to cause the moveable portion to move, such as an oscillating force to cause vibration. These improvements allow a user to feel force feedback and tactile feedback when operating the device. Applications include telemanipulator devices as well as interface devices and game controllers for computers.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A haptic feedback control device for inputting control signals to a computer and for outputting forces to a user of the control device, the control device comprising: a grip; a pair of moveable pincher members coupled to said grip and each contacted by a finger of said user when said device is operated, each of said pincher members being moveable in a degree of freedom, both of said degrees of freedom approximately within a single plane, wherein when a first one of said pincher members is moved, a second one of said pincher members is also moved approximately the same distance either towards or away from said first pincher member; an actuator coupled to said pair of pincher members, said actuator outputting a force on said pincher members in said degrees of freedom of said pincher members; and a sensor that detects a position of both said pincher members in said degree of freedom and outputs a sensor signal indicative of said position which is received by said computer. 2. A haptic feedback control device as recited in claim 1 wherein said pair of pincher members are both pivotally coupled to a third member. 3. A haptic feedback control device as recited in claim 2 wherein said actuator outputs a force in a linear direction, said linear force being converted to a rotary force that is applied to each of said pincher members. 4. A haptic feedback control device as recited in claim 2 wherein each of said pincher members is included in a 4-bar linkage. 5. A haptic feedback control device as recited in claim 4 wherein each of said pincher members is coupled to a ground by a link member, and wherein both of said pincher members are also coupled to a linear-moving member coupled to said actuator. 6. A haptic feedback control device as recited in claim 4 wherein each of said pincher members includes a finger pad for contacting a fingertip portion of a finger of said user. 7. A haptic feedback control device as recited in claim 4 wherein each of said pincher members is coupled to said third member by a link member. 8. A haptic feedback control device as recited in claim 7 wherein said third member has two ends, wherein said link members are coupled to a first one of said ends and said third member is rotated about a second one of said ends. 9. A haptic feedback control device as recited in claim 7 wherein said user operates said device by placing a thumb on one of said finger pads and a finger opposed to said thumb on said other finger pad. 10. A haptic feedback control device as recited in claim 1 further comprising a second actuator that outputs a vibration force on said grip. 11. A haptic feedback control device as recited in claim 1 wherein said haptic feedback control device further comprises: a housing that includes said grip, said housing having a moveable portion and a fixed portion, wherein said moveable portion is moveable with respect to said fixed portion; a second actuator coupled to said moveable portion, said second actuator outputting a force to cause said moveable portion to move. 12. A haptic feedback control device as recited in claim 11 further comprising a flexure coupled between said second actuator and said moveable portion. 13. A haptic feedback control device as recited in claim 12 wherein said actuator causes said moveable portion to vibrate with respect to said fixed portion. 14. A haptic feedback control device as recited in claim 1 wherein said control device is a master device in a telemanipulator system such that said grip is coupled to a linkage of a plurality of members to provide at least three degrees of freedom of motion to said control device, and wherein said computer controls a slave device in response to motion of said master device. 15. A haptic feedback control device as recited in claim 14 wherein said slave device includes an arm linkage and an opening/closing gripper, said gripper being controlled by said pincher members. 16. A haptic feedback control device as recited in claim 1 further comprising a roller coupled to said housing and operative to rotate about an axis, and a sensor coupled to said roller and operative to output a sensor signal indicative of a position of said roller about said axis. 17. A haptic feedback control device for inputting control signals to a computer and for outputting forces to a user of the control device, the control device comprising: a housing including a fixed portion and a moveable portion, wherein said user engages both said fixed portion and said moveable portion of said housing when using said device; a coupling coupled between said moveable portion and said fixed portion and allowing said moveable portion to move relative to said fixed portion in a direction parallel to an outer surface of said moveable portion, said portion of said outer surface being contacted by said user when said housing is grasped by said user; and an actuator coupled to said coupling, said actuator outputting a force on said coupling to cause said moveable portion to move with respect to said fixed portion. 18. A haptic feedback control device as recited in claim 17 wherein said coupling is a flexure. 19. A haptic feedback control device as recited in claim 18 wherein said actuator outputs an oscillating force to cause said moveable portion to vibrate. 20. A haptic feedback control device as recited in claim 19 wherein said flexure includes two flexure members, each of said flexure members coupled between said moveable portion and said fixed portion, and wherein said actuator outputs force on one of said flexure members. 21. A haptic feedback control device as recited in claim 17 wherein said moveable portion slides in shear with skin of a finger of said user contacting said surface of said moveable portion. 22. A haptic feedback control device as recited in claim 17 further comprising a control manipulable by said user and positioned with respect to said moveable portion such that said user feels said force on said moveable portion when operating said control. 23. A haptic feedback control device as recited in claim 22 wherein said control is fixed in position with reference to said moveable portion. 24. A haptic feedback control device as recited in claim 23 wherein said control is a button. 25. A haptic feedback control device as recited in claim 24 wherein said button is provided with force feedback in a degree of freedom using a button actuator. 26. A haptic feedback control device as recited in claim 23 wherein said control includes a first pincher member, and further comprising a second pincher member accessible to said user on a different side of said housing from said first pincher member. 27. A haptic feedback control device as recited in claim 26 wherein said first and second pincher members are moveable in a degree of freedom approximately within a single plane, wherein when one of said members is moved, the other of said members is also moved. 28. A haptic feedback control device as recited in claim 27 further comprising a second actuator coupled to said first and second pincher members, said second actuator outputting a force on said pincher members. 29. A haptic feedback control device as recited in claim 17 further comprising a sensor coupled to said housing and operative to detect motion of said moveable portion with respect to said fixed portion. 30. A haptic feedback control device as recited in claim 17 wherein said control device is a master device that controls a slave device in a telemanipulator system. 31. A haptic feedback control device as recited in claim 17 wherein said computer displays a graphical environment which with said user interacts using said control device. 32. A haptic feedback control device as recited in claim 31 wherein said haptic feedback control device is a game controller and said computer displays a game. 33. An interface device including haptic feedback and coupled to a host computer, the interface device comprising: a housing including a fixed portion and a moveable portion, wherein a user grips an outer surface of said housing when using said device; an engageable control operative to receive a user's finger through an opening in said moveable portion in said housing such that said moveable portion at least partially surrounds said engageable control, said engageable control outputting a signal when engaged by said user's finger, said signal being received by said host computer; and an actuator coupled to said housing and operative to output a force on said moveable portion of said housing to cause said moveable portion to vibrate with respect to said fixed portion of said housing such that said user engaging said control with said finger feels a shear vibration on said finger. 34. An interface device as recited in claim 33 wherein said engageable control is a finger pad operative to receive a user's finger through an opening in said housing, said finger pad being coupled to a moveable member. 35. An interface device as recited in claim 34 wherein said actuator is a first actuator, and further comprising a second actuator coupled to said housing and operative to output a force on said moveable member. 36. An interface device as recited in claim 33 wherein said engageable control is a button, wherein said signal is responsive to a state of said button. 37. An interface device as recited in claim 33 wherein said moveable portion of said housing completely surrounds said engageable control. 38. An interface device as recited in claim 33 further comprising a sensor coupled to said moveable member and operative to detect motion of said moveable member in a rotary degree of freedom. 39. An interface device as recited in claim 33 further comprising a roller coupled to said housing and operative to rotate about an axis, and a sensor coupled to said roller and operative to output a sensor signal indicative of a position of said roller about said axis. 40. An interface device as recited in claim 39 further comprising a roller actuator coupled to said roller, said roller actuator outputting forces on said roller. 41. An interface device as recited in claim 40 wherein said roller controls a wrist of a slave gripper, and wherein said forces on said roller provide a spring return force that allows rate control of said wrist. 42. An interface device as recited in claim 33 wherein said housing is coupled to a linkage providing at least three degrees of freedom to said interface device, wherein said computer controls a slave device in a telemanipulator system, said slave device being moved in response to manipulation of said interface device in said three degrees of freedom and on said finger pad. 43. An interface device as recited in claim 33 wherein said engageable control is a 4-directional controller pad having at least four directional buttons and operative to output a signal indicating a state of at least one of said directional buttons, and wherein said object controlled by said user and said different object are computer-generated objects displayed on a display screen. 44. A method for controlling an object with a haptic feedback control device, the method comprising: outputting a control signal to a computer, said control signal including information describing a manipulation by a user of said haptic feedback control device, wherein said manipulation includes moving a finger pad of said control device in a degree of freedom such that said information in said control signal includes a representation of a position of said finger pad in said degree of freedom; and receiving haptic feedback signals from said computer, said haptic feedback signals including: information causing a force to be output on said finger pad in said degree of freedom, and information causing a vibration of a moveable portion of a housing of said control device surrounding said finger pad. 45. A method as recited in claim 44 wherein said information causing said vibration is sent when said object controlled by said control device interacts with a different object. 46. A method as recited in claim 45 wherein said information causing said force to be output on said finger pad is sent when said object controlled by said control device interacts with a different object. 47. A method as recited in claim 46 wherein said object controlled by said user is a slave device in a telemanipulator system and said different object is a physical object in a physical environment of said slave device. 48. A method as recited in claim 47 wherein said manipulation by said user of said haptic feedback control device includes moving said control device in at least three degrees of freedom, wherein said control signal includes information representing a position of a said master device in said at least three degrees of freedom, wherein said computer moves said slave device in accordance with said position of said master device. 49. A method as recited in claim 44 wherein said vibration is output in a direction parallel to an outer surface of said moveable portion that surrounds said finger pad. 50. A method as recited in claim 44 wherein said finger pad is a first finger pad and further comprising a second finger pad moveable in a degree of freedom such that said first and second finger pads can be moved in a pincher movement either toward each other or away from each other. 