An apparatus for controlling operation of a processing machine has a computer preferably with a computer aided design program configurable to model a kinematic velocity profile of a point of interest on a machine to be controlled. A graphical user interface on the computer enables an operator to select desired velocity points for a motor drive controlling motion of the point on the machine. A curve fit is applied to the velocity points to realize a desired velocity profile for the motor drive and the point on the machine. The desired velocity profile is then integrated and scaled in order to obtain a scaled velocity profile that realizes an actual, or target displacement of the point as dictated by operation of the machine. By controlling operation of elements of a machine with velocity profiles, coordination of associated elements and points on the machine can be visualized by an operator selecting the velocity points for each drive of the machine. A method for implementing same is also disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A machine control apparatus, comprising: processing circuitry; a user interface communicating with the processing circuitry and configured to receive user input commands defining at least in part a desired velocity versus time profile of a point of interest on a machine; a data storage device configured to store user input commands and a target displacement value for the moving point of interest, the target displacement value associated with an actual physical displacement of the point of interest on the machine; an integrator communicating with the processing circuitry and configured to integrate the desired velocity versus time profile and derive a displacement value for the moving point of interest; a comparator communicating with the processing circuitry and configured to compare the target displacement value with the derived displacement value for the point of interest; and the comparator configured to output a scaling factor calculated by the processing circuitry and operative to scale the velocity profile to realize the target displacement value as integrated over a time domain of interest. 2. The machine control system of claim 1 wherein the data storage device is configured to store at least one previously constructed velocity versus time profile, and wherein the velocity versus time profile comprises user inputs. 3. The machine control apparatus of claim 1 wherein the data storage device is further configured to store configuration settings for at least one input/output device. 4. The machine control apparatus of claim 1 wherein the data storage device is further configured to store setup values on the machine. 5. A method for controlling a processing machine, comprising: providing a working element of the processing machine and a motor drive configured to move the working element; characterizing a desired velocity profile for a desired point on the working element corresponding to operation of the motor drive; integrating the characterized velocity profile over a desired period of time to characterize a derived displacement value; providing a target displacement value for the desired point; comparing the target displacement value with the derived displacement value to obtain a scaling coefficient sized to scale the derived displacement to realize the target displacement; and scaling the desired velocity profile such that, when integrated, the velocity profile provides the actual displacement for the working element. 6. The method of claim 5 further comprising storing the desired velocity profile in the memory. 7. The method of claim 5 wherein scaling the desired velocity profile comprises applying a scaling factor to the desired velocity profile such that, when integrated, the velocity profile provides the actual displacement. 