A magnetic drive system for moving a substrate transfer shuttle along a linear path between chambers in a semiconductor fabrication apparatus. A rack with rack magnets is secured to the shuttle, and a rotatable pinion with pinion magnets is positioned adjacent the rack so that the pinion magnets can magnetically engage the rack magnets. Thus, rotation of the pinion will cause the shuttle to move along the linear path. The magnets may be oriented with a helix angle between their primary axis and the axis of rotation of the pinion. One rack and one pinion are located on each side of the shuttle. A set of lower guide rollers supports the shuttle, and a set of upper guide rollers prevents the shuttle from lifting off the lower guide rollers.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for processing a substrate comprising: a first chamber; a second chamber in communication with the first chamber; a substrate support movable along a generally linear path between the first chamber and the second chamber, the substrate support including a plurality of linearly-spaced magnets; a first plurality of guide rollers positioned to contact a lower portion of the substrate support; a second plurality of guide rollers positioned to contact an upper portion of the substrate support; and a rotatable pinion having a plurality of pinion magnets, wherein the pinion magnets and the linearly-spaced magnets can magnetically engage so that rotation of the pinion magnets is magnetically translated to the substrate support to move the substrate support along the linear path. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the substrate support includes a rail and the linearly-spaced magnets are located at an outboard portion of the rail, the first plurality of guide rollers contacting an inboard portion of a lower surface of the rail, and the second plurality of guide rollers contacting an upper portion of the rail. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the linearly-spaced magnets are on a rack, and the rack is attached to the rail. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the pinion is positioned beneath the rack. 5. An apparatus for processing a substrate, comprising: a first chamber; a second chamber in communication with the first chamber; a substrate support movable along a generally linear path between the first chamber and the second chamber, the substrate support including a plurality of linearly-spaced magnets; a rotatable pinion having a plurality of pinion magnets, wherein the pinion magnets and the linearly-spaced magnets can magnetically engage so that rotation of the pinion magnets is magnetically translated to the substrate support to move the substrate support along the linear path wherein each linearly-spaced magnet and each pinion magnet is a plate and each plate is oriented at an angle .alpha. between a primary axis of the plate and an axis of rotation of the pinion. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the angle .alpha. is between about 0.degree. and 45.degree.. 7. An apparatus for processing a substrate, comprising: first chamber; a second chamber in communication with the first chamber; a substrate transfer shuttle movable along a generally linear path between the first chamber and the second chamber, the shuttle including first and second pluralities of rack magnets located along opposite sides of the shuttle; a first rotatable pinion having a first plurality of pinion magnets; a second rotatable pinion having a second plurality of pinion magnets; a first plurality of guide rollers positioned to contact a lower portion of the shuttle so as to support the shuttle and guide the shuttle along the linear path, and a second plurality of guide rollers positioned to contact an upper portion of the shuttle to prevent the shuttle from lifting off the first plurality of guide rollers; and wherein the first plurality of pinion magnets can magnetically engage the first plurality of rack magnets and the second plurality of pinion magnets can magnetically engage the second plurality of rack magnets, so that rotation of the first and second pinion magnets is magnetically translated to the shuttle to move the shuttle along the linear path. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the first and second pluralities of pinion magnets each includes a first set of magnets having a first polarity interleaved with a second set of magnets having a second polarity, and the first and second pluralities of rack magnets each includes a third set of magnets of the second polarity interleaved with a fourth set of magnets of the first polarity, and the first and second pluralities of pinion and rack magnets being positioned such that the first and third sets of magnets can magnetically couple and the second and fourth sets of magnets can magnetically couple. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the first and second sets of magnets have magnetic axes that are oriented substantially radially, and the third and fourth sets of magnets have magnetic axes that are orientated substantially vertically. 10. The apparatus of claim 7, further comprising a first motor to drive the first pinion. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, further comprising a second motor to drive the second pinion. 12. The apparatus of claim 10, further comprising a drive shaft connecting the first pinion and the second pinion. 13. An apparatus for processing a substrate, comprising: a first chamber; a second chamber in communication with the first chamber; a substrate transfer shuttle movable along a generally linear path between the first chamber and the second chamber, the shuttle including first and second pluralities of rack magnets located along opposite sides of the shuttle; a first plurality of guide rollers positioned to contact a lower portion of the shuttle; a second plurality of guide rollers positioned to contact an upper portion of the shuttle; a first rotatable pinion having a first plurality of pinion magnets; a second rotatable pinion having a second plurality of pinion magnets; and wherein the first plurality of pinion magnets can magnetically engage the first plurality of rack magnets and the second plurality of pinion magnets can engage the second plurality of rack magnets, so that rotation of the first and second pinions magnets is magnetically translated to the shuttle to move the shuttle along the linear path. 