A method of extracting features characterising objects consists in discriminating an object from a context, the discriminating step comprising, determining the context consisting of at least two objects, choosing a topic object from the context, deriving feature sets of the topic object and the other objects in the context, judging whether there is at least one distinctive feature set in the feature sets, deriving a new feature set if there is not a distinctive feature set amongst the feature sets, and registering one of the distinctive feature sets as an outcome; and restarting the discriminating step when there exists an object which is not discriminated from the other objects. This method represents a selectionist approach to the characterisation of objects, driven by a discrimination task. There is also an apparatus putting this method into practice and a system for autonomous development of a common vocabulary by a plurality of agents incorporating the method and/or apparatus.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A machine-implemented method employing artificial intelligence for extracting features characterising entities, the method comprising: discriminating an entity from a context, the step of discriminating including (a) determining the context consisting of at least two entities, (b) choosing a topic entity from the context, (c) ascribing to the topic entity, and to the other entities in the context, respective features applicable thereto taken from a feature repertoire, (d) judging whether, among the ascribed features, there is a set of features which differentiates the topic entity from the other entities in the context, (e) if the result of the judging step is negative, deriving a new feature and adding said new feature to the feature repertoire, and (f) if the result of the judging step is positive, registering the distinctive feature set, or one of the distinctive features sets if a plurality thereof exist, as an outcome. 2. A method according to claim 1, wherein the discrimination step is repeated with a different entity being chosen as the topic in step (b). 3. A method according to claim 1, wherein the discrimination step is restarted if the context contains any entity which has not yet been discriminated from the other entities in the context. 4. A method according to claim 1, wherein the entities are objects. 5. A method according to claim 4, wherein each feature of the feature is expressed in a pair of an attribute and a value. 6. A method according to claim 4, wherein each feature in the feature repertoire is derived by a feature detector ascribing one or more values to the output range of a first data channel. 7. A method according to claim 6, wherein the step of deriving a new feature comprises: creating a new feature detector ascribing one or more values to the output range of a data channel, different from the first data channel, for which no feature detector has yet been created. 8. A method according to claim 6, wherein the step of deriving a new feature comprises: modifying a feature detector so as to increase the number of values ascribed thereby to the output range of the corresponding data channel. 9. A method according to claim 1, and comprising the step of counting the number of times each feature of the feature repertoire forms part of a distinctive feature set. 10. A method according to claim 1, wherein the step of registering comprises: judging whether there exists a smallest distinctive feature set; and if there is a smallest distinctive feature set, registering said smallest distinctive feature set as the outcome. 11. A method according to claim 10, wherein the step of registering comprises: if there is no smallest distinctive feature set, judging whether there is a distinctive feature set corresponding to the smallest number of segmentations of data channels; and if there is a distinctive feature set corresponding to the smallest number of segmentations of data channels, registering this distinctive feature set corresponding to the smallest number of segmentations as the outcome. 12. A method according to claim 11, wherein the step of registering comprises: if there is no distinctive feature set corresponding to the smallest number of segmentations of data channels, registering as the outcome the feature set which has been used most often. 13. Artificial intelligence apparatus extracting features characterising entities, the apparatus comprising: means for receiving information on entities in the field of attention of the apparatus, via one or more data channels; means for determining within the field of attention of the apparatus a context consisting of at least two entities, selection means for choosing a topic entity from the context, means for applying one or more feature detectors to the information received by the receiving means during a time period, whereby to ascribe to the topic entity, and to the other entities in the context, respective features applicable thereto taken from a feature repertoire, judging means for determining whether, among the ascribed features, there is a set of features which differentiates the topic entity from the other entities in the context, new feature creation means adapted, if the result of the judging step is negative, to define a new feature and add said new feature to the feature repertoire, and registration means adapted, if the result of the judging step is positive, to register the distinctive feature set, or one of the distinctive feature sets if a plurality thereof exist, as an outcome. 14. Apparatus according to claim 13, wherein the selection means is adapted to select different entities from the context as the topic entity. 15. Apparatus according to claim 14, wherein the selection means is adapted to select, as the topic entity, any entity which has not yet been discriminated from the other entities in the context. 16. Apparatus according to claim 13, wherein the or each feature detector is adapted to detect one or more features corresponding to values in the output range of a corresponding data channel. 17. Apparatus according to claim 16, wherein the new feature creation means is adapted to creating a new feature detector operative on a data channel for which no feature detector yet exists created. 18. Apparatus according to claim 16, wherein the new feature creation means is adapted to modify an existing feature detector so that the number of features detectable thereby increases whereby to correspond to an increased number of different values in the output range of the corresponding data channel. 19. Apparatus according to claim 13, and comprising counting means for counting the number of times each feature of the feature repertoire forms part of a distinctive feature set. 20. Apparatus according to claim 19, wherein the registration means is adapted to judge whether there exists a smallest distinctive feature set and, if there is a smallest distinctive feature set, to register said smallest distinctive feature set as the outcome. 21. Apparatus according to claim 20, wherein the registration means is adapted, if there is no smallest distinctive feature set, to judge whether there is a distinctive feature set corresponding to the smallest number of segmentations of data channels; and if there is a distinctive feature set corresponding to the smallest number of segmentations of data channels, to register this distinctive feature set corresponding to the smallest number of segmentations as the outcome. 22. Apparatus according to claim 21, wherein the registration means is adapted, if there is no distinctive feature set corresponding to the smallest number of segmentations of data channels, to register as the outcome the feature set which has been used most often. 23. An artificial intelligence multi-agent system in which the agents autonomously develop a common set of representations to identify a common set of features, wherein: each of the agents in the system comprises apparatus according to claim 13, the agents are adapted to seek to discriminate topic entities from a context during synchronised discrimination cycles during which a first agent operates in a first mode and at least one second agent operates in a second mode, the agents are adapted, in the first mode, to generate and transmit to the other agent(s) respective representations identifying the distinctive feature sets registered by the registration means thereof during particular discrimination cycles; and the agents are adapted, in the second mode, to record an association, or modify a recorded association, between the received representations and the distinctive feature sets registered by their own registration means during the respective corresponding discrimination cycles. 24. A multi-agent system according to claim 23, wherein the agents are adapted, in said first mode, to select for transmission a representation evaluated as having the greatest probability of leading to correct identification, by the other agent(s), of the corresponding feature(s). 25. A multi-agent system according to claim 23, wherein the agents are adapted to identify which representation identifies a particular feature by performing an evaluation including the step of determining which representation is received most often when said particular feature forms part of a distinctive feature set registered by the registration means of said agent operating in the second mode. 26. A multi-agent system according to claim 23, wherein the agents are adapted to identify which representation identifies a particular feature by performing an evaluation including the step of determining which representation has been transmitted thereby to the other agents most often to identify distinctive feature sets including said particular feature. 