The amount of particulate contamination produced due to rubbing between a semiconductor substrate and the robotic substrate handling blade has been greatly reduced by the use of specialized materials either as the principal material of construction for the semiconductor substrate handling blade, or as a coating upon the surface of the substrate handling blade. In particular, the specialized material must exhibit the desired stiffness at temperatures in excess of about 450.degree. C.; the specialized material must also have an abrasion resistant surface which does not produce particulates when rubbed against the semiconductor substrate. The abrasion resistant surface needs to be very smooth, having a surface finish of less than 1.0 micro inch, and preferably less than 0.2 micro inch. In addition, the surface must be essentially void-free. In the most preferred embodiments, the upper, top surface of the substrate handling blade is constructed from a dielectric material being smooth, non-porous, and wear-resistant. A preferred material for construction of the substrate handling blade is single crystal sapphire. Other single crystal materials, such as single crystal silicon and single crystal silicon carbide should also perform well. In a particularly preferred embodiment of the substrate handling blade, a capacitance sensor is used to indicate the presence of a semiconductor substrate on the surface of the handling blade and a structure through which vacuum is applied may be used to hold (chuck) the semiconductor substrate to the surface of the handling blade.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus for handling a semiconductor substrate, comprising: a surface upon which said semiconductor substrate is lifted or carried from one process or storage location to another, wherein said surface is formed from a specialized material having an essentially void-free structure, wherein said specialized material is selected from the group consisting of a single crystal, a fine-grained crystal, a fused crystal, and a combination thereof, and wherein said surface is smooth, having a finish of 1.0 micro inch or less, and is a low-friction surface, whereby said surface reduces the generation of particulates when contacted with said semiconductor substrate. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said specialized material is a dielectric. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said specialized material is thermally stable to temperatures in excess of about 400.degree. C. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said surface has a finish of 0.1 micro inch or less. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said specialized material is single crystal sapphire. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the void volume of specialized material is less then about two percent. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said specialized material is a coating applied over said surface which contacts said semiconductor substrate. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the upper surface of said apparatus comprises a capacitance sensor which is used to detect the presence of said semiconductor substrate over said upper surface. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein said capacitance sensor is located beneath said upper surface. 10. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein said capacitance sensor is comprised of at least one electrically isolated capacitive sensor and at least one grounding source or layer. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein said capacitive sensor is comprised of a sensing layer and an underlying guard layer, separated by an electrically isolating layer. 12. A semiconductor substrate handling blade used to lift or carry a semiconductor substrate from one process or storage location to another, wherein an upper surface of said handling blade, which contacts said semiconductor substrate, is formed from a specialized material having an essentially void-free structure, wherein said specialized material is selected from the group consisting of a single crystal, a fine-grained crystal, or a fused crystal, and wherein said upper surface is smooth, having a finish of 1.0 micro inch or less, and is a low-friction surface, whereby said surface reduces the generation of particulates when contacted with said semiconductor substrate. 13. The substrate handling blade of claim 12, wherein said specialized material is a dielectric. 14. The substrate handling blade of claim 12, wherein said specialized material is thermally stable to temperatures in excess of about 400.degree. C. 15. The substrate handling blade of claim 12, wherein said surface has a finish of 0.1 micro inch or less. 16. The substrate handling blade of claim 12, wherein said specialized material is a single crystal selected from the group consisting of single crystal sapphire, single crystal silicon, and single crystal silicon carbide. 17. The substrate handling blade of claim 12, wherein the density of said specialized material is at least 3.9 g/cc. 18. The substrate handling blade of claim 12, wherein said upper surface of said substrate handling blade comprises a front shoe and a rear shoe. 19. The substrate handling blade of claim 18, wherein said front shoe and said rear shoe are formed from a specialized material having an essentially void-free structure having a smooth, optical or mirror finish, whereby a surface of said front shoe and a surface of said rear shoe which contact said semiconductor substrate are wear-resistant. 20. The substrate handling blade of claim 19, wherein said front shoe comprises a vacuum chuck for chucking a semiconductor substrate placed on a surface of said front shoe. 21. The substrate handling blade of claim 19, wherein said surface of said front shoe and said surface of said rear shoe which contact said semiconductor substrate are formed from a dielectric. 22. The substrate handling blade of claim 19, wherein said specialized material from which said front shoe and said rear shoe are formed is thermally stable to temperatures in excess of about 400.degree. C. 23. The substrate handing blade of claim 19, wherein the shape of said front shoe provides for two points of contact between a trailing edge of said front shoe and said semiconductor substrate. 24. The substrate handling blade of claim 23, wherein said trailing edge of said front shoe comprises cut-away sections which permit fitting to a semiconductor device substrate which has corners, whereby damage to said corners is reduced or avoided. 25. The substrate handling blade of claim 23, wherein a leading edge of said rear shoe provides a single contact point for an edge of said semiconductor substrate. 26. The substrate handling blade of claim 25, wherein said leading edge of said rear shoe has a radius which is larger than a radius of said semiconductor substrate. 27. The substrate handling blade of claim 12, wherein said upper surface of said substrate handing blade comprises a capacitance sensor which is used to detect the presence of said semiconductor substrate over said upper surface. 28. The substrate handling blade of claim 27, wherein said capacitance sensor is located beneath said upper surface. 29. The apparatus of claim 28, wherein said capacitance sensor is comprised of at least one electrically isolated capacitive sensor and at least one grounding source or layer. 30. The apparatus of claim 29, wherein said capacitive sensor is comprised of a sensing layer and an underlying guard layer, separated by an electrically isolating layer. 