A calibration wafer for precisely aligning a wafer-handling system that processes a plurality of product wafers. The calibration wafer has radial and thickness dimensions and tolerances equivalent to those of the product wafers and further comprises a first center marker adapted for alignment with a second center marker external to the calibration wafer. The calibration wafer may be a component of a wafer center alignment device for precisely aligning a wafer-handling system in a calibration location in relation to a wafer-processing tool, the device further comprising an alignment jig adapted to be repeatably mounted on the tool and on which the second center marker is located. The calibration wafer is adapted to be positioned so that the first center marker aligns with the second center marker. The first and second markers may be visual alignment devices, in which case the calibration wafer may be at least partially transparent, or the markers may be mechanical alignment devices or a transmitter and receiver. Methods for aligning a wafer-handling system are also provided.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A calibration wafer for alignment of a wafer-handling system adapted to process a plurality of product wafers, said calibration wafer having (a) radial and thickness dimensions and tolerances substantially equivalent to said product wafers and (b) an edge and further comprising a center marker located at a point equidistant radially from the edge of the calibration wafer and adapted for alignment with a second marker external to said calibration wafer. 2. The calibration wafer of claim 1 wherein the wafer has at least a portion that is transparent. 3. The calibration wafer of claim 2 wherein the center marker is a visual alignment device. 4. The calibration wafer of claim 3 wherein the center marker comprises a light source adapted to transmit a light beam. 5. The calibration wafer of claim 1 wherein the center marker is one of a transmitter adapted to transmit a signal to said second marker and a receiver adapted to receive a signal from said second marker. 6. The calibration wafer of claim 5 wherein the center marker is a receiver adapted to receive a signal from said second marker and said receiver is adapted to transmit a calibration signal to a wafer-processing tool. 7. A calibration wafer for alignment of a wafer-handling system adapted to process a plurality of product wafers, said calibration wafer having radial and thickness dimensions and tolerances equivalent to said product wafers and further comprising a center marker adapted for alignment with a second marker external to said calibration wafer, wherein the center marker is a visual alignment pin. 8. The calibration wafer of claim 7 further comprising an alignment bushing in which said alignment pin is mounted, said bushing adapted to enable movement of said alignment pin relative to said bushing along a longitudinal axis of said alignment pin. 9. A wafer center alignment device for precisely aligning a wafer-handling system in a calibration location with respect to a wafer-processing tool, said wafer center alignment device comprising: an alignment jig adapted to be repeatably mounted on said tool and having a second center marker; and a calibration wafer having a first center marker, said calibration wafer adapted to be positioned with said first center marker in alignment with said second center marker. 10. The wafer center alignment device of claim 9 wherein said alignment jig further comprises: an alignment fixture adapted to be repeatably mounted on said tool, said fixture having at least one edge stop; and an edge-to-center locator mounted on said alignment fixture, said locator having said second center marker thereon and a peripheral edge, said second center marker positioned to mark the precise center of said calibration location when said edge-to-center locator peripheral edge is positioned in contact with said at least one alignment fixture edge stop. 11. The wafer center alignment device according to claim 10 wherein said calibration wafer first center marker and said edge-to-center locator second center marker comprise a transmitter and a receiver. 12. The wafer center alignment device according to claim 11 wherein said receiver is connected to said wafer-handling system and is adapted to transmit a calibration signal thereto. 13. The wafer center alignment device of claim 10 wherein said calibration location is a wafer pickup-dismount location of a first wafer-handling system and a wafer pickup-dismount location of a second wafer-handling system. 14. The wafer center alignment device of claim 10 wherein said wafer-processing tool comprises a tilt-plate assembly onto which said alignment fixture is adapted to be repeatably mounted. 15. The wafer center alignment device of claim 14 wherein said alignment fixture comprises a hole and a clamp mechanism, the hole having an inside edge and the clamp mechanism having two contact points, and said tilt-plate assembly comprises a post and a peripheral edge, such that with said alignment fixture mounted on said tilt-plate assembly, said post protrudes through said hole and contacts said inside edge and said clamp mechanism contact points contact said tilt-plate assembly peripheral edge. 16. The wafer center alignment device of claim 9 wherein said calibration wafer has at least a portion that is transparent. 17. The wafer center alignment device of claim 16 wherein said first and second center markers are visual alignment devices. 18. The wafer center alignment device of claim 17 wherein said calibration wafer first center marker is an alignment pin. 19. The wafer center alignment device of claim 18 wherein said calibration wafer further comprises an alignment bushing in which said alignment pin is mounted, said bushing adapted to enable movement of said alignment pin relative to said bushing along a longitudinal axis of said pin. 20. The wafer center alignment device of claim 17 wherein said second center marker comprises one of a set of cross-hairs and a bulls-eye. 21. The wafer center alignment device of claim 17 wherein said first center marker is a transmitter of a visible light beam. 22. The wafer center alignment device of claim 9 where said first and second center markers are mechanical alignment devices. 23. The wafer center alignment device of claim 22 wherein said calibration wafer further comprises an alignment bushing in which said first center marker is mounted, said bushing adapted to enable movement of said first marker relative to said bushing along a longitudinal axis perpendicular to said wafer to permit said first marker to interlock with said second marker when aligned. 24. A method of aligning a wafer-handling system in a calibration location with respect to a wafer-processing tool, the method comprising the steps of: (a) mounting a pre-calibrated jig to said tool at said calibration location, said jig comprising a second center marker; (b) placing a calibration wafer at said calibration location with said wafer-handling system, the calibration wafer having a first center marker; (c) evaluating alignment of the second center marker with the first center marker; (d) adjusting the wafer-handling system as necessary; and (e) repeating steps (b) through (d) as necessary until the wafer is placed in step (b) in a position where the second center marker and the first center marker are aligned within a predetermined tolerance. 25. The method of claim 24 wherein the jig further comprises an alignment fixture having at least one edge stop and an edge-to-center locator having a peripheral edge and comprising said second center marker, the method further comprising in step (a) mounting the alignment fixture to said tool and then positioning said edge-to-center locator peripheral edge in contact with said at least one edge stop such that said edge-to-center locator first center marker identifies the precise center of said calibration location. 26. The method of claim 25 further comprising, before step (a), pre-calibrating the jig by the steps of: (i) mounting the alignment fixture to said tool at said calibration location; (ii) placing a wafer at said calibration location with said wafer-handling system, said wafer having been pre-aligned to the wafer-handling system by a sequentially adjacent processing tool; (iii) adjusting the at least one edge stop to be positioned in peripheral contact with said wafer, and (iv) fixing said at least one edge stop in such position. 27. The method of claim 25 wherein said calibration location is a wafer pickup-dismount location for more than one wafer-handling system, said method comprising performing steps (a) through (f) for at least one of said wafer-handling systems, and performing one of steps (a) through (f) or steps (g) through (j) for all other wafer-handling systems to be calibrated until all said more than one wafer-handling systems have been calibrated, steps (g) through (j) comprising: (g) placing a wafer at or just above said calibration location with a wafer-handling system to be calibrated, the wafer having a peripheral edge; (h) evaluating alignment of the wafer with the alignment fixture by evaluating contact of a peripheral edge of said wafer with said at least one edge stop; (i) adjusting the wafer-handling system to be calibrated; (j) repeating steps (g) through (i) as necessary until the wafer is placed in step (g) in a position where the wafer peripheral edge and at least one edge stop are aligned within a predetermined tolerance. 28. The method of claim 24 wherein said calibration wafer has at least a portion that is transparent and said first center marker and said second center marker are both visual alignment devices, and wherein step (c) comprises visually observing through said calibration wafer the alignment of said first and second center markers. 29. The method of claim 28 wherein said first center marker is a calibration pin and said calibration wafer comprises a planar surface having an alignment bushing centered therein in which said calibration pin is mounted, in which step (c) comprises mechanically translating said first center marker orthogonally with respect to said wafer planar surface to reduce parallax when evaluating said alignment by visual observation. 30. The method of claim 24 wherein said calibration wafer comprises a planar surface having an alignment bushing centered therein in which said first center marker is mounted, and said first center marker and said second center marker are both interlocking mechanical alignment devices, and wherein step (c) comprises mechanically translating said first center marker orthogonally with respect to said wafer planar surface to mechanically interlock said first and second center markers. 31. The method of claim 24 wherein said first center marker and said second center marker are a transmitter and receiver, and wherein step (c) comprises receiving an alignment signal by said receiver from said transmitter and transmitting a calibration signal to said wafer-handling system and step (e) comprises automatically adjusting said wafer-handling system in response to said calibration signal. 