The present invention provides a hopping robot that includes a misfire tolerant linear actuator suitable for long trips, low energy steering and control, reliable low energy righting, miniature low energy fuel control. The present invention provides a robot with hopping mobility, capable of traversing obstacles significant in size relative to the robot and capable of operation on unpredictable terrain over long range. The present invention further provides a hopping robot with misfire-tolerant combustion actuation, and with combustion actuation suitable for use in oxygen-poor environments.
Claims We claim: 1. A robot with hopping mobility, comprising: a) A self-righting faceted cage; b) A linear actuator gimbal mounted with the cage; c) A force transducer adapted to impart acceleration to the robot responsive to the linear actuator. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the faceted cage comprises a set of desired facets, and wherein the gimbal is adapted to hold the linear actuator such that the center of gravity of the righting apparatus causes the righting apparatus to be unstable unless the righting apparatus is resting on a desired facet. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the faceted cage has a shape chosen from the group consisting of: cube, rectangular prism, tetrahedron, truncated tetrahedron, rhombic dodecahedron, prism, spletzeroid, separated hemispheres, octahedron, convex polyhedron, and closed convex shape comprising curved facets. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the faceted cage comprises a skin substantially enclosing the cage. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the faceted cage comprises a cage having a plurality of struts, wherein the struts of the cage define a shape selected from the group consisting of: cube, rectangular prism, tetrahedron, truncated tetrahedron, rhombic dodecahedron, prism, spletzeroid, separated hemispheres, octahedron, convex polyhedron, and closed convex shape comprising curved facets. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the faceted cage comprises a skin substantially enclosing the cage. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the faceted cage comprises: a) An outer structure, comprising first and second end structures mounted along a first axis, wherein said structures each comprise a plurality of struts disposed about the first axis at substantially regular azimuthal intervals; b) A gimbal mounted with said structures along said first axis, comprising first fittings allowing rotation about said first axis, an inner structure mounted with said first fittings, second fittings mounted with said inner structure allowing rotation about a second axis substantially orthogonal to said first axis and adapted to hold said linear actuator. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the faceted cage comprises a skin mounted with and substantially covering said outer structure. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the faceted cage has a spletzeroid shape. 10. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the struts of the cage define a spletzeroid shape. 11. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the linear actuator comprises a member mobile along an actuation axis with respect to the robot, and wherein the force transducer comprises a foot mounted with the mobile member and shaped so that as the mobile member moves toward the support surface the foot contacts the support surface at a point off the actuation axis before any contact along the actuation axis between the support surface and either the foot or the mobile member. 12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein said foot comprises: a) A strut mounted with the mobile member and extending therefrom at an angle to the actuation axis; and b) A first post mounted with the strut distal from the actuation axis and extending from the strut in a direction parallel to the actuation axis a distance that places the first post closer to the support surface, measured parallel to the actuation axis, than the strut and than the mobile member. 13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein said foot further comprises a second post mounted with the strut at a point substantially colinear with the actuation axis and the first post and at a lesser radial distance from the actuation axis than the first post, wherein said second post extends from the strut in a direction parallel to the actuation axis a distance that places the second post closer to the support surface, measured parallel to the actuation axis, than the strut and the mobile member, and farther from the actuation axis, measured parallel to the actuation axis, than the first post. 14. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein said foot has a substantially uniform cross section extending along the actuation axis, and wherein said foot is mounted substantially coaxial with said actuation axis, and wherein the end of said foot distal said mobile member has a shape truncated at its perimeter by a plane inclined relative to the actuation axis. 15. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein said foot is rotably mounted with said mobile member, and further comprising an actuator mounted with said robot to rotate said foot relative to said mobile member. 16. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein said mobile member is rotably mounted with said force generator, and further comprising an actuator mounted with said robot for rotating said mobile member relative to said linear actuator. 17. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein said linear actuator is rotably mounted with said robot, and further comprising an actuator mounted with said robot for rotating said force generator relative to said robot. 18. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said linear actuator comprises a member mobile along an actuation axis with respect to the robot, and wherein said transducer comprises: a) A foot mounted with the mobile member and shaped so that as the mobile member moves toward the support surface the foot contacts the support surface at a point off the actuation axis before any contact along the actuation axis between the support surface and either the foot or the mobile member; b) An actuator mounted with said robot for rotating said foot relative to said robot. 19. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein said foot comprises: a) A strut mounted with the mobile member and extending therefrom at an angle to the actuation axis; and b) A first post mounted with the strut distal from the actuation axis and extending from the strut in a direction parallel to the actuation axis a distance that places the first post closer to the support surface, measured parallel to the actuation axis, than the strut and than the mobile member. 20. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein said foot further comprises a second post mounted with the strut at a point substantially colinear with the actuation axis and the first post and at a lesser radial distance from the actuation axis than the first post, wherein said second post extends from the strut in a direction parallel to the actuation axis a distance that places the second post closer to the support surface, measured parallel to the actuation axis, than the strut and the mobile member, and farther from the actuation axis, measured parallel to the actuation axis, than the first post. 21. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein said foot has a substantially uniform cross section extending along the actuation axis, and wherein said foot is mounted substantially coaxial with said actuation axis, and wherein the end of said foot distal said mobile member has a shape truncated at its perimeter by a plane inclined relative to the actuation axis. 22. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein said foot is rotably mounted with said mobile member, and wherein said actuator rotates said foot relative to said mobile member. 23. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein said mobile member is rotably mounted with said linear actuator, and wherein said actuator rotates said mobile member relative to said linear actuator. 24. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein said linear actuator is rotably mounted with said robot, and wherein said actuator rotates said linear actuator relative to said robot. 25. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein said plane is inclined at an angle between about ten degrees and about 40 degrees. 26. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein said plane is inclined at an angle of substantially thirty degrees. 27. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said linear actuator comprises a combustion-powered linear actuator, comprising: a) A body having a body chamber therein; b) A power piston movably mounted within the body chamber and defining a combustion chamber; c) An exhaust port in fluid communication with the combustion chamber; d) A fuel system adapted for storage of a combustible fuel; e) A carburetion system in fluid communication with the fuel system and with the combustion chamber, adapted to purge the combustion chamber and to deliver combustible fuel to the combustion chamber in a state suitable for combustion; f) An ignition system mounted with the body adapted to initiate combustion within the combustion chamber. 28. The apparatus of claim 27, wherein said carburetion system comprises: a) A purge piston movably mounted within the body chamber; b) A purge energy source that urges the purge piston toward the exhaust port; c) A charge energy source that urges the purge piston away from the exhaust port; d) A fuel controller that allows fuel into the combustion chamber when the purge piston is moving away from the exhaust port but not when the purge piston is moving toward the exhaust port. 29. The apparatus of claim 28, wherein the purge energy combustion-powered linear actuator comprises a spring. 30. The apparatus of claim 28, wherein the purge energy source comprises pressure of fuel in the fuel system. 31. The apparatus of claim 28, wherein the charge energy source comprises a spring. 32. The apparatus of claim 28, wherein the charge energy source comprises pressure of fuel in the fuel system. 33. The apparatus of claim 28, wherein the fuel controller comprises a valve. 34. The apparatus of claim 28, wherein the ignition source comprises a spark plug. 35. The apparatus of claim 28, wherein the fuel system comprises an oxidizer storage unit, adapted for storing a material suitable for oxidation of the combustible fuel, and in fluid communication with the carburetion system. 36. The apparatus of claim 35, wherein the material suitable for oxidation of the combustible fuel comprises nitrous oxide. 37. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said linear actuator comprises a combustion-powered linear actuator, comprising: a) A body having an internal cavity therein, the cavity having first and second ends disposed along an axis; b) A power piston mounted, slidable along the axis, with the body in the cavity, defining therewith a first chamber; c) A purge piston mounted, slidable along the axis, with the body in the first chamber, defining a combustion chamber as the part of the first chamber between the power piston and the purge piston, and the body having a port in fluid communication with the combustion chamber and with the atmosphere outside the body; d) A power piston return system, comprising a spring, mounted with the body and adapted to urge the power piston away from the second end to a position between the first and second ends; e) A purge piston return system, comprising a spring, mounted with the body and adapted to urge the purge piston from a position between the first and second ends toward the first end; f) A secondary cylinder mounted with the body and in mechanical communication with the purge piston, wherein expansion of fuel in the secondary cylinder urges the purge piston away from the first end toward a position between the first and second ends; g) A fuel storage system adapted for pressurized storage of a combustible fuel, comprising a fuel reservoir and a first fuel control valve, in fluid communication with the secondary cylinder, wherein opening the first fuel control valve communicates fuel from the fuel reservoir to the secondary cylinder; h) A fuel delivery system in fluid communication with the secondary cylinder and with the combustion chamber, comprising a second fuel control valve, wherein opening the second fuel control valve communicates fuel from the secondary cylinder to the combustion chamber; and i) An ignition source adapted for igniting fuel in the combustion chamber. 38. The apparatus of claim 37, further comprising a slam check valve mounted with the port. 39. The apparatus of claim 37, further comprising an oxidizer storage system comprising: a) An oxidizer control valve in fluid communication with the combustion chamber; b) An oxidizer reservoir in fluid communication with the oxidizer control valve, adapted for pressurized storage of an oxidizer, wherein opening the oxidizer control valve communicates oxidizer from the oxidizer reservoir to the combustion chamber. 40. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said linear actuator comprises a combustion-powered linear actuator, comprising: a) A body having a cavity therein, the cavity having first and second ends disposed along an axis; b) A piston mounted, slidable along the axis, with the body in the cavity, defining a combustion chamber as the portion of the cavity between the piston and the first end of the cavity, and the body having a port in fluid communication with the combustion chamber and with the atmosphere outside the cavity; c) A first rod mounted, slidable along the axis, with the body between the piston and the second end, the first rod having an internal cavity; d) A second rod mounted with the piston and extending therefrom into the internal cavity of the first rod, defining a secondary chamber as the portion of the internal cavity of the first rod not occupied by the second rod; e) A power return system comprising a spring, mounted with the piston and the body, adapted to urge the piston away from the second end toward a position between the first and second ends; f) A purge return system comprising a spring, mounted with the piston and the body, adapted to urge the piston away from the first end toward a position between the first and second ends; g) A fuel storage system adapted for pressurized storage of a combustible fuel, comprising a fuel reservoir and a first fuel control valve, in fluid communication with the secondary cylinder, wherein opening the first fuel control valve communicates fuel from the fuel reservoir to the secondary cylinder; h) A fuel delivery system in fluid communication with the secondary cylinder and with the combustion chamber, comprising a second fuel control valve, wherein opening the second fuel control valve communicates fuel from the secondary cylinder to the combustion chamber; and i) An ignition source adapted for igniting fuel in the combustion chamber. 41. The apparatus of claim 40, further comprising an oxidizer storage system comprising: a) An oxidizer control valve in fluid communication with the combustion chamber; b) An oxidizer reservoir in fluid communication with the oxidizer control valve, adapted for pressurized storage of an oxidizer, wherein opening the oxidizer control valve communicates oxidizer from the oxidizer reservoir to the combustion chamber. 42. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said linear actuator comprises a combustion-powered linear actuator, comprising: a) A body having a cavity therein, the cavity having first and second ends disposed along an axis; b) A piston mounted, slidable along the axis, within the cavity, defining a combustion chamber as the portion of the cavity between the piston and the first end of the cavity; c) A piston return system comprising a spring, mounted with the body, adapted to urge the piston away from the first end and toward a position between the first and second ends; d) A fuel reservoir, adapted for pressurized storage of a combustible fuel; e) An oxidizer reservoir, adapted for pressurized storage of a oxidizer; f) A fuel control valve, in fluid communication with the fuel reservoir and with the combustion chamber, where opening the fuel control valve communicates fuel from the fuel reservoir to the combustion chamber; g) An oxidizer control valve, in fluid communication with the oxidizer reservoir and with the combustion chamber, where opening the oxidizer control valve communicates oxidizer from the oxidizer reservoir to the combustion chamber; h) An ignition source adapted to ignite fuel and fuel and oxidizer combination in the combustion chamber; and i) An exhaust port in fluid communication with the combustion chamber, adapted to exhaust contents of the combustion chamber therefrom. 43. The apparatus of claim 42, wherein the oxidizer comprises nitrous oxide. 44. The apparatus of claim 39, wherein the oxidizer comprises nitrous oxide. 45. The apparatus of claim 41, wherein the oxidizer comprises nitrous oxide. 46. The apparatus of claim 42, wherein the fuel is chosen from the group consisting of: propane, butane, and propyne. 47. The apparatus of claim 40, wherein the fuel is chosen from the group consisting of: propane, butane, and propyne. 48. The apparatus of claim 37, wherein the fuel is chosen from the group consisting of: propane, butane, and propyne. 49. The apparatus of claim 27, wherein the fuel is chosen from the group consisting of: propane, butane, and propyne. 50. The apparatus of claim 33, wherein the valve comprises a miniature electrically operable valve, comprising: a) A housing defining a volume; b) First and second fluid ports into said volume; c) A beam having a seat mounted therewith, said beam mounted with said housing so that said seat is moveable between a first position where said seat does not substantially seal said first fluid port and a second position where said seat substantially seals said first fluid port; d) An electromagnetic force generator mounted with said housing that urges said seat toward one of said first and second positions when electrical power is supplied to said electromagnetic force generator. 51. The apparatus of claim 50, wherein said beam is mounted so that said beam is passively urged opposite the urging of said electromagnetic force generator. 52. The apparatus of claim 51, wherein said passive urging is selected from the group consisting of: a beam orientation such that gravity passively urges said beam, a permanent magnet mounted with said housing such that magnetic force therefrom passively urges said beam, flexure of said beam, fluid flow through said valve, and combinations thereof. 53. The apparatus of claim 33, wherein the valve comprises a miniature electrically operable valve, comprising: a) A housing defining a volume; b) First and second fluid ports into said volume; c) A beam having a seat mounted therewith, said beam mounted with said housing so that said seat is moveable between a first position where said seat does not substantially seal said first fluid port and a second position where said seat substantially seals said first fluid port; d) An electromagnetic force generator mounted with said housing that urges said seat toward one of said first and second positions when electrical power of a first polarity is supplied to said electromagnetic force generator and urges said seat toward the other of said first and second positions when electrical power of a second polarity opposite said first polarity is supplied to said electromagnetic force generator. 54. The apparatus of claim 53, further comprising a first latch mounted with said housing, where said first latch supplies force acting on said beam sufficient to hold said beam in a first latched position, said first latched position being one of said first and second positions, when no electrical power is supplied to said electromagnetic force generator, but insufficient to hold said beam in said first latched position when electrical power is supplied to said electromagnetic force generator. 55. The apparatus of claim 54, further comprising a second latch mounted with said housing, where said second latch supplies force acting on said beam sufficient to hold said beam in a second latched position, said second latched position being one of said first and second positions and not said first latched position, when no electrical power is supplied to said electromagnetic force generator, but insufficient to hold said beam in said second latched position when electrical power is supplied to said electromagnetic force generator. 56. The apparatus of claim 51 wherein said first latch comprises a permanent magnet. 57. The miniature electrically operable valve of claim 6 wherein said second latch comprises a permanent magnet. 58. The apparatus of claim 33, wherein the valve comprises a miniature electrically operable valve, comprising: a) A housing defining a volume; b) First and second fluid ports into said volume; c) A beam having a seat mounted therewith, said beam mounted with said housing so that said seat is moveable between a first position where said seat does not substantially seal said first fluid port and a second position where said seat substantially seals said first fluid port; d) A first electromagnetic force generator mounted with said housing that urges said seat toward one of said first and second positions when electrical power is supplied to said first electromagnetic force generator; e) A second electromagnetic force generator mounted with said housing that urges said seat toward the other of said first and second positions when electrical power is supplied to said second electromagnetic force generator. 59. The apparatus of claim 58, further comprising a first latch mounted with said housing, where said first latch supplies force acting on said beam sufficient to hold said beam in a first latched position, said first latched position being one of said first and second positions, when no electrical power is supplied to said first electromagnetic force generator, but insufficient to hold said beam in said first latched position when electrical power is supplied to said first electromagnetic force generator. 60. The apparatus of claim 59, further comprising a second latch mounted with said housing, where said second latch supplies force acting on said beam sufficient to hold said beam in a second latched position, said second latched position being one of said first and second positions and not said first latched position, when no electrical power is supplied to said second electromagnetic force generator, but insufficient to hold said beam in said second latched position when electrical power is supplied to said second electromagnetic force generator. 61. The apparatus of claim 54, wherein said first latch comprises a permanent magnet. 62. The apparatus of claim 55, wherein said second latch comprises a permanent magnet. 63. The apparatus of claim 33, wherein the valve comprises a miniature electrically operable valve, comprising: a) A sealed container; b) A short-throw solenoid mounted within the container, comprising an armature that moves between two positions responsive to the electromagnetic urging; c) An elastomeric valve seat mounted with the armature of the solenoid; d) A return mechanism adapted to urge the armature to a rest position; e) A first fluid port mounted with the container positioned so that the valve seat sealingly engages the first fluid port when the armature is in one of its two positions; and f) A second fluid port mounted with the container. 64. A robot according to claim 1, wherein: a) The faceted cage comprises: i) An outer structure, comprising first and second end structures mounted along a first axis, wherein said structures each comprise a plurality of struts disposed about the first axis at substantially regular azimuthal intervals; ii) A gimbal mounted with said structures along said first axis, comprising first fittings allowing rotation about said first axis, an inner structure mounted with said first fittings, second fittings mounted with said inner structure allowing rotation about a second axis substantially orthogonal to said first axis and adapted to hold said linear actuator. b) The linear actuator comprises a combustion-powered linear actuator, comprising: i) A body having a body chamber therein; ii) A power piston movably mounted within the body chamber and defining a combustion chamber; iii) An exhaust port in fluid communication with the combustion chamber; iv) A fuel system adapted for storage of a combustible fuel; v) A carburetion system in fluid communication with the fuel system and with the combustion chamber, adapted to purge the combustion chamber and to deliver combustible fuel to the combustion chamber in a state suitable for combustion; vi) An ignition system mounted with the body adapted to initiate combustion within the combustion chamber; vii) Wherein the carburetion system comprises: a) A purge piston movably mounted within the body chamber; b) A purge energy source that urges the purge piston toward the exhaust port; c) A charge energy source that urges the purge piston away from the exhaust port; d) A fuel controller that allows fuel into the combustion chamber when the purge piston is moving away from the exhaust port but not when the purge piston is moving toward the exhaust port; c) The linear actuator comprises a member in mechanical communication with the power piston and mobile along an actuation axis with respect to the robot, and wherein the force transducer comprises a foot mounted with the mobile member and shaped so that as the mobile member moves toward the support surface the foot contacts the support surface at a point off the actuation axis before any contact along the actuation axis between the support surface and either the foot or the mobile member. 65. A robot according to claim 28, wherein the fuel controller comprises an orifice plate adapted to allow substantially constant mass flow rate of fuel. 66. A robot according to claim 37, wherein the fuel delivery system comprises an orifice plate adapted to allow substantially constant mass flow rate of fuel. 67. A robot according to claim 39, wherein the oxidizer storage system further comprises an orifice plate adapted to allow substantially constant mass flow rate of oxidizer. 68. A robot according to claim 40, wherein the fuel delivery system comprises an orifice plate adapted to allow substantially constant mass flow rate of fuel. 69. A robot according to claim 41, wherein the oxidizer storage system further comprises an orifice plate adapted to allow substantially constant mass flow rate of oxidizer. 70. A robot according to claim 42, further comprising a fuel orifice plate adapted to allow substantially constant mass flow rate of fuel in communication from the fuel reservoir to the combustion chamber, and further comprising an oxidizer control valve adapted to allow substantially constant mass flow rate of fuel in communication from the oxidizer reservoir to the combustion chamber. 71. The robot of claim 50, wherein the first fluid port comprises a threaded adjuster mounted with the housing and with the first fluid port, so that the first fluid port extends toward the seat a distance adjustable via the threaded adjuster. 72. The robot of claim 50, wherein the first fluid port comprises a tube mounted with the housing and with the first fluid port, wherein an end of the tube nearest the seat is adapted to sealingly engage the seat. 73. The robot of claim 72, wherein an end of the tube nearest the seat is lapped to sealingly engage the seat. 74. The robot of claim 50, wherein the first fluid port comprises an outer tube mounted with the housing and an inner tube mounted with the first fluid port and slidably within the outer tube, so that the first fluid port extends toward the seat a distance adjustable by sliding the inner tube with respect to the outer tube. 