A method for carrying out a medical procedure using a 3-D tracking and imaging system (1600). A surgical instrument, such as a catheter, probe, sensor, pacemaker lead, needle, or the like is inserted into a living being, and the position of the surgical instrument is tracked as it moves through a medium in a bodily structure. The location of the surgical instrument relative to its immediate surroundings is displayed to improve a physician's ability to precisely position the surgical instrument. The medical procedures including targeted drug delivery, sewing sutures, removal of an obstruction from the circulatory system, a biopsy, amniocentesis, brain surgery, measurement of cervical dilation, evaluation of knee stability, assessment of myocardial contractibility, eye surgery, prostate surgery, trans-myocardial revascularization (TMR), robotic surgery, and evaluation of RF transmissions.
Claims Having thus described the invention, it is now claimed: 1. A method of performing an in vivo medical procedure on an associated body using a 3-D tracking and imaging system, said method comprising: mounting at least one mobile transducer to a medical instrument; mounting a plurality of reference transducers to locations on the body, the plurality of reference transducers being distributed at positions substantially surrounding the body; energizing the at least one mobile transducer and the plurality of reference transducers such that at least one respective transducer generates a positional signal and at least another respective transducer detects the positional signal, to measure time-of-flight of the positional signal; sequentially varying the energizing of each of the at least one mobile transducer and the plurality of reference transducers according to a duty cycle such that each transducer alternates between transmit and receive modes over the course of the duty cycle; generating three-dimensional coordinates of the mobile transducer relative to a reference frame established by the reference transducers; and generating a display indicative of a positional path followed by said medical instrument. 2. A method according to claim 1, wherein said path is along the surface of the associated body. 3. A method according to claim 1, wherein said medical instrument is a probe. 4. An apparatus for performing an in vivo medical procedure on an associated body, said apparatus comprising: at least one mobile transducer mounted to a catheter including a lumen; a plurality of reference transducers mounted to locations on the body, the plurality of reference transducers being distributed at positions substantially surrounding the body; means for energizing the at least one mobile transducer and the plurality of reference transducers such that at least one respective transducer generates a positional signal and at least another respective transducer detects the positional signal, to measure time-of-flight of the positional signal; means for sequentially varying the energizing of each of the at least one mobile transducer and the plurality of reference transducers according to a duty cycle such that each transducer alternates between transmit and receive modes over the course of the duty cycle; 3-D generating means for generating three-dimensional coordinates of the at least one mobile transducer relating to a reference frame established by the plurality of reference transducers; display means for generating a display indicative of a positional path followed by said catheter; a needle extendible from a tip of the catheter; and control means for extending the needle from the tip of the catheter and initiating a flow of fluid from the needle. 5. An apparatus according to claim 4, the apparatus further comprising radio frequency (RF) generation means for generating RF energy to ablate at least a portion of a bodily structure. 6. An apparatus according to claim 4, wherein said needle includes exit holes along its length to dispense fluid. 