A chemical mechanical polishing system is provided having a buffer station disposed therein or adjacent thereto. The buffer station includes two or more substrate supports for supporting two or more substrates adjacent to an inspection station. The two or more substrate supports are mounted on a mounting plate which is connected to an actuator for moving a pair of substrate supports laterally towards or away from each other over the inspection station.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for supporting substrates in a substrate processing system, comprising: (a) at least two substrate support assemblies mounted between opposing support struts; (b) one or more mounting plates connected to the substrate support assemblies; and (c) a drive mechanism coupled to the support struts. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the substrate support assemblies comprise two support plates which are mounted one to a support strut. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising an actuator coupled to each of the support struts supporting each substrate support assembly. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein the actuator comprises a pneumatic actuator. 5. An apparatus for processing substrates, comprising: (a) a chemical mechanical polishing system comprising: (1) a front end transfer region; (2) a loading station; (3) one or more polishing stations having a rotatable platen; (4) one or more polishing heads rotatably mounted above the loading station and the one or more rotatable platens; (b) an inspection station disposed adjacent the front end transfer region; and (c) a buffer station disposed at least partially above the inspection station comprising: (1) at least two substrate supports mounted between opposing support struts; (2) one or more mounting plates connected to the substrate supports; and (3) a drive mechanism connected to the support struts. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein the substrate supports comprise two support plates which are mounted to a support strut. 7. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein the substrate supports comprise two support plates, each support plate being mounted to a strut. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 further comprising an actuator connected to each of the support struts supporting each substrate support. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein the actuator comprises a pneumatic actuator. 10. An apparatus for polishing substrates, comprising: a) a substrate processing system having a platen, a polishing head to support a substrate during polishing and a robot to transfer substrates into and out of the polishing system; b) a substrate monitoring device disposed adjacent the polishing system; c) a buffer station disposed at least partially above the substrate monitoring device, the buffer station comprising two or more pairs of substrate support assemblies coupled to a linear actuator. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the linear actuator moves two substrate support plates comprising each pair of substrate support assemblies linearly towards or away from each other. 12. The apparatus of claim 11 further comprising a robot to transfer substrate to and from the buffer station. 13. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein the linear actuator is a pneumatic valve assembly which moves each pair of substrate support assemblies into at least a substrate receiving position and a substrate pass through position. 14. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein the substrate support plates are coupled to support struts which are cantilever mounted to one or more mounting plates. 15. A system for polishing a substrate comprising: a polishing station for polishing a face of a substrate, the polishing station including at least one platen and at least one polishing head mounted above the at least one platen, the at least one polishing head being adapted to hold a substrate to position a face of the substrate to be polished in contact with a polishing surface of the platen; an inspection station for inspecting a polished substrate and for determining a condition of said polished substrate; and a robotic shuttle mechanism which transfers polished substrates between said polishing station and said inspection station, the shuttle mechanism including a first robot, a buffer station and a second robot, said buffer station including at least two substrate supports, said first robot being adapted to transfer a polished substrate between said polishing station and said substrate supports, and said second robot being adapted to transfer a polished substrate between said substrate supports and said inspection station, wherein a polished substrate requiring inspection may be placed onto a first substrate support by the first robot and an inspected substrate may be placed onto a second substrate support by the second robot. 