A method for temporarily connecting a body half and a door half of a hinge, said body half of said hinge including connecting means for receiving said door half of said hinge including connecting means for receiving the body half, one of said connecting means including a portion having disposed proximate the end thereof at least one groove for receiving a resilient flexible retainer; said method including the steps of; (a) fastening the hinge when assembled to a vehicle and a door so as to fasten the door with the vehicle temporarily; (b) painting the vehicle and door together while temporarily connected; (c) subjecting the vehicle and door and the resilient flexible retainer to heat such as that found in a curing process for a painting process for vehicles; (d) separating said body and door halves of said hinge by removing the retainer and separating said halves; (e) separating said door from said vehicle by separating the body half and the door half of said hinges.
Claims The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are as follows: 1. A hinge comprising: a hinge pin having first and second ends; a body half having a first pin opening for receiving the hinge pin; and a door half having a second opening for receiving the hinge pin, the body half and the door half being linked together by the hinge pin; wherein the hinge pin further includes means proximate the first end to drive the hinge pin into the first and second pin openings, first and second grooves disposed proximate the second end; and, a resilient, flexible retainer, disposed within the first groove, formed from predetermined materials so as to allow the retainer to remain for a predetermined temperature range and to become brittle and friable when subjected to temperatures outside the predetermined temperature range, the retainer circumferentially surrounding the hinge pin. 2. The hinge of claim 1 wherein the hinge pin is temporarily and removably attached to the body half and the door half and connected together with the resilient flexible retainer for shipping to the vehicle manufacturer, the resilient retainer being located in an outer groove of the first and second grooves. 3. The hinge pin of claim 1 wherein said retainer is a ring. 4. The hinge of claim 1 wherein the retainer is provided on a strip and punched from the strip upon hinge assembly. 5. A hinge comprising: a hinge pin having first and second ends; a body half having a first pin opening for receiving the hinge pin; and a door half having a second opening for receiving the hinge pin, the body half and the door half being linked together by the hinge pin; wherein the hinge pin further includes means proximate the first end to drive the hinge pin into the first and second pin openings, first and second grooves disposed proximate the second end; a resilient, flexible retainer, disposed within the first groove, formed from predetermined materials so as to allow the retainer to remain for a predetermined temperature range and to become brittle and friable when subjected to temperatures outside the predetermined temperature range; and wherein the retainer is a ring. 6. The hinge of claim 5 wherein the hinge pin is temporarily and removably attached to the body half and the door half and connected together with the resilient flexible retainer, the resilient retainer being located in an outer groove of the first and second grooves for shipping to the vehicle manufacturer. 7. The hinge of claim 5 wherein the retainer is provided on a strip and punched from the strip upon hinge assembly. 