A plugging device for closing an opening defined by an end of a pipe with sealant comprises a cap, an extension, an inner seal, a guide, and at least one stop. The cap has an inner surface which defines a chamber adapted for retaining the sealant. The chamber is dimensioned slightly larger than the end so as to receive the end. The chamber and end define a gap therebetween. The extension has a distal end and is attached to the inner surface opposite the distal end. The inner seal is attached to the extension and sized larger than the opening. The guide is positioned forward of the inner seal and attached to the distal end. The guide is also dimensioned to be inserted into the opening. The stop is attached to the extender, and when the stop is disposed in the pipe, the stop is movable with respect to the conduit in one direction and also prevents misalignment of the cap with the pipe. A handle can also be included to allow the cap to be positioned robotically.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A plugging device for closing with sealant an opening defined by an end of a pipe, comprising: a cap having an inner surface defining a chamber adapted for retaining the sealant, said chamber dimensioned slightly larger than said end to receive the end and define a gap therebetween; an extension having a distal end, said extension attached to said inner surface opposite said distal end; and, an inner seal attached to said extension and sized larger than the opening, whereby insertion of said end into said chamber displaces the sealant towards said inner seal and said gap, said inner seal providing a barrier for the sealant. 2. A device according to claim 1, further comprising a guide positioned forward of said inner seal and attached to said distal end, said guide dimensioned to be inserted into the opening. 3. A device according to claim 1, further comprising at least one stop attached to said extender, when said stop disposed in the pipe, said stop movable with respect to the pipe only an entry direction. 4. A device according to claim 3, wherein said at least one stop prevents misalignment of said cap with said pipe. 5. A device according to claim 4, wherein a first of said at least one stop is positioned adjacent said distal end. 6. A device according to claim 5, wherein a second of said at least one stop is positioned adjacent a bottom of said chamber. 7. A device according to claim 1, wherein said stop comprises at least two arms symmetrically disposed about said extender and angled away from said entry direction. 8. A device according to claim 1, further comprising a handle positioned on said cap. 9. A device according to claim 8, wherein said handle is adapted to be gripped robotically. 10. A device according to claim 8, wherein said extender passing through said cap provides said handle. 11. A plugging device for closing an opening defined by an end of a pipe with sealant, comprising: a cap having an inner surface defining a chamber adapted for retaining the sealant, said chamber dimensioned slightly larger than said end to receive the end and to define a gap therebetween; an extension having a distal end, said extension attached to said inner surface opposite said distal end; and, an inner seal attached to said extension and sized larger than the opening; a guide positioned forward of said inner seal and attached to said distal end, said guide dimensioned to be inserted into the opening; and, at least one stop attached to said extender, when said stop disposed in the pipe, said stop movable with respect to the pipe in one direction and prevents misalignment of said cap with said pipe. 12. A device according to claim 11, wherein a first of said at least one stop is positioned adjacent said distal end. 13. A device according to claim 12, wherein a second of said at least one stop is positioned adjacent a bottom of said chamber. 14. A device according to claim 11, wherein said stop comprises at least two arms symmetrically disposed about said extender and angled away from said entry direction. 15. A device according to claim 11, further comprising a handle positioned on said cap. 16. A device according to claim 15, wherein said handle is adapted to be gripped robotically. 17. A device according to claim 15, wherein said extender passing through said cap provides said handle. 18. A plugging device for closing an opening defined by an end of a pipe with sealant, comprising: a cap having an inner surface defining a chamber adapted for retaining the sealant, said chamber dimensioned slightly larger than said end to receive the end and define a gap therebetween; an extension having a distal end and attached to said inner surface opposite said distal end, said cap and said extension defining a cap conduit for communicating material from within said pipe to outside said pipe; and, an inner seal attached to said extension and sized larger than the opening. 19. A device according to claim 18, further comprising a guide positioned forward of said inner seal and attached to said distal end, said guide dimensioned to be inserted into the opening. 20. A device according to claim 18, further comprising at least one stop attached to said extender, when said stop disposed in the pipe, said stop movable with respect to the pipe only an entry direction. 21. A device according to claim 20, wherein said at least one stop prevents misalignment of said cap with said pipe. 22. A device according to claim 21, wherein a first of said at least one stop is positioned adjacent said distal end. 23. A device according to claim 22, wherein a second of said at least one stop is positioned adjacent a bottom of said chamber. 24. A device according to claim 18, wherein said stop comprises at least two arms symmetrically disposed about said extender and angled away from said entry direction. 25. A device according to claim 18, further comprising a handle positioned on said cap. 26. A device according to claim 25, wherein said handle is adapted to be gripped robotically. 27. A device according to claim 25, wherein said extender passing through said cap provides said handle. 