A system and method for performing pattern matching to locate zero or more instances of a template image in a target image. The method first comprises sampling the template image using a Low Discrepancy sequence, also referred to as a quasi-random sequence, to determine a plurality of sample pixels in the template image which accurately characterize the template image. The Low Discrepancy sequence is designed to produce sample points which maximally avoid each other. After the template image is sampled or characterized, the method then performs pattern matching using the sample pixels and the target image to determine zero or more locations of the template image in the target image. The method may also perform a local stability analysis around at least a subset of the sample pixels to determine a lesser third number of sample pixels which have a desired degree of stability, and then perform pattern matching using the third plurality of sample pixels. In one embodiment, the local stability analysis determines a plurality of sets of sample pixels with differing stability neighborhood sizes, and the pattern matching performs a plurality of iterations of pattern matching using different sets of sample pixels, preferably performed in a coarse to fine manner, e.g., using sets of sample pixels with successively smaller stability neighborhood sizes and/or step sizes. The present invention also includes performing rotation invariant pattern matching by sampling the template image along one or more rotationally invariant paths, preferably circular perimeters, to produce one or more sets of sample pixels. These sample pixels from the circular paths are then used in the pattern matching. The rotationally invariant pattern matching may also use local stability analysis and coarse to fine searching techniques.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for performing pattern matching to locate one or more instances of a rotated template image in a target image, the method comprising: sampling the template image along one or more circular perimeters to produce one or more sets of sample pixels; performing pattern matching using each of the one or more sets of sample pixels and the target image to determine zero or more locations of the template image m the target image, wherein said pattern matching detects rotated versions of the template image in the target image. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: performing a local stability analysis around at least a subset of said sample pixels; wherein said performing pattern matching uses one or more sets of sample pixels along one or more circular perimeters based on said local stability analysis. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein said performing the local stability analysis operates to ensure stability of each of said subset of sample pixels to spatial perturbations around the sample pixel. 4. The method of claim 2, wherein said performing the local stability analysis for each of said at least a subset of said sample pixels comprises: for each sample pixel, finding a neighborhood around the sample pixel where the value of the sample pixel correlates highly with the template image pixel values in the neighborhood. 5. The method of claim 2, wherein said performing the local stability analysis determines a plurality of sets of sample pixels with differing stability neighborhood sizes; wherein said performing pattern matching comprises performing a plurality of iterations of pattern matching using different ones of said sets of sample pixels. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein said performing said plurality of iterations of pattern matching uses different step sizes for each of said different ones of said sets of sample pixels. 7. The method of claim 2, wherein said performing the local stability analysis determines a plurality of sets of sample pixels with differing stability neighborhood sizes; wherein said performing pattern matching comprises performing a plurality of iterations of pattern matching using different ones of said sets of sample pixels in a coarse to fine manner, wherein said coarse to fine manner uses sets of sample pixels with one or more of successively smaller stability neighborhood sizes and successively smaller step sizes. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein a first iteration of pattern matching determines one or more candidate locations in the target image which possibly include the template image; and wherein one or more second iterations of pattern matching are performed at said determined one or more candidate locations in the target image. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein said performing pattern matching using each of the one or more sets of sample pixels and the target image determines one or more candidate locations of the template image in the target image, wherein said performing pattern matching includes performing pattern matching using substantially all of the template image pixels at the one or more candidate locations. 10. The method of claim 1, further comprising: performing a local stability analysis around at least a subset of said sample pixels, wherein said performing said local stability analysis determines a first set of sample pixels along a first circular perimeter which have a desired degree of stability; wherein said performing pattern matching comprises: performing a first pattern matching using the first set of sample pixels along the first circular perimeter; performing one or more second pattern matchings using one or more other sets of sample pixels along one or more other circular perimeters. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein said performing pattern matching further comprises performing pattern matching using substantially all of the template image pixels after said first pattern matching and after said one or more second pattern matchings. 12. A method for performing pattern matching to locate one or more instances of a rotated template image in a target image, the method comprising: sampling the template image along one or more rotationally invariant paths to produce one or more sets of sample pixels; performing pattern matching using each of the one or more sets of sample pixels and the target image to determine zero or more locations of the template image in the target image, wherein said pattern matching detects rotated versions of the template image in the target image. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein said rotationally invariant paths comprise circular paths. 14. A method for performing pattern matching to locate one or more instances of a scaled template image in a target image, the method comprising: sampling the template image along one or more circular perimeters to produce one or more sets of sample pixels; performing pattern matching using each of the one or more sets of sample pixels and the target image to determine zero or more locations of the template image in the target image, wherein said pattern matching detects scaled versions of the template image in the target image. 15. The method of claim 14, further comprising: performing a local stability analysis around at least a subset of said sample pixels; wherein said performing pattern matching uses one or more sets of sample pixels along one or more circular perimeters based on said local stability analysis. 16. A system for performing pattern matching to locate one or more instances of a rotated template image in a target image, the system comprising: a memory which stores the template image; a processor coupled to the memory which is operable to sample the template image along one or more circular perimeters to produce one or more sets of sample pixels; wherein the processor is operable to perform pattern matching using each of the one or more sets of sample pixels and the target image to determine zero or more locations of the template image in the target image, wherein said pattern matching detects rotated versions of the template image in the target image. 17. The system of claim 16, wherein the processor is operable to perform a local stability analysis around at least a subset of said sample pixels, wherein the local stability analysis operates to ensure stability of each of said subset of sample pixels to spatial perturbations around the sample pixel; wherein, in performing said pattern matching, the processor is operable to use one or more sets of sample pixels along one or more circular perimeters based on said local stability analysis. 18. The system of claim 17, wherein, in performing the local stability analysis for each of said at least a subset of said sample pixels, the processor is operable to, for each sample pixel, find a neighborhood around the sample pixel where the value of the sample pixel correlates highly with the template image pixel values in the neighborhood. 19. The system of claim 17, wherein, in performing the local stability analysis, the processor determines a plurality of sets of sample pixels with differing stability neighborhood sizes; wherein, in performing the pattern matching, the processor performs a plurality of iterations of pattern matching using different ones of said sets of sample pixels. 20. The system of claim 19, wherein, in performing the plurality of iterations of pattern matching, the processor uses different step sizes for each of said different ones of said sets of sample pixels. 21. The system of claim 17, wherein, in performing the local stability analysis, the processor determines a plurality of sets of sample pixels with differing stability neighborhood sizes; wherein, in performing the pattern matching, the processor performs a plurality of iterations of pattern matching using different ones of said sets of sample pixels in a coarse to fine manner, wherein the processor uses sets of sample pixels with one or more of successively smaller stability neighborhood sizes and successively smaller step sizes. 22. The system of claim 21, wherein, in a first iteration of pattern matching, the processor determines one or more candidate locations in the target image which possibly include the template image; and wherein the processor performs one or more second iterations of pattern matching at said determined one or more candidate locations in the target image. 23. The system of claim 16, wherein, in performing pattern matching using each of the one or more sets of sample pixels and the target image, the processor determines one or more candidate locations of the template image in the target image, wherein the processor performs pattern matching using substantially all of the template image pixels at the one or more candidate locations. 24. The system of claim 16, wherein the processor performs a local stability analysis around at least a subset of said sample pixels, wherein said local stability analysis determines a first set of sample pixels along a first circular perimeter which have a desired degree of stability; wherein, in performing pattern matching, the processor is operable to: perform a first pattern matching using the first set of sample pixels along the first circular perimeter; perform one or more second pattern matchings using one or more other sets of sample pixels along one or more other circular perimeters. 25. The system of claim 24, wherein the processor performs pattern matching using substantially all of the template image pixels after said first pattern matching and after said one or more second pattern matchings. 26. The system of claim 16, wherein the memory is operable to receive and store the target image; wherein the processor is operable to perform the pattern matching in response to the memory receiving and storing the target image. 27. A system for performing pattern matching to locate one or more instances of a rotated template image in a target image, the system comprising: a memory which stores the template image; a processor coupled to the memory which is operable to sample the template image along one or more rotationally invariant paths to produce one or more sets of sample pixels; wherein the processor is operable to perform pattern matching using each of the one or more sets of sample pixels and the target image to determine zero or more locations of the template image in the target image, wherein said pattern matching detects rotated versions of the template image in the target image. 28. The system of claim 27, wherein said rotationally invariant paths comprise circular paths. 29. A system for performing pattern matching to locate one or more instances of a scaled template image in a target image, the system comprising: a memory which stores the template image; a processor coupled to the memory which is operable to sample the template image along one or more circular perimeters to produce one or more sets of sample pixels; wherein the processor is operable to perform pattern matching using each of the one or more sets of sample pixels and the target image to determine zero or more locations of the template image in the target image, wherein said pattern matching detects scaled versions of the template image in the target image. 30. The system of claim 29, wherein the processor is operable to perform a local stability analysis around at least a subset of said sample pixels; wherein, in performing said pattern matching, the processor is operable to use one or more sets of sample pixels along one or more circular perimeters based on said local stability analysis. 31. A memory medium comprising program instructions for performing pattern matching to locate one or more instances of a rotated template image in a target image, wherein the program instructions are executable to implement: sampling the template image along one or more circular perimeters to produce one or more sets of sample pixels; performing pattern matching using each of the one or more sets of sample pixels and the target image to determine zero or more locations of the template image in the target image, wherein said pattern matching detects rotated versions of the template image in the target image. 32. The memory medium of claim 31, wherein the program instructions are further executable to implement: performing a local stability analysis around at least a subset of said sample pixels; wherein said performing pattern matching uses one or more sets of sample pixels along one or more circular perimeters based on said local stability analysis. 33. The memory medium of claim 32, wherein said performing the local stability analysis for each of said at least a subset of said sample pixels comprises: for each sample pixel, finding a neighborhood around the sample pixel where the value of the sample pixel correlates highly with the template image pixel values in the neighborhood. 34. The memory medium of claim 32, wherein said performing the local stability analysis determines a plurality of sets of sample pixels with differing stability neighborhood sizes; wherein said performing pattern matching comprises performing a plurality of iterations of pattern matching using different ones of said sets of sample pixels. 35. The memory medium of claim 34, wherein said performing said plurality of iterations of pattern matching uses different step sizes for each of said different ones of said sets of sample pixels. 36. A memory medium comprising program instructions for performing pattern matching to locate one or more instances of a rotated template image in a target image, wherein the program instructions are executable to implement: sampling the template image along one or more rotationally invariant paths to produce one or more sets of sample pixels; performing pattern matching using each of the one or more sets of sample pixels and the target image to determine zero or more locations of the template image in the target image, wherein said pattern matching detects rotated versions of the template image in the target image. 37. The memory medium of claim 36, wherein said rotationally invariant paths comprise circular paths. 38. A memory medium comprising program instructions for performing pattern matching to locate one or more instances of a scaled template image in a target image, wherein the program instructions are executable to implement: sampling the template image along one or more circular perimeters to produce one or more sets of sample pixels; performing pattern matching using each of the one or more sets of sample pixels and the target image to determine zero or more locations of the template image in the target image, wherein said pattern matching detects scaled versions of the template image in the target image. 39. The memory medium of claim 38, wherein the program instructions are further executable to implement: performing a local stability analysis around at least a subset of said sample pixels; wherein said performing pattern matching uses one or more sets of sample pixels along one or more circular perimeters based on said local stability analysis. 