A semiconductor wafer processing system with a multi-tasking sequencer control that performs an automatic cleaning process for the process chamber or chambers of the system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for cleaning a substrate processing system having at least one chamber, said method comprising the steps of: (a) determining a cleaning interval for the chamber based on a chamber operating parameter; and (b) using a sequencer task module to automatically execute a cleaning process for the chamber in accordance with said cleaning interval when the chamber is not busy. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said chamber operating parameter is a measure of a wafer lot size. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said chamber operating parameter is a measure of a number of processed wafers. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said chamber operating parameter is a measure of a RF accumulated on time. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said chamber operating parameter is a measure of a type of chemistries processed in the chamber. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein said chamber operating parameter is a measure of an amount of elapsed time of chamber use from a last cleaning. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein said determining step (a) is performed periodically. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein said using step (b) employs a first data structure to store a number of cleaning parameters. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein said first data structure includes a data field for linking at least one cleaning process to a process recipe. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein said at least one cleaning process is stored in a second data structure. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein said second data structure includes a sequence of cleaning recipe steps, where said cleaning recipe steps correspond to one or more process steps of said process recipe. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein each of said recipe cleaning steps is stored in a third data structure, where said third data structure includes a sequence of recipe steps. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein said third data structure includes a data field to indicate a need for a cleaning wafer in said cleaning process. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein said sequencer task module further comprises a screen task module for allowing an operator to interactively input data relating to said cleaning process. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein said using step (b) executes said cleaning process in accordance with said operator input data or in accordance with a process recipe. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein said sequencer task module further comprises a chamber task module for running at least one cleaning recipe step for the chamber. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein said sequencer task module further comprises a slow task module for monitoring tasks for the substrate processing system. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein said sequencer task module further comprises a buffer chamber task module for controlling the movement of a wafer within the substrate processing system. 