A method and system of depositing molten metal from an advancing welding wire to form a root pass of weld metal in the bottom of a gap between first and second metal members having generally flat base elements joined by a metal backing plate extending between said base elements, which method and system includes passing welding current between the welding wire and the metal members from a power supply to create a heat generating welding arc, moving the welding wire in a given direction along selected path over the backing plate, sensing a blow through of the backing plate by the welding arc, reversing said given direction of said welding wire for a short distance when a blow through has been sensed and then, resuming movement of said welding wire in said given direction along the selected path.
Claims Having thus defined the invention, the following is claimed: 1. A method of depositing molten metal from an advancing welding wire to form a root pass of weld metal in the bottom of a gap between first and second metal members having generally flat base elements joined by a metal backing plate extending between said base elements, said method comprising: (a) passing welding current between said welding wire and said metal members from a power supply to create a heat generating welding arc; (b) moving said welding wire in a given direction along selected path over said backing plate; (c) sensing a blow through of said backing plate by said welding arc; (d) reversing said given direction of said welding wire when a blow through has been sensed; and, (e) then, resuming movement of said welding wire in said given direction along said selected path. 2. A method as defined in claim 1 wherein said sensing act involves measuring said welding current while holding the voltage of said power supply constant and detecting a blow through when said welding current is below a set level. 3. A method as defined in claim 2 including the act of adjusting said set level for different welding wires. 4. A method as defined in claim 2 wherein said selected path includes a number of cycles each having a first transverse branch extending from first element to said second element and a successive second transverse branch extending from said second element to said first element with longitudinal branches connecting successive transverse branches and generally perpendicular to said transverse branches and adjacent the intersection of said backing plate and one of said members. 5. A method as defined in claim 4 wherein said branches of selected path includes a number of longitudinally spaced direction changing decision points at the intersection of said backing plate with one of said members where said path is changed generally orthogonally from one branch to the next branch. 6. A method as defined in claim 5 including determination at said decision points the existence of a blow through between said backing plate and one of said metal members. 7. A method as defined in claim 6 including reversing said given direction upon detection of a blow through to move said welding wire back to a decision point and then resuming movement in said given direction. 8. A method as defined in claim 6 including advancing to the next decision point upon failure to detect a blow through. 9. A method as defined in claim 6 including selectively forcing a blow through upon failure to detect a blow through. 10. A method as defined in claim 9 wherein said forced blow through is created by reducing the voltage of said power supply. 11. A method as defined in claim 9 wherein said forcing act is performed upon failure to detect a blow through at a number of successive decision points. 12. A method as defined in claim 11 wherein said forced blow through is created by reducing the voltage of said power supply. 13. A method as defined in claim 12 including determination at said decision points the existence of a blow through between said backing plate and one of said metal members. 14. A method as defined in claim 13 including reversing said given direction upon detection of a blow through to move said welding wire back to a decision point and then resuming movement in said given direction. 15. A method as defined in claim 13 including advancing to the next decision point upon failure to detect a blow through. 16. A method as defined in claim 13 including selectively forcing a blow through upon failure to detect a blow through. 17. A method as defined in claim 16 wherein said forcing act is performed upon failure to detect a blow through at a number of successive decision points. 18. A method as defined in claim 17 wherein said number is two. 19. A method as defined in claim 17 wherein said forcing act comprises reducing the voltage of said power supply. 20. A method as defined in claim 19 wherein said number is two. 21. A method as defined in claim 16 wherein said forcing act comprises reducing the voltage of said power supply. 22. A method as defined in claim 4 including the act of swinging said welding wire as it moves along said transverse path of said selected path. 23. A method as defined in claim 22 including the act of maintaining the spacing of said wire from said backing plate generally constant as it moves along said selected path. 24. A method as defined in claim 4 including the act of maintaining the spacing of said wire from said backing plate generally constant as it moves along said selected path. 25. A method as defined in claim 1 wherein said selected path includes a number of cycles each having a first transverse branch extending from first element to said second element and a successive second transverse branch extending from said second element to said first element with longitudinal branches connecting successive transverse branches and generally perpendicular to said transverse branches and adjacent the intersection of said backing plate and one of said members. 26. A method as defined in claim 25 wherein said branches of selected path includes a number of longitudinally spaced direction changing decision points at the intersection of said backing plate with one of said members where said path is changed generally orthogonally from one branch to the next branch. 27. A method as defined in claim 26 including determination at said decision points the existence of a blow through between said backing plate and one of said metal members. 28. A method as defined in claims 27 including reversing said given direction upon detection of a blow through to move said welding wire back to a decision point and then resuming movement in said given direction. 29. A method as defined in claim 27 including advancing to the next decision point upon failure to detect a blow through. 30. A method as defined in claim 27 including selectively forcing a blow through upon failure to detect a blow through. 31. A method as defined in claim 30 wherein said forced blow through is created by reducing the voltage of said power supply. 32. A method as defined in claim 30 wherein said forcing act is performed upon failure to detect a blow through at a number of successive decision points. 33. A method as defined in claim 32 wherein said forced blow through is created by reducing the voltage of said power supply. 34. A method as defined in claim 33 wherein said number is two. 35. A method as defined in claim 32 wherein said number is two. 36. A method as defined in claim 25 including the act of swinging said welding wire as it moves along said transverse path of said selected path. 37. A method as defined in claim 36 including the act of maintaining the spacing of said wire from said backing plate generally constant as it moves along said selected path. 38. A method as defined in claim 25 including the act of maintaining the spacing of said wire from said backing plate generally constant as it moves along said selected path. 39. A method as defined in claim 1 including the act of maintaining the spacing of said wire from said backing plate generally constant as it moves along said selected path. 40. A system of depositing molten metal from an advancing welding wire to form a root pass of weld metal in the bottom of a gap between first and second metal members having generally flat base elements joined by a metal backing plate extending between said base elements, said system comprising: a power supply for passing welding current between said welding wire and said metal members to create a heat generating welding arc; a robotic mechanism for moving said welding wire in a given direction along selected path over said backing plate; a current sensing mechanism for determining a current drop indicative of a blow through of said backing plate by said welding arc; said mechanism having means for reversing said given direction of said welding wire for a short distance when a blow through has been detected; and, means for then, resuming movement of said welding wire in said given direction along said selected path. 41. A system as defined in claim 40 wherein said current sensing mechanism includes means for measuring said welding current while holding the voltage of said power supply constant and means for detecting a blow through when said welding current is below a set level. 42. A method as defined in claim 41 including the means for adjusting said set level for different welding wires. 43. A system as defined in claim 40 wherein said selected path includes a number of cycles each having a first transverse branch extending from first element to said second element and a successive second transverse branch extending from said second element to said first element with longitudinal branches connecting successive transverse branches and generally perpendicular to said transverse branches and adjacent the intersection of said backing plate and one of said members. 44. A method as defined in claim 43 wherein said branches of selected path includes a number of longitudinally spaced direction changing decision points at the intersection of said backing plate with one of said members where said path is changed generally orthogonally from one branch to the next branch. 45. A system as defined in claim 40 including means for swinging said welding wire as it moves along said transverse path of said selected path. 46. A system as defined in claim 45 including means for maintaining the spacing of said wire said backing plate generally constant as it moves along said selected path. 47. A system as defined in claim 40 including means for maintaining the spacing of said wire from said backing plate generally constant as it moves along said selected path. 48. A method of depositing molten metal from an advancing welding wire carried by a torch to form a root pass of weld meal in the bottom of a gap between first and second metal members having generally flat base element joined by a thin backing plate extending between said base elements to define first and second parallel, longitudinal intersecting seams, said method comprising: (a) passing a welding current between said welding wire and said metal members from a power supply to create a heat generating welding arc; (b) moving said welding wire in a given direction along a selected path over said backing plate, said path including branches where said welding wire moves along one of said seams; (c) sensing an unforced blow through of said backing plate by said welding arc as said welding wire moves along said branch; (d) creating a forced blow through of said backing plate by said welding arc in the absence a forced or unforced blow through in a selected length of said branch; and, (e) reversing said given direction of said welding wire for a short distance when either a forced or unforced blow through has been sensed; and, (f) then, resuming movement of said welding wire in said given direction along said selected branch. 49. A method of depositing molten metal from an advancing welding wire to form a root pass of weld metal in the bottom of a gap between first and second metal members joined by a metal backing plate extending between said base elements, said method comprising: (a) passing welding current between said welding wire and said metal members from a power supply to create a heat generating welding arc; (b) moving said welding wire in a given direction along selected path over said backing plate; (c) sensing a blow through of said backing plate by said welding arc; (d) reversing said given direction of said welding wire for a short distance when a blow through has been sensed; and, (e) then, resuming movement of said welding wire in said given direction along said selected path. 50. A method as defined in claim 49 wherein said sensing act involves measuring said welding current while holding the voltage of said power supply constant and detecting a blow through when said welding current is below a set level. 51. A system of depositing molten metal from an advancing welding wire to form a root pass of weld metal in the bottom of a gap between first and second metal members joined by a metal backing plate extending between said base elements, said method comprising: a power supply for passing welding current between said welding wire and said metal members from a power supply to create a heat generating welding arc; a robotic mechanism for moving said welding wire in a given direction along selected path over said backing plate; a comparator circuit for sensing a blow through of said backing plate by said welding arc; a control circuit for reversing said given direction of said welding wire for a short distance when a blow through has been sensed; and a device for then, resuming movement of said welding wire in said given direction along said selected path. 52. A system as defined in claim 51 wherein said comparator circuit involves shunt for measuring said welding current while holding the voltage of said power supply constant and a comparator for detecting a blow through when said welding current is below a set level. 