A multiple station processing chamber used to deposit and/or remove a material on a semiconductor wafer is described. The multiple station processing chamber is comprised of two or more processing stations at which the wafer is exposed to a processing fluid. The processing stations are positioned within the chamber such that the wafer may be moved from station to station while remaining within the chamber. Each station of the multiple station processing chamber may have a fluid containment ring used for containment, disposal, and/or reuse of the electrolyte used to process the wafer at that particular processing station. The wafer is brought to the first processing station on a wafer support and exposed to a first processing fluid, which is then diverted into fluid containment ring for the first processing station. The wafer is then moved to a second processing chamber where the process is repeated with a second processing fluid.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus for processing a substrate comprising: a chamber; a first processing station inside said chamber wherein said substrate is exposed to a first processing fluid when positioned at said first processing station; a second processing station coupled to said first processing station and inside said chamber, wherein said substrate is exposed to a second processing fluid when positioned at said second processing station; and, a support for having said substrate reside thereon, said support for positioning said substrate at said first and second processing stations for processing. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a first electrode and a second electrode coupled to said first processing station, such that when said substrate is positioned at said first processing station for processing said second electrode couples to said substrate and a potential is applied across said first and second electrodes. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said second processing fluid is either deionized water for rinsing said substrate or nitrogen gas, argon gas, helium gas, or clean dry air for drying said substrate. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein said first processing fluid is an electrolyte for electroplating said substrate. 5. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein said first processing fluid is an electrolyte for electropolishing said substrate. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said first processing station comprises: a first fluid containment ring into which said first processing fluid is diverted after processing said substrate; a first drain coupled to said first fluid containment ring for draining said first processing fluid from said first fluid containment ring; a first fluid injection assembly coupled to said first containment ring such that said first fluid injection assembly is located above a substrate support and is adapted to apply said first processing fluid to said substrate when said substrate is positioned at said first processing station; a first electrode coupled to said first containment ring; and, a second electrode coupled to said first containment ring such that said second electrode couples to said substrate when said substrate is positioned at said first processing station. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein said second processing chamber comprises: a second fluid containment ring for receiving said second processing fluid after processing said substrate; a second drain coupled to said second fluid containment ring for draining said second processing fluid from said second fluid containment ring; and, a second fluid injection assembly rotatably coupled to said second fluid containment ring such that when said support has positioned said substrate at said second processing station for processing, said second fluid injection assembly rotates into position at a location above said substrate and applies a second processing fluid to said substrate. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 further comprising a gas purge line residing within said support, said gas purge line for providing a gas flow that directs said first and second processing fluids into said first and second containment rings and prevents said first and second processing fluids from contacting a surface of said substrate not exposed to said first and second processing fluids during processing of said substrate. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein said support is adapted to rotate or oscillate such that said first and second processing fluids are directed into said first and second fluid containment rings when said substrate is positioned at said first and second processing stations. 10. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein said second processing station further comprises: a third electrode coupled to said second fluid containment ring; a fourth electrode rotatably coupled to said second fluid containment ring wherein said at least one fourth electrode is adapted for rotating into position and coupling to said substrate, when said support has positioned said substrate at said second processing station for processing. 11. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein said first containment ring has a first receptacle and said second electrode is rotatably coupled to said first fluid containment ring, wherein said second electrode may be rotated into position above said receptacle such that any of said first processing fluid remaining on said second electrode after processing may be removed by said receptacle. 12. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein said first receptacle is adapted to apply de-ionized water to said second electrode to rinse said second electrode. 13. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said first and second processing stations are vertically stacked. 14. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said support passes through a center of said first and second processing stations to position said substrate. 15. An apparatus for processing a substrate comprising: a chamber; a support for having said substrate reside thereon; a first fluid containment ring inside said chamber; a first fluid injection assembly coupled to said first fluid containment ring, said first fluid injection assembly for applying a first processing fluid to said substrate such that said first processing fluid flows into said first fluid containment ring after processing said substrate; a first electrode coupled to said first fluid containment ring; a second electrode coupled to said first containment ring for coupling to said substrate during processing of said substrate; a second containment ring inside said chamber; a second fluid injection assembly coupled to said second fluid containment ring, said second fluid injection assembly for applying a second processing fluid to said substrate such that said second processing fluid flows into said second containment ring after processing said substrate. 16. The apparatus of claim 15 further comprising a gas purge line residing within said support, said gas purge line for providing a gas flow that prevents said first and second processing fluids from contacting a surface of said substrate not exposed to said first and second processing fluids during processing of said substrate. 17. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein said support is adapted for rotation or oscillation such that said first and second processing fluids are directed into said first and second containment rings when said substrate is positioned at said first and second containment rings. 18. The apparatus of claim 16 further comprising a first drain coupled to said first containment ring for draining said first processing fluid from said first containment ring and a second drain coupled to said second containment ring for draining said second processing fluid from said second containment ring. 19. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein said first fluid containment ring has a first receptacle and said second electrode is rotatably coupled to said first containment ring, wherein said second electrode may be rotated into position above said receptacle such that any of said first processing fluid remaining on said second electrode after processing may be removed by said receptacle. 20. The apparatus of claim 19 wherein said first receptacle is adapted to apply de-ionized water to said at least one second electrode to rinse said at least one second electrode. 21. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein said first and second containment rings are vertically stacked. 22. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein said support passes through a center of said first and second containment rings to position said substrate. 