A method for fabricating a silicon-on-sapphire wafer for processing by silicon-wafer-processing equipment. A layer is deposited on a backside of a silicon-on-sapphire wafer, the layer having optical and electrical properties of silicon, wherein the silicon-on-sapphire wafer may be sensed by a sensor designed to sense a presence of a silicon wafer.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A silicon-on-insulator wafer comprising: a non-silicon electrically insulating substrate; and a polycrystalline silicon layer on the backside, wherein the layer has electrical properties allowing the silicon-on-insulator wafer to be detected by an electrical sensor configured to sense a silicon wafer, wherein the polycrystalline silicon layer includes a doped region having electrical properties allowing the silicon-on-insulator wafer to be detected by an electrical sensor configured to detect a silicon wafer. 2. The silicon-on-insulator wafer of claim 1, wherein the polycrystalline silicon layer has a thickness of at least 2 microns. 3. The silicon-on-insulator wafer of claim 1, wherein the doped region includes implanted phosphorous ions. 4. The silicon-on-insulator wafer of claim 1, wherein the polycrystalline silicon layer with the doped region has a resistivity less than about 50 ohms per square. 5. The silicon-on-insulator wafer of claim 1, further comprising a layer of silicon nitride deposited on the polycrystalline silicon layer. 6. The silicon-on-insulator wafer of claim 5, wherein the silicon nitride layer is a low pressure chemical vapor deposition silicon nitride layer. 7. The silicon-on-insulator wafer of claim 5, wherein the silicon nitride layer is from about 500 .ANG. to about 5000 .ANG. thick. 8. A wafer for an integrated circuit, comprising: a sapphire substrate; and a polycrystalline silicon layer deposited on the backside of the substrate, said polycrystalline silicon layer including a doped region having electrical resistivity sufficiently low to permit recognition of the wafer by a device designed to detect wafers based on electrical resistivity. 9. The wafer of claim 8, wherein said electrical resistivity is less that about 50 ohms per square. 10. The wafer of claim 8, wherein the polycrystalline layer is at least about 2 microns thick. 11. The wafer of claim 8, wherein said doped region includes implanted phosphorous ions. 12. The wafer of claim 8, further comprising a layer of silicon nitride deposited on the polycrystalline silicon layer. 13. The wafer of claim 1, wherein the non-silicon electrically insulating substrate comprises sapphire. 