Systems and methods for processing membrane flow-through assays to provide more rapid testing. The systems include a plate for receiving a cartridge having a membrane which, for example, can be a membrane with antigens or antibodies fixed thereon. The agents can be pipetted onto the membrane and the systems can be activated to agitate the cartridge to evenly distribute the agents over the membrane, and a vacuum source can apply negative pressure to one side of the membrane to draw the agent therethrough.
Claims I claim: 1. An apparatus for conducting a membrane flow-through assay, comprising: a plate for carrying a cartridge having a membrane with a binding member for binding an analyte of interest, a base being movably coupled to the plate for supporting the plate and for allowing the plate to move about at least one axis, an agitator coupled to the plate and being positioned within the base for moving the plate in a selected motion about the axis, and a vacuum pump capable of generating a negative pressure and being positioned within the base in fluid communication to the plate for allowing the negative pressure to be applied to a cartridge for drawing a fluid sample through a membrane of the cartridge, whereby action of the agitator and the vacuum pump can allow a fluid to diffuse through substantially the entire membrane. 2. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the plate removably and replaceably receives the cartridge to facilitate the use of disposable cartridge assemblies. 3. An apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising a timer. 4. An apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising a timer control unit for controlling the duration for which the agitator operates. 5. An apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising a control unit for automatically controlling the operation of the agitator and vacuum pump. 6. An apparatus according to claim 4, wherein the control unit includes a programmable memory for allowing a user to select a program of operation for aspirating and agitating a sample material applied to the membrane. 7. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the agitator includes a cam assembly for cyclically pivoting about the axis. 8. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the agitator includes an ultrasonic transmitter. 9. An apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising a waste container coupled in fluid communication with the vacuum pump for receiving waste fluid diffused through the membrane. 10. An apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising a bleed-off valve coupled in fluid communication with the vacuum for reducing the negative pressure applied to the cartridge to thereby prevent extended aspiration of liquid through the cartridge. 11. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the plate includes a sealing element for forming a vacuum seal with the cartridge. 12. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the plate includes a compression fitting for compressing a membrane held within the cartridge. 13. An apparatus according to claim 1, further including a control panel having an activation control for the agitator and an activation control for the vacuum pump, to thereby allow a user to control independently the agitation and aspiration of reactant fluid being applied to the membrane. 14. An apparatus according to claim 1, further including a cooling unit for controlling the temperature of the membrane. 15. An apparatus according to claim 1, further including a heating unit for raising the temperature of the membrane. 16. An apparatus for conducting a membrane flow-through assay, comprising a plate assembly for carrying a cartridge having a membrane carried therein, a base being coupled to the plate assembly for supporting the plate assembly, an agitator being positioned within the base and capable of distributing a fluid material over the surface of the membrane, and a pump assembly being positioned within the base and capable of generating a pressure differential and being coupled in fluid communication to the membrane for applying the negative pressure to a side of the membrane for drawing a fluid through the membrane, whereby action of the agitator and the pump assembly can allow a fluid to diffuse through substantially the entire membrane. 17. An apparatus according to claim 16, wherein the agitator includes an ultrasonic transmitter. 18. An apparatus for conducting a membrane flow-through assay, comprising a plate assembly for moving about at least one axis while positioned on the apparatus, the plate assembly carrying a cartridge having a fiber membrane carried therein wherein said membrane includes a binding element held with the fiber of the membrane, and a pump assembly capable of generating a pressure differential across the membrane for drawing a fluid through the membrane, whereby action of the pump assembly can allow a fluid to diffuse through substantially the entire membrane. 19. An apparatus according to claim 18, wherein the cartridge assembly includes an upper plate and a lower plate each of which has a slot pattern defined therein to provide channels for passing fluid through the cartridge assembly and through the fiber membrane, and wherein the pump assembly is in fluid communication to each channel of the fiber membrane, whereby fluid is drawn through each separate channel to thereby diffuse fluid through separate portions of the fiber membrane. 