A fluid containment ring for use in a processing chamber used to deposit a material onto a semiconductor wafer and/or remove material from a wafer by subjecting the wafer to an electric field and an electrolyte is described. The fluid containment ring is located at the base of the processing chamber in close proximity to the outside edge of the wafer being processed in the processing chamber. After each processing step is completed, the used electrolyte is diverted from the processing chamber into the fluid containment ring for containment such that no electrolyte contacts the unprocessed side (or back) of the wafer. One or more drains coupled to the fluid containment ring provide means for disposal and/or recirculation of the electrolyte.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus for processing a substrate residing therein comprising: a chamber for containing a processing fluid for processing said substrate; a first and a second electrode coupled to said chamber, said first and second electrodes for subjecting said substrate to an electric field generated by a potential difference between said first and second electrodes; and, a containment ring coupled to said chamber such that said processing fluid is diverted from said chamber into said containment ring after processing said substrate; wherein said substrate forms a bottom of said chamber for retaining said processing fluid when said substrate is engaged with a lower end of said chamber; wherein said substrate and said lower end form an opening therebetween for diverting said processing fluid into said containment ring when said substrate is not engaged with said lower end. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising at least one drain coupled to said containment ring. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said apparatus further comprises a gas flow for diverting said processing fluid into said containment ring through said opening. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein said gas flow is comprised of nitrogen gas, helium gas, argon gas, or clean dry air. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein multiple processes are performed on said substrate. 6. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein said substrate includes a first surface to be processed by said processing fluid and a second surface opposite said first surface that is not to be processed by said processing fluid; and said gas flow is for diverting said processing fluid away from said second surface when said opening is formed. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said substrate forms a bottom of said chamber for retaining said processing fluid when a side of said substrate to be processed is engaged with a lower end of said chamber. 8. An apparatus for processing a substrate residing therein comprising: a hollow sleeve for forming a containment chamber to contain a processing fluid for processing said substrate, said sleeve having a lower end and an upper end; a support for having said substrate reside thereon; said support engaging said sleeve when raised and causing said substrate to enclose said lower end of said sleeve to form said containment chamber for retaining said processing fluid therein; a first electrode coupled to said sleeve; at least one second electrode coupled to said sleeve; said at least one second electrode contacting a surface of said substrate exposed to said processing fluid such that said substrate is subjected to an electric field generated by a potential difference between said first electrode and said at least one second electrode; and, a containment ring coupled to said hollow sleeve; wherein said substrate and said lower end form an opening therebetween for diverting said processing fluid into said containment ring when said substrate is disengaged from said lower end. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 further comprising a gas purge line residing within said support, said gas purge line for providing a gas flow for directing said processing fluid through said opening into said containment ring and for preventing said processing fluid from contacting a surface of said substrate not exposed to said processing fluid during processing. 10. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein said gas flow is comprised of nitrogen, helium, argon, or clean dry air. 11. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein said support rotates or oscillates such that said processing, fluid is directed into said containment ring when said substrate is disengaged from said sleeve. 12. The apparatus of claim 9 further comprising at least one drain coupled to said containment ring for draining said processing fluid from said containment ring. 13. The apparatus of claim 12 further comprising at least one overflow opening on said hollow sleeve for allowing an excess of said processing fluid to exit said containment chamber during processing and reside in said containment ring. 14. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein multiple processes are performed on said substrate. 15. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein said first electrode is an anode electrode and said at least one second electrode is a cathode electrode for electroplating said substrate. 16. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein said first electrode is a cathode electrode and said at least one second electrode is an anode electrode for electropolishing said substrate. 