Methods and apparatuses are provided for cooling semiconductor substrates prior to handling. In one embodiment, a substrate and support structure combination is lifted after high temperature processing to a cold wall of a thermal processing chamber, which acts as a heat sink. Conductive heat transfer across a small gap from the substrate to the heat sink speeds wafer cooling prior to handling the wafer (e.g., with a robot). In another embodiment, a separate plate is kept cool within a pocket during processing, and is moved close to the substrate and support after processing. In yet another embodiment, a cooling station between a processing chamber and a storage cassette includes two movable cold plates, which are movable to positions closely spaced on either side of the wafer.
Claims We claim: 1. A processing reactor for high temperature treatment of substrates, the reactor comprising: a plurality of walls defining a process chamber; a substrate support structure within the chamber; a heat source for heating a substrate upon the support structure; a heat sink; a movable element; and a drive mechanism for moving the movable element between a first position within the chamber and a second position within the chamber, the first position allowing treatment of the substrate upon the support structure, the second position allowing the heat sink to be spaced from the substrate by a distance sufficiently small to enable significant heat transport between the heat sink and the substrate in the second position. 2. The reactor of claim 1, wherein the movable element comprises the substrate support structure. 3. The reactor of claim 2, wherein the heat sink comprises one of the plurality of walls defining the process chamber. 4. The reactor of claim 1, wherein the movable element comprises the heat sink. 5. The reactor of claim 4, wherein the heat sink comprises a cooling plate and the plate is stored within an actively cooled pocket in the first position. 6. The reactor of claim 5, wherein the plate extends over the substrate upon the support structure in the second position. 7. A substrate processing system, comprising a high temperature processing chamber, a substrate holder positioned within the chamber, a cooling member, a cooling shelter configured to shield the cooling member from heat during high temperature processing, a moveable arm supporting the cooling member, and a drive mechanism for extending the moveable arm and cooling member from a first position with the cooling member proximate the cooling shelter to a second position with the cooling member proximate the substrate holder. 8. The substrate processing system of claim 7, wherein the cooling shelter is actively cooled by circulating fluid. 9. The substrate processing system of claim 7, wherein the cooling shelter comprises a pocket formed by a plurality of walls surrounding the cooling member in the first position. 10. The substrate processing system of claim 9, wherein the cooling member is spaced from the plurality of walls by less than about 3 mm in the first position. 11. A cooling mechanism in a substrate processing system, the mechanism comprising: a support structure configured to support a substrate; a first cooling element; and a second cooling element, wherein the support structure, first and second cooling elements are relatively movable between a cooling position, in which the substrate is proximate and spaced between each of the first and second cooling elements, and a substrate load position, in which a wafer handler can place the substrate upon the support structure. 12. The cooling mechanism of claim 11, wherein the support structure comprises a plurality of vertically oriented pins. 13. The cooling mechanism of claim 11, wherein each of the first and second cooling elements are actively cooled. 14. The cooling mechanism of claim 11, wherein each of the first and second cooling elements are vertically translatable on opposite sides of the substrate. 15. The reactor of claim 1, wherein the distance is between about 0.2 mm and 3.0 mm. 16. The reactor of claim 15, wherein the distance is between about 0.5 and 1.5 mm. 17. The substrate processing system of claim 7, wherein the cooling member is within about 0.2 mm to 3.0 mm of a substrate supported on the substrate holder in the second position. 18. The substrate processing system of claim 17, wherein the cooling member is within about 0.5 mm to 1.5 mm of a substrate supported on the substrate holder in the second position. 19. The cooling mechanism of claim 11, wherein the substrate is spaced between about 0.2 mm and 3.0 mm from each of the first and second cooling elements in the cooling position. 20. The cooling mechanism of claim 19, wherein the substrate is spaced between about 0.5 mm and 1.5 mm from each of the first and second cooling elements in the cooling position. 21. A cooling mechanism in a substrate processing system, the mechanism comprising: a support structure, the support structure configured to support a substrate within a thermal processing chamber; and a cooling element, wherein the support structure and the cooling element are relatively movable between a cooling position, in which the substrate is supported upon the support structure less than about 3 mm from the cooling element, and a substrate load position, in which a wafer handler can place the substrate upon the support structure. 22. The cooling mechanism of claim 21, wherein the support structure comprises a plurality of vertically oriented pins. 23. The cooling mechanism of claim 21, wherein the cooling element is actively cooled. 24. The cooling mechanism of claim 21, wherein the cooling element is translatable. 25. The cooling mechanism of claim 21, wherein the support structure is translatable. 26. The cooling mechanism of claim 25, wherein the support structure is vertically translatable. 27. The cooling mechanism of claim 21, configured to position the substrate within the thermal processing chamber in the cooling position. 28. The cooling mechanism of claim 27, wherein the substrate is supported upon the support structure between about 0.21 mm and 3.0 mm from the cooling element in the cooling position. 29. The cooling mechanism of claim 27, wherein the substrate is supported upon the support structure between about 0.5 mm and 1.5 mm from the cooling element in the cooling position. 30. The cooling mechanism of claim 21, wherein the cooling position is within the thermal processing chamber. 31. A processing reactor for high temperature treatment of substrates, the reactor comprising: a plurality of walls defining a process chamber; a substrate support structure; a heat source for heating a substrate upon the support structure within the chamber; a heat sink; a movable element; and a drive mechanism for moving the movable element between a first position within the chamber and a second position, the first position allowing treatment of the substrate upon the support structure within the chamber, the second position allowing the heat sink to be spaced from the substrate while supported on the support structure by a distance sufficiently small to enable primarily conductive heat transport between the heat sink and the substrate in the second position. 32. The processing reactor of claim 31, wherein the distance is between about 0.21 mm and 3.0 mm. 33. The processing reactor of claim 32, wherein the distance is between about 0.5 and 1.5 mm. 34. The processing reactor of claim 31, wherein the second position is within the chamber. 35. The processing reactor of claim 31, wherein the heat sink is sheltered from the heat source when the movable element is in the first position. 36. The processing reactor of claim 31, wherein the movable element is the heat sink. 37. The processing reactor of claim 31, wherein the movable element is the substrate support structure. 