A user interface is provided that allows for the control of the movement of multiple objects by the identification of a target location associated with each of the multiple objects. The identification of the target location is via a coordinate pointer associated with an input device, and the association of the target location to a particular object is via the closure of a switch on an input device that is associated with the particular object. After identifying an associated target location, the object is moved toward the target location without further input from the user. In a preferred embodiment, the movement of the object toward the target location is dependent upon rules of motion and rules of engagement with other objects or obstacles, thereby facilitating a realistic rendering of the object's path toward the target. The rules of motion and engagement may be specific to each type of object being moved, and also subject to the interactions of multiple objects and obstacles.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A computer interface comprising: an input device for selecting a target location within a coordinate space, and a controller, operably coupled to the input device, that effects a movement of an object in a target direction toward the target location, and said controller is configured for independent control of the movement of the object and at least one other object is exerted without a change in context within the computer interface. 2. The computer interface of claim 1, wherein the object has an initial movement in an initial direction that is substantially different from the target direction. 3. The computer interface of claim 1, wherein the controller comprises: an obstacle detector that detects obstacles between a location of the object and the target location, a direction determinator that determines an object direction in dependence upon the target direction and in dependence upon the obstacles between the location of the object and the target location, and an object mover that incrementally adjusts the location of the object in dependence upon the object direction. 4. The computer interface of claim 1, wherein: the input device includes a plurality of switches, at least one switch of the plurality of switches being associated with the object, and at least one other switch of the plurality of switches being associated with at least one other object, and the controller is further operably coupled to the plurality of switches and effects at least one other movement of the at least one other object, the at least one other movement being in an other direction toward an at least one other target location selected corresponding to a closure of the at least one other switch associated with the at least one other object. 5. The computer interface of claim 1, further including a screen that depicts an image corresponding to the coordinate space. 6. The computer interface of claim 5, wherein the controller effects the movement of the object in accordance with rules of movement associated with the object that facilitate a realistic rendering of the image on the screen. 7. The computer interface of claim 6, wherein: the input device includes a plurality of switches, at least one switch of the plurality of switches being associated with the object, and at least one other switch of the plurality of switches being associated with at least one other object, and the controller is further operably coupled to the plurality of switches and effects at least one other movement of the at least one other object, the at least one other movement being in an other direction toward an at least one other target location selected corresponding to a closure of the at least one other switch associated with the at least one other object. 8. The computer interface of claim 7, wherein the controller effects the movement of the at least one other object in accordance with rules of movement associated with the at least one other object that facilitates a realistic rendering of the image on the screen. 9. The computer interface of claim 1, wherein the input device further includes at least one other switch, the other switch being associated with a state of the controller. 10. The computer interface of claim 1, wherein the target location is associated with an other object having a changeable location, and the controller modifies the target location in dependence upon the changeable location of the other object. 11. A computer program stored on a computer readable medium for controlling the motion of a plurality of objects, each object of the plurality of objects having an object location within an object coordinate space, the computer program comprising: means for identifying coordinates of a pointer within the coordinate space, means for detecting each closure of a switch of a plurality of input switches, each switch of the plurality of input switches being associated with each object of the plurality of objects without a change in context within the object coordinate space, a target coordinate determinator that determines a target location of a plurality of target locations associated with each object, in dependence upon the coordinates of the pointer when each closure is detected of the each switch associated with the each object, an object mover that incrementally adjusts each object location in an each object direction toward the each target location associated with each object. 12. The computer program of claim 11, further including: an obstacle detector that identifies obstacles associated with each object that are located between the each object location and associated each target location, and a direction determinator that modifies each object direction in dependence upon the obstacles associated with each object. 13. The computer program of claim 11, wherein the object mover adjusts the each object location in substantial accord with rules associated with each object that simulate a movement of a physical element corresponding to the each object. 14. The computer program of claim 11, wherein the target coordinate determinator further determines at least one of the plurality of target locations in dependence upon a location of a target object in the coordinate space. 15. A method for controlling a motion of an object comprising the steps of: defining a coordinate space, the object having an object location within the coordinate space, identifying a target location associated with the object within the coordinate space, determining a direction between the object location and the target location, incrementally modifying the object location substantially in the direction between the object location and the target location, identifying at least one other target location associated with the at least one other object, determining at least one other direction between a location of the at least one other object and the at least one other target location without a change in context within the object coordinate space, and incrementally modifying the location of the at least one other object substantially in the at least one other direction between the location of the at least one other object and the at least one other target location. 16. The method of claim 15, further including the step of determining a velocity associated with the object, and wherein the step of incrementally modifying the object location is further dependent upon the velocity associated with the object. 17. The method of claim 15, further including the step of determining obstacles associated with the object that lie between the object location and the target location, and wherein the step of incrementally modifying the object location is further dependent upon the obstacles associated with the object. 18. The method of claim 15, further including the steps of displaying an image corresponding to the coordinate space on a screen. 