Disposable loading units (DLUs) configured for mounting to a robotic arm for performing at least one surgical task are presented. Each DLU includes an attachment platform having at least one connector for engaging at least one connector on a distal end of the robotic arm for connecting the DLU to the robotic arm, a head portion connected to the attachment platform at one end and configured for housing an electro-mechanical actuation assembly therein, and at least one surgical tool member extending from the head portion and operatively associated with the electro-mechanical actuation assembly for controlling the operation and movement of the at least one surgical tool member. The at least one surgical tool member may include a cutting assembly, an aortic hole punch assembly, a lasing assembly, a coring assembly, or a vascular suturing assembly.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic system for performing surgical tasks comprising: a) a robotic arm defining a longitudinal axis; b) an actuation assembly operatively associated with the robotic arm for controlling operation and movement of the robotic arm; c) a disposable loading unit (DLU) mounted to the robotic arm, the DLU including at least one surgical tool member and control means for controlling operation and movement of the at least one surgical tool member, the DLU being releasably mounted to the robotic arm and defining an electrical interface therewith, wherein mechanical mounting of the DLU to the robotic arm electrically couples the actuation assembly and the control means, and wherein mechanical release of the DLU and the robotic arm electrically isolates the actuation assembly and the control means. 2. A robotic system as recited in claim 1, wherein the control means includes a processor and a receiver for receiving electrical signals transmitted from the actuation assembly to control the operation and movement of the at least one surgical tool member. 3. A robotic system as recited in claim 1, wherein the DLU is electro-mechanically coupled to the robotic arm for electrically operating the DLU and for articulating the DLU with respect to the longitudinal axis. 4. A robotic system as recited in claim 1, wherein the at least one surgical tool member is selected from a group consisting of a cutting assembly, an aortic hole punch assembly, a lasing assembly, a fastener applying assembly, a coring assembly, or a vascular suturing assembly. 5. A robotic system as recited in claim 1, wherein the DLU includes at least one mechanical connector for connecting the DLU to the robotic arm. 6. A robotic system as recited in claim 5, wherein the at least one mechanical connector and the robotic arm define the electrical interface. 7. A robotic system for performing surgical tasks comprising: a) means for communicating commands in the form of electrical signals from a processor within an actuation assembly to an electro-mechanical device having at least one surgical tool member and configured for releasably mounting at a distal end of a robotic arm; b) control means within the electro-mechanical device operatively associated with the communicating means for receiving the electrical signals from the actuation assembly for actuating at least one electrical device within the electro-mechanical device for controlling the operation and movement of the at least one surgical tool member; and c) electrical connection means operable to electrically isolate the control means and the actuation assembly when the electro-mechanical device is mechanically released from the robotic arm. 8. A robotic system as recited in claim 7, wherein the at least one surgical tool member is selected from a group consisting of a cutting assembly, an aortic hole punch assembly, a lasing assembly, a coring assembly, or a vascular suturing assembly. 9. A robotic system as recited in claim 7, wherein the at least one surgical tool member is configured for endoscopic surgical tasks. 10. A robotic system as recited in claim 7, wherein the at least one surgical tool member is configured for laparoscopic surgical tasks. 11. A robotic system for performing surgical tasks which comprises: a) means for communicating commands in the form of electrical signals from a processor within an actuation assembly to an electro-mechanical device having at least one surgical tool member and configured for releasably mounting at a distal end of a robotic arm; b) control means within the electro-mechanical device operatively associated with the communicating means for receiving the electrical signals from the actuation assembly for actuating at least one electrical device within the electro-mechanical device for controlling the operation and movement of the at least one surgical tool member; and c) electrical connection means operable to electrically isolate the control means and the actuation assembly when the electro-mechanical device is released from the robotic arm and being adapted to electrically couple the control means and the actuation assembly when the electro-mechanical device is mounted to the robotic arm. 12. A robotic system for performing surgical tasks, which comprises: a frame; a robotic arm connected to the frame and movable relative to the frame; an electro-mechanical device releasably mounted to the robotic arm and having a surgical effector for performing a surgical task; an actuator for controlling movement of the robotic arm and the surgical effector through transmission of respective electrical signals thereto; and an electrical interface for electrically coupling the electro-mechanical device and the actuator, the electrical interface being operable to electrically isolate the electro-mechanical device and the actuator upon removal of the electro-mechanical device from mounting to the robotic arm. 13. A robotic system as recited in claim 12 wherein the electrical interface is operable to electrically couple the electro-mechanical device and the actuator upon mounting of the electro-mechanical device to the robotic arm. 14. A robotic system for performing surgical tasks, which comprises: a frame; a robotic arm connected to the frame and movable relative to the frame; an electro-mechanical device having a surgical effector for performing a surgical task; an actuator for controlling movement of the robotic arm and the surgical effector through transmission of respective electrical signals thereto; and a mechanical and electrical connection for releasably mounting the electro-mechanical device and the robotic arm wherein mounting of the electro-mechanical device to the robotic arm electrically couples the actuator and the electro-mechanical device, and wherein release of the electro-mechanical device from the robotic arm electrically isolates the actuator and the electro-mechanical device. 