A process chamber within which a wafer can moved between a transfer position, an etch position and a liquid application position with a single motion system. The process chamber is a spin-type apparatus including a rotatable chuck driven by a spin motor combined with a movable pedestal. The pedestal is preferably movable along with the chuck and the spin motor with a wafer supporting portion of the chuck located in an internal chamber that is defined by a rinse bowl portion of a lower chamber assembly that is sealingly connected to the top cover member. The pedestal is displaceable between any and all of its positions as driven by a single linear motion driving device. In a first position, the pedestal itself can also form an effective seal with the top cover member to create an etching chamber. In a transfer position, the pedestal can be positioned to provide access through a wafer transfer gate, such as by a robot. In a liquid application position, the chuck supports a wafer within a rinse bowl section of the internal chamber. The process chamber eliminates any need for opening and closing the internal process chamber by moving the top cover member. The method of processing a wafer utilizing the apparatus of the present invention is also described.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A wafer processing apparatus having a sealable internal process chamber within which a wafer can be supported at multiple positions, said apparatus comprising: a support; a process chamber operatively connected with said support and comprising a rinse bowl member that provides a chamber bottom, a top cover member that provides a chamber top and a wall between the rinse bowl portion and the top cover member that surrounds an internal process chamber, the wall also including a wafer transfer opening to permit a wafer to be selectively loaded into and removed from the internal process chamber, and the rinse bowl member having an access opening; a wafer support chuck rotatably supported within the internal process chamber, the support chuck also being operatively connected with a first rotatable drive device and being displaceable in a first direction, the support chuck thus being positionable within the internal process chamber in multiple positions between the top cover member and the rinse bowl member of the process chamber; a first motion drive device that is operatively connected to the support and which is further operatively connected with the wafer support chuck to move the wafer support chuck between multiple different positions within the internal process chamber. 2. The wafer processing apparatus of claim 1, further including a pedestal comprising a base portion and an extension portion, the base portion being also located within the internal process chamber and the extension portion extending through and movably displaceable with respect to the access opening of the rinse bowl member so that the base portion can also be positioned at multiple positions between the top cover member and the rinse bowl member of the process chamber. 3. The wafer processing apparatus of claim 2, wherein the wafer support chuck is operatively rotatably supported along with the pedestal so as to move with the pedestal. 4. The wafer processing apparatus of claim 3, further including a wafer transfer gate that is movably disposed with respect to the process chamber and which is movable between an opened position of the wafer transfer opening and a closed position of the wafer transfer opening. 5. The wafer processing apparatus of claim 4, wherein a first sealing surface portion of the base portion of the pedestal is engageable with a second sealing surface portion that is provided within the internal process chamber so as to seal off a portion of the internal process chamber when the pedestal and chuck are raised to an up position. 6. The wafer processing apparatus of claim 5, further including a transfer ring that is located between the top cover member and the rinse bowl member to provide at least a portion of the wall, where the wafer transfer opening is provided through the transfer ring, and the top cover member, transfer ring and the rinse bowl member are formed separately and are sealingly connected to one another. 7. The wafer processing apparatus of claim 6, wherein the first rotatable drive device is connected with the pedestal by a bracket, and the bracket is further connected with the first motion drive device for moving the first rotatable drive device and thus the chuck and the base portion of the pedestal between multiple positions between the top cover member and the rinse bowl member of the process chamber. 8. A combined vapor phase/liquid phase wafer processing apparatus having a sealable internal process chamber within which a wafer can be supported at multiple positions, said apparatus comprising: a support; a process chamber operatively connected with said support and comprising a rinse bowl member that provides a chamber bottom, a top cover member that provides a chamber top and a wall between the rinse bowl portion and the top cover member that surrounds an internal process chamber, the wall also including a wafer transfer opening to permit a wafer to be selectively loaded into and removed from the internal process chamber, and the rinse bowl member having an access opening; a wafer support chuck rotatably supported within the internal process chamber, the support chuck also being operatively connected with a rotatable drive device and being displaceable in a first direction, the support chuck thus being positionable within the internal process chamber in multiple positions between the top cover member and the rinse bowl member of the process chamber; a first motion drive device that is operatively connected to the support and which is further operatively connected with the wafer support chuck to move the wafer support chuck between multiple different positions within the internal process chamber. 9. The wafer processing apparatus of claim 8, further including a pedestal comprising a base portion and an extension portion, the base portion being also located within the internal process chamber and the extension portion extending through and movably displaceable with respect to the access opening of the rinse bowl member so that the base portion can also be positioned at multiple positions between the top cover member and the rinse bowl member of the process chamber. 10. The wafer processing apparatus of claim 9, wherein the wafer support chuck is operatively rotatably supported along with the pedestal so as to move with the pedestal. 11. The wafer processing apparatus of claim 10, further including a wafer transfer gate that is movably disposed with respect to the process chamber and which is movable between an opened position of the wafer transfer opening and a closed position of the wafer transfer opening. 12. The wafer processing apparatus of claim 11, wherein a first sealing surface portion of the base portion of the pedestal is engageable with a second sealing surface portion that is provided within the internal process chamber so as to seal off a portion of the internal process chamber when the pedestal and chuck are raised to an up position. 13. The wafer processing apparatus of claim 12, further including a transfer ring that is located between the top cover member and the rinse bowl member to provide at least a portion of the wall, where the wafer transfer opening is provided through the transfer ring, and the top cover member, transfer ring and the rinse bowl member are formed separately and are sealingly connected to one another. 14. The wafer processing apparatus of claim 13, wherein the first rotatable drive device is connected with the pedestal by a bracket, and the bracket is further connected with the first motion drive device for moving the first rotatable drive device and thus the chuck and the base portion of the pedestal between multiple positions between the top cover member and the rinse bowl member of the process chamber. 15. A method of processing a wafer within an apparatus having a sealable internal process chamber within which a wafer can be supported at multiple positions, wherein the internal process chamber is made up by a rinse bowl member that provides a chamber bottom, a top cover member that provides a chamber top and a wall between the rinse bowl portion and the top cover member that surrounds the internal process chamber, the wall also including a wafer transfer opening to permit a wafer to be selectively loaded into and removed from the internal process chamber, and the internal process chamber includes therein a wafer support chuck that is rotatably supported within the internal process chamber and that is displaceable in a first direction so as to be positionable within the internal process chamber in multiple positions between the top cover member and the rinse bowl member of the process chamber, and the chuck is operatively connected with a first motion drive device to move the wafer support chuck between multiple different positions within the internal process chamber including, said method comprising: loading a wafer onto the chuck while the chuck is in a wafer transfer position by transferring the wafer through the wafer transfer opening; activating the first motion drive device and thus moving the chuck to a different position than the wafer transfer position between the top cover member and the rinse bowl member; and performing a process step to the wafer while in the different position. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the apparatus further includes a wafer transfer gate that is movably disposed with respect to the process chamber and which is movable between an opened position of the wafer transfer opening and a closed position of the wafer transfer opening, and the method further comprises the steps of opening the wafer transfer gate before loading a wafer onto the chuck and closing the gate to seal the internal process chamber prior to performing the process step. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the wafer is a semiconductor wafer and the process step comprises a process applied to at least a surface of the semiconductor wafer. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein the chuck and thus the semiconductor wafer are moved to a liquid application position, and the process step comprises the application of a liquid to the surface of the semiconductor wafer. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein the chuck and thus the semiconductor wafer are moved to a vapor phase process position, and another process step is conducted to the wafer surface by exposing the wafer surface to a gas. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein the apparatus further includes a pedestal that is operatively connected with the first motion drive device so as to move along with the chuck, the pedestal including a base portion disposed within the internal process chamber and having a first sealing surface portion that is engageable with a second sealing surface portion that is provided within the internal process chamber, the method including the step of sealing the first and second sealing surfaces by raising the pedestal and chuck to an up position so as to seal off a portion of the internal process chamber. 