A robotic parts handler system for removing containers filled with articles from a sorting, feeding and/or stacking apparatus such as a mail or package sorting apparatus, and moving the container to a selected location for insertion into another conveying system, transport device, carrier, or other apparatus at extremely high speeds.
Claims We claim: 1. A robotic container handling system, comprising: a magnetic positioning system comprising a first rail including a top surface connecting side surfaces and a bottom surface, said first rail including at least one magnet bank of permanent magnets extending there along one side; a second rail spaced apart from and extending parallel to said first rail; a base platform having a plurality of rail rollers attached to the outer portion of said base platform for supporting and guiding said base platform along said first rail and said second rail; at least one linear-servo motor attached to said base extending downward along a side of said base platform spaced apart from and in close proximity to said permanent magnets of said first rail in electromagnetic communication with said permanent magnets; a plurality of positioning rollers for maintaining a constant distance between said at least one linear servo-motor mounted onto said base platform and said permanent magnet mounted to said first rail; a frame extending upwardly from said base comprising at least one support column extending upward from said base and a support saddle extending from said support column said support saddle being movable in the vertical axis and pivotable from side to side and front to back. 2. A robotic parts handling system, comprising: a platform forming a base including at least one linear servo magnetic motor affixed to and extending along the side beneath said platform; a track including a first master rail and a second minor balancing rail; a plurality of supporting rollers supporting and holding said platform to said first master rail and said second minor balancing rail; a plurality of magnets mounted along the length of said first master rail for cooperative magnetic engagement with said at least one linear servo magnetic motor; a plurality of positioning rollers mounted to said platform for maintaining a constant distance between said linear servo magnetic motor and said magnets mounted to said first master rail; a computer control unit; means in close proximity to said rail for generating pulses readable by a reader in communication with said control unit for positioning said platform at selected positions upon said rail; a frame mounted upon said platform including at least one pair of vertical rails spaced apart from and in alignment with one another; a pair of slide members each one including a plurality of rollers cooperatively engaging said vertical rails; means extending along said vertical rails in cooperative engagement with said slide members for moving said slide members up and down independently of one another along the Y-axis; a saddle having distal ends extending inbetween said vertical rails attaching to said slide members, said saddle being tiltable from side to side and from front to back; means for tilting said saddle from front to back along the x-axis; at least one end effector mounted onto said saddle including means for engaging and removing a container from a preselected position on one side of said platform and transferring said container to the opposite side of the platform and positioning and releasing said container in a selected location. 3. The robotic container handling system of claim 1, said computer controlling and coordinating movement of said robotic container handling system. 4. The robotic container handling system of claim 1, including means for aligning said base platform with a selected point on said first rail or said second rail. 5. The robotic container handling system of claim 4, wherein said means for aligning said base platform with a selected point on said first rail or said second rail comprises a magnetic strip in close proximity thereto for generating, transmitting, or reflecting pulses readable by a reader in communication with said computer for positioning said base platform at selected positions along said first rail. 6. The robotic container handling system of claim 1, said frame mounted upon said base platform having at least one pair of vertical rails spaced apart from and in alignment with one another supporting a pair of slide members, each one including a plurality of rollers cooperatively engaging the vertical rails and including means for moving said slide members along said vertical rails. 7. The robotic container handling system of claim 6, said means for moving said slide members along said vertical rails comprises a pair of timing belts, each one extending along one of said vertical rails in cooperative engagement with said slide members moving said slide members up and down independently of one another or together along the Y-axis. 8. The robotic container handling system of claim 7, wherein said saddle includes a first distal end and a second distal end extending inbetween said vertical rails and attaching to said slide members for supporting an object thereon and for moving said first distal and said second distal end of said saddle and object supported thereby up and down independently of one another or together along the y-axis. 9. The robotic container handling system of claim 8, including means for tilting said saddle and object supported thereon in the x-axis. 10. The robotic container handling system of claim 9, wherein said means for tilting said saddle and object supported thereon in the x-axis comprises a cylinder. 11. The robotic container handling system of claim 1, including means mounted onto said base platform for engaging and removing a container from a preselected position on one side of said platform and transferring the container to the opposite side of the platform and positioning and releasing the container in a selected location. 12. The robotic container handling system of claim 1, said end effector engaging and removing a container from a preselected position on one side of said base platform and transferring the container to the opposite side of the base platform and positioning and releasing the container in a selected location. 13. The robotic container handling system of claim 8, including means mounted onto said saddle for engaging and removing a container from a preselected position on one side of said platform and transferring the container to the opposite side of the platform and positioning and releasing the container in a selected location. 14. The robotic container handling system of claim 1, a digital magnetic positioning system for aligning said base platform with a selected position on said first rail or said second rail. 15. The robotic container handling system of claim 1, including means for handling a conveyor mounted to said support saddle. 16. The robotic container handling system of claim 1, including means for braking said base platform along said first rail. 17. The robotic container handling system of claim 1, including means for braking said slide members cooperatively engaging said vertical support column. 18. The robotic container handling system of claim 1, wherein said linear-servo motor attached to said base platform is spaced apart from said permanent magnets providing a gap of about 0.020 inches thereinbetween. 19. The robotic container handling system of claim 1, wherein said base platform is supported by rollers contacting said first rail. 20. The robotic container handling system of claim 1, wherein said second rail is a minor rail provided only for stability. 21. The robotic container handling system of claim 1, said second rail including a top surface connecting side surfaces and a bottom surface and at least one magnet bank of permanent magnets extending there along one side for cooperatively engaging a second linear servo motor. 22. The robotic container handling system of claim 1, including a plurality of positioning rollers comprising guide wheels for separating and holding the linear servo motors a selected distance from said permanent magnets extending along said first rail. 