An implantable medical device such as a defibrillator is described. The device includes an hermetically sealed housing containing a flat electrolytic capacitor and an energy source such as a battery. The battery is connected to the capacitor and provides charge thereto. The capacitor stores the charge at a relatively high voltage. The charge stored in the capacitor is discharged through a defibrillation lead to a site on or in the heart when fibrillation of the heart is detected by the implantable medical device. Methods of making and using the implantable medical device, the capacitor, and their various components are disclosed.
Claims We claim: 1. An hermetically sealed implantable medical device, comprising: (a) an hermetically sealed housing; (b) an energy source disposed within the housing; (c) a substantially flat electrolytic capacitor connected to the energy source and disposed within the housing, the capacitor comprising: (i) at least one flat cathode layer formed of cathode foil and having a first perimeter of a first overall length, the at least one flat cathode layer having top and bottom surfaces and at least a first cathode means for connecting projecting from the first perimeter at a first predetermined perimeter location; (ii) a plurality of flat anode layers formed of anode foil, the plurality of anode layers forming an anode sub-assembly having top and bottom surfaces, at least one of the plurality of anode layers being a first anode layer having a second perimeter of a second overall length and at least a second anode means for connecting projecting from the second perimeter at a second predetermined perimeter location; (iii) at least a first separator layer formed of separator material; (iv) a first cathode feedthrough means for connecting to the first cathode connecting means, the first cathode feedthrough means having a cathode feedthrough pin extending therefrom and the proximal end of the cathode feedthrough pin being coiled around the first cathode connecting means; (v) a second anode feedthrough means for connecting to the second anode connecting means, the second anode feedthrough means having an anode feedthrough pin extending therefrom (vi) a case having sidewalls extending upwardly from a substantially flat planar base to form an open end; (vii) a cover for sealing the open end of the case, the case or cover having first and second openings for receiving the proximal ends of the anode feedthrough and the cathode feedthrough therethrough, and (viii) a connector block attached to or engaged with an exterior surface of the case or cover, the connector block having at least a third opening for receiving the proximal ends of the anode feedthrough or the cathode feedthrough therein or therethrough; wherein the at least one cathode layer, the plurality of anode layers and the first separator layer are vertically stacked to form an electrode assembly such that the first separator layer is disposed between the at least one cathode layer and the anode sub-assembly, the first cathode connecting means is aligned with a first predetermined registration position in the electrode assembly, the second anode connecting means is aligned with a second predetermined registration position in the electrode assembly, the first cathode feedthrough connecting means is connected to the first cathode connecting means, the second anode feedthrough means for connecting is connected to the second anode connecting means, the anode and cathode feedthrough means extending through the at least first opening in the case or the cover and through the at least second opening into the connector block for attachment to an electronic device or circuit, and the cover is sealingly disposed over the open end of the case. 2. The implantable medical device of claim 1, further comprising a third separator layer formed of separator material and a second anode sub-assembly having top and bottom surfaces and comprising a plurality of anode layers formed of anode foil, at least one of the plurality of anode layers of the second anode sub-assembly being a fourth anode layer having a fourth perimeter, at least a fourth anode means for connecting projecting from the fourth perimeter at a fourth predetermined perimeter location, vertically stacking the second anode sub-assembly and the third separator layer in the stacked electrode assembly such that the third separator layer is disposed between the at least one cathode layer and the second anode sub-assembly, and vertically aligning the second anode means for connecting and the fourth anode means for connecting such that the second predetermined registration location of the electrode assembly coincides vertically with the fourth predetermined registration location of the electrode assembly, the second anode feedthrough connecting means being connected to the second anode connecting means and the fourth anode connecting means. 3. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the first anode feedthrough means for connecting to the first anode connecting means is a proximal end of the anode feedthrough pin, the proximal end of the anode feedthrough pin being coiled around the first anode connecting means. 4. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the first cathode feedthrough means for connecting to the first cathode connecting means further comprises an intermediate strain relief component disposed between the proximal end of the first cathode feedthrough means for connecting to the first cathode connecting means and the cathode feedthrough pin. 5. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the first anode feedthrough means for connecting to the first anode connecting means further comprises an intermediate strain relief component disposed between the proximal end of the first anode feedthrough means for connecting to the first anode connecting means and the anode feedthrough pin. 6. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the anode sub-assembly comprises a plurality of non-notched anode layers and at least one notched anode layer. 7. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the separator layer has a perimeter extending beyond the perimeter of the anode sub-assembly. 8. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the electrode assembly is secured by means for securing the electrode assembly to prevent electrode assembly movement or shifting, wherein the means for securing the electrode assembly comprises an electrode wrap and corresponding adhesive strip. 9. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the at least one cathode layer has no holes for registration disposed therethrough. 10. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the plurality of flat anode layers have no holes for registration disposed therethrough. 11. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the first and second openings have anode and cathode feedthrough ferrules disposed there within, respectively, for receiving the proximal ends of the anode feedthrough and the cathode feedthroughs therethrough; wherein an anode wire guide is disposed in the anode feedthrough ferrule; wherein the anode wire guide is formed from a material selected from the group consisting of ETFE, PTFE, ECTFE, PCTFE, FEP, PFA, PVDF, a fluroelastomer, a polyester, a polyamide, a polyethylene, a polypropylene, a polyacetal, a polyetherketone, a polyarylketone, a polyehter sulfone, a polyphenyl sulfone, a polysulfone, a polyarylsulfone, a polyetherimide, a polyimide, a poly(amide-imide), PVC, a PVDC-PVC copolymer, CPVC, a polyfuran, a poly(phenylene sulfide), and epoxy resin, a silicone elastomer, nitrile rubber, a chloroprene polymer, chlorosulfonated rubber, polysulfide rubber, an ethylene-polyproplene elasomer, butyl rubber, polyacrylic rubber, fiber reinforced plastic, glass and ceramic. 12. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the first and second openings have anode and cathode feedthrough ferrules disposed there within, respectively, for receiving the proximal ends of the anode feedthrough and the cathode feedthroughs therethrough; wherein a cathode wire guide is disposed in the cathode feedthrough ferrule; wherein the cathode wire guide is formed from a material selected from the group consisting of ETFE, PTFE, ECTFE, PCTFE, FEP, PFA, PVDF, a fluroelastomer, a polyester, a polyamide, a polyethylene, a polypropylene, a polyacetal, a polyetherketone, a polyarylketone, a polyehter sulfone, a polyphenyl sulfone, a polysulfone, a polyarylsulfone, a polyetherimide, a polyimide, a poly(amide-imide), PVC, a PVDC-PVC copolymer, CPVC, a polyfuran, a poly(phenylene sulfide), and epoxy resin, a silicone elastomer, nitrile rubber, a chloroprene polymer, chlorosulfonated rubber, polysulfide rubber, an ethylene-polyproplene elasomer, butyl rubber, polyacrylic rubber, fiber reinforced plastic, glass and ceramic. 13. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the first and second openings have anode and cathode feedthrough ferrules disposed there within, respectively, for receiving the proximal ends of the anode feedthrough and the cathode feedthroughs therethrough; wherein an electrically insulative potting adhesive is disposed propinquant to at least one feedthrough ferrules. 14. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the capacitor includes a headspace portion that is electrically insulated from the case or the cover; wherein the headspace portion comprises at least one of thermally-formed, die-cut, and mechanically-formed electrically insulative materials. 15. The implantable medical device of claim 14, wherein the headspace portion comprises a material selected from the group consisting of ETFE, PTFE, ECTFE, PCTFE, FEP, PFA, PVDF, a fluoroelastomer, a polyester, a polyamide, a polyethylene, a polypropylene, a polyacetal, a polyetherketone, a polyarylketone, a polyether sulfone, a polyphenyl sulfone, a polysulfone, a polyarylsulfone, a polyetherimide, a polyimide, a poly(amide-imide), PVC, a PVDC-PVC copolymer, CPVC, a polyfuran, a poly(phenyllene sulfide), an epoxy resin, a silicone elastomer, nitrile rubber, a chloroprene polymer, chlorosulfonated rubber, polysulfide rubber, an ethylene-polypropylene elastomer, butyl rubber, polyacrylic rubber, fiber-reinforced plastic, glass and ceramic. 16. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the connector block further comprises potting adhesive disposed therewithin or thereon. 17. The implantable medical device of claim 16, wherein the potting adhesive is selected from the group consisting of aliphatic epoxy, chemically resistant thermoplastic hot melt materials, polyamide, polyester, polyurethane, epoxy, polyethylene-vinyl acetate, UV curable resin, acrylate, methacrylate, thermosetting resin, aromatic epoxy, silicone, polyamide, polyester, polyurethane, a thermally cured adhesive, and a UV-cured adhesive. 18. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein a wire harness comprises electrically insulated anode and cathode leads having distal ends, the distal ends of the anode and cathode leads being connected to the proximal ends of the anode feedthrough and the cathode feedthrough, respectively. 19. The implantable medical device of claim 18, wherein the wire harness further comprises at least one of an anode crimp tube and a cathode crimp tube. 20. The implantable medical device of claim 19, wherein the anode crimp tube is crimped onto the proximal end of the anode feedthrough pin. 21. The implantable medical device of claim 19, wherein the cathode crimp tube is crimped onto the proximal end of the cathode feedthrough pin. 22. The implantable medical device of claim 18, wherein the wire harness further comprises a terminal connector disposed at its proximal end. 23. The implantable medical device of claim 18, wherein the wire harness and the connector further comprise means for providing strain relief to at least distal ends of the anode and cathode leads of the wire harness. 24. The implantable medical device of claim 23, wherein the strain relief providing means comprises adhesive epoxy. 25. A substantially flat electrolytic capacitor, comprising: (a) at least one flat cathode layer formed of cathode foil and having a first perimeter of a first overall length, the cathode layer having top and bottom surfaces and at least a first cathode means for connecting projecting from the first perimeter at a first predetermined perimeter location; (b) a plurality of flat anode layers formed of anode foil, the plurality of anode layers forming an anode sub-assembly having top and bottom surfaces, at least one of the plurality of anode layers being a first anode layer having a second perimeter of a second overall length and at least a second anode means for connecting projecting from the second perimeter at a second predetermined perimeter location; (c) at least a first separator layer formed of separator material; (d) a first cathode feedthrough means for connecting to the first cathode connecting means, the first cathode feedthrough means having a cathode feedthrough pin extending therefrom and the proximal end of the cathode feedthrough pin being coiled around the first cathode connecting means; (d) a second anode feedthrough means for connecting to the second anode connecting means, the second anode feedthrough means having an anode feedthrough pin extending therefrom; (e) a case having sidewalls extending upwardly from a substantially flat planar base to form an open end; (f) a cover for sealing the open end of the case, the case or cover having first and second openings for receiving the proximal ends of the anode feedthrough and the cathode feedthrough therethrough, and (g) a connector block attached to or engaged with an exterior surface of the case or cover, the connector block having at least a third opening for receiving the proximal ends of the anode feedthrough or the cathode feedthrough therein or therethrough; wherein the at least one cathode layer, the plurality of anode layers and the first separator layer are vertically stacked to form an electrode assembly such that the first separator layer is disposed between the at least one cathode layer and the anode sub-assembly, the first cathode connecting means is aligned with a first predetermined registration position in the electrode assembly, the second anode connecting means is aligned with a second predetermined registration position in the electrode assembly, the first cathode feedthrough connecting means is connected to the first cathode connecting means, the second anode feedthrouqh means for connecting is connected to the second anode connecting means, the anode and cathode feedthrough means extending through the at least first opening in the case or the cover and through the at least second opening into the connector block for attachment to an electronic device or circuit, and the cover is sealingly disposed over the open end of the case. 26. The capacitor of claim 25, further comprising a third separator layer formed of separator material and a second anode sub-assembly having top and bottom surfaces and comprising a plurality of anode layers formed of anode foil, at least one of the plurality of anode layers of the second anode sub-assembly being a fourth anode layer having a fourth perimeter, at least a fourth anode means for connecting projecting from the fourth perimeter at a fourth predetermined perimeter location, vertically stacking the second anode sub-assembly and the third separator layer in the stacked electrode assembly such that the third separator layer is disposed between the at least one cathode layer and the second anode sub-assembly, and vertically aligning the second anode means for connecting and the fourth anode means for connecting such that the second predetermined registration location of the electrode assembly coincides vertically with the fourth predetermined registration location of the electrode assembly, the second anode feedthrough connecting means being connected to the second anode connecting means and the fourth anode connecting means. 27. The capacitor of claim 25, wherein the first anode feedthrough means for connecting to the first anode connecting means is a proximal end of the anode feedthrough pin, the proximal end of the anode feedthrough pin being coiled around the first anode connecting means. 28. The capacitor of claim 25, wherein the first cathode feedthrough means for connecting to the first cathode connecting means further comprises an intermediate strain relief component disposed between the proximal end of the first cathode feedthrough means for connecting to the first cathode connecting means and the cathode feedthrough pin. 29. The capacitor of claim 25, wherein the first anode feedthrough means for connecting to the first anode connecting means further comprises an intermediate strain relief component disposed between the proximal end of the first anode feedthrough means for connecting to the first anode connecting means and the anode feedthrough pin. 30. The capacitor of claim 25, wherein the anode sub-assembly comprises a plurality of non-notched anode layers and at least one notched anode layer. 31. The capacitor of claim 25, wherein the separator layer has a perimeter extending beyond the perimeter of the anode sub-assembly. 32. The implantable medical device of claim 25, wherein the electrode assembly is secured by means for securing the electrode assembly to prevent electrode assembly movement or shifting, wherein the means for securing the electrode assembly comprises an electrode wrap and corresponding adhesive strip. 33. The capacitor of claim 25, wherein the at least one cathode layer has no holes for registration disposed therethrough. 34. The capacitor of claim 25, wherein the plurality of flat anode layers have no holes for registration disposed therethrough. 35. The capacitor of claim 25, wherein the first and second openings have anode and cathode feedthrough ferrules disposed there within, respectively, for receiving the proximal ends of the anode feedthrough and the cathode feedthroughs therethrough; wherein an anode wire guide is disposed in the anode feedthrough ferrule; wherein the anode wire guide is formed from a material selected from the group consisting of ETFE, PTFE, ECTFE, PCTFE, FEP, PFA, PVDF, a fluroelastomer, a polyester, a polyamide, a polyethylene, a polypropylene, a polyacetal, a polyetherketone, a polyarylketone, a polyehter sulfone, a polyphenyl sulfone, a polysulfone, a polyarylsulfone, a polyetherimide, a polyimide, a poly(amide-imide), PVC, a PVDC-PVC copolymer, CPVC, a polyfuran, a poly(phenylene sulfide), and epoxy resin, a silicone elastomer, nitrile rubber, a chloroprene polymer, chlorosulfonated rubber, polysulfide rubber, an ethylene-polyproplene elasomer, butyl rubber, polyacrylic rubber, fiber reinforced plastic, glass and ceramic. 36. The capacitor of claim 25, wherein the first and second openings have anode and cathode feedthrough ferrules disposed there within, respectively, for receiving the proximal ends of the anode feedthrough and the cathode feedthroughs therethrough; wherein a cathode wire guide is disposed in the cathode feedthrough ferrule; wherein the cathode wire guide is formed from a material selected from the group consisting of ETFE, PTFE, ECTFE, PCTFE, FEP, PFA, PVDF, a fluroelastomer, a polyester, a polyamide, a polyethylene, a polypropylene, a polyacetal, a polyetherketone, a polyarylketone, a polyehter sulfone, a polyphenyl sulfone, a polysulfone, a polyarylsulfone, a polyetherimide, a polyimide, a poly(amide-imide), PVC, a PVDC-PVC copolymer, CPVC, a polyfuran, a poly(phenylene sulfide), and epoxy resin, a silicone elastomer, nitrile rubber, a chloroprene polymer, chlorosulfonated rubber, polysulfide rubber, an ethylene-polyproplene elasomer, butyl rubber, polyacrylic rubber, fiber reinforced plastic, glass and ceramic. 37. The capacitor of claim 25, wherein the first and second openings have anode and cathode feedthrough ferrules disposed there within, respectively, for receiving the proximal ends of the anode feedthrough and the cathode feedthroughs therethrough; wherein an electrically insulative potting adhesive is disposed propinquant to at least one feedthrough ferrules. 38. The capacitor of claim 25, wherein the capacitor includes a headspace portion that is electrically insulated from the case or the cover; wherein the headspace portion comprises at least one of thermally-formed, die-cut, and mechanically-formed electrically insulative materials. 39. The capacitor of claim 38, wherein the headspace portion includes a material selected from the group consisting of ETFE, PTFE, ECTFE, PCTFE, FEP, PFA, PVDF, a fluoroelastomer, a polyester, a polyamide, a polyethylene, a polypropylene, a polyacetal, a polyetherketone, a polyarylketone, a polyether sulfone, a polyphenyl sulfone, a polysulfone, a polyarylsulfone, a polyetherimide, a polyimide, a poly(amide-imide), PVC, a PVDC-PVC copolymer, CPVC, a polyfuran, a poly(phenylene sulfide), an epoxy resin, a silicone elastomer, nitrile rubber, a chloroprene polymer, chlorosulfonated rubber, polysulfide rubber, an ethylene-polypropylene elastomer, butyl rubber, polyacrylic rubber, fiber-reinforced plastic, glass and ceramic. 40. The capacitor of claim 25, wherein the connector block further comprises potting adhesive disposed therewithin or thereon. 41. The capacitor of claim 25, wherein a potting adhesive is selected from the group consisting of aliphatic epoxy, chemically resistant thermoplastic hot melt materials, polyamide, polyester, polyurethane, epoxy, polyethylene-vinyl acetate, UV curable resin, acrylate, methacrylate, thermosetting resin, aromatic epoxy, silicone, polyamide, polyester, polyurethane, a thermally cured adhesive, and a UV-cured adhesive. 42. The capacitor of claim 25, wherein a wire harness comprises electrically insulated anode and cathode leads having distal ends, the distal ends of the anode and cathode leads being connected to the proximal ends of the anode feedthrough and the cathode feedthrough, respectively. 43. The capacitor of claim 42, wherein the wire harness further comprises at least one of an anode crimp tube and a cathode crimp tube. 44. The capacitor of claim 43, wherein the anode crimp tube is crimped onto the proximal end of the anode feedthrough pin. 45. The capacitor of claim 43, wherein the cathode crimp tube is crimped onto the proximal end of the cathode feedthrough pin. 46. The implantable medical device of claim 42, wherein the wire harness further comprises a terminal connector disposed at its proximal end. 47. The capacitor of claim 42, wherein the wire harness and the connector further comprise means for providing strain relief to at least distal ends of the anode and cathode leads of the wire harness. 48. The capacitor of claim 47, wherein the strain relief providing means comprises adhesive epoxy. 