The present invention provides a simplified heater design that is scaleable for equipment processing different diameter substrates and that can efficiently and economically process substrates to meet stringent film requirements such as film uniformity for fabricating high integration devices. The present invention is particularly useful for economically and efficiently producing integrated devices using increasingly larger diameter substrates, such as 12-inch (or 300-mm) diameter and even larger substrates. According to one embodiment, the present invention provides a heater assembly for use in a substrate processing apparatus. The heater assembly includes a metal pedestal including a surface for supporting a substrate, and a resistive heating element disposed in the metal pedestal. The heater assembly also includes a purge gas channel system disposed in the metal pedestal. The purge gas channel system includes a central purge gas inlet located substantially at a center of the metal pedestal. The central purge gas inlet is for providing a purge gas. The purge gas channel system also includes multiple radial purge gas channels radiating from the central purge gas inlet out toward a perimeter of the metal pedestal, and an annular purge gas channel formed in the metal pedestal at the perimeter. The purge gas channels form a substantially symmetric pattern, and each of the purge gas channels are substantially the same length. In a specific embodiment, the assembly includes an annular purge gas channel coupled to the surface via multiple holes near the perimeter to provide a purge guide ring integral to the metal pedestal. Other embodiments of the present invention are also provided.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A heater assembly for use in a substrate processing apparatus, said heater assembly comprising: a metal pedestal including a surface for supporting a substrate; a resistive heating element disposed in said metal pedestal; and a purge gas channel system disposed in said metal pedestal, said purge gas channel system comprising: a central purge gas inlet located substantially at a center of said metal pedestal, said central purge gas inlet for providing a purge gas, a plurality of radial purge gas channels radiating from said central purge gas inlet out toward a perimeter of said metal pedestal, said plurality of radial purge gas channels forming a substantially symmetric pattern. 2. The assembly of claim 1 further comprising an annular purge gas channel formed in said metal pedestal at said perimeter, said annular purge gas channel coupled to said surface via a plurality of holes near said perimeter to provide a purge guide ring integral to said metal pedestal. 3. The assembly of claim 1 wherein metal pedestal comprises a top metal block and a bottom metal block connected to said top metal block. 4. The assembly of claim 3 wherein said plurality of radial purge gas channels are formed in said top metal block. 5. The assembly of claim 4 wherein top and side portions of said plurality of radial purge gas channels are formed in a bottom surface of said top metal block and bottom portions of said plurality of radial purge gas channels are formed with a top surface of said bottom metal block. 6. The assembly of claim 5 wherein said metal pedestal further comprises an edge support ring disposed around said top metal block, and wherein an inner wall and an upper surface of said annular purge channel is formed in said top metal block, an outer wall of said annular purge channel is formed with said edge support ring, and a lower surface of said annular purge channel is formed with said top surface of said bottom metal block. 7. The assembly of claim 6 further comprising: a vacuum chucking system formed in said metal pedestal, said vacuum chucking system including: a plurality of vacuum grooves disposed in said surface of said metal pedestal, said grooves for providing chucking of a substrate to said metal pedestal; a plurality of vacuum passages, said plurality of vacuum passages including an annular vacuum passage, and a plurality of truncated spoke vacuum passages each coupled to said annular vacuum passage; a plurality of vacuum conduits, said plurality of vacuum conduits coupling at least one of said plurality of vacuum passages to at least one of said vacuum grooves. 8. The assembly of claim 7 wherein said plurality of vacuum passages are formed in said bottom metal block, said top metal block and said bottom metal block being aligned such that said plurality of radial purge channels are offset and isolated from said plurality of truncated spoke vacuum passages. 9. The assembly of claim 6 wherein said top and bottom metal blocks and said edge support ring are comprised of aluminum. 10. The assembly of claim 9 wherein said top and bottom metal blocks are brazed together. 11. The assembly of claim 10 further comprising an aluminum shaft brazed together with said top and bottom metal blocks. 12. The assembly of claim 3 wherein said resistive heating element is cast into said bottom metal block, said resistive heating element having multiple loops forming three "broken" concentric semi-circles within said bottom metal block. 13. The assembly of claim 1 further comprising a vacuum chucking system formed in said metal pedestal, said vacuum chucking system including: a plurality of vacuum grooves disposed in said surface of said metal pedestal, said grooves for providing chucking of a substrate to said metal pedestal; a plurality of vacuum passages formed in a first part of said metal pedestal, said plurality of vacuum passages including an annular vacuum passage, and a plurality of truncated spoke vacuum passages each coupled to said annular vacuum passage; a plurality of vacuum conduits, said plurality of vacuum conduits coupling at least one of said plurality of vacuum passages to at least one of said vacuum grooves; and wherein said plurality of radial purge gas channels are formed in a second part of said metal pedestal, said first and second parts of said metal pedestal connected to each other to form said plurality of vacuum passages and said plurality of radial purge gas channels such that said plurality of radial purge channels are offset and isolated from said plurality of truncated spoke vacuum passages. 14. The assembly of claim 1 wherein said metal pedestal is capable of supporting and uniformly heating a substrate having a diameter of about 300 mm or greater. 15. The assembly of claim 1 wherein said plurality of purge gas channels have approximately the same length. 16. A heater assembly for use in a substrate processing apparatus, said heater assembly comprising: a pedestal including a surface for supporting a substrate; a heating element disposed in said pedestal; and a purge gas channel system disposed in said pedestal, said purge gas channel system comprising: a central purge gas inlet located substantially at a center of said pedestal, and a plurality of radial purge gas channels coupled with said central purge gas inlet, said radial purge gas channels oriented radially relative to said central purge gas inlet and extending toward a perimeter of said pedestal, said plurality of radial purge gas channels forming a substantially symmetric pattern with respect to said central purge gas inlet. 17. The heater assembly of claim 16 wherein said purge gas channel system includes at least three said radial purge gas channels. 18. The heater assembly of claim 17 wherein said purge gas channel system includes 3-9 said radial purge gas channels. 19. The heater assembly of claim 16 wherein said purge gas channels include curved edges. 20. A heater assembly for use in a substrate processing apparatus, said heater assembly comprising: a pedestal including a surface for supporting a substrate; a heating element disposed in said pedestal; and a purge gas channel system disposed in said pedestal, said purge gas channel system comprising: a central purge gas inlet located substantially at a center of said pedestal, and a plurality of radial purge gas channels coupled with said central purge gas inlet via a plurality of channel conduits radiating from said central purge gas inlet, said radial purge gas channels oriented radially relative to said central purge gas inlet and extending toward a perimeter of said pedestal, said plurality of radial purge gas channels forming a substantially symmetric pattern with respect to said central purge gas inlet. 21. The heater assembly of claim 20 wherein said purge gas channels are larger in width than said channel conduits. 