A system and method for transiently connecting modular elements of a self movable robot. The self movable robot is known as metamorphosing robots, polymorphic robots, shape changing robots, or morphable structures. The modular elements can act together to build a structure to perform a given task. Each modular robotic module contains a mechanism allowing for communication and transfer of power between adjacent modules, and defining a robot whole to be all the modules in one connected component.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for dynamically reconfiguring switched connection paths between multiple electronic modules, each electronic module having N connections, the method comprising the steps of: determining a single root switch for each electronic module, with a remaining N-1 connections in each electronic module tagged as branch switches, and maintaining a continuous switched connection path through multiple electronic modules, with a first set of N.gtoreq.1 branch switches in each electronic module connecting to the single root switch of another connected electronic module, and a second set of N.gtoreq.0 branch switches being inactivated to prevent branch switch to branch switch connections between electronic modules. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of arranging the multiple electronic modules in a two dimensional array. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of arranging the multiple electronic modules in a three dimensional array. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of defining the electronic modules as space filling polyhedra to permit space filling packing of the electronic modules. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of transferring electrical power between the electronic modules through the switched connection path. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of transferring data between the electronic modules through the switched connection path. 7. A method for dynamically reconfiguring switched connection paths between self movable robotic modules, each self movable robotic module having N connections, the method comprising the steps of: determining a single root switch for each robotic module, with a remaining N-1 connections in each robotic module tagged as branch switches, moving a robotic module from a first connection site to a second connection site, and remapping the switched connection path to maintain a continuous switched connection path through multiple robotic modules, with a first set of N.gtoreq.1 branch switches connecting to the single root switch of each connected electronic module, and a second set of N.gtoreq.0 branch switches being inactivated to prevent branch switch to branch switch connections between robotic modules. 8. An apparatus for dynamically reconfiguring switched connection paths between multiple electronic modules, each electronic module having N connections, the apparatus comprising: a determinable root switch for each electronic module, with other N-1 connections in each electronic module tagged as branch switches, and a switched power path maintaining a continuous switched connection between a tagged branch switch and a root switch of another connected electronic module, and preventing connection between other tagged N-1 branch switchs and branch switches of other connected electronic modules. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the determinable root switch is mechanically defined. 10. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the determinable root switch is electrically defined. 