A system and method for thermally processing a substrate. A substrate is heated to a processing temperature at which the substrate is susceptible to plastic deformation or slip. An insulating cover may be removed to initially cool the substrate below such temperature before removal from the system. Gas pressure may also be adjusted to enhance heat transfer during processing and decrease heat transfer prior to removal of the substrate. Susceptors or surfaces for cooling the substrate may also be included in the system. The substrate may be transferred from a heating surface to a cooling surface by moving or rotating the substrate through warm transitional regions to avoid slip.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A thermal processing system for processing a semiconductor substrate comprising: a processing chamber; a heated surface within the processing chamber for heating the substrate for processing at a processing temperature; a support for positioning the substrate adjacent to the heated surface for processing; a transitional heater within the processing chamber providing a transitional region with a temperature less than the processing temperature; and a robot for removing the substrate from the support after processing; wherein the robot is configured to remove the substrate from the region adjacent to the heated surface horizontally along a plane substantially parallel to the heated surface and through the transitional region. 2. The thermal processing system of claim 1 wherein the transitional heater comprises an active heater. 3. The thermal processing system of claim 1 wherein the transitional heater comprises thermal insulation. 4. The thermal processing system of claim 1 further comprising a second surface having a temperature less than the transitional heater and a second support for positioning the substrate adjacent to the second surface after processing, wherein the robot places the substrate on the second support for cooling after removing the substrate from the region adjacent to the heated surface through the transitional region. 5. The thermal processing system of claim 4, wherein the processing temperature is at least 800 degrees Celsius and the temperature of the transitional region is from about 100 to 300 degrees Celsius less than the processing temperature. 6. The thermal processing system of claim 5, further comprising a gas supply for providing gas to the processing chamber and an exhaust for removing gas from the processing chamber; wherein the gas supply provides a conductive gas to the processing chamber for processing; and wherein the exhaust removes at least a portion of the conductive gas after processing and prior to the removal of the substrate by the robot. 7. The thermal processing system of claim 1, wherein the processing temperature is at least 800 degrees Celsius. 8. The thermal processing system of claim 1, wherein the temperature of the transitional region is from about 100 to 300 degrees Celsius less than the processing temperature. 9. The thermal processing system of claim 1, further comprising a gas supply for providing gas to the processing chamber and an exhaust for removing gas from the processing chamber; wherein the gas supply provides a conductive gas to the processing chamber for processing; and wherein the exhaust removes at least a portion of the conductive gas after processing and prior to the removal of the substrate by the robot. 10. A thermal processing system for processing a semiconductor substrate comprising: a processing chamber; a heated surface within the processing chamber for heating the substrate for processing at a processing temperature; a transitional heater within the processing chamber providing a transitional region with a temperature less than the processing temperature; and a movable support for positioning the substrate adjacent to the heated surface for processing and for removing the substrate from the region adjacent to the heated surface after processing; wherein the moveable support is configured to remove the substrate from the region adjacent to the heated surface horizontally along a plane substantially parallel to the heated surface and through the transitional region. 11. The thermal processing system of claim 10 wherein the transitional heater comprises an active heater. 12. The thermal processing system of claim 10 wherein the transitional heater comprises thermal insulation. 13. The thermal processing system of claim 10 further comprising a second surface having a temperature less than the transitional heater, wherein the moveable support positions the substrate adjacent to the second surface after removing the substrate from the region adjacent to the heated surface through the transitional region. 14. The thermal processing system of claim 10, wherein the moveable support comprises a rotatable susceptor. 15. The thermal processing system of claim 14, wherein the processing temperature is at least 800 degrees Celsius and the temperature of the transitional region is from about 100 to 300 degrees Celsius less than the processing temperature. 16. The thermal processing system of claim 15, further comprising a gas supply for providing gas to the processing chamber and an exhaust for removing gas from the processing chamber; wherein the gas supply provides a conductive gas to the processing chamber for processing; and wherein the exhaust removes at least a portion of the conductive gas after processing and prior to the removal of the substrate by the moveable support. 17. The thermal processing system of claim 10, wherein the processing temperature is at least 800 degrees Celsius. 18. The thermal processing system of claim 10, wherein the temperature of the transitional region is from about 100 to 300 degrees Celsius less than the processing temperature. 19. The thermal processing system of claim 10, further comprising a gas supply for providing gas to the processing chamber and an exhaust for removing gas from the processing chamber; wherein the gas supply provides a conductive gas to the processing chamber for processing; and wherein the exhaust removes at least a portion of the conductive gas after processing and prior to the removal of the substrate by the moveable support. 20. A method for processing a semiconductor substrate comprising: positioning the substrate in a processing chamber adjacent to a heated surface; heating the substrate to a processing temperature; providing a transitional region in the processing chamber with a temperature less than the processing temperature; and removing the substrate from the region adjacent to the heated surface horizontally along a plane substantially parallel to the heated surface transitional region. 21. The method of claim 20 further comprising: providing a cooling surface in the processing chamber having a temperature less than the transitional heater; positioning the substrate adjacent to the cooling surface for cooling after the step of removing the substrate from the region adjacent to the heated surface through the transitional region. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein the processing temperature is at least 800 degrees Celsius and the temperature of the transitional region is from about 100 to 300 degrees Celsius less than the processing temperature. 23. A method for processing a semiconductor substrate comprising: positioning the substrate in a processing chamber adjacent to a heated surface; heating the substrate to a processing temperature; providing a transitional region in the processing chamber with a temperature less than the processing temperature; and removing the substrate from the region adjacent to the heated surface laterally along a plane substantially parallel to the heated surface and through the transitional region; wherein the step of removing the substrate further comprises rotating a susceptor supporting the substrate. 24. The method of claim 20, wherein the processing temperature is at least 800 degrees Celsius. 25. The method of claim 20, wherein the temperature of the transitional region is from about 100 to 300 degrees Celsius less than the processing temperature. 26. The method of claim 20, further comprising supplying a conductive gas to the processing chamber for processing; and exhausting at least a portion of the conductive gas after processing and prior to the step of removing the substrate. 27. A thermal processing system for processing a semiconductor substrate, the thermal processing system comprising: a processing chamber; a heater within the processing chamber; a support for positioning the substrate adjacent to the heater for processing the substrate; a transitional heater within the processing chamber providing a transitional region with a temperature less than the processing temperature; and a robot for removing the substrate from the support after processing; wherein the robot is configured to remove the substrate from the region adjacent to the heater through the transitional region, along a plane substantially parallel to the heater, while maintaining the substrate in an orientation that is substantially parallel to the heater and the transitional heater. 28. The thermal processing system of claim 27, wherein the transitional heater comprises an active heater. 29. The thermal processing system of claim 27, wherein the transitional heater comprises thermal insulation. 30. The thermal processing system of claim 27, further comprising a warm heater having a temperature less than the transitional heater and a second support for positioning the substrate adjacent to the warm heater after processing; wherein the robot places the substrate on the warm heater for cooling after removing the substrate from the region adjacent to the heater through the transitional region. 31. The thermal processing system of claim 30, wherein the processing temperature is at least 800 degrees Celsius and the temperature of the transitional region is from about 100 to 300 degrees Celsius less than the processing temperature. 32. The thermal processing system of claim 31, further comprising a gas supply for providing gas to the processing chamber and an exhaust for removing gas from the processing chamber; wherein the gas supply provides a conductive gas to the processing chamber for processing the substrate; and wherein the exhaust removes at least a portion of the conductive gas after processing and prior to the removal of the substrate by the robot. 33. The thermal processing system of claim 27, wherein the processing temperature is at least 800 degrees Celsius. 34. The thermal processing system of claim 27, wherein the temperature of the transitional region is from about 100 to 300 degrees Celsius less than the processing temperature. 35. The thermal processing system of claim 27, further comprising a gas supply for providing gas to the processing chamber and an exhaust for removing gas from the processing chamber; wherein the gas supply provides a conductive gas to the processing chamber for processing the substrate; and wherein the exhaust removes at least a portion of the conductive gas after processing and prior to the removal of the substrate by the robot. 36. A method for processing a semiconductor substrate comprising the steps of: positioning the substrate in a processing chamber adjacent to a heater; heating the substrate to a processing temperature; providing a transitional region in the processing chamber with a temperature less than the processing temperature; and removing the substrate from the region adjacent to the heater laterally along a plane that is substantially parallel to the heater; wherein the substrate is maintained in an orientation that is substantially parallel to the heater while the substrate is being heated to the processing temperature; and wherein the substrate is maintained in an orientation that is substantially parallel to the heater while it is being removed through the transitional region. 37. The method of claim 36 further comprising the steps of: providing a warm heater in the processing chamber having a temperature less than the transitional heater; positioning the substrate adjacent to the warm heater for cooling the substrate after the step of removing the substrate from the region adjacent to the heater through the transitional region. 38. The method of claim 37, wherein the processing temperature is at least 800 degrees Celsius and the temperature of the transitional region is from about 100 to 300 degrees Celsius less than the processing temperature. 39. The method of claim 36, wherein the processing temperature is at least 800 degrees Celsius. 40. The method of claim 36, wherein the temperature of the transitional region is from about 100 to 300 degrees Celsius less than the processing temperature. 41. The method of claim 36, further comprising the steps of: supplying a conductive gas to the processing chamber for processing; exhausting at least a portion of the conductive gas after processing; and exhausting at least a portion of the conductive gas prior to the step of removing the substrate. 42. A thermal processing system for processing a semiconductor substrate, the thermal processing system comprising: a processing chamber; a heater within the processing chamber; a susceptor within the processing chamber for positioning the substrate adjacent to the heater for processing the substrate; and a transitional heater within the processing chamber providing a transitional region with a temperature less than the processing temperature; wherein the susceptor is configured to rotate such that the substrate is removed from the region adjacent to the heater through the transitional region along a plane substantially parallel to the heater. 43. The thermal processing system of claim 42, wherein the transitional heater comprises an active heater. 44. The thermal processing system of claim 42, wherein the transitional heater comprises thermal insulation. 45. The thermal processing system of claim 42, further comprising a warm heater having a temperature less than the transitional heater; wherein the susceptor is further configured to position the substrate adjacent to the warm heater for cooling the substrate after the substrate has been removed from the region adjacent to the heater. 46. The thermal processing system of claim 45, wherein the processing temperature is at least 800 degrees Celsius and the temperature of the transitional region is from about 100 to 300 degrees Celsius less than the processing temperature. 47. The thermal processing system of claim 46, further comprising a gas supply for providing gas to the processing chamber and an exhaust for removing gas from the processing chamber; wherein the gas supply provides a conductive gas to the processing chamber for processing the substrate; and wherein the exhaust removes at least a portion of the conductive gas after processing and prior to the removal of the substrate by the susceptor. 48. The thermal processing system of claim 42, wherein the processing temperature is at least 800 degrees Celsius. 49. The thermal processing system of claim 42, wherein the temperature of the transitional region is from about 100 to 300 degrees Celsius less than the processing temperature. 50. The thermal processing system of claim 42, further comprising a gas supply for providing gas to the processing chamber and an exhaust for removing gas from the processing chamber; wherein the gas supply provides a conductive gas to the processing chamber for processing the substrate; and wherein the exhaust removes at least a portion of the conductive gas after processing and prior to the removal of the substrate by the susceptor. 51. The thermal processing system of claim 42, wherein the rotatable susceptor comprises a material selected from the group consisting of opaque quartz, transparent quartz, and silicon. 52. A method for processing a semiconductor substrate comprising the steps of: positioning the substrate in a processing chamber and on a susceptor that is adjacent to a heater; heating the substrate to a processing temperature; providing a transitional region in the processing chamber with a temperature less than the processing temperature; and rotating the susceptor such that the substrate is removed from the region adjacent to the heater along a plane that is substantially parallel to the heater. 53. The method of claim 52 further comprising the steps of: providing a warm heater in the processing chamber having a temperature less than the transitional heater; positioning the substrate adjacent to the warm heater for cooling the substrate after the step of removing the substrate from the region adjacent to the heater through the transitional region. 54. The method of claim 53, wherein the processing temperature is at least 800 degrees Celsius and the temperature of the transitional region is from about 100 to 300 degrees Celsius less than the processing temperature. 55. The method of claim 52, wherein the processing temperature is at least 800 degrees Celsius. 56. The method of claim 52, wherein the temperature of the transitional region is from about 100 to 300 degrees Celsius less than the processing temperature. 57. The method of claim 52, further comprising the steps of: supplying a conductive gas to the processing chamber for processing; exhausting at least a portion of the conductive gas after processing; and exhausting at least a portion of the conductive gas prior to the step of removing the substrate. 