The invention provides a robot hand that can mimic the movements of a human hand in operation. The robot hand includes a thumb and at least one opposing finger having at least two phalanxes connectable to each other by a distal phalanx joint. The thumb of the robot hand also includes a joint which allows the thumb to move transversely with respect to the opposing fingers. The robot hand can also include one or more additional fingers disposed on an opposite side of the thumb. The robot hand can be operated mechanically or electrically through controlling motors.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot hand comprising: a thumb including: a thumb base phalanx; a thumb middle phalanx; a thumb distal phalanx; a first pivotal thumb joint between the thumb distal phalanx and the thumb middle phalanx; a second pivotal thumb joint between the thumb middle phalanx and the thumb base phalanx; a first thumb cable passing through the thumb base phalanx and the thumb middle phalanx and attaching to the thumb distal phalanx, and a second thumb cable passing through the thumb base phalanx and attaching to the thumb middle phalanx, the thumb being transversely movable with respect to movement of the thumb phalanxes about the first and second thumb joints; and at least two fingers disposed on an opposite side of the thumb, each of the fingers including: a finger base phalanx; a finger middle phalanx; a finger distal phalanx; a first pivotal finger joint between the finger distal phalanx and the finger middle phalanx; a second pivotal finger joint between the finger middle phalanx and the finger base phalanx; a first finger cable passing through the finger base phalanx and the finger middle phalanx and attaching to the finger distal phalanx and a second finger cable passing through the finger base phalanx and attaching to the finger middle phalanx; and at least one spiral spring disposed at at least one of the pivotal thumb and finger joints to spring-bias the at least one of the thumb and finger joints in a straight position; wherein one of the at least one of the pivotal thumb and finger joints is bent upon exertion of a force on a cable associated with the one of the at least one of the pivotal thumb and finger joints. 2. A robot hand according to claim 1, wherein at least one of the cables is moved by a controller. 3. A robot hand according to claim 2, further comprising a flange, the robot hand being disconnectable by the flange from a controlling system. 4. A robot hand according to claim 1, wherein one of the first thumb cable and the first finger cables passes through the at least one spiral spring. 5. A robot hand according to claim 1, further comprising a disposable glove which houses the thumb and the at least two fingers. 6. A robot hand according to claim 1, wherein when the thumb and at leat two fingers are in a substantially linear position, the hand can be passed through a medical trocar. 7. A robot hand according to claim 1, wherein the at least two fingers can abduct and adduct relative to each other. 8. A robot hand according to claim 1 wherein the thumb is moveable such as to oppose a selected one of the at least tow fingers and grip between the selected one of at least two fingers. 9. A robot hand according to claim 1 wherein the first thumb cable attaches to a proximal end of the distal thumb phalanx. 10. A robot hand according to claim 1 wherein the first thumb cable passes through the thumb base phalanx on a volar aspect of a pivot axis at the second thumb joint. 11. A robot hand according to claim 1, wherein the second pivotal finger joint defines a first axis of rotation at a pivot, the finger base phalanx defines a finger base phalanx longitudinal axis between a distal end of the finger base phalanx and a proximal end of the finger base phalanx, and the at least one spring includes a first spring disposed relative to the pivot in a direction substantially perpendicular to both the finger base phalanx longitudinal axis and the first rotation axis. 12. A robot hand according to claim 11, wherein the first spring is a coil spring and has a longitudinal spring axis substantially parallel to the finger base phalanx longitudinal axis when the first spring is in a relaxed position, and the second finger cable passes through the coil spring. 13. A robot hand according to claim 11, wherein the first finger cable passes between the first spring and the pivot to the finger middle phalanx, closer to the pivot than to the first spring. 14. A robot hand according to claim 1, further comprising a hand base, the thumb base phalanx and the finger base phalanx each being attached to the hand base, wherein, when the thumb and the at least two fingers are in a relaxed position without significant tension on the thumb cables and the finger cables, the at least two fingers and thumb lie substantially parallel to one another, pointing in a distal direction from the hand base to pass through a trocar. 15. A robot hand comprising: a hand base; at least two fingers, each of the fingers including: a first finger phalanx attached to the hand base and a second finger phalanx; a first pivotal finger joint connecting the first finger phalanx and the second finger phalanx; a first finger cable passing through the first finger phalanx and attaching to the second finger phalanx; and a finger joint spring disposed between the first and second finger phalanges, at the first pivotal finger joint, to spring-bias the first finger joint so that the second finger phalanx is substantially parallel to the first finger phalanx, wherein the first finger joint is bent upon exertion of a force on the first finger cable; and a thumb opposing the first two fingers, the thumb including: a first thumb phalanx attached to the hand base and a second thumb phalanx; a first pivotal thumb joint connecting the first thumb phalanx and the second thumb phalanx; a first thumb cable passing through the first thumb phalanx and attaching to the second thumb phalanx; a spring disposed between the first and second thumb phalanges, at the first pivotal thumb joint, to spring-bias the first thumb joint so that the second thumb phalanx is substantially parallel to the first thumb phalanx, wherein the first pivotal thumb joint is bent upon exertion of a force on the first thumb cable, and a third phalanx pivotally attached to one of the second thumb phalanx and the second finger phalanges, a second cable passing through the one of the second thumb phalanx and second finger phalanges and attaching to the third phalanx, a third phalanx spring being positioned between the third phalanx and the one of the second thumb phalanx and second finger phalanges to spring-bias the third phalanx to be substantially parallel to the one of the second thumb phalanx and second finger phalanges when there is no spring-bending tension on the second cable. 16. A robot hand as recited in claim 15 wherein, in at least one of the fingers, the first finger pivotal joint defines a first axis of rotation and the first finger phalanx is pivotally attached to the hand base to pivot about an axis substantially perpendicular to the first axis of rotation. 17. A robot hand as recited in claim 15, wherein, in at least one of the fingers, the first pivotal finger joint defines a first axis of rotation at a pivot and the first finger phalanx defines first finger phalanx longitudinal axis between a distal end of the first finger phalanx and a proximal end of the first finger phalanx, and the spring is disposed relative to the pivot in a direction substantially perpendicular to both the first axis of rotation and the first finger phalanx longitudinal axis. 18. A robot hand according to claim 17, wherein the spring is a coil spring and has a longitudinal spring axis substantially parallel to the first finger phalanx longitudinal axis when the coil spring is in a relaxed position, and the first finger cable passes through the coil spring between the first and second finger phalanges. 19. A robot hand comprising: a thumb including: a thumb base phalanx; a thumb middle phalanx; a thumb distal phalanx; a first pivotal thumb joint between the thumb distal phalanx and the thumb middle phalanx; a second pivotal thumb joint between the thumb middle phalanx and the thumb base phalanx; a first thumb cable passing through the thumb base phalanx and the thumb middle phalanx and attaching to the thumb distal phalanx, and a second thumb cable passing through the thumb base phalanx and attaching to the thumb middle phalanx, the thumb being transversely movable with respect to movement of the thumb phalanxes about the first and second thumb joints; and at least two fingers disposed on an opposite side of the thumb, each of the fingers including: a finger base phalanx; a finger middle phalanx; a finger distal phalanx; a first pivotal finger joint between the finger distal phalanx and the finger middle phalanx; a second pivotal finger joint between the finger middle phalanx and the finger base phalanx; a first finger cable passing through the finger base phalanx and the finger middle phalanx and attaching to the finger distal phalanx and a second finger cable passing through the finger base phalanx and attaching to the finger middle phalanx; and at least one spring disposed at at least one of the pivotal thumb and finger joints to spring-bias the at least one of the thumb and finger joints in a straight position, wherein one of the at least one of the pivotal thumb and finger joints is bent upon exertion of a force on a cable associated with the one of the at least one of the pivotal thumb and finger joints, and the second pivotal finger joint defines a first axis of rotation at a pivot, the finger base phalanx defines a finger base phalanx longitudinal axis between a distal end of the finger base phalanx and a proximal end of the finger base phalanx, and the at least one spring includes a first spring disposed relative to the pivot in a direction substantially perpendicular to both the finger base phalanx longitudinal axis and the first rotation axis. 20. A robot hand according to claim 19, wherein at least one of the cables is moved by a controller. 21. A robot hand according to claim 20, further comprising a flange, the robot hand being disconnectable by the flange from a controlling system. 22. A robot hand according to claim 19, wherein one of the first thumb cable and the first finger cables passes through the at least one spring. 23. A robot hand according to claim 19, further comprising a disposable glove housing the thumb and the at least two fingers. 24. A robot hand according to claim 19, wherein the at least two fingers can abduct and adduct relative to each other. 25. A robot hand according to claim 19, wherein the first spring is a coil spring and has a longitudinal spring axis substantially parallel to the finger base phalanx longitudinal axis when the first spring is in a relaxed position, and the second finger cable passes through the coil spring. 26. A robot hand according to claim 19, wherein the first finger cable passes between the first spring and the pivot to the finger middle phalanx, closer to the pivot than to the first spring. 27. A robot hand according to claim 19, further comprising a hand base, the thumb base phalanx and the finger base phalanx each being attached to the hand base, wherein, when the thumb and the at least two fingers are in a relaxed position without significant tension on the thumb cables and the finger cables, the at least two fingers and thumb lie substantially parallel to one another, pointing in a distal direction from the hand base to pass through a trocar. 28. A robot hand comprising: a thumb including: a thumb base phalanx; a thumb middle phalanx; a thumb distal phalanx; a first pivotal thumb joint between the thumb distal phalanx and the thumb middle phalanx; a second pivotal thumb joint between the thumb middle phalanx and the thumb base phalanx; a first thumb cable passing through the thumb base phalanx and the thumb middle phalanx and attaching to the thumb distal phalanx, and a second thumb cable passing through the thumb base phalanx and attaching to the thumb middle phalanx, the thumb being transversely movable with respect to movement of the thumb phalanxes about the first and second thumb joints; and at least two fingers disposed on an opposite side of the thumb, each of the fingers including: a finger base phalanx; a finger middle phalanx; a finger distal phalanx; a first pivotal finger joint between the finger distal phalanx and the finger middle phalanx; a second pivotal finger joint between the finger middle phalanx and the finger base phalanx; a first finger cable passing through the finger base phalanx and the finger middle phalanx and attaching to the finger distal phalanx and a second finger cable passing through the finger base phalanx and attaching to the finger middle phalanx; and a first spring disposed at one of the pivotal thumb and finger joints to spring-bias the one of the thumb and finger joints in a straight position, wherein the one of the pivotal thumb and finger joints is bent upon exertion of a force on a cable associated with the one of the at least one of the pivotal thumb and finger joints, and the cable associated with the one of the pivotal thumb and finger joints passes between the first spring and a pivot of the one of the pivotal thumb and finger joints, closer to the pivot than to the first spring. 29. A robot hand according to claim 28, wherein at least one of the cables is moved by a controller. 30. A robot hand according to claim 28, further comprising a flange, the robot hand being disconnectable by the flange from a controlling system. 31. A robot hand according to claim 28, wherein one of the first thumb cable and the first finger cables passes through the first spring. 32. A robot hand according to claim 28, further comprising a disposable glove housing the thumb and the at least two fingers. 33. A robot hand according to claim 28, wherein the at least two fingers can abduct and adduct relative to each other. 34. A robot hand according to claim 28, wherein the second pivotal finger joint defines a first axis of rotation at a pivot, the finger base phalanx defines a finger base phalanx longitudinal axis between a distal end of the finger base phalanx and a proximal end of the finger base phalanx, and the first spring is disposed relative to the pivot in a direction substantially perpendicular to both the finger base phalanx longitudinal axis and the first rotation axis. 35. A robot hand according to claim 34, wherein the first spring is a coil spring and has a longitudinal spring axis substantially parallel to the finger base phalanx longitudinal axis when the first spring is in a relaxed position, and the second finger cable passes through the coil spring. 36. A robot hand according to claim 28, further comprising a hand base, the thumb base phalanx and the finger base phalanx each being attached to the hand base, wherein, when the thumb and the at least two fingers are in a relaxed position without significant tension on the thumb cables and the finger cables, the at least two fingers and thumb lie substantially parallel to one another, pointing in a distal direction from the hand base to pass through a trocar. 37. A robot hand comprising: a hand base; at least two fingers, each of the fingers including: a first finger phalanx attached to the hand base and a second finger phalanx; a first pivotal finger joint connecting the first finger phalanx and the second finger phalanx; a first finger cable passing through the first finger phalanx and attaching to the second finger phalanx; and a finger joint spring disposed between the first and second finger phalanges, at the first pivotal finger joint, to spring-bias the first finger joint so that the second finger phalanx is substantially parallel to the first finger phalanx, the first being bent upon exertion of a force on the first finger cable; and a thumb opposing the first two fingers, the thumb including: a first thumb phalanx attached to the hand base and a second thumb phalanx; a first pivotal thumb joint connecting the first thumb phalanx and the second thumb phalanx; a first thumb cable passing through the first thumb phalanx and attaching to the second thumb phalanx; a spring disposed between the first and second thumb phalanges, at the first pivotal thumb joint, to spring-bias the first thumb joint so that the second thumb phalanx is substantially parallel to the first thumb phalanx, the first pivotal thumb joint being bent upon exertion of a force on the first thumb cable wherein, in at least one of the fingers, the first pivotal finger joint defines a first axis of rotation at a pivot and the first finger phalanx defines first finger phalanx longitudinal axis between a distal end of the first finger phalanx and a proximal end of the first finger phalanx, and the spring is disposed relative to the pivot in a direction substantially perpendicular to both the first axis of rotation and the first finger phalanx longitudinal axis. 38. A robot hand as recited in claim 37, wherein, in at least one of the fingers, the first finger pivotal joint defines a first axis of rotation and the first finger phalanx is pivotally attached to the hand base to pivot about an axis substantially perpendicular to the first axis of rotation. 39. A robot hand as recited in claim 37, wherein the spring is a coil spring and has a longitudinal spring axis substantially parallel to the first finger phalanx longitudinal axis when the coil spring is in a relaxed position, and the first finger cable passes through the coil spring between the first and second finger phalanges. 40. A robot hand as recited in claim 37, further comprising a third phalanx pivotally attached to one of the second thumb phalanx and the second finger phalanges, a second cable passing through the one of the second thumb phalanx and second finger phalanges and attaching to the third phalanx, a third phalanx spring being positioned between the third phalanx and the one of the second thumb phalanx and second finger phalanges to spring-bias the third phalanx to be substantially parallel to the one of the second thumb phalanx and second finger phalanges when there is no significant tension on the second cable. 