An iterative and regenerative method for sequencing DNA is described. This method sequences DNA in discrete intervals starting at one end of a double stranded DNA segment. This method overcomes problems inherent in other sequencing methods, including the need for gel resolution of DNA fragments and the generation of artifacts caused by single-stranded DNA secondary structures. A particular advantage of this invention is that it can create offset collections of DNA segments and sequence the segments in parallel to provide continuous sequence information over long intervals. This method is also suitable for automation and multiplex automation to sequence large sets of segments.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for removing all or a part of a primer sequence from a primer extended product, comprising: a) providing a primer sequence comprising a methylated portion of a restriction endonuclease recognition domain, wherein recognition of said domain by a restriction endonuclease requires at least one methylated nucleotide; b) performing template-directed primer extension using said primer and a nucleic acid segment to generate a primer extended product; and c) digesting said primer extended product with a restriction endonuclease that recognizes the resulting double-stranded restriction endonuclease recognition domain comprised by said primer sequence in said primer extended product. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein a sequence complementary to said primer sequence is also removed by said restriction endonuclease digestion in said step (c). 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said restriction endonuclease of step (c) is a class-IIS restriction endonuclease. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein said digestion with said class IIS restriction endonuclease of step (c) generates a single-strand extension no longer than 10 nucleotides in length that is not encoded by said primer comprising at least part of said restriction endonuclease recognition domain. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said template-directed primer extension in said step (b) occurs during nucleic acid amplification in vitro. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein said nucleic acid amplification in vitro is linear. 7. The method of claim 5, wherein said nucleic acid amplification in vitro is exponential. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein said nucleic acid amplification in vitro is PCR. 9. The method of claim 7, wherein said nucleic acid amplification in vitro is strand displacement amplification. 10. A method for blocking a restriction endonuclease recognition domain in a primer extended product, comprising: a) providing a primer with at least one modified nucleotide, wherein said modified nucleotide blocks an enzyme recognition domain, and wherein said primer comprises at least a portion of said enzyme recognition domain sequence; b) performing template-directed primer extension using said primer and a nucleic acid segment to generate a primer extended product; and c) digesting said primer extended product with an enzyme that recognizes a double-stranded enzyme recognition domain in said primer extended product; to thereby block cutting mediated by said restriction endonuclease recognition domain in said primer extended product. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein said modified nucleotide is a methylated nucleotide. 12. The method of claim 10, wherein said template directed primer extension in said step (b) occurs during nucleic acid amplification in vitro. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein said amplification in vitro is linear. 14. The method of claim 12, wherein said amplification in vitro is exponential. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein said amplification in vitro is PCR. 16. The method of claim 14, wherein said amplification in vitro is strand displacement amplification. 17. The method of claim 10, wherein said nucleic acid segment is part of a construct consisting of an insert in a vector. 