A grinding or polishing machine comprises a rigid platform on which a workhead spindle and a grinding wheel spindle are located. The grinding wheel spindle is mounted on a sub-assembly which is attached to the platform by means of flexures which permit limited movement of the sub-assembly in a direction generally parallel to the direction in which the wheel has to advance to achieve grinding or polishing of a workpiece mounted on the workhead spindle. The flexures generally inhibit movement of the sub-assembly in all other directions. Two grinding wheels are mounted on the platform, one on each of two sub-assemblies, and each sub-assembly is attached to the platform by flexures as aforesaid. The flexure mounting points are located generally centrally of the machine and are located on either side of and close to the machine centre line. In a grinding or polishing machine having workpiece spindle means, tool spindle means mounted on sub-assemblies which permit limited relative movement in one direction to effect tool and workpiece engagement cam drive means is provided whereby each sub-assembly is movable to advance or retract each tool spindle towards and away from the workhead spindle.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A grinding or polishing machine comprising a rigid platform on which a workhead spindle and a grinding wheel spindle are located, and wherein the grinding wheel spindle is mounted on a sub-assembly which is attached to the platform by means of strip hinges which permit limited movement of the sub-assembly in a direction generally parallel to the direction in which the wheel has to advance to achieve grinding or polishing of a workpiece mounted on the workhead spindle, the strip-hinges generally inhibiting movement of the sub-assembly in all other directions. 2. A machine as claimed in claim 1, wherein two grinding wheels are mounted on the platform, one on each of two of said sub-assemblies, and each sub-assembly is is attached to the platform by strip-hinges as aforesaid. 3. A machine as claimed in claim 1, wherein the positions of the flexures mounting the sub-assemblies to the machine base are selected so as to reduce the effect of torsional vibration within the machine base on the sub-assemblies carried by the flexures. 4. A machine as claimed in claim 2, wherein the flexures on which the sub-assemblies are mounted are themselves attached to a solid mass, forming part of the base of the machine, so that any motion of the sub-assembly or carriage is highly damped. 5. A machine is claimed in claim 1, wherein hollow cavities within selected parts of the machine are at least partially filled with polymer concrete so as to raise the natural frequency of vibration of the machine parts with the objective of providing minimum mass and distribution of the damping/stiffening material. 6. A machine as claimed in claim 1, wherein the strip-hinges comprise stress relieved steel links which are directly jointed to the platform on the one hand and the grinding wheel spindle bearing sub-assembly on the other. 7. A machine as claimed in claim 1, in which the sub-assembly is mounted on a horizontal extension of the machine base, towards one end of the machine and rigidity of the horizontal extension is improved by mounting a rigid bracket between the extension and the machine base. 8. A grinding or polishing machine comprising a rigid platform, a workpiece spindle means located on the platform, tool spindle means mounting on a sub-assembly which is attached to the platform by means of flexures, which permit limited relative movement in a direction to effect tool and workpiece engagement, and cam drive means mounted on the platform for engagement with the sub-assembly, whereby the sub-assembly is moveable to advance and retract each tool spindle means towards and away from the workhead spindle means. 9. A machine as claimed in claim 8, wherein the drive means is mounted close to an axis of the workpiece spindle means and is directly linked by polymer concrete so that a tight and damped stiffness loop is produced. 10. A machine as claimed in claim 8 for grinding the edge of a silicon disc workpiece, in which there is mounted on the tool spindle means a grinding wheel, with the grinding wheel being made of a material being selected from the group consisting of resin bonded CBN, diamond bonded CBN and metal bonded CBN. 11. A machine as claimed in claim 8, wherein different types of grinding wheel are mounted on the same tool spindle means. 12. A machine as claimed in claim 10, wherein the grinding wheel is providing with at least one and typically a plurality of grooves, which can be used in turn, as each becomes worn, until all the grooves need re-forming. 13. A machine as claimed in claim 10 further comprising a forming wheel mounted in the region of the grinding wheel, and means for effecting relative movement to permit the grinding wheel to be formed or re-formed in situ. 14. A method of grinding the edge of a disc workpiece using a machine in which a grinding wheel and a forming wheel are carried on a stiff mounting, comprising the steps of moving the grinding wheel and forming wheel into engagement so as to form a groove around the edge of the grinding wheel corresponding in cross-section to the complement of the shape to be formed around the disc edge during grinding, engaging the grinding wheel with the disc which is also stiffly mounted relative to the grinding wheel, grinding the edge thereof into the desired shape, and after at least one of the disc edges has been ground, re-engaging the grinding wheel and the forming wheel to re-form the groove the grinding wheel to correct for wear, wherein the forming wheel is also fixedly mounted on the spindle of the disc workpiece for rotation therewith. 15. the method of claim 14 in which the step forming the grinding wheel is performed with the grinding wheel and the forming wheel in situ on the machine, by plunge grinding the desired form in the groove of the grinding wheel using the forming wheel. 16. Apparatus for edge grinding or polishing a disc workpiece comprising a grinding wheel and drive means therefor, a forming wheel, support means for the grinding wheel and forming wheel which is stiff to restrict unwanted relative movement therebetween, means for effecting relative movement to cause the grinding wheel to align with the forming wheel, means for effecting relative movement between grinding and forming wheels to plunge grind the edge of the grinding wheel to form a groove therein of precise cross-section, a workpiece spindle on which the disc workpiece can be mounted, said spindle also being carried by the stiff support means, drive means for moving the grinding wheel towards and away from the workpiece spindle, to bring the wheel into engagement with the circular edge of the disc workpiece when mounted on the spindle to edge grind the disc workpiece, and drive means for rotating the spindle, wherein the forming wheel is also mounted on the workpiece spindle for rotation therewith. 17. Apparatus as claimed in claim 16, wherein the workpiece spindle includes a vacuum chuck for mounting a workpiece thereon. 18. Apparatus as claimed in claim 16, further comprising means for detecting wear of the profiling groove in the grinding wheel to interrupt the grinding of workpieces and allow for reforming the groove. 19. Apparatus as claimed in claim 16 including optic electronic inspection means for viewing the edge of ground disc workpiece whether on line or offline, comprising a video camera for producing a video signal for processing, and positioned to view the edge of the workpiece substantially tangentially, in which the camera is positioned so that it's optical axis is tangential to the perimeter of the disc, so that the top of the cross sectional shape of the edge profile is in the middle of the field of view of the camera. 