A semiconductor processing workpiece support which includes a detection subsystem that detects whether a wafer or other workpiece is present. The preferred arrangement uses an optical beam emitter and an optical beam detector mounted along the back side of a rotor which acts as a workpiece holder. The emitted beam passes through the workpiece holder and is reflected by any workpiece present in the Workpiece holder. The preferred units include both an optical emitter and pair of detectors. The detection is preferably able to discriminate on the basis of the angle of the reflected beam, so that a portion of the beam reflected by the workpiece holder is not considered or minimized.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A processor for use in processing a microelectronic workpiece, comprising: a processing bowl; a processing head mounted for controlled motion with respect to the processing bowl to allow the processing bead to cooperate with the processing bowl to define a processing chamber therebetween; a workpiece holder for holding the workpiece; an electromagnetic energy emitter for emitting electromagnetic energy; an electromagnetic energy detector for detecting the presence of reflected electromagnetic energy indicative of the presence of a workpiece held by the workpiece holder. 2. The processor of claim 1 wherein said electromagnetic energy detector is adapted to operate in a mode which discriminates for the presence of a workpiece based on the angle at which reflected electromagnetic energy is received by the electromagnetic energy detector. 3. The processor of claim 1 wherein said electromagnetic energy detector is defined to include at least a pair of detectors. 4. The processor of claim 1 and further comprising a rotor adapted to support the workpiece and mounted for controlled rotation of the rotor and workpiece upon the processing head. 5. The processor of claim 4 and further comprising at least one window provided in the rotor to improve transmission of the emitted or reflected electromagnetic energy. 6. The processor of claim 1 wherein the emitted electromagnetic energy is in the form of an optical beam. 7. The processor of claim 1 wherein said microelectronic workpiece includes a processed side and an unprocessed side, and wherein the emitted electromagnetic energy is directed toward the unprocessed surface of the microelectronic workpiece. 8. The processor of claim 1 wherein said electromagnetic energy emitter and said electromagnetic energy detector is located within said processing chamber defined between the processing bowl and the processing head. 9. A workpiece support for use in processing a workpiece, comprising: a workpiece holder for holding the workpiece; a beam emitter for emitting an emitted electromagnetic beam; a beam detector for detecting any reflected electromagnetic energy which results from reflection of said emitted electromagnetic beam from a workpiece held by the workpiece holder. 10. The workpiece support of claim 9 wherein the workpiece holder comprises a rotor adapted to support the workpiece mounted for controlled rotation of the workpiece, the rotor having a front face which is adapted to hold the workpiece so that it is exposed to a processing fluid and wherein said workpiece is held in juxtaposition to said front face of said rotor. 11. The workpiece support of claim 10 and further comprising at least one window provided in the rotor to improve transmission of the emitted or reflected beams. 12. The workpiece support of claim 9 and further comprising a workpiece holder, wherein said workpiece is held in juxtaposition to said workpiece holder. 13. The workpiece support of claim 9 wherein the electromagnetic beam is an optical beam. 14. The workpiece support of claim 13 and further comprising at least one window provided in the workpiece holder panel. 15. The workpiece support of claim 9 wherein said detector can operate in a mode which discriminates on the angle of any reflected electromagnetic beam. 16. The workpiece support of claim 9 wherein said beam detector is defined to include at least a pair of detectors. 17. A method for detecting a workpiece held by a workpiece holder mounted on a processing head, the processing head mounted for controlled motion with respect to a processing bowl to allow the processing head to cooperate with the processing bowl to define a processing chamber therebetween, comprising: positioning the workpiece holder at a suitable location relative to a beam emitter and beam detector; emitting an emitted electromagnetic beam from the beam emitter against any workpiece being held by the workpiece holder; detecting whether there is any reflected electromagnetic energy indicative of the presence of a workpiece held by the workpiece holder. 18. A method according to claim 17 and further defined by discriminating in said detecting step to detect a reflected beam which is incident upon at least one detector at an angle associated with reflection from any workpiece present. 19. A method according to claim 17 wherein said workpiece holder forms part of a rotor which is rotatably mounted on the processing head and wherein said emitted electromagnetic beam is an optical beam that is emitted through a rotor panel. 20. A method according to claim 19 and further defined by emitting the emitted optical beam through a window forming part of the rotor. 21. A method according to claim 19 and further defined by discriminating in said detecting step to detect a reflected beam which is incident upon at least one detector at an angle associated with reflection from any workpiece present, and minimizing detection of any beam reflected from surfaces of said rotor. 22. A workpiece support for use in processing a workpiece, comprising: workpiece holder for holding the workpiece; an electromagnetic energy emitter for emitting electromagnetic energy; an electromagnetic energy detector for detecting any reflected electromagnetic energy which results from reflection of said emitted electromagnetic energy from a workpiece held by the workpiece holder. 23. The workpiece support of claim 22 wherein the workpiece holder comprises a rotor adapted to support the workpiece, the rotor being mounted for controlled co-rotation of the workpiece, the rotor having a front face which is adapted to hold the workpiece so that the workpiece may be exposed to a processing fluid at an opposite side thereof and wherein said workpiece is held in juxtaposition to said front face of said rotor. 24. The workpiece support of claim 23 and further comprising at least one window provided in the rotor to improve transmission of the emitted or reflected electromagnetic energy. 25. The workpiece support of claim 22 and further comprising a workpiece holder, wherein said workpiece is held in juxtaposition to said workpiece holder. 26. The workpiece support of claim 22 wherein the electromagnetic energy is in the form of an optical beam. 27. The workpiece support of claim 26 and further comprising at least one window provided in the workpiece holder panel. 28. The workpiece support of claim 22 wherein said detector is adapted to operate in a mode that determines whether a workpiece is presence based on the angle of receipt of the reflected electromagnetic energy. 29. The workpiece support of claim 22 wherein said electromagnetic energy detector comprises at least a pair of detectors. 30. A method for detecting a workpiece held by a workpiece holder mounted on a processing head: positioning the workpiece holder at a suitable location relative to an electromagnetic energy emitter and an electromagnetic energy detector; emitting electromagnetic energy from the electromagnetic energy emitter toward the position of any workpiece being held by the workpiece holder; detecting whether there is any reflected electromagnetic energy indicative of the presence of a workpiece held by the workpiece holder. 31. A method according to claim 30 and further defined by discriminating in said detecting step to determine the presence of a reflected beam which is incident upon at least one detector at an angle associated with reflection from any workpiece present in the workpiece support. 32. A method according to claim 30 wherein said workpiece holder forms part of a rotor that is rotatably mounted on the processing head and wherein said emitted electromagnetic energy is in the form of an optical beam. 33. A method according to claim 32 and further defined by emitting the emitted optical beam through a window forming part of the rotor. 34. A method according to claim 32 and further defined by discriminating in said detecting step to determine the presence of reflected energy that is incident upon at least one detector at an angle associated with reflection from any workpiece present on the workpiece holder, and minimizing detection of electromagnetic energy reflected from surfaces of said rotor. 35. A workpiece processor for use in processing a workpiece, comprising: a processing bowl; a processing head mounted for controlled motion to allow the processing head to cooperate with the processing bowl to define a processing chamber therebetween; a workpiece holder for holding the workpiece; a beam emitter for emitting an emitted electromagnetic beam; a beam detector for detecting any reflected electromagnetic energy which results from reflection of said emitted electromagnetic beam from a workpiece held by the workpiece holder, wherein said detector can operate in a mode which discriminates on the angle of any reflected electromagnetic beam. 36. A workpiece processor for use in processing a workpiece, comprising: a processing bowl; a processing head mounted for controlled motion to allow the processing head to cooperate with the processing bowl to define a processing chamber therebetween; a workpiece holder for holding the workpiece; a beam emitter for emitting an emitted electromagnetic beam; a beam detector for detecting any reflected electromagnetic energy which results from reflection of said emitted electromagnetic beam from a workpiece held by the workpiece holder, wherein said beam detector is defined to include at least a pair of detectors. 37. A workpiece processor for use in processing a workpiece, comprising: a processing bowl; a processing head mounted for controlled motion to allow the processing head to cooperate with the processing bowl to define a processing chamber therebetween; a workpiece holder for holding the workpiece; a beam emitter for emitting an emitted electromagnetic beam; a beam detector for detecting any reflected electromagnetic energy which results from reflection of said emitted electromagnetic beam from a workpiece held by the workpiece holder; a rotor adapted to support the workpiece and mounted for controlled rotation of the rotor and workpiece upon the processing head; at least one window provided in the rotor to improve transmission of the emitted or reflected beams. 