A doubly articulated module for attaching a first portion of a robotic assembly to a second portion of said assembly, said first portion being rotatable with respect to said second portion about a first axis substantially perpendicular to a first axis of the first portion and about a second axis substantially coaxial with said first axis. Preferably, the articulated module comprises servos. Several of the modules can be incorporated into arms, legs, torso, neck and head of a mannequin in order to animate as much of the mannequin as is required. Although the servos can be activated by directly wired controls or by remote radio-controlled devices, a preferred programmed system is provided for the computerized control of the modules so that the mannequin can be used for display or demonstration purposes.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An animated human mannequin figure, which simulates the movements of a human body comprising a head, neck, torso and arms by means of articulated joints, said joints having doubly-articulated means, including at least one controllable servomotor, for attaching a first portion of a robotic assembly to a second portion of said assembly, said first portion being rotatable with respect to said second portion about an axis substantially perpendicular to a first axis of the first portion of the robotic assembly and about a second axis substantially coaxial with said first axis. 2. An animated human mannequin figure as recited in claim 1, wherein said human body further comprises legs having said articulated joints. 3. A robot arm, adapted to be arranged on a torso of a human mannequin figure, which simulates the movements of a human arm, said torso having a central longitudinal torso axis, said arm having a central longitudinal arm axis when in the extended position and comprising, in combination: (a) a shoulder portion having articulated means with a controllable servomotor for attaching the arm to the torso, said arm being rotatable with respect to the torso about a shoulder axis substantially perpendicular to said central torso axis; (b) an upper arm portion having doubly articulated means with a controllable servomotor for attaching the upper arm portion to the shoulder portion, said upper arm portion being rotatable with respect to the shoulder portion about a first axis substantially perpendicular to said central arm axis and about a second axis substantially coaxial with said central arm axis; (c) a forearm portion having doubly articulated means with a controllable servomotor for attaching the forearm portion to the upper arm portion, said forearm portion being rotatable with respect to the upper arm portion about a third axis substantially perpendicular to said central arm axis and about a fourth axis substantially coaxial with said central arm axis; and (d) a hand portion having articulated means with a controllable servomotor for attaching the hand portion to the forearm portion, said hand portion being rotatable with respect to the forearm portion about a fifth axis substantially perpendicular to said central arm axis. 4. The robot arm defined in claim 3, wherein said articulated means of said hand portion is doubly articulated and said hand portion is further rotatable with respect to said forearm portion about a sixth axis which is substantially perpendicular to said central arm axis and to said fifth axis. 5. A robot head, neck and torso of a human mannequin figure, which simulate the movements of a human head, neck and torso, said robot head, neck and torso having a substantially central and longitudinal first axis and comprising, in combination: (a) a head portion having doubly articulated means with a controllable servomotor for attaching the head portion to the neck portion, said head portion being rotatable with respect to the neck portion about a second axis substantially perpendicular to said first axis and about a third axis substantially coaxial with said first axis; and (b) a torso portion having a spinal section, which comprises: (i) an upper section having doubly articulated means with a controllable servomotor being rotatable about a fourth axis substantially coaxial with said first axis and being rotatable about a fifth axis substantially perpendicular to said first axis; and (ii) a lower section having doubly articulated means with a controllable servomotor being rotatable about a sixth axis substantially coaxial with said first axis and being rotatable about a seventh axis substantially perpendicular to said first axis. 6. A robot leg, adapted to be arranged on a torso of a human mannequin figure, which simulates the movements of a human leg, said torso having a central longitudinal torso axis, said leg having a central longitudinal leg axis when in the extended position and comprising, in combination: (a) a hip portion having articulated means with a controllable servomotor for attaching the leg to the torso, said leg being rotatable with respect to the torso about a hip axis substantially perpendicular to said central torso axis; (b) an upper leg portion having doubly articulated means with a controllable servomotor for attaching the upper leg portion to the hip portion, said upper leg portion being rotatable with respect to the hip portion about a first axis substantially perpendicular to said central leg axis and about a second axis substantially coaxial with said central leg axis; (c) a lower leg portion having doubly articulated means with a controllable servomotor for attaching the lower leg portion to the upper leg portion, said lower leg portion being rotatable with respect to the upper leg portion about a third axis substantially perpendicular to said central leg axis and about a fourth axis substantially coaxial with said central leg axis; and (d) a foot portion having articulated means with a controllable servomotor for attaching the foot portion to the lower leg portion, said foot portion being rotatable with respect to the lower leg portion about a fifth axis substantially perpendicular to said central leg axis. 7. The robot leg defined in claim 6, wherein said articulated means of said foot portion is doubly articulated and said foot portion is further rotatable with respect to said lower leg portion about a sixth axis which is substantially perpendicular to said central leg axis and to said fifth axis. 8. A module having doubly articulated means for attaching a first portion of a robotic assembly to a second portion of said assembly, said module comprising: (a) a first housing attachable to said first portion of said robotic assembly and adapted to receive a first controllable servomotor having a first drive axle rotatable about a first axis; (b) a second housing attachable to said second portion of said robotic assembly and adapted to receive a second controllable servomotor having a second drive axle rotatable about a second axis; (c) a hinge connector having means for pivotally supporting said first housing about said first axis, said pivot means including a freely movable pivot joint along said first axis on one side of said first housing and a first control arm for fixed attachment to said first drive axle of said first servomotor on the opposite side of said first housing, (d) a rotational connector having a second control arm for fixed attachment to said second drive axle of said second servomotor, said rotational connector mechanically coupling said second control arm with said hinge connector along said second axis such that said second axis if perpendicular to said first axis; whereby said second housing is translatable about said first axis and rotatable about said second axis with respect to said first housing by rotational movement of said first and second drive axles, respectively, of said first and second servomotors. 9. An animated human mannequin figure, which simulates the movements of a human body and has a head, neck, torso and arms and articulated joints as recited in claim 8. 10. An animated human mannequin figure as recited in claim 9, wherein said human body further comprises legs having said articulated joints. 11. An animated human mannequin figure, which simulates the movements of a human body and has a torso and legs and articulated joints as claimed in claim 8. 12. An animated human mannequin figure as recited in claim 11, wherein said human body further comprises arms having articulated joints. 