A sensing device and method for determining the proximity and lateral movement of a second object relative to a first object. To determine proximity and lateral movement, the second object is illuminated to create light contrasts on that second object that correspond to unique structural and/or printed features of that second object. Light contrast data is compared to reference data to determine proximity and lateral movement of the second object relative to the first object. The invention typically utilizes an illumination source, imaging optics, and a sensor array mounted to the first object. This invention can be used in the end-effectors of a robotic arm to manage handling of a payload. It can also be used as a contact sensor to gate the operation of a manual scanning device when the scanner is brought into contact with the surface of a document.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for determining a position of a first object relative to a second object comprising the steps of: fixing a sensor device to said second object, said sensor device having a sensor array and having imaging optics with a known focal length; illuminating said first object to create light contrasts indicative of at least one of structural and printed features of said first object; acquiring reference image data; capturing image data of said first object utilizing said sensor device such that said image data is responsive to said light contrasts indicative of at least one of structural and printed features of said first object and such that said image data has a contrast that is dependent upon a position of said first object relative to said sensor device; and correlating using mathematical measures of correlation between contrasts in said reference image data with said captured image data to determine relative proximity information between said second object and said first object at a time of capturing said image data. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said steps of acquiring reference image data and capturing image data include capturing a sequence of image data frames of said first object utilizing said sensor device such that each frame is responsive to said light contrasts indicative of at least one of structural and printed features of said first object and further comprising the step of comparing discrete frames from said sequence of frames to determine relative lateral movement information between said first object and said second object at a time of capturing said sequence. 3. The method of claim 1 further comprising a step of utilizing said relative proximity information to control approach to contact, movement away from contact, or actual contact between said second object and said first object. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein said step of fixing said sensor device is a step of attaching said sensor device to an end effector of a robot and said step of illuminating said first object is a step of directing light onto a payload. 5. The method of claim 2 further comprising a step of utilizing said relative lateral movement information to control or prevent slippage at the region of contact between said second object and said first object, wherein said first object is a payload and said second object is an end effector of a robot. 6. The method of claim 1 further comprising a step of utilizing said relative proximity information to activate and deactivate a scanner device. 7. The system of claim 1 further comprising: means for acquiring a sequence of said frames; and means for utilizing said sequence of frames to determine lateral position information. 8. The system of claim 7 wherein said second object is a robotic arm and wherein said sensor is attached to said robotic arm, said proximity information and said lateral movement information being utilized to control approach and release rates of said robotic arm and to control slip of said second object relative to said robotic arm. 9. The system of claim 7 wherein said second object is an image scanner and said first object is a document that is to be scanned and further comprising a switch that is responsive to one or both of said proximity information and lateral movement information wherein said switch can activate and deactivate said image scanner. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein said step of acquiring reference image data includes a step of acquiring reference image data having a first light contrast pattern and a first focus, and wherein said step of contrast comparing includes a step of mathematically comparing a portion of said light contrast pattern of said reference image data to a portion of a light contrast pattern of said captured image data, wherein both of said portions are related to a similar location on said first object. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein said step of correlating includes a step of correlating differences in light power ranges between said portions of said light contrast patterns of said reference image data and said captured image data. 12. The method of claim 1 wherein said step of acquiring reference image data includes a step of establishing said reference image data by imaging said first object when said first object is separated from said second object by said known focal length of said imaging optics. 13. The method of claim 1 further including a step of maintaining constant said known focal length of said imaging optics during said steps of acquiring, capturing, and correlating. 14. A position detection and control system for determining a position of a first object relative to a second object comprising: a sensor attached to said second object that is responsive to a pattern of light contrast on said first object that is indicative of structural features of said first object, said sensor having a sensor array and imaging optics with a known focal length, wherein said sensor obtains frames of image data from said first object that corresponds to said pattern of light contrasts, each of said frames having a focus that is dependent upon a distance between said first and said second objects; means for generating reference image data having a pattern of light contrast; and means for correlating using mathematical measures of correlation between said patterns of light contrast of said frames of image data and said reference image data to calculate relative proximity information between said first object and said second object. 15. A method for determining a position of a first object relative to a second object comprising the steps of: fixing a sensor device to said second object, said sensor device having a sensor array and having imaging optics with a known focal length; illuminating said first object to create a contrast pattern indicative of structural features of said first object; capturing a sequence of frames of image data from said first object utilizing said sensor device such that each frame has light power transitions that are responsive to said contrast pattern and that are indicative of a position of said first object relative to said sensor device; comparing discrete frames from said sequence to determine relative lateral movement information between said first object and said second object; acquiring reference image data having light power transitions that are indicative of a reference position of said first object relative to said second object; and correlating using mathematical measures of correlation between light power transitions from at least one of said frames of image data to light power transitions from said reference image data to determine relative proximity information between said first object and said second object. 16. The method of claim 15 further comprising the step of utilizing said relative lateral movement information to control or prevent slippage at the region of contact between said first object and said second object, wherein said first object is a payload and said second object is an end effector of a robot. 17. The method of claim 15 further comprising the step of utilizing said relative lateral movement information to activate an electronic scanner. 18. The method of claim 15 further comprising the step of utilizing said relative proximity information to control approach to contact, movement away from contact, or actual contact between said first object and said second object. 19. The method of claim 15 wherein said step of fixing said sensor device is a step of attaching said sensor device to an end effector of a robot and said step of illuminating said fit object is a step of directing light onto a payload. 