A data processing device includes a circuit having status conditions wherein a particular set of the status conditions can occur in operation of the circuit. An instruction register operates to hold a branch instruction conditional on a particular set of the status conditions. A decoder is connected to the instruction register and the circuit. A program counter is coupled to the decoder wherein the decoder is operable to enter a branch address into the program counter in response to the branch instruction when the particular set of the status conditions of the circuit are present. Other data processing devices, systems and methods are also disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A data processing device comprising: a circuit having status conditions wherein a particular set of the status conditions can occur in operation of the circuit; an instruction register operative to hold a predetermined instruction conditional on a particular set of the status conditions and includes locations for mask bits to select any one or more of the conditions to form said particular set of status conditions, wherein said instruction register includes locations for holding bits representative of the predetermined instruction, and status bits corresponding to said mask bits to determine the way in which a status condition selected by each of said mask bits is interpreted; a decoder connected to said instruction register and said circuit; and circuitry to perform a predetermined function in response to the predetermined instruction when said particular set of the status conditions of said circuit are present. 2. The data processing device of claim 1 wherein said circuit includes an electronic computation unit. 3. The data processing device of claim 1 wherein said circuit includes an accumulator. 4. The data processing device of claim 1 wherein said circuit includes a register for holding numerical values and said instruction register has locations for mask bit representing conditions including A) contents relating to a predetermined value and B) overflow. 5. The data processing device of claim 1 wherein said circuit includes a register for holding numerical values and said instruction register has locations for mask bits representing conditions including A) contents relating to a predetermined value and B) carry. 6. The data processing device of claim 1 wherein said circuit includes a register for holding numerical values and said instruction register has locations for mask bits representing conditions including A) carry and B) overflow. 7. The data processing device of claim 6 wherein said instruction register further has a location for a mask bit representing C) contents relating to a predetermined value. 8. The data processing device of claim 1 wherein said circuit includes an accumulator and said instruction register has predetermined locations for mask bits representing conditions including A) equal to zero, B) less than zero, C) carry and D) overflow. 9. The data processing device of claim 1 wherein said decoder includes circuitry for also decoding predetermined mask locations corresponding to said status conditions to selectively respond to certain ones of the status conditions when the predetermined instruction is present in said instruction register. 10. The data processing device of claim 1, further comprising a program counter coupled to said decoder wherein when the predetermined instruction is a branch instruction, said decoder is operable to enter a branch address into the program counter in response to said branch instruction when said particular set of the status conditions of said circuit selected by said mask bits are present. 11. The data processing device of claim 1 wherein when said predetermined instruction is a conditional execution instruction, said decoder is operable to render an instruction immediately after said conditional execution instruction inoperable when the particular set of the status conditions of said circuit selected by said mask bits are not present. 12. A data processing device comprising: a memory for storing instructions; an instruction register; a program counter for holding an address of an instruction; a controller for transferring from said memory to said instruction register the instruction having the address held in said program counter; an accumulator which provides status conditions responsive to conditions occurring in said accumulator; and a decoder connected to said accumulator and said instruction register which interprets certain bits of a particular instruction in said instruction register as mask bits for selecting one or more of said status conditions and certain other bits in said particular instruction as status bits to determine the way in which a status condition selected by each of said mask bits is interpreted and activates a decoder output when a conjunction of conditions selected according to the mask bits and interpreted according to the status bits is present. 13. The data processing device of claim 12 wherein three of said status bits respectively indicate the present or absence of conditions representing A) accumulator contents equal to zero, B) accumulator contents less than zero and C) accumulator carry. 14. The data processing device of claim 12 wherein three of said status bits respectively indicate the presence or absence of conditions representing A) accumulator contents relating to a predetermined number, B) accumulator carry and C) accumulator overflow. 15. The data processing device of claim 12, wherein when said particular instruction is a branch instruction, said decoder is operable to enter a branch address into the program counter in response to said branch instruction when the conjunction of status conditions of said accumulator selected by said mask bits are present. 16. The data processing device of claim 12 wherein when said particular instruction is a conditional execution instruction, said decoder is operable to render an instruction immediately after said conditional execution instruction inoperable when the conjunction of status conditions of said accumulator selected by said mask bits are not present. 17. A method of operating a data processing system having an instruction register, a program counter, and a circuit for executing operations according to instructions in the instruction register that has status conditions wherein a particular set of the status conditions can occur in operation of the circuit, the method comprising the steps of: entering a conditional instruction into said instruction register with mask bits representing the particular set of status conditions and status bits corresponding to said mask bits; and electronically decoding the contents of the instruction register by selecting a particular set of status conditions as specified by the mask bits and interpreting the particular set of status conditions as specified by the status bits to determine if a designated conjunction of status conditions exist. 18. The method of operating a data processing system of claim 17, wherein the step of entering a conditional instruction further comprises: entering a conditional execution instruction into said instruction register; and electronically decoding the contents of the instruction register in accordance with the conditional execution instruction to cause said circuit for executing operations to execute a specified number of instructions when the designated conjunction of status conditions is present and otherwise to cause the circuit to ignore the results of the specified number of instructions and to then resume normal sequential execution of instructions. 19. The method of operating a data processing system of claim 17, wherein the step of entering a conditional instruction further comprises: entering a conditional branch instruction into said instruction register; and electronically decoding the contents of the instruction register in accordance with the branch instruction to enter a branch address into the program counter providing the designated conjunction of status conditions is present. 