A head guide assembly of a tape device includes a beam for securely mounting a tape head thereon, wherein the tape head is accurately aligned and mounted so as to have both an improved resonance response as well as isolation from external shock or vibrations. A head guide support, made from a super gusseted material, supports the beam and tape head wherein the beam is mounted on a brass base for reducing resonances. The brass base is coupled to the head guide support via a kingpin and wedge clamps for locking the tape head in alignment without affecting the alignment. Additional resonances in a direction of a pitch of the tape head is reduced by further connecting the brass base to the head guide support without distorting the aligned position of the brass base. Shock mounts are provided for floating the head guide assembly from a base of the tape device.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A servo controlled magnetic tape head guide assembly for reading data from and writing data to a magnetic tape, wherein a magnetic tape head therein is critically aligned for skew and wrap angle, said magnetic tape head guide assembly providing shock isolation and reducing resonances to said magnetic tape head, said magnetic tape head guide assembly comprising: a massive base member; a lightweight beam member movably attached to said massive base member for allowing said magnetic tape head mounted on said lightweight beam member to index perpendicular to a tape path; a head guide support having a super gusseted structure; a kingpin for rotatably and penetratably mounting said massive base member to said head guide support such that said massive base member, in a joystick fashion, is positioned with said kingpin for skew and wrap angle alignment of said magnetic tape head; a first wedge clamp for locking said kingpin to said massive base member; and a second wedge clamp for locking said kingpin to said head guide support wherein said first and second wedge clamps lock said kingpin via opposing flat surfaces of each of said first and second wedge clamps, said opposing flat surfaces mating tangentially to a radius of an outer surface of said kingpin. 2. The head guide assembly according to claim 1 further comprising an outhouse assembly for further attaching said massive base member to said head guide support without substantially affecting the tape head alignment. 3. The head guide assembly according to claim 2 wherein said outhouse assembly reduces a pitch resonance of the tape head. 4. The head guide assembly according to claim 3 wherein said outhouse assembly attaches to a backside of said massive base member perpendicularly to a front face of said head guide support, said outhouse assembly further attaching to a side of said massive base member. 5. The head guide assembly according to claim 4 wherein the tape head alignment is substantially unaffected by locking said first and second wedge clamps. 6. The head guide assembly according to claim 5 wherein said beam member includes a plurality of pads for accurately establishing tape head alignment in frontal and lateral planes. 7. The head guide assembly according to claim 5 further comprising a deck assembly for supporting said head guide assembly. 8. The head guide assembly according to claim 7 further comprising a plurality of shock mounts for supporting said deck assembly thereon for providing a sway space in all directions for said deck assembly and providing shock isolation therefore, said shock mounts including a hard spring like outer layer and a softer viscoelastic inner layer. 9. A tape device for reading from and writing data to a multi-track tape via a servo controlled magnetic tape head, wherein the servo controlled magnetic tape head is critically aligned for skew and wrap angle, said tape device providing shock isolation and reducing resonances to said magnetic tape head, said tape device comprising: a data control circuit for sending data to and receiving data from said magnetic tape head; a motion control circuit for servoing said magnetic tape head; a massive base member for reducing resonances to said magnetic tape head; a lightweight beam member movably attached to said massive base member for allowing said magnetic tape head mounted on said lightweight beam member to index perpendicular to a tape path, said lightweight beam member having a plurality of pads for accurately establishing magnetic tape head alignment in frontal and lateral planes; a head guide support having a super gusseted structure for supporting said massive base member; a kingpin for rotatably and penetratably mounting said massive base member to said head guide support such that said massive base member, in a joystick fashion, is rotated about said kingpin for skew aligning said magnetic tape head, and further penetrating said kingpin within said head guide support for wrap angle aligning said magnetic tape head; a first wedge clamp having opposing flat surfaces tangentially mating a curved surface of said kingpin for locking said kingpin to said massive base member without substantially moving said kingpin; a second wedge clamp having opposing flat surfaces tangentially mating the curved surface of said kingpin for locking said kingpin to said head guide support without substantially moving said kingpin; an outhouse assembly for further attaching said massive base member to said head guide support without substantially affecting the tape head alignment, wherein said outhouse assembly reduces a pitch resonance of the tape head, said outhouse assembly attaching to a backside of said massive base member perpendicularly to a front face of said head guide support, said outhouse assembly further attaching to a side of said massive base member; and a deck assembly for supporting said head guide support. 10. The head guide assembly according to claim 9 further comprising a plurality of shock mounts for supporting said deck assembly thereon for providing a sway space in all directions for said deck assembly and providing shock isolation therefore, said shock mounts including a hard spring like outer layer and a softer viscoelastic inner layer. 