An automated storage system transports data cartridges between a storage device and a plurality of storage cells via a picker assembly. The storage cells are formed of one or more removable magazines. The picker assembly accurately locates each data cartridge within a storage cell by first establishing a zero position reference and locating a home position relatively therefrom. The home position is a predetermined point on each magazine. An infrared detector and infrared sensor are situated on the picker assembly for precisely locating the home position. Each cartridge is known to be located within a predetermined tachometer count range from the home position. The detector/sensor is used to precisely locate each cartridge. The precise tachometer position is stored and the cartridge is returned to the known location. As a result, tolerance accumulation effects are eliminated in the system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for locating objects stationed within a plurality of storage cells for transporting said objects to a predetermined location, said method comprising steps of: (a) moving a gripper mechanism to a home position; (b) sensing when said gripper mechanism has arrived at said home position and storing a location indication of said home position, said home position having a known relationship to said plurality of storage cells; (c) translating said gripper mechanism to a predetermined storage cell of said plurality of storage cells for retrieving an object therefrom; (d) detecting when said gripper mechanism is located in a position to retrieve said object within said predetermined storage cell and then storing a location indication of said object; and (e) retrieving said object from said predetermined storage cell and transporting said object to said predetermined location. 2. The method according to claim 1 further comprising a step (f) returning said object from said predetermined location to said predetermined storage cell at the location indicated by the stored location indication for said object. 3. The method according to claim 2 further comprising a step (g) moving said gripper mechanism to a zero position reference location, wherein said home position is a known approximate predetermined distance therefrom. 4. The method according to claim 3 wherein the known approximate predetermined distance between said zero position reference and said home position is measured by a tachometer count. 5. In a data storage system having storage media stored in a plurality of storage cells, a method for locating and transporting a storage medium of said storage media, between a storage cell of said plurality of storage cells, and a storage device, wherein said plurality of storage cells are formed from at least one removable storage magazine having a detectable reference feature, the storage system having an accessor for moving a picker assembly with a detector thereon, wherein picker assembly locations are identified by tachometer counts as stored in a position register, said method comprising steps of: (a) moving said picker assembly to a reference position; (b) translating the picker assembly a predetermined distance to a second position near the reference feature on said storage magazine; (c) detecting said reference feature by positioning said gripper assembly at said reference feature, and establishing a home position thereat; (d) saving a tachometer count of said home position in said position register; (e) moving said picker assembly a predetermined distance to a third position approximately in line with said storage medium; (f) detecting an edge of said storage medium indicating said storage medium is within a gripping position of said picker assembly; (g) storing a tachometer count of an edge of said storage medium in said position register; (h) picking said storage medium from said storage cell and transporting said storage medium to said storage device for performing data operations on said storage medium; and (i) returning said storage medium to said storage cell at said tachometer count corresponding to the edge of said storage medium. 6. The method according to claim 5 wherein said picker assembly detects an edge of said storage medium when the edge interrupts a detector beam of said picker assembly, the detector beam being generated by said detector. 7. The method according to claim 6 wherein step (b)-(d) are repeated each time the removable storage magazine is replaced in the storage system. 8. An automated data storage system for selecting a storage medium from storage media for processing data on said storage medium, said automated storage system comprising: a storage device for receiving the storage medium and processing data on said storage medium, said storage device having a processor for providing control instructions; a storage magazine having a plurality of storage cells for storing said storage media; an accessor; a picker assembly movably coupled to said accessor, said picker assembly translated parallel to said storage cells and having an opening for accessing a storage medium of said storage media stored therein and transporting said storage medium from a predetermined storage cell to said storage device, said picker assembly having a detector for generating a detector field at the opening for detecting when an edge of said storage medium interrupts said detector field; and a driver assembly receiving said control instructions and coupled to said picker assembly for controlling said picker assembly, said driver assembly comprising: a position indicator coupled to said picker assembly for indicating locations of said picker assembly; and a position register for storing location indications of said picker assembly, wherein said picker assembly is moved near a predetermined home position according to home location as described by said position indicator, said picker assembly further moved for detecting a reference point on said storage magazine and establishing said home position, said storage medium being located by said picker assembly by first moving said picker assembly to said storage cell storing said storage medium according to a location indicated by said position indicator and said picker assembly further locating said storage medium when said edge of said storage medium interrupts said detector field. 9. The automated storage system according to claim 8 wherein said picker assembly detector further includes: an infrared emitter for generating the detector field; and an infrared detector for detecting when the detector field is interrupted. 10. The automated storage system according to claim 9 wherein said storage device is a magnetic tape device capable of reading and writing data to said storage medium. 11. The automated storage system according to claim 10 wherein said storage media are magnetic tape cartridges. 12. The automated storage system according to claim 11 wherein the storage magazine may be removed and replaced by another storage magazine, wherein said picker assembly reestablishes said home position. 13. An automated storage system having a storage device for receiving a data cartridge from a plurality data cartridges, said storage device having a processor for providing control instructions, the plurality of data cartridges stored in a removable magazine having a plurality of storage cells and a detectable reference feature, said automated storage system comprising: an accessor; a picker assembly having first and second fingers for gripping said plurality of data cartridges, said picker assembly further comprising an emitter on said first finger and a detector across from said emitter and on said second finger for receiving a detector field generated by said emitter, and further wherein the detector field is interrupted by passing the data cartridge or the detectable reference feature between said first and second fingers; and a driver assembly receiving said control instructions and coupled to said picker assembly for controlling said picker assembly, said driver assembly comprising: a tachometer for measuring distances traveled by said picker assembly; and a position register for storing a zero position reference of said picker assembly and storing a home position of said picker assembly at the detectable reference feature, said position register further storing locations of each data cartridge as each data cartridge is accessed by said picker assembly. 14. The automated storage system according to claim 13 wherein each storage cell located by moving said picker assembly is a known tachometer count from said home position. 15. The automated storage system according to claim 14 wherein each data cartridge is located by moving the picker assembly from said corresponding storage cell location until said data cartridge in located between said first and second fingers such that an edge of said data cartridge interrupts said detector field. 16. The automated storage system according to claim 15 wherein each data cartridge is returned from the storage device to a position in a storage cell as indicated by a corresponding position stored in said position indicator. 