A system outputs the execution times of an industrial automated apparatus in which, when an instruction interpreting and executing device for interpreting and executing instructions executes each instruction, ID information specifying each executed instruction and time information indicating time at which each instruction is executed are correlated and stored, and execution time of each instruction is calculated, and then outputted, based upon designated ID information and the time information correlated therewith. By virtue of this arrangement, the execution times of desired instructions in an operation program having various steps are outputted accurately in units of the individual instructions.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for calculating robotic-operation execution time of an industrial automated apparatus, the apparatus including a first controller and a second controller, said method comprising the steps of: receiving in the second controller ID information identifying a desired robotic operation in which its robotic-operation execution time is to be calculated; operating the first controller, at an execution of each of a plurality of instructions composing a robotic operation, to store ID information identifying the instruction into a first memory and transfer an interrupting signal indicative of the termination of the instruction to the second controller; detecting, with the second controller, a reception time of receiving the interrupting signal from the first controller and reading ID information out of the first memory in response to the interrupting signal; and comparing, with the second controller, the ID information read out of the first memory with the received ID information, and when the ID information read out of the first memory corresponds to the received ID information, calculating a difference between the reception time presently detected and a reception time previously detected as robotic-operation execution time. 2. The method according to claim 1, further comprising the step of storing, by operation of the second controller, the detected reception time into a second memory. 3. The method according to claim 1, wherein the ID information includes at least a program number and a line number of the program to which an executed instruction belongs. 4. The method according to claim 1, further comprising the step of operating the first controller to transfer the interruption signal to the second controller after execution of each instruction and before execution of a next instruction. 5. A method for calculating robotic-operation execution time of an industrial automated apparatus comprising the steps of: inputting ID information identifying a desired robotic-operation in which its robotic-operation execution time is to be calculated; executing a program having a plurality of instructions for a robotic-operation; storing ID information identifying each of the instructions into a first memory at execution of the instruction; detecting a termination time of an executed instruction; and determining whether or not ID information stored in the first memory corresponds to the ID information inputted at said input step, and when the ID information read out of the first memory corresponds to the ID information inputted at said input step, calculating a difference between the termination time detected at said detection step and a termination time of previously-executed instruction as robotic-operation execution time. 6. The method according to claim 5, wherein the ID information includes at least a program number and a line number of the program to which an executed instruction belongs. 7. The method according to claim 5, further comprising the step of storing the termination time detected at said detection step into a second memory. 8. A system for calculating robotic-operation execution time of an industrial automated apparatus, comprising: input means for inputting ID information of a desired robotic-operation in which its robotic-operation execution time is to be calculated; program execution means for executing a program having a plurality of instructions for a robotic-operation, wherein said program execution means generates ID information identifying the instruction at execution of each of the instructions and generates an interrupting signal upon termination of the instruction; a first memory for storing the ID information generated by said program execution means; and calculating means for detecting reception time of receiving the interrupting signal, determining whether or not the ID information stored in said memory corresponds to the ID information inputted by said input means, and when the ID information read out of said first memory corresponds to the ID information inputted by said input means, calculating a difference between the detected reception time and a reception time of a previous interrupting signal as robotic-operation execution time. 9. The system according to claim 8, wherein the ID information includes at least a program number and a line number of the program to which an executed instruction belongs. 10. The system according to claim 8, wherein said calculation means has a second memory for storing the reception time of the detected interruption signal. 11. The system according to claim 8, wherein said program execution means generates the interruption signal after execution of each instruction and before execution of a next instruction. 12. A system for calculating robotic-operation execution time of an industrial automated apparatus comprising: input means for inputting ID information of a desired robotic operation in which its robotic-operation execution time is to be calculated; program execution means for executing a program having a plurality of instructions for a robotic operation; a first memory for, at execution of each of the instructions by said program execution means, storing ID information identifying the instruction; detection means for detecting termination time of the instruction executed by said program execution means; determination means for determining whether or not the ID information stored in said memory corresponds to the ID information inputted by said input means; and calculation means for, when said determination means determines that the ID information read out of said first memory corresponds to the ID information inputted by said input means, calculating a difference between the termination time detected by said detection means and a termination time of previously-executed instruction as robotic-operation execution time. 13. The system according to claim 12, wherein the ID information includes at least a program number and a line number of the program to which an executed instruction belongs. 14. The system according to claim 12, further comprising a second memory for storing the termination time detected by said detection means. 