There is provided an automated rail car uncoupling system that reduces the possibility of injury. The system includes an object locator that detects and locates a locking pin actuator associated with a coupler. Upon confirmation of the location of the actuator, a robot reaches over and moves the actuator thus uncoupling the cars.
Claims The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows: 1. An automated system for uncoupling coupled cars having a shared coupling therebetween, the coupling having opposed engagable clamps, the engagable clamps having locking pins, and means for moving the locking pins, the automated system comprising an object identifying system adapted to: 1) identify at least one component of the coupling, 2) compare the identified component of the coupling with previously identified coupling values, and 3) locate the position of the locking pin moving means, a robot responsive to the object identifying system for actuating the locking pin moving means, and means for separating the resultant uncoupled cars. 2. The system according to claim 1 wherein the object identifying system comprises a robotic vision system including a first image receiving apparatus, a robot controller connected to the image receiving apparatus and the robot, and means for coordinating the robot's actions responsive to the images received by the first image receiving apparatus vis-a-vis the previously identified coupling values. 3. The system according to claim 2 wherein a previously identified coupling value is an image of a component of the coupling. 4. The system according to claim 1 wherein the object identifying system comprises a vision sensor system including a second image receiving apparatus, a measuring system utilizing a gray scale field of view edge coordinate finder, and means for coordinating the robot's actions responsive to the images received by the second image receiving apparatus and the edge coordinate finder vis-a-vis the previously identified coupling values. 5. The system according to claim 4 wherein a previously identified coupling value is an image of a component of the coupling. 6. The system according to claims 2 or 4 including the robotic vision system and the vision sensor system. 7. The system according to claim 1 wherein the robot includes a hook for engaging the pin moving means. 8. The system according to claim 1 including a car positioner. 9. The system according to claim 1 including a programmable logic controller adapted to receive intelligence from the object identifying system and operate the robot. 10. The system according to claim 2 including a programmable logic controller adapted to coordinate intelligence from the object identifying system and the robotic vision system and operate the robot. 11. An automated method for uncoupling cars, the cars having opposed engagable clamps forming a couple therebetween, a locking pin associated with a clamp, an actuator for moving the locking pin, and means for locomoting the cars, the method comprising: a) situating an object identifier and robot near a predetermined site for uncoupling cars; b) routing a coupled car pair to a site adjacent to the robot; c) the object identifier detecting the presence and location of the actuator; d) instructing the robot to seek out the actuator and causing the actuator to move; e) unlocking the locking pin; f) uncoupling the cars; and g) separating the cars. 12. The automated method according to claim 11 comprising a robotic vision system including storing an image of an actuator in a memory associated with the robot, comparing the stored image of the actuator with a second actual car actuator viewed by an image receiving device associated with the object identifier, causing the robot to find the second actual car actuator based upon the previously referenced comparison step, and causing the robot to move the second actual car actuator thereby uncoupling the cars. 13. The automated method according to claim 11 employing a vision sensor system including storing a first image of a car actuator in a gray scale memory apparatus and of a predetermined actuator edge, establishing the first image as a fixed value, viewing an actual car actuator by means of a second image receiving device associated with the object identifier, comparing an actual edge from the actual actuator with the fixed value, causing the robot to seek out the actual edgo of the actual car actuator by measuring a diminishing difference between the fixed value and a gray scale image of the actual edge as received by the second image receiving device, and causing the robot to move the actuator and uncouple the cars. 14. The automated method according to claims 12 or 13 including coordinating the robotic vision system and the vision sensor system to uncouple the cars. 15. The automated method according to claim 11 including a rail car positioner separating the uncoupled cars. 