A plurality of data storage modules form a library, with a directory archive maintaining a directory of the information contained on each data storage module (file server application) or on the storage modules retained in the library (volume server application). A plurality of interface computers are coupled to a plurality of host computers for receiving data and for generating request signals to access the library. In response to a received request signal, the directory archive locates a data storage module and generates a location output signal. A control computer receives the location output signal and generates a media access signal for causing the data storage module to be loaded into a selected data recorder. An input/output data channel couples the interface computer generating the access request signal to the selected data recorder for reading or writing an entire volume of information or selected file information to/from the data storage module. In this configuration, any interface computer has access to any drive and any drive has access to any stored media, thus providing both global media and global drive access.
Claims We claim: 1. A mass data storage and retrieval system, comprising: a plurality of information storage means forming a mass storage library; a plurality of data recorder modules for reading information from and writing information to information storage means, each of said data recorder modules configured to accept loading of at least one of the plurality of information storage means; interface means for bi-directionally coupling the data recorder modules to a host computer for simultaneous reading and writing of information from and to one of the plurality of information storage means loaded into one of the plurality of data recorder modules; and a control computer for generating a first command signal output to the mass storage library for loading one of the plurality of information storage means in one of the plurality of data recorder modules and for generating a second command signal for coupling the interface means to the data recorder module loaded with the information storage means. 2. The system as in claim 1 further including a library directory comprising means for storing a data directory of the information stored in the plurality of information storage means. 3. The system as in claim 2 wherein the library director further includes means for generating, in response to a request, a location output signal identifying one of the plurality of information storage means and a location on the identified information storage means responsive to the request, the control computer further including means responsive to the location output signal for generating the first command signal. 4. The system as in claim 1 further including a library director comprising means for storing a data directory of the data stored on the plurality of information storage means stored in the mass storage library, the library directory further including means for generating, in response to a request, a location output signal identifying one of the plurality of information storage means responsive to the request, the control computer including means responsive to the location output signal for generating the first command signal. 5. The system as in claim 1 further including buffer means for simultaneously storing information transmitted to the data recorder module loaded with the information storage means for writing to the information storage means and information received from the data recorder module as read from the information storage means. 6. The system as in claim 5 wherein the buffer means includes read-after-write comparison means for comparing the stored read information with the stored written information to verify the accuracy of the recording. 7. The system as in claim 1 wherein the mass storage library comprises: a plurality of storage modules each having a plurality of openings in at least one side thereof for retaining information storage means; and an accessor associated with the storage modules for retrieving one of the plurality of information storage means from an opening in the storage module for loading into one of the data recorder modules. 8. The system as in claim 7 wherein each of the plurality of data storage modules include a plurality of sides and further including means for enabling access by said accessor to each side for retrieving retained information storage means. 9. The system as in claim 8 wherein the means for enabling comprises means for positioning each storage module to enable access by said accessor to each side of the storage module. 10. The system as in claim 8 wherein the means for enabling comprises means for feed-through access by the accessor to the information storage means stored on any side of the storage module. 11. The system as in claim 1 further including means connected to the interface means for archiving frequently requested information from the mass storage library. 12. The system as in claim 11 further including: means for monitoring the frequently requested information stored in the means for archiving according to certain parameters; and means for manipulating the archived information in response to the parameters. 13. The system as in claim 12 wherein the means for manipulating comprises means for transmitting archived information to a designated information storage means of the mass storage library when the parameters vary from a preset limit. 14. The system as in claim 12 wherein the means for manipulating comprises means for truncating the information stored in the means for archiving when the parameters vary from a preset limit. 15. A mass data storage system comprising: a storage module for storing a plurality of discrete data storage elements, the storage module having first and second opposed sides, the first side having a first means for providing access to one of the plurality of data storage elements and the second side having second means for providing access to the one of the plurality of data storage elements; a first accessor module for retrieving and carrying one of the plurality of data storage elements through the first means for providing access to a first recorder module; a second accessor module for retrieving and carrying one of the plurality of data storage elements from the second means for providing access to a second record module; and first and second recorder modules each having means for receiving one of the plurality of data elements and means for writing data to and reading data from the one of the plurality of data storage elements. 16. The mass data storage system of claim 15 wherein the storage module includes a plurality of slots, and wherein the first means for providing access includes an opening to the slot on the first side and the second means for providing access includes a second opening to the slot on the second side. 17. A mass data storage library system, comprising a plurality of storage means collected in a library and retrievable therefrom; directory means for storing directory information and for generating, in response to a request, a location signal identifying the storage means responsive to the request; a plurality of data recorders for reading data from and writing data to a received storage means; and means responsive to the location signal for retrieving the identified storage means from the library, wherein the means for retrieving retrieves the identified storage means from the library for delivery to any one of the plurality of data recorders. 18. A mass data storage library system, comprising: a plurality of storage means collected in a library and retrievable therefrom; directory means for storing directory information and for generating, in response to a request, a location signal identifying the storage means responsive to the request; a plurality of data recorders for reading data from and writing data to a received storage means; means responsive to the location signal for retrieving the identified storage means from the library, wherein the means for retrieving retrieves the identified storage means from the library for delivery to any one of the plurality of data recorders; and means for connecting one of a plurality of host computers to any one of the plurality of data recorders to enable the host computer to read data from and write data to the storage means received in the data recorded connected to the host computer. 