According to one aspect of the present invention, a control system for automatically controlling a work implement of an excavating machine through an excavation work cycle is provided. The work implement includes a boom, stick and bucket, each being controllably actuated by at least one respective hydraulic cylinder, the hydraulic cylinders containing pressurized hydraulic fluid. The control system includes an operator control element adapted to produce an operator control signal indicative of a desired velocity of one of the hydraulic cylinders. An electrohydraulic valve actuates predetermined ones of the hydraulic cylinders to perform an excavation work cycle in response to the control signal. A sensor produces signals indicative of the forces associated with at least one of the hydraulic cylinders. A logic device receives the operator control signals, compares the control signal magnitudes to predetermined control signal magnitudes, and determines operating parameters associated with predetermined portions of the work cycle. Finally, the logic device receives the operator control signals and force signals, and responsively produces command signals to the electrohydraulic valve to automatically perform subsequent work cycles in accordance with the determined operating parameters.
Claims We claim: 1. A control system for automatically controlling a work implement of an excavating machine through an excavation work cycle, the work implement including a boom, stick and bucket, each being controllably actuated by at least one respective hydraulic cylinder, the hydraulic cylinders containing pressurized hydraulic fluid, the control system comprising: an operator control element adapted to produce an operator control signal indicative of a desired velocity of one of the hydraulic cylinders, said control signal including a control signal magnitude; actuating means for controllably actuating predetermined ones of the hydraulic cylinders to perform an excavation work cycle in response to the control signal; means for producing signals indicative of at least one force associated with at least one of the hydraulic cylinders; means for receiving the operator control signals, comparing the control signal magnitudes to predetermined control signal magnitudes, and determining operating parameters associated with predetermined portions of the work cycle; and means for receiving the operator control signals and force signals, and responsively producing command signals to the actuating means to automatically perform subsequent work cycles in accordance with the determined operating parameters. 2. A control system, as set forth in claim 1, including a memory means for storing a plurality of control curves corresponding to a plurality of command signal magnitudes associated with a plurality of material condition settings. 3. A control system, as set forth in claim 2, including means estimating a condition of the excavating material in response to determining an average stick cylinder force and the average command signal associated with the bucket cylinder produced during a digging portion of the work cycle, and selecting one of the control curves in response to the estimated material condition. 4. A control system, as set forth in claim 3, wherein the operating parameters include a plurality of position and pressure setpoints, the control system further including: position sensing means for producing respective position signals in response to the respective position of the boom, stick and bucket; means for receiving the position signals, comparing at least one of the boom, stick and bucket position signals to a predetermined one of a plurality of position setpoints; pressure sensing means for producing respective pressure signals in response to the associated hydraulic pressures associated with at least one of the boom, stick, and bucket hydraulic cylinders; means for receiving the pressure signals, comparing at least one of the boom, stick and bucket pressures to a predetermined one of a plurality of pressure setpoints; and means for producing the command signals in response to the pressure and position comparisons. 5. A control system, as set forth in claim 4, including means for modifying the position setpoints in response to performing subsequent work cycles. 6. A method for automatically controlling a work implement of an excavating machine through an excavation work cycle, the work implement including a boom, stick and bucket, each being controllably actuated by at least one respective hydraulic cylinder, the hydraulic cylinders containing pressurized hydraulic fluid, the method comprising the steps of: producing an operator control signal indicative of a desired velocity of one of the hydraulic cylinders, said control signal including a control signal magnitude; controllably actuating predetermined ones of the hydraulic cylinders to perform an excavation work cycle in response to the control signal; producing signals indicative of at lease one force associated with at least one of the hydraulic cylinders; receiving the operator control signals, comparing the control signal magnitudes to predetermined control signal magnitudes, and determining operating parameters associated with predetermined portions of the work cycle; and receiving the operator control signals and force signals, and responsively producing command signals to automatically perform subsequent work cycles in accordance with the determined operating parameters. 7. A method, as set forth in claim 6, including the steps of storing a plurality of control curves corresponding to a plurality of command signal magnitudes associated with a plurality of material condition settings. 8. A method, as set forth in claim 7, including the steps of estimating a condition of the excavating material in response to determining an average stick cylinder force and the average command signal associated with the bucket cylinder produced during a digging portion of the work cycle, and selecting one of the control curves response to the estimated material condition. 9. A method, as set forth in claim 8, wherein the operating parameters include a plurality of position and pressure setpoints, the method further including the steps of: producing respective position signals in response to the respective position of the boom, stick and bucket; receiving the position signals, comparing at least one of the boom, stick and bucket position signals to a predetermined one of a plurality of position setpoints; producing respective pressure signals in response to the associated hydraulic pressures associated with at least one of the boom, stick, and bucket hydraulic cylinders; receiving the pressure signals, comparing at least one of the boom, stick and bucket pressures to a predetermined one of a plurality of pressure setpoints; and producing the command signals in response to the pressure and position comparisons. 10. A method, as set forth in claim 9, including the step of modifying the position setpoints in response to performing subsequent work cycles. 