A robotic system for use with at least two working stations and for carrying out tasks, is provided. At least one of the two working stations is mobile. The system according to the present invention comprises a controller for permitting the system to be controlled via a system interface located on the working stations, which interface is connected to an emission/receiver for exchanging information with the robotic system and the interface. A device for supplying energy to the system is provided which is comprised within the working stations. The system is self-propelled to permit autonomous movement between the two stations. Also, included are mechanical and electrical connections for permitting the system to be interchangeably disconnected from one of the working stations and reconnected to another working station.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic system for carrying out tasks, and comprising: a. at least two working stations, at least one of said two working stations being a mobile station having means for moving said mobile station along a desired travel path, and a manipulating robotic arm for being connected to and carried by one of said two working stations; b. control means for generating control signals for controlling said robotic arm, said control means being controlled by a user/robot interface included in said mobile station, said user interface being used to control said robotic arm when said robotic arm is connected to said mobile station and used to control said robotic arm via emitter/receiver means also included in said mobile station when said robotic arm is connected to the other of said stations; c. means for supplying energy to said system, said means for supplying energy being included within each said working station; and d. displacement means for permitting said robotic arm to be interchangeably disconnectable from said one station and reconnectable to the other of said stations, said displacement means including a coupler means mounted to said robotic arm and at least two seating means, each of said working stations having one of said seating means mounted thereon, each said seating means including an elongate pin extending from a chamfered portion, said coupler means including a hollow cylindrical piece having two entrances for receiving the pins of said two seating means, said entrances including respective slanted portions for being nested with said chamfered portions of said seating means when said pins of said seating means are fully received in said entrances, said coupler means also including a balance bolt means for engaging the pin of the seating means of the station to which said robotic arm is to be connected and for simultaneously disengaging the pin of the seating means of the station to which said robotic arm is to be disconnected whereby to permit said robotic arm to be disconnected from said one station and connected to said other station. 2. A robotic system according to claim 1, wherein said at least two working stations comprise a fixed station which includes a memory for storing the tasks to be carried out by the robot and also includes emitter/receiver means for transmitting said tasks to said robot. 3. A robotic system according to claim 2, and further comprising a memory for storing the tasks to be carried out located at said fixed station. 4. A robotic system according to claim 1, wherein said balance bolt means also permits electrical connection of the robotic arm to the workstation to which said robotic arm is intended to be connected. 5. A robotic system according to claim 1, wherein said robotic arm comprises handling means for handling objects, and carrier means secured to the handling means for moving the handling means within a predefined working space, and also wherein the carrier means is connected to the displacement means and permits the robotic arm to be interchangeable from said one working station to said another working station. 