A method and apparatus for changing the mix of articles in a plurality of containers. A first set of containers is conveyed to a mixing station, each container of the first set of containers containing a plurality of articles having physical characteristics differing from the physical characteristics of the plurality of articles in the other containers of the first set of containers. A second set of containers is transported to the mixing station, each of the containers of the second set of containers defining a space for accommodating a layer of articles. At the mixing station, articles are removed from each of the containers of the first set of containers, consolidated, and inserted into the containers of the second set of containers at the mixing station to at least partially form a layer of articles therein comprised of a mix of articles from all the containers of the first set of containers.
Claims I claim: 1. A method of mixing articles having differing physical characteristics in a plurality of containers, said method comprising the steps of: conveying a first set of containers to a mixing station, at least one container of said first set of containers containing a plurality of articles having physical characteristics differing from physical characteristics of a plurality of articles in other containers of said first set of containers, said plurality of articles in at least one of said plurality of containers of said first set of containers being disposed in a plurality of rows; transporting a second set of containers to said mixing station, each of said containers of said second set of containers defining a space for accommodating a layer of articles; at said mixing station, substantially simultaneously removing at least one row of articles from each of the containers of said first set of containers; at said mixing station and after said removal step, moving the rows of articles removed from the containers of said first set of containers relative to one another to consolidate said rows; substantially simultaneously inserting the removed and consolidated rows of articles into at least one container of said second set of containers at said mixing station to at least partially form a layer of articles therein comprised of a mix of articles from all the containers of said first set of containers; introducing empty containers from said first set of containers into said second set of containers after all of the articles have been removed from containers at said mixing station, at least some of the containers of said second set of containers comprising supplemental containers transported to said mixing station from a source of supplemental containers completely filled with articles; partially emptying the completely filled supplemental containers at a predetermined location spaced from said mixing station by removing articles therefrom; and transporting the partially emptied supplemental containers from said predetermined location to said mixing station. 2. The method according to claim 1 wherein the articles in each container of said first set of containers at said mixing station are of a single color, the color of articles in each container of said first set of containers differing from the color of the articles in the other containers of said first set of containers. 3. The method according to claim 1 wherein said containers of said second set of containers transported to said mixing station each have at least one layer of articles therein when transported to said mixing station, said step of substantially simultaneously inserting the removed and consolidated rows of articles comprising placing the removed and consolidated rows of articles on a layer of articles in at least one container of said second set of containers at said mixing station. 4. The method according to claim 1 including the steps of transporting containers of said first set of containers after all of the articles have been removed therefrom from said mixing station to said predetermined location and transferring the articles removed from the supplemental containers to containers of said first set of containers at said predetermined location. 5. The method according to claim 1 wherein said step of removing at least one row of articles from the containers of said first set of containers includes clamping the articles to be removed by a robotic end effector and lifting the clamped articles from the containers of said first set of containers with said robotic end effector. 6. The method according to claim 5 wherein movement and consolidation of the rows of articles removed from the containers of said first set of containers and said insertion step are carried out by said robotic end effector. 7. The method according to claim 4 wherein the steps of partially emptying the completely filled supplemental containers and transferring the articles removed from the supplemental containers to containers of the first set of containers at said predetermined location are carried out by a robotic end effector. 8. The method according to claim 1 wherein the conveying step comprises transporting the containers of said first set of containers on separate conveyors, said conveyors positioning the containers of said first set of containers side by side at said mixing station. 9. Apparatus for mixing articles having differing physical characteristics in a plurality of containers, said apparatus comprising, in combination: a mixing station including a first robot having an end effector; first conveyor means for conveying a first set of containers to said mixing station, at least one container of said first set of containers containing a plurality of articles having physical characteristics differing from physical characteristics of a plurality of articles in at least one of the other containers of said first set of containers and disposed in a plurality of rows; transport means for transporting a second set of containers to said mixing station, said containers of said second set of containers each defining a space for accommodating a layer of articles, the end effector of said first robot operable to remove at least one row of articles from each of the containers of said first set of containers, move the rows of articles removed from the containers of said first set of containers relative to one another to consolidate said rows and insert the removed and consolidated rows of articles into at least one container of the second set of containers transported to said mixing station by said transport means to at least partially form a layer of articles therein comprised of a mix of articles from all the containers of said first set of containers; means for supplying supplemental containers and for introducing said supplemental containers into said second set of containers; and a robotic work station spaced from said mixing station, a second robot having an end effector at said robotic work station, and supplemental container delivery means for delivery of supplemental containers filled with articles to said robotic work station. 10. The apparatus according to claim 9 wherein the articles of each container of said first set of containers at said mixing station are of a single color, the color of articles in each container of said first set of containers differing from the color of articles in the other containers of said first set of containers. 11. The apparatus according to claim 9 additionally comprising means for introducing containers of the first set of containers into said second set of containers after the end effector of said first robot has removed at least one row of articles from each of the containers of said first set of containers. 12. The apparatus according to claim 9 additionally comprising means for conveying containers of said first set of containers to said robotic work station, said second robot operable to remove at least some of the articles from supplemental containers at said robotic work station and transfer the removed articles to containers of said first set of containers conveyed to said robotic work station. 