A plasma processing apparatus including a wafer supporting pedestal which is designed to reduce particle trapping phenomena. In a region of the pedestal surface which surrounds or abuts the wafer, the pedestal has a permittivity which is substantially equal to or greater than that of the wafer surface. As a result, the sheath boundary is reshaped to reduce particle trapping.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A plasma processing apparatus for processing a wafer surface comprising: a) a vacuum chamber; b) a pedestal including a pedestal cover within said vacuum chamber, said pedestal having a surface for supporting said wafer; and c) an RF electrical source connected between said pedestal surface and said chamber to generate a plasma within said chamber in a region above said wafer surface; wherein, in a region of said pedestal which adjoins an edge of said wafer, said pedestal surface has a permittivity equal to or greater than a permittivity of said wafer surface, and said pedestal cover further comprises a shadow ring which extends above said wafer surface, said shadow ring having a permittivity equal to or greater than said permittivity of said wafer surface. 2. A plasma processing apparatus for processing a wafer surface comprising: a) a vacuum chamber; b) a pedestal including a pedestal cover within said vacuum chamber, said pedestal having a surface for supporting said wafer; and c) an RF electrical source connected between said pedestal surface and said chamber to generate a plasma within said chamber in a region above said wafer surface; wherein, in a region of said pedestal which adjoins an edge of said wafer, said pedestal surface has a permittivity equal to or greater than a permittivity of said wafer surface, and said pedestal cover further comprises an epitaxial layer of inert material overlying said pedestal surface having a permittivity equal to or greater than said permittivity of said wafer surface. 3. A method of processing a wafer surface comprising: a) supporting said wafer on a surface of a pedestal including a pedestal cover in a vacuum chamber; and b) applying an RF electrical source between said pedestal surface and said chamber to generate a plasma within said chamber in an area above said wafer surface; wherein, in a region of said pedestal which adjoins an edge of said wafer, said pedestal surface has a permittivity equal to or greater than a permittivity of said wafer surface, and said pedestal cover further comprises a shadow ting which extends above said wafer surface, said shadow ring having a permittivity equal to or greater than said permittivity of said wafer surface. 4. A method of processing a wafer surface comprising: a) supporting said wafer on a surface of a pedestal including a pedestal cover in a vacuum chamber; and b) applying an RF electrical source between said pedestal surface and said chamber to generate a plasma within said chamber in an area above said wafer surface; wherein, in a region of said pedestal which adjoins an edge of said wafer, said pedestal surface has a permittivity equal to or greater than a permittivity of said wafer surface, and said pedestal cover further comprises an epitaxial layer of inert material overlying said pedestal surface having a permittivity equal to or greater than said permittivity of said wafer surface. 