A mold assembly having at least one mold body with at least one cavity formed therein. The mold includes at least one mold insert coupling portion formed on the mold body; at least one mold insert being of substantially complementary size and shape with respect to the mold insert coupling portion, each insert being provided with a tapered guide surface for guiding the mold insert into the mold insert coupling portion; at least one means for clamping the mold insert in a predetermined position within the mold insert coupling portion. The mold insert is reciprocally movable within the mold insert coupling portion in a direction generally perpendicular to the parting line of the mold assembly.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A mold assembly having at least one mold body with at least one cavity formed therein, said mold assembly divided into at least two portions at a parting line, said mold assembly comprising: at least one mold insert coupling portion formed on said at least one mold body of said mold assembly; at least one mold insert being of substantially complementary size and shape of said at least one mold insert coupling portion; said at least one mold insert having a first end having a first predetermined length with a first diameter, a second end having a second predetermined length with a second diameter, said first diameter being less than said second diameter, and a tapered mold insert guide portion formed between said first end and said second end adapted to guide said at least one mold insert into said at least one mold insert coupling portion; at least one means for clamping said at least one mold insert in a predetermined position within said at least one mold insert coupling portion; and at least one means for reciprocally moving said at least one mold insert within said at least one mold insert coupling portion, whereby said second end portion is slidably engageable within said insert coupling portion, in a direction generally perpendicular to said parting line of said mold assembly. 2. A mold assembly according to claim 1, wherein said means for reciprocally moving said at least one mold insert is adapted to move said at least one mold insert into said at least one mold insert coupling portion. 3. A mold assembly according to claim 1, wherein said means for reciprocally moving said at least one mold insert is adapted to remove said at least one mold insert from said at least one mold insert coupling portion. 4. A mold assembly according to claim 1, wherein said means for reciprocally moving said at least one mold insert is adapted to move said at least one mold insert in either an insertion direction or a removal direction within said at least one mold insert coupling portion. 5. A mold assembly according to claim 1, wherein said at least one mold insert further comprises at least one guide groove formed on an end face of said at least one mold insert, further wherein at least one guide groove is adapted to receive at least one member secured to said reciprocal moving means. 6. A mold assembly according to claim 5, wherein said at least one guide groove is a T-shaped groove, further wherein said at least one member is a corresponding T-shaped clamp member. 7. A mold assembly according to claim 6, wherein a fluid flow-through groove is formed on said end face, said end face being adapted to abut with an insert receiving member affixed to said reciprocal moving means, said insert receiving member comprising ports adapted to allow continuous fluid flow through said fluid flow-through groove, and means for aligning said fluid flow-through groove and said ports. 8. A mold assembly according to claim 7, wherein said ports comprise a fluid flow-in port and a fluid flow-out port. 9. A mold assembly according to claim 8, wherein said means for aligning comprises a positioning member formed on said insert receiving member adapted to engage a surface of said T-shaped groove thereby aligning end portions of said fluid flow-through groove with said fluid flow-in port and said fluid flow-out port, respectively. 10. A mold assembly according to claim 1, wherein said means for reciprocally moving comprises at least one hydraulic cylinder. 11. A mold assembly according to claim 1, wherein said at least one mold insert is provided with a lens molding surface having a predetermined curvature. 12. A mold assembly according to claim 1, wherein said at least one mold insert is an optical insert for molding a lens. 13. A mold assembly according to claim 1, wherein said reciprocal moving means is further provided with means for ejecting a molded piece, said ejecting means being adapted to eject said molded piece in a direction generally perpendicular to said parting line. 14. A mold assembly according to claim 13, wherein at least two ejecting means are provided, said at least two ejecting means being independently operable. 15. A mold assembly according to claim 14, wherein said ejecting means further comprises means for detecting when said ejecting means is in a return position. 16. A mold assembly according to claim 13, wherein said mold assembly is adapted to be used for injection molding of lenses. 17. A mold assembly according to claim 13, wherein said mold assembly is adapted to be used for compression molding of lenses. 18. A mold assembly according to claim 7, wherein said aligning means is provided with a temperature sensor. 19. A mold assembly divided into at least two portions at a parting line, the mold assembly comprising: at least one mold body having at least one cavity formed therein, at least one mold insert coupling positioned at least partially within the cavity in the mold body, wherein the mold insert coupling has a linear passageway therethrough, wherein the linear passageway defines a linear axis through the linear passageway; a mold insert positioned at least partially within the passageway through the mold insert coupling, wherein the mold insert has a reduced innermost diameter, a full outermost diameter, a tapered mold insert guide surface between the innermost diameter and the full diameter, and a section of constant outermost diameter extending axially inward from the outermost diameter to an outermost portion of the tapered surface, wherein the innermost reduced diameter together with the tapered mold insert guide surface facilitate installation of the mold insert into the mold, and wherein the section of constant outermost diameter is sized so that upon installation of the mold insert into the mold insert guide members, the mold insert has a diameter which permits substantial movement of the mold insert along an axis of the linear passageway, without permitting any substantial radial movement of the mold insert. 20. A mold assembly divided into at least two portions at a parting line, the mold assembly comprising: at least one mold body having at least one cavity formed therein, at least one mold insert coupling positioned at least partially within the cavity in the mold body, wherein the mold insert coupling has a linear passageway therethrough, wherein the linear passageway defines a linear axis through the passageway; a mold insert positioned at least partially within the passageway through the mold insert coupling, wherein the mold insert has a reduced innermost diameter, a full outermost diameter, a tapered mold insert guide surface between the innermost diameter and the full diameter, and a section of constant outermost diameter extending axially inward from the outermost diameter to an outermost portion of the tapered mold insert guide surface, wherein the innermost reduced diameter together with the tapered mold insert guide surface facilitate installation of the mold insert into the mold, and wherein the section of constant outermost diameter is sized so that upon installation of the mold insert into the mold insert guide members, the mold insert has a diameter which permits substantial movement of the mold insert along an axis of the linear passageway, without permitting any substantial radial movement of the mold insert; at least one means of clamping the mold insert in a predetermined position within the mold insert coupling portion; and at least one means for reciprocally sliding the mold insert within the mold insert coupling portion, whereby the mold insert is positioned within the mold insert coupling portion, in a direction generally perpendicular to said parting line of said mold assembly. 