A contact sensor for a robot includes a plurality of electrically conductive shafts extending outward from a moving portion of the robot. Electrically conductive flexible feelers are disposed on the shafts. In one embodiment the feelers are disposed in fan-like arrangement similar to a peacock feather. Leakage current from a low voltage power source is used by a robot controller to sense contact with a conductive object. The robot controller immediately stops operation and movement of the robot before damage occurs.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An industrial robot having a moveable arm, comprising: a contact sensor affixed to said arm; said contact sensor including an electrically conductive base around said arm, at least one flexible and electrically conductive shaft affixed to said base, and at least one flexible and electrically conductive feeler affixed to said shaft; means for biasing said contact sensor with a voltage; means for detecting a leakage current generated when said contact sensor makes contact with an object; and means for reacting to said leakage current by stopping said arm. 2. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said shaft is made of metal wire. 3. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said shaft is made of electrically conductive rubber. 4. Apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising at least one reinforcing member linking at least two of said shafts. 5. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said shaft includes a metal wire substantially enclosed by electrically conductive rubber. 6. Apparatus according to claim 5, wherein said shaft further comprises an electrically conductive rubber cap affixed to an end thereof. 7. A contact sensor comprising: an electrically conductive base; at least one flexible and electrically conductive shaft affixed to said base; a plurality of flexible and electrically conductive feelers affixed to said at least one shaft; means for applying a voltage to said at least one shaft; and means for sensing a leakage current resulting from contact with an object. 8. A device according to claim 7, wherein at least said flexible and electrically conductive feelers are electrically conductive rubber. 9. A contact sensor for a machine tool having a moveable element, comprising: an insulating ring on said element; an electrically conductive base on said insulating ring; at least one flexible and electrically conductive shaft affixed to said base; a plurality of flexible and electrically conductive feelers affixed to said at least one shaft; means for applying a voltage to said at least one shaft; and means for sensing a leakage current resulting from contact with an object. 10. A device according to claim 9, wherein at least one of said shafts further comprises: a steel wire; an electrically conductive layer substantially enclosing said steel wire; and an electrically conductive cap affixed to an end of said shaft. 11. A device according to claim 10, wherein said layer and said cap are of electrically conductive rubber. 12. A device according to claim 10, wherein said layer and said cap are integrally formed. 13. A device according to claim 9, wherein at least one of said shafts is linked to an adjacent one of said shafts. 14. A device according to claim 9, wherein at least one of said shafts is linked to a non-adjacent one of said shafts. 