A robotic system for inserting cylinder liners into the cylinder block from an internal combustion engine includes an articulated robot arm for cycling an end effector between a dunnage unloading position and a cylinder insertion position. The end effector, which is attached to the robot arm, picks liners from dunnage and places the liners in the cylinder bores of the cylinder block. The end effector includes remotely deployable combination teeth for gripping the liners to permit removal from their dunnage and for aligning the end effector and liner into the cylinder bores to permit insertion of the liners.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for inserting cylinder liners into cylinder bores located within the cylinder block of an internal combustion engine, comprising the steps of: heating the cylinder block to expand an area surrounding said cylinder bores sufficiently to permit installation of said liners; picking a plurality of liners from dunnage by means of a robotic device with an end effector having a plurality of grippers, each said gripper picking a respective liner, with each said gripper being in a first gripping position wherein a plurality of remotely controllable combination teeth bear upon the inner diameter of a respective liner; and, inserting each said liner into a respective cylinder bore by means of said end effector, with each said gripper of said end effector being in a second gripping position wherein said teeth bear upon an end surface of a respective liner, with said teeth also serving to pilot said respective liner into a respective cylinder bore, said second gripping position being achieved by retracting said combination teeth after said end effector has been rotated from said first gripping position to a vertically opposed position, with said inserting step comprising inserting all of said liners into a single bank of cylinder bores before picking additional liners from dunnage. 2. A method according to claim 1, wherein said robotic device comprises a sufficient number of grippers to pick sufficient liners to line all of the cylinder bores of said cylinder block with a single trip to dunnage. 3. A method according to claim 2, wherein said end effector inserts all of the liners for a first cylinder bank of said block and, after the block is repositioned, inserts all of the liners for a second cylinder bank. 4. A method for inserting a cylinder liner into a cylinder bore located within the cylinder block of an internal combustion engine, comprising the steps of: heating the cylinder block to expand an area surrounding said cylinder bore sufficiently to permit installation of said liner; picking a liner from dunnage by means of a robotic device with an end effector being in a gripper, with said gripper having a first gripping position wherein a plurality of remotely controllable combination teeth bear upon the inner diameter of the liner; and, inserting said liner into said cylinder bore by means of said end effector, with said gripper of said end effector being in a second gripping position wherein said teeth bear upon an end surface of said liner, with said teeth also contacting the cylinder bores, thereby serving to pilot said liner into said cylinder bore. 5. A method according to claim 4, wherein said second gripping position is achieved by retracting said combination teeth after said end effector has been rotated from said first gripping position to a vertically opposed position. 