A method of automatically transferring contact lenses from a plurality of cups good positioned at a first location to a plurality of packages positioned at a second location wherein each good cup contains a transferable contact lens for placement in an individual blister package comprises a step of communicating positional information of good cup locations to a robotic device having an arm with one or more end effectors thereon, each end effector having a tip in connection with a vacuum and air pressure supply device, each end effector independently moveable with respect to the arm. Then, steps of applying a vacuum to the end effector tip to enable pick-up of a transferable lens from a cup located at a good cup location, and, controlling the robot to effect positioning of one end effector tip within the cup having the transferable lens therein to pick up the lens are performed. A further step includes controlling the robot to remove the end effector tip from the good cup location to position it within a blister package cavity, and finally, removing the vacuum and applying air pressure to the end effector tip to deposit the lens from the effector tip into a blister package cavity.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A method of automatically transferring contact lenses from a plurality of cups located at a first location to a plurality of packages previously positioned at a second location, each said cup containing a transferable contact lens therein for placement in an individual package, said method comprising the steps of: (a) communicating positional information of good cup locations station to a robotic device having an arm with one or more end effectors thereon, each end effector having a tip in connection with a corresponding vacuum supply and air pressure supply means, said one or more end effectors each independently moveable with respect to said arm; (b) applying a predetermined vacuum level of 22 to 30 inches of H.sub.2 O to said end effector tip to enable pick-up of a transferable lens from a cup located at a good cup location; (c) controlling said robot to effect positioning of one end effector tip within said cup having said transferable lens therein to pick up said transferable lens; (d) controlling said robot to remove said end effector tip from the good cup location and position said end effector tip carrying said transferable lens within a blister package cavity location; (e) removing said vacuum and applying air pressure by said air pressure supply means to said end effector tip to deposit said lens into said blister package cavity. 2. The method of automatically transferring contact lenses as claimed in claim 1 wherein the step (b) of applying a vacuum includes applying a vacuum of about 26 inches of H.sub.2 O. 3. The method of automatically transferring contact lenses as claimed in claim 2 wherein the vacuum applied of 26 inches of H.sub.2 O remains constant within .+-.4 inches of H.sub.2 O. 4. The method of automatically transferring contact lenses as claimed in claim 1 wherein the step (e) of applying said air pressure includes applying an pressure in the range of 4 to 12 psi. 5. The method of automatically transferring contact lenses as claimed in claim 4 wherein the step of applying said air pressure includes applying a pressure of about 8.0 psi. 6. The method of automatically transferring contact lenses as claimed in claim 2 wherein the step (c) of controlling said robot to effect positioning of said end effector tip within said cup means positions said tip for a predetermined vacuum dwell time of 40 to 100 milliseconds. 7. The method of automatically transferring contact lenses as claimed in claim 6 wherein said predetermined vacuum dwell time is about 60 milliseconds. 8. The method of automatically transferring contact lenses as claimed in claim 4 wherein the step (c) of controlling said robot to effect positioning of said end effector tip within said blister package cavity positions said tip for a predetermined blow-off dwell time of 20 to 80 milliseconds. 9. The method of automatically transferring contact lenses as claimed in claim 8 wherein said predetermined blow-off dwell time is about 60 milliseconds. 10. A contact lens transfer device particularly adapted to transfer wet soft contact lenses from a first location to a second location, said contact lens transfer device comprising: (a) an input registration device for registering a plurality of first contact lens carriers in a predetermined x-y array, each of said carriers having a contact lens therein, (b) an output registration device for registering a plurality of second contact lens carriers in a predetermined x-y array, each of said carriers adapted to receive a contact lens therein, (c) a robotic transfer device, said device having a transfer head with a plurality of individually actuable end effectors mounted thereon, each end effector having, (i) an individually actuable drive for reciprocating said end effector from a first transport position to a second pick-up and release position, (ii) individually valved vacuum and air pressure supply lines for each end effector to supply negative and positive pressure to a low volume plenum in said end effector for pick-up and release of individual contact lenses, (iii) a convex lens transfer tip mounted on each end effector, each tip having a plurality of openings therein to provide negative and positive pressure to a concave side of said soft contact lens, (d) a control computer for receiving x-y positional data for each of said plurality of contact lens carriers, and selectively actuating said robotic transfer device, one of said individually actuable drives and one of said individually valved vacuum supply lines associated with said drive to pick-up a contact lens from one of said plurality of contact lens carriers. 11. A contact lens transfer device as claimed in claim 10, wherein said first contact lens carriers are good lens cups, each of said cups having a contact lens therein which has met predetermined inspection parameters. 12. A contact lens transfer device as claimed in claim 10, wherein said second contact lens carriers are individual blister packages intended for packaging of the contact lens. 13. A contact lens transfer device as claimed in claim 12, wherein said blister packages are provided in a predetermined array. 14. A contact lens transfer device as claimed in claim 10, wherein said robotic transfer device is a four axis robotic drive. 15. A contact lens transfer device as claimed in claim 10, wherein said transfer head further includes three individually actuable end effectors. 16. A contact lens transfer device as claimed in claim 10, wherein said each end effector includes a vacuum plenum connected to one of said individually valved vacuum lines. 17. A contact lens transfer device as claimed in claim 16, wherein each end effector also includes a blow off tube that extends through said vacuum plenum, said blow off tube being connected to one of said individually valved air pressure supply lines. 18. A contact lens transfer device as claimed in claim 17, wherein each end effector further includes a low volume common plenum between said lens transfer tip and said blow off tube. 19. A contact lens transfer device as claimed in claim 10, wherein said control computer further actuates said individually actuable drive and said robotic transfer drive to move a contact lens from said first location to said second location. 20. A contact lens transfer device as claimed in claim 10, wherein said control computer further actuates said individually actuable drive and one of said individually valved air pressure lines to release a contact lens into said second contact lens carrier. 21. A contact lens transfer device as claimed in claim 11, wherein each of the openings in said convex tip is formed along a radius of said convex surface. 