A method and apparatus for processing and assembling a plurality of small parts weighing under five pounds using a robot employing a rotatable pallet for holding an array of small parts. Said rotatable pallet being held in place on the robot wrist head, which moves the pallet through a plurality of stationary work-stations located within the operating envelope of the robot, and rotates the pallet at each work-station to index the pallet and to present it to the work-station for an operation on a specific part or parts. Said robot participates in the work-station tasks by moving the rotatable pallet in the X, Y, and Z directions as needed. Movable data pins are used to indicate conditions of individual parts in nests, and of the pallet taken as a whole.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for assembling and processing work-pieces comprising: a. a robot having a head and capable of controlled X, Y, and Z movements, the robot head further having a wrist joint capable of rotation in the horizontal plane; b. a rotatable pallet having a plurality of work-piece nests for retaining said work-pieces; c. means for attaching said pallet to said robot head; and d. a plurality of work-stations located within a work envelope of said robot for performing a plurality of different operations on said work-pieces which are transported by said robot, where said robot is adapted to grasp said rotatable pallet, to transport the grasped pallet to one of the plurality of work-stations, and to index each work-piece on said rotatable pallet to the one work-station through rotation of its wrist joint. 2. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1 wherein said attaching means comprises a robot end effector for temporarily gripping said rotatable pallet. 3. An apparatus in accordance with claim 2 wherein said attaching means further comprises two dowel pins mating to corresponding holes in said pallet, a negative pressure source, a cavity including connection between said negative pressure source and a near side of said rotatable pallet, and a seal between said robot end effector and said near side of said rotatable pallet. 4. An apparatus in accordance with claim 2 wherein said work-piece nests are located on said rotatable pallet on a diameter larger than the smallest outside diameter of said robot end effector. 5. An apparatus in accordance with claim 2 wherein said robot end effector has at least one dowel pin for locating said pallet to said robot end effector and said rotatable pallet has a corresponding cavity for said dowel pin. 6. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1 wherein said nests are arranged in concentric arrays in said rotatable pallet. 7. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1 wherein said nests have an active surface for retaining said work-pieces. 8. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1 wherein said rotatable pallet is a horizontal circular disk and wherein said robot wrist joint is rotated for assembling and processing work-pieces in said nests of said rotatable pallet. 9. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1 further comprising a human readable pallet identification index marked on a surface of said pallet for identifying said pallet. 10. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1 further comprising a plurality of human readable nest identification indexes disposed on a surface of said pallet for identifying said plurality of nests respectively. 11. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1 further comprising a machine readable pallet identification index affixed to a surface of said pallet. 12. An apparatus in accordance with claim 11 wherein said machine readable pallet identification index includes a bar code. 13. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1 further comprising a plurality of movable pins for registering the conditions of said plurality of nests. 14. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1 further comprising a movable pin for registering a condition of said pallet. 15. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1 further comprising an object affixed to said pallet for allowing stacking of like pallets. 16. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1 further comprising a work-station within said robot work envelope where a plurality of said pallets are deposited and retrieved by said robot when said pallets are under said robot head. 17. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1 further comprising a horizontal pallet conveyor having conveyor pallets supporting said rotatable pallet, where the pallet conveyor moves through said work envelope of said robot. 18. An apparatus in accordance with claim 17 further comprising a dowel pin on said conveyor pallet for retaining and aligning said rotatable pallet during transport. 19. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1 wherein said apparatus is disposed within a robotic work cell including a roof comprising a source of filtered clean air. 20. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1 wherein said robot is certified for use in a clean room environment. 