An apparatus for categorizing objects employs a neural network having a plurality of cells each having memory for storing a state variable, and a plurality of synaptic junctions connecting cells of the network and having memory for storing a synaptic strength variable. A computer is used to modify the synaptic strength variable in accordance with a heterocellular synaptic modification rule. That modification rule includes both the passage of time and the values of the state variables of each cell and of those other cells having specific spatial locations with respect to the cell in three dimensional space.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus for categorizing objects said apparatus comprising a neural network having a plurality of cells, each cell comprising memory means for storing a state variable, said neural network further comprising a plurality of synaptic junctions, each of said synaptic junctions connecting cells of said network and having memory means for storing a synaptic strength variable and computer means to modify said synaptic strength variable in accordance with a heterocellular synaptic modification rule that includes both the passage of time and the values of the state variables of said cell and of those other cells having specific spatial locations with respect to said cell in three dimensional space. 2. The apparatus for categorizing objects of claim 1 wherein said heterocellular synaptic modification rule models a substance that diffuses in three dimensions from cell to cell. 3. The apparatus for categorizing objects of claim 1 wherein said heterocellular synaptic modification rule models an electromagnetic field that propagates in three dimensions from cell to cell. 4. An apparatus for displaying a change of state of a plurality of groups of neurons representing a portion of a brain in response to chemical stimulation comprising a plurality of synaptic connections between pairs of said groups of neurons, each said synaptic connection comprising memory means for storing a synaptic strength variable, computer means to modify said synaptic strength variable in accordance with a heterocellular synaptic modification rule, means for simulating a propagating disturbance in three dimensional space at each synaptic connection and for modifying said synaptic strength variable in accordance with said simulated propagating disturbance in three dimensional space, and means for displaying the state of said groups of neurons in response to said propagating disturbance. 