To start robot training before an actual robot is manufactured or installed, the robot operation training system has a controller substantially the same as the actual robot controller and a personal computer for simulating the functions of the robot body. The training system can be applied easily to various robots of different models.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot operation training system, comprising: teaching data inputting means for inputting teaching data; control means for receiving the teaching data and generating and sequentially outputting encoder command data to control an operation of a real robotic arm in response to the teaching data inputted through said teaching data inputting means; display means for displaying visual model of simulated robot motion in animation responsive to the teaching data; and picture describing means for calculating and outputting said visual model to be displayed on the display means, on the basis of the encoder command data sequentially outputted from said control means without connecting the real robotic arm, wherein said picture describing means, said teaching data inputting means and said control means comprise a real controller for the real robotic arm, and said picture describing means comprises personal computer. 2. The robot operation training system as claimed in claim 1, wherein said picture describing means comprises: robot posture calculating means for calculating data for a position and direction of portions of a simulated robot on the basis of the encoder command data sequentially outputted from said control means; and display data forming means for reforming and outputting the visual model to be displayed on said display means, on the basis of the data of position and direction of portions of the simulated robot outputted from said robot posture calculating means. 3. The robot operation training system as claimed in claim 1, which further comprises feedback means for feeding back the encoder command data to said control means with a predetermined delay time for the control means to use the fed back encoder command data as output encoder command data instead of encoder command data of an actual robot, and wherein robot motion is displayed in animation on the basis of the encoder command data sequentially output from said control means. 4. A simulated robot control system for robot operation training system with a personal computer comprising: an input that inputs encoder command data for teaching purposes; a memory that stores simulation data including robot data, tool data and workpiece data; display instructor means for instructing a simulated robot with a connected tool and a positioned workpiece to be displayed based on the data stored in said memory; control means coupled to said input, said memory, and said display instructor means, said control means for outputting input encoder command data to control an operation of a real robotic arm, said control means comprising a real controller for a real robotic arm; and transformer means coupled to said control means for receiving the encoder command data output from said control means, for transforming the encoder command data into angular and shape data of the simulated robot and tool based on the data stored in said memory and for outputting the angular data and the shape data to said display instructor means to display the simulated robot, tool and workpiece in animation without operating the real robotic arm, wherein said memory, said display instructor means and said transformer means comprise a personal computer. 5. The simulated robot control system as claimed in claim 4 further comprising a mode setter means coupled to said control means for setting said control means in a teaching mode. 6. The simulated robot control system as claimed in claim 4 wherein said transformer means further transforms the robot and tool data from said memory into three-dimensional shape data based on the angular data. 7. The simulated robot control system as claimed in claim 4 wherein said transformer means further unites the transformed shape data with the workpiece data from said memory. 8. The simulated robot control system as claimed in claim 4, wherein said memory stores robot data including end point data and movable joint data. 9. The simulated robot control system as claimed in claim 4 wherein said display instructor reforms coordinate positions of the simulated robot and tool displayed on the personal computer based on the angular data. 