A connection element such as a thimble connects to a user's body member, through a linkage, to a ground reference. The apparatus physically exchanges a force with a user in an environment local to the user. The linkage powers at least three independent freedoms of the connection element relative to the reference. It also maintains at least one independent freedom of the connection element relative to the reference free of power. Up to three independent freedoms of the connection element may be maintained free of power, and up to five independent freedoms may be powered. A gimbal connects the gimbal to the linkage. Zero, one or two of the gimbal axes may be powered. A five bar linkage connects the connection element to a counter-balance that also includes two actuators. A third actuator connects the five bar linkage to the reference. The two actuators of the counterbalance may be connected to the next link in the chain to the reference through a single cable. Signal processing equipment powers the actuators to deliver a signal at the connection element that represents a virtual situation generated by a programmed computer, or physical conditions in a remote environment. A virtual switch presents to the user the force and displacement relationship of a spring switch. A virtual bristled brush presents the force and displacement relationship of such a brush, while also changing the virtual environment to reflect the user's changes in location.
Claims Having described the invention, what is claimed is: 1. A transmission comprising: a. a first rotary element, having a first portion and a second portion, said first and second portions being rotatable relative to each other, said second portion being connected through a cable to a reference; b. a second rotary element, also having a first portion and a second portion, said first and second portions of said second rotary element being rotatable relative to each other, said second portion of said second rotary element being connected through said cable to said reference; c. a kinematic connection from said first portion of said first rotary element to a specified point; and d. a kinematic connection from said first portion of said second rotary element to said specified point. 2. The transmission of claim 1, said ground reference comprising a member having a portion of a circular circumference with respect to an axis, said cable conforming to a portion of said circumference, said kinematic connection from said first portion of said first rotary element to said specified point comprising: i. a first arm that pivots about an axle through said axis, a first end of said first arm being connected to said first portion of said first rotary element and a second end of said first arm being hingedly connected to a first parallel link; ii. a second arm that pivots about said axle, a first end of said second arm being connected to said first portion of said second rotary element and a second end of said second arm comprising a link that is spaced from and substantially parallel to said first parallel link; and iii. a member that includes said specified point and is hingedly connected to both said second arm and said first arm, such that said second and first arms are substantially parallel. 3. The transmission of claim 1, said first rotary element comprising a rotary position transducer. 4. The transmission of claim 3, said second rotary element comprising a rotary position transducer. 5. The transmission of claim 1, said first rotary element comprising an actuator. 6. The transmission of claim 5, said second rotary element comprising an actuator. 7. The transmission of claim 5, said first rotary element further comprising a rotary position transducer. 8. The transmission of claim 7, said second rotary element comprising an actuator and a rotary position transducer. 9. A transmission comprising: a. a first rotary element, having a first portion and a second portion, said first and second portions being rotatable relative to each other, said second portion being connected through a cable to a first reference that is movable relative to a second reference; b. a second rotary element, also having a first portion and a second portion, said first and second portions of said second rotary element being rotatable relative to each other, said second portion of said second rotary element being connected through said cable to said first reference; c. a kinematic connection between said first portion of said first rotary element and said second reference; d. a kinematic connection between said first portion of said second rotary element and said second reference; e. said rotary elements and kinematic connections arranged such that motion of said first portion of said first rotary element relative to said second portion of said first rotary element causes: i. relative motion between said first portion of said first rotary element and said first portion of said second rotary element; and ii. a change in the conformation of at least one of said kinematic connections between said first portions of said first and second rotary elements and said second reference. 