A device for inspecting the support plates and tube sheet of a nuclear steam generator. The device comprises a boom for extending into an access port of a steam generator and into a lane separating two rows of members, the boom being uprightable within the lane; and a video camera attached to the boom for inspecting the tube members and support plates within the lane when the boom is uprighted. In a preferred embodiment the video camera comprises a charge coupled device affixed to a remotely controlled pan and tilt mechanism.
Claims We claim: 1. A device for inspecting the support plates and tube sheet of a nuclear steam generator comprising: a first boom coupled by a rotatable connector to a second boom, said first and second boom and said rotatable connector being insertable into an access port of a steam generator and into a lane separating two rows of tube members, said rotatable connector being adapted to upright said second boom within said lane; and a maneuverable CCD camera attached to said second boom for inspecting the tube members and support plates within said lane when said second boom is uprighted. 2. A device for inspecting or cleaning the tube sheets and support plates of a nuclear steam generator comprising: a first boom coupled by a connector to a second boom, said first and second boom and said rotatable connector being insertable through an access port of a steam generator and into a lane separating two rows of tube members, said tube members being supported by at least one support plate, said connector being adapted to upright said second boom to a position adjacent to said tube members and said at least one support plates, said second boom having a CCD camera or spray nozzle attached thereto such that when said second boom and said camera or cleaning means are uprighted adjacent to said support plate and said tube members, said at least one support plate and said tube sheet members can be examined with said camera or sprayed with said nozzle cleaning means. 3. A method for inspecting the tube sheet of a steam generator comprising the following steps: inserting a boom through an access port of said steam generator and within a lane separating two rows of tube members, said boom having a maneuverable CCD camera attached thereto; and uprighting said boom within said lane, separating said rows of tube members, such that said CCD camera is held adjacent to said tube members and support plates and can be inspected by said camera within said lane. 4. A device for cleaning the support plates and tube sheet of a nuclear steam generator comprising: a first boom coupled by a rotatable connector to a second boom, said first and second boom and said rotatable connector being insertable into an access port of a steam generator and into a lane separating two rows of tube members, said rotatable connector being adapted to upright said second boom within said lane; and video camera means attached to said boom means for inspecting the tube members and support plates within said lane when said second boom is uprighted. 