A data processing device includes an electronic processor responsive to a context signal and operable in alternative processing contexts identified by the context signal. First and second registers are connected to the electronic processor to participate in one processing context while retaining information from another processing context until a return thereto. A context switching circuit is connected to the first and second registers and operates to selectively control input and output operations of the registers to and from the electronic processor depending on the processing context. Other devices, systems and methods are also disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A data processing device comprising: an electronic processor operable in alternative processing contexts identified by a context signal; at least one set of a first and second register connected to said electronic processor in a manner to concurrently store identical information during one of the processing contexts, and wherein said first register individually participates in and is continuously available in the next of the processing contexts when said first register is selected while said second register retains said information from said one processing context; and a context switching circuit responsive to said context signal connected to said first and second registers to selectively control input and output operations of said registers to and from said electronic processor depending on the processing context. 2. The data processing device of claim 1 wherein said context switching circuit includes a multiplexer and a control circuit for operating said multiplexer, the processor and one of the registers respectively supplying information for selection by said multiplexer for the other register. 3. The data processing device of claim 1 wherein the first and second registers both have inputs connected to receive information simultaneously from said processor. 4. The data processing device of claim 1 wherein said context switching circuit includes an electronic switch and a control circuit wherein said electronic switch is selectively operable by said control circuit to connect said electronic processor to the first or second register alternatively, depending on the context. 5. The data processing device of claim 1 wherein said context switching circuit is operable to selectively clock said first and second registers. 6. The data processing device of claim 5 wherein said first and second registers have outputs connected together and to said processor, and said context switching circuit is further operable to selectively enable an output operation from said first or second register, depending on the context. 7. The data processing device of claim 1 further comprising a multiplexer, and said first and second registers have respective outputs connected to said multiplexer, said multiplexer operable by said context switching circuit to selectively connect said outputs to said electronic processor. 8. The data processing device of claim 1 wherein said first register is operated as a main register and said second register is operated as a counterpart register. 9. The data processing device of claim 1 wherein said first register alternately acts as a main register and then a counterpart register while said second register correspondingly acts as a counterpart register when said first register acts as a main register and then acts as a main register when said first register acts as a counterpart register. 10. The data processing device of claim 1.wherein said context signal comprises an interrupt signal and said electronic processor includes an arithmetic logic unit and a data bus coupled to said arithmetic logic unit and to said first and second registers. 11. A data processing device for use with a circuit that produces a digital signal to be processed and an interrupt signal indicating that the digital signal is available for processing, the data processing device comprising: a data bus; an arithmetic logic unit connected to said data bus; an accumulator connected between said arithmetic logic unit and said data bus; a counterpart register for said accumulator that concurrently stores information stored in said accumulator during a first processing context; and switching circuit for supplying digital values to said accumulator and said counterpart register during said first processing context and for holding a currently supplied digital value in said counterpart register upon occurrence of said interrupt signal while continuing to supply said accumulator with a further digital value upon at least said occurrence of said interrupt signal. 12. Signal processing apparatus comprising: a circuit for producing a digital signal to be processed; a circuit for producing a context signal indicating that said digital signal is available for processing; and electronic processor for executing digital signal processing operations on said digital signal in alternative processing contexts identified by said context signal including a plurality of register sets, each of said register sets having a first and second register, said first and second registers connected to concurrently store identical information during one of the processing contexts, said first register connected to individually participate in and be continuously available in a next of the processing contexts when said first register is selected while said second register retains said information from said one processing context, and switching circuit responsive to said context signal and connected to said sets of first and second registers to selectively control input and output operations of said registers to and from said electronic processor depending on the processing context. 13. The signal processing apparatus of claim 12 wherein said circuits for producing include a microprocessor. 14. The signal processing apparatus of claim 12 further comprising an analog-to-digital converter. 15. The signal processing apparatus of claim 14 further comprising a digital-to-analog converter connected to convert an output from said processing means to analog form. 16. The signal processing apparatus of claim 26 wherein said electronic processor includes a semiconductor chip having a read only memory and a random access memory utilized in said digital signal processing operations. 17. The digital processing apparatus of claim 16 further comprising an auxiliary memory off-chip and connected to said electronic processor. 