A system and method for determining the position of an automatically guided vehicle within a workspace is disclosed which operates by detecting sounds generated by beacons placed within the workspace. The time for the beacon sounds to reach the vehicle is measured and a distance to each beacon is determined. From these measured distances and the known positions of the beacons, the vehicle can determine its relative position.
Claims I claim: 1. A system for determining the position of an object within a gas-filled space, said system comprising: one or more beacons placed at positions throughout said space, each of said beacons including sound generating means for emitting sound into said space; wherein said object comprises: means for determining the positions of said one or more beacons; means for determining the distance between each of said one or more beacons and said object, said means for determining the distance comprising: means for measuring the time required for a sound generated by one of said beacons to reach said object; and means for converting said measured time to a distance; and means for determining from said distances the position of said object within said space. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein said means for measuring time comprises: means for causing one of said one or more beacons to generate a sound at a time known to said object; means for detecting said sound generated by said beacon; and means for measuring the time elapsing between the generation of the sound by said beacon and the receipt of said sound by said object. 3. The system of claim 2 wherein said object further comprises means for generating a sound; further wherein each of said one or more beacons further comprises means for detecting said sound generated by said object; further wherein said means for causing said one or more beacons to each generate a sound comprises: said sound generation means of said object; and said sound detection means of said beacons. 4. The system of claim 2 wherein said object further comprises means for transmitting a radio frequency signal and wherein each of said one or more beacons further comprises means for receiving said radio frequency signal generated by said object and means for generating a sound in response to receipt of said radio frequency signal. 5. The system according to any of claims 1, 2 or 4 wherein said sound generated by said one or more beacons is ultrasonic. 6. The system of claim 3, wherein said sound generated by said one or more beacons and said object is ultrasonic. 7. The system according to any of claims 1, 2, or 4, wherein said sound generated by said one or more beacons is broadcast at one or more frequencies. 8. The system according to claim 5, wherein said sound generated by said one or more beacons is broadcast at one or more frequencies. 9. The system according to any of claim 3 or 6, wherein said sound generated by said one or more beacons and said object are broadcast at one or more frequencies. 10. The system according to any of claims 1, 2, or 4, wherein said sound generated by each of said one or more beacons is broadcast at a plurality of frequencies. 11. The system according claim 5, wherein said sound generated by each of said one or more beacons is broadcast at a plurality of frequencies. 12. The system according claim 7, wherein said sound generated by each of said one or more beacons is broadcast at a plurality of frequencies. 13. The system according to claim 6, wherein said sound generated by each of said one or more beacons and said device is broadcast at a plurality of frequencies. 14. The system according to claim 9, wherein said sound generated by each of said one or more beacons and said device is broadcast at a plurality of frequencies. 15. A system according to claim 1, wherein said system comprises at least three beacons, and wherein at least one of said beacons is positioned such that it is not located along a line extending between any two other beacons. 16. The system of claim 15, wherein said beacons include sound generating means for emitting sound into said space, and wherein said means for determining the distance between said object and each said beacon comprises: means for measuring the time required for a sound generated by one of said beacons to reach said object; and means for converting said measured time to a distance. 17. The system of claim 16 wherein said means for measuring time comprises: means for causing one of said one or more beacons to generate a sound at a time known to said object; means for detecting said sound generated by said beacon; and means for measuring the time elapsing between the generation of the sound by said beacon and the receipt of said sound by said object. 18. The system of claim 17 wherein said object further comprises means for generating a sound; further wherein each of said one or more beacons further comprises means for detecting said sound generated by said object; further wherein said means for causing said one or more beacons to each generate a sound comprises: said sound generation means of said object; and said sound detection means of said beacons. 19. The system of claim 17 wherein said object further comprises means for transmitting a radio frequency signal and wherein each of said one or more beacons further comprises means for receiving said radio frequency signal generated by said object and means for generating a sound in response to receipt of said radio frequency signal. 20. The system according to any of claims 16, 17 or 19 wherein said sound generated by said one or more beacons is ultrasonic. 21. The system of claim 18, wherein said sound generated by said one or more beacons and said object is ultrasonic. 22. The system according to any of claims 16, 17, or 19, wherein said sound generated by said one or more beacons is broadcast at one or more frequencies. 23. The system according to claim 20, wherein said sound generated by said one or more beacons is broadcast at one or more frequencies. 24. The system according to any of claims 18 or 21, wherein said sound generated by said one or more beacons and said object are broadcast at one or more frequencies. 25. The system according to any of claims 16, 17, or 19, wherein said sound generated by each of said one or more beacons is broadcast at a plurality of frequencies. 26. The system according to claim 20, wherein said sound generated by each of said one or more beacons is broadcast at a plurality of frequencies. 27. The system according to claim 22, wherein said sound generated by each of said one or more beacons is broadcast at a plurality of frequencies. 28. The system according to claim 21, wherein said sound generated by each of said one or more beacons and said device is broadcast at a plurality of frequencies. 29. A method for determining an object position for an object within a gas-filled space in which one or more beacons have been placed, each beacon having a beacon position, said method comprising the steps of: storing within said object information regarding the position of said one or more beacons; causing one or more of said beacons to generate a sound; measuring a sonic travel time required for each said sound to travel from each said beacon to said object; calculating from said sonic travel time the distance between each said beacon and said object; and determining from said distances from each of said beacons to said object and from said beacon positions the position of said object relative to said one or more beacons. 30. The method of claim 29, wherein said position of said object is compared to a measured position obtained by measuring a displacement of said object from a previous position. 31. The method of claim 29, wherein said step of causing one or more of said beacons to generate a sound comprises the steps of: causing said object to generate a sound; and causing each said one or more beacons to detect said sound generated by said device and in response thereto to generate a sound. 32. The method of claim 29 wherein said step of causing one or more of said beacons to generate a sound comprises the steps of: causing said object to generate a radio signal; causing said one or more beacons to detect and recognize said radio signal and in response thereto to generate a sound. 33. The method of claim 29, wherein said system includes a plurality of beacons and wherein said step of causing said beacons to generate a sound comprises the steps of: causing said object to generate a radio signal, said radio signal uniquely identifying one of said plurality of beacons; and causing only said uniquely identified beacon, to generate a sound. 34. The method of claim 29, wherein said step of causing one or more of said beacons to generate a sound comprises the steps of: causing said object to emit light; causing each of said one or more beacons to detect said light and in response thereto to generate sound when said light is detected. 35. The method of claim 29 wherein system includes a plurality of beacons and wherein said step of causing said beacons to generate a sound comprises the steps of: causing said object to generate light, said light uniquely identifying one of said plurality of beacons; and causing only said uniquely identified beacon, to generate a sound. 36. The method of claim 29 wherein said one or more beacons are at least two in number and further wherein said step of causing one or more of said beacons to generate a sound comprises the steps of: placing within each beacon and within said object a clock; synchronizing said clocks; designating a time at which each beacon is to generate a sound; and causing each said beacon to generate said sound at said designated time. 37. A method for determining object positions for a plurality of objects within a gas-filled space in which two or more beacons have been placed, each beacon having a beacon position, said method comprising the steps of: storing within each of said objects information regarding the position of said one or more beacons; placing within each beacon and within each said object a clock; synchronizing said clocks; designating a time at which each beacon is to generate a sound; causing each said beacon to generate said sound at said designated time; measuring a sonic travel time required for each said sound to travel from each said beacon to said object; calculating from said sonic travel time the distance between each said beacon and each said object; and determining from said distances from each of said beacons to each of said objects and from said beacon positions the positions of each said object relative to said one or more beacons. 38. The method of claim 29 wherein said space is two-dimensional and wherein said number of beacons is at least two. 39. The method of claim 29, wherein said number of beacons is at least three and further wherein at least one of said beacons is positioned such that it is not located along a line extending between any two other beacons. 40. The method of claim 29 wherein said space is three-dimensional and wherein said number of beacons is at least three and further wherein at least one of said beacons is positioned such that it is not located along a line extending between any two other beacons. 41. The method of claim 40 wherein said number of beacons is at least four and further wherein the position of said beacons are noncoplanar. 42. The method of claim 29 wherein said space includes a plurality of beacons, and wherein said step of storing within said object information regarding said positions of said beacons comprises the steps of: measuring distances to each of said beacons from a plurality of predetermined positions wherein an orientation between each of said predetermined positions is known; determining the positions of said beacons from said measured distances; and storing within said device said positions of said beacons. 43. The method of claim 29 wherein said space includes a plurality of beacons, and wherein said step of storing within said object information regarding said positions of said beacons comprises the steps of: a. for each one of said beacons, measuring the distance between said one beacon and the other ones of said plurality of beacons, and measuring the distance between said one beacon and said object; and b. arbitrarily setting the position of said object to a first position within said space; arbitrarily setting the position of one of said beacons to a second position within said space; determining the positions of said plurality of beacons from said first and said second positions and from said measured distances; and storing within said device said positions of said beacons. 