A specimen carrier is designed for transporting specimen tubes throughout an automatic laboratory conveyance system. The specimen carrier includes a generally rectilinear carrier body with a forward face having an identification zone delimited thereon. An identification code is marked in the identification zone so as to permit mechanical sensing and identification of the carrier on a conveyor system. A plurality of holes of various diameters and depths are provided in the top surface of the carrier to receive specimen tubes of various types. The deepest holes are located centrally, so that the carrier is stable while retaining specimens therein. A groove is formed in the top surface of the carrier body which extends between the specimen tube holes, so as to communicate any fluid spilling from a test tube to the other empty holes in the specimen carrier, thereby retaining the fluid within the body of the carrier. A special vertical slot is provided in one of the vertical holes, utilizing a pair of opposing vertical channels, so as to retain a specimen slide in the specimen carrier.
Claims I claim: 1. A specimen carrier for transporting a laboratory specimen carried within a specimen tube or on a specimen slide, comprising: a carrier body having a forward face and opposing rearward face, a top surface and opposing bottom surface, a right end wall and opposing left end wall an aperture having alternating curved portions forming a plurality of vertical cylindrical holes for receiving specimen tubes of varying diameter and depth dimensions, said aperture comprising; a first vertical cylindrical hole formed in the top surface of the carrier body, said hole having a first diameter and depth dimensions so as to receive a first specimen tube partially therein; and a second vertical cylindrical hole formed in the top surface of the carrier body said second hole having a second diameter and depth dimensions different from said first hole so as to receive a second specimen tube having diameter and depth dimensions different from said first tube; said second hole, overlapping the first hole to form a single cavity, wherein said cavity extends vertically from the lower end to an open upper end at the top surface of the carrier body and extends horizontally to include the diameter of each of said first and second holes, to retain fluid therein. 2. The specimen carrier of claim 1, wherein said first and second holes have centers along a center line between the carrier body forward and rearward faces. 3. The specimen carrier of claim 1, further comprising a rectangular hole extending vertically downward from the carrier body top surface and having a predetermined width, length and depth so as to receive a specimen slide in a vertical orientation, said rectangular hole spaced from said first and second holes. 4. The specimen carrier of claim 3, wherein said rectangular hole includes vertical forward and rearward opposing walls, opposing vertical end walls, and a bottom, and further comprising a shallow depression formed in the forward wall extending downwardly from the top surface and extending less than the full length of the forward wall from end wall to end wall. 5. The specimen carrier of claim 4, wherein said rectangular hole further includes a shallow depression formed in the rearward wall extending downwardly from the top surface and extending less than the full length of the rearward wall from end wall to end wall. 6. The specimen carrier of claim 1, further comprising a cylindrical well formed in the carrier body top surface, spaced from said first and second holes. 7. The specimen carrier of claim 6, further comprising a first upwardly projecting bump formed on the carrier body top surface, proximal the well, located to contact a projecting rim of a specimen tube cap on a specimen tube inserted in the well. 8. The specimen carrier of claim 1, further comprising: a depression formed in the forward face, spaced from the top surface, bottom surface, and end walls; and a label mounted within said depression, having identification indicia thereon relating to a specimen associated with the carrier; said depression having a depth such that the label does not project outwardly beyond the carrier body forward face. 9. The specimen carrier of claim 8, comprising: a depression formed in the rearward face, spaced from the top surface, bottom surface, and end walls; and a label mounted within said rearward face depression, having identification indicia thereon relating to a specimen associated with the carrier; said rearward face depression having a depth such that the label does not project outwardly beyond the carrier body rearward face. 10. The specimen carrier of claim 1, further comprising: a first wing projecting forwardly from the forward face, proximal the top surface and extending less than the length of the carrier body, as measured from end wall to end wall; and a second wing projecting rearwardly from the rearward face, opposite said first wing and having a length equal to the first wing. 11. The specimen carrier of claim 10, wherein each said wing has a semicircular shape in vertical cross-section taken through a center of the carrier body orthogonal to the forward and rearward faces. 12. The specimen carrier of claim 1, wherein said first hole includes a vertical side wall extending partially therearound, wherein said second hole includes a vertical side wall extending partially therearound and joining the first hole side wall along a vertical juncture, and further comprising: a first plurality of spaced-apart ridges extending vertically along said first hole side wall; and a second plurality of spaced-apart ridges extending vertically along said second hole side wall. 13. The specimen carrier of claim 12, wherein said ridges project radially inwardly from the hole side walls and extend continuously from the hole bottom to the carrier body top surface. 14. The specimen carrier of claim 3, further comprising a generally cylindrical well formed in the carrier body top surface, spaced from said first and second holes. 15. The specimen carrier of claim 14, further comprising a first upwardly projecting bump formed on the carrier body top surface, proximal the well, located to contact a projecting rim of a specimen tube cap on a specimen tube inserted in the well. 16. The specimen carrier of claim 3, further comprising: a depression formed in the forward face, spaced from the top surface, bottom surface, and end walls; and a label mounted within said depression, having identification indicia thereon relating to a specimen associated with the carrier; said depression having a depth such that the label does not project outwardly beyond the carrier body forward face. 17. The specimen carrier of claim 16, comprising: a depression formed in the rearward face, spaced from the top surface, bottom surface, and end walls; and a label mounted within said rearward face depression, having identification indicia thereon relating to a specimen associated with the carrier face depression having a depth such that the label does not project outwardly beyond the carrier body rearward face. 18. The specimen carrier of claim 3, further comprising: a first wing projecting forwardly from the forward face, proximal the top surface and extending less than the length of the carrier body, as measured from end wall to end wall; and a second wing projecting rearwardly from the rearward face, opposite said first wing and having a length equal to the first wing. 19. The specimen carrier of claim 18, wherein each said wing has a semicircular shape in vertical cross-section taken through a center of the carrier body orthogonal to the forward and rearward faces. 20. The specimen carrier of claim 3, wherein said first hole includes a vertical side wall extending partially therearound, wherein said second hole includes a vertical side wall extending partially therearound and joining the first hole side wall along a vertical juncture, and further comprising: a first plurality of spaced-apart ridges extending vertically along said first hole side wall; and a second plurality of spaced-apart ridges extending vertically along said second hole side wall. 21. The specimen carrier of claim 20, wherein said ridges project radially inwardly from the hole side walls and extend continuously from the hole bottom to the carrier body top surface. 22. The specimen carrier of claim 8 further comprising: a first wing projecting forwardly from the forward face, proximal the top surface and extending less than the length of the carrier body, as measured from end wall to end wall; and a second wing projecting rearwardly from the rearward face, opposite said first wing and having a length equal to the first wing. 23. The specimen carrier of claim 22, wherein each said wing has a semicircular shape in vertical cross-section taken through a center of the carrier body orthogonal to the forward and rearward faces. 24. The specimen carrier of claim 16, further comprising: a first wing projecting forwardly from the forward face, proximal the top surface and extending less than the length of the carrier body, as measured from end wall to end wall; and a second wing projecting rearwardly from the rearward face, opposite said first wing and having a length equal to the first wing. 25. The specimen carrier of claim 24, wherein each said wing has a semicircular shape in vertical cross-section taken through a center of the carrier body orthogonal to the forward and rearward faces. 26. A specimen carrier of claim 1, further comprising: a rectangular hole extending vertically downward from the carrier body top surface and having a predetermined width, length and depth so as to receive a specimen slide in a vertical orientation; said rectangular hole including vertical forward and rearward walls, opposing vertical end walls, and a bottom; said rectangular hole forward wall having a flat shallow depression formed therein extending from the top surface to the bottom of the rectangular hole, and extending less than the full length of the forward wall as measured from end wall to end wall; said depression forming a flat vertical wall parallel to the rectangular hole forward and rearward walls. 27. The specimen carrier of claim 26, wherein said rectangular hole further includes a shallow depression formed in the rearward wall extending downwardly from the top surface and extending less than the full length of the rearward wall from end wall to end wall. 28. The specimen carrier of claim 27, further comprising: a depression formed in the forward face, spaced from the top surface, bottom surface, and end walls; and a label mounted within said depression, having identification indicia thereon relating to a specimen associated with the carrier; said depression having a depth such that the label does not project outwardly beyond the carrier body forward face. 29. The specimen carrier of claim 28, further comprising: a first wing projecting forwardly from the forward face, proximal the top surface and extending less than the length of the carrier body, as measured from end wall to end wall; and a second wing projecting rearwardly from the rearward face, opposite said first wing and having a length equal to the first wing. 30. The specimen carrier of claim 29, wherein each said wing has a semicircular shape in vertical cross-section taken through a center of the carrier body orthogonal to the forward and rearward faces. 31. A specimen carrier of claim 1, further comprising: a first wing projecting forwardly from the forward face, proximal the top surface; a second wing projecting rearwardly from the rearward face, opposite said first wing; said wings each including a bottom surface of carrier body with a portion orthogonal to the forward and rearward faces, each said wing having a notch formed in the bottom surface extending upwardly and perpendicularly to the forward and rearward faces; said wing bottom surfaces sloping upwardly from said notches to the ends of the wings towards the carrier top surface. 