A system for automatic loading, unloading and charging of rechargeable batteries used in battery electric traction motor powered vehicles comprises a battery recharge station, a battery load and unload station adapted for positioning a battery powered vehicle in a preselected position, and a programmable battery transport apparatus programmed for automatically removing discharged batteries from the vehicle, transporting the discharged batteries to a battery recharge station, unloading the discharged batteries into the recharge station, retrieving charged batteries from the recharge station, transporting the charged batteries to the vehicle and loading the charged batteries onto the vehicle. The system may also include a battery water check station, the transport apparatus being programmed to transport batteries from the battery charging station to the water check station, load the charged batteries into the water check station and unload the batteries from the water check station upon completion of a check of the water level in each of the batteries by the water check station. The check station utilizes an elongate probe adapted for insertion into each cell of the battery through a cap positioned on the cell, the cap comprising a pair of elastomeric members having oppositely facing concave portions, each of the concave portions including a centrally positioned cut for allowing passage therethrough of the probe.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for automatic loading, unloading and charging of rechargeable batteries used in battery electric traction motor powered vehicles, the system comprising: a battery recharge station; a battery load and unload station adapted for positioning a battery powered vehicle in a preselected position therein; a programmable battery transport apparatus programmed for automatically removing discharged batteries from the vehicle, transporting the discharged batteries to a battery recharge station, unloading the discharged batteries into the recharge station, retrieving charged batteries from the recharge station, transporting the charged batteries to the vehicle and loading the charged batteries onto the vehicle; a battery water check station, the transport apparatus being programmed to transport batteries from the battery charging station to the water check station, load the charged batteries into the water check station and unload the batteries from the water check station upon completion of a check of the water level in each of the batteries; the water check station including means for checking the water level in each cell of each of the batteries, said checking means comprising an elongate probe adapted for insertion into each cell of the battery through a cap positioned on the cell; and the water check station including a programmable robot arm operable for precisely positioning the probe in alignment with the cap, and effecting insertion and withdrawal of the probe into and from each battery cell. 2. The system of claim 1 and including a battery storage station for temporary storage of batteries, the transport apparatus being programmed to store charged batteries in the storage station prior to transporting the batteries to the vehicle. 3. The system of claim 1 wherein said checking means includes means for adding water to each cell until each cell is filled to an optimum level. 4. The system of claim 1 wherein the cap comprises a pair of elastomeric members having oppositely facing concave portions, each of the concave portions including a centrally positioned cut for allowing passage therethrough of the probe. 5. The system of claim 4 wherein each of the elastomeric members have annular mating flanges, the cap including a rigid outer structure capturing the flanges of the elastomeric members in abutting relationship, the outer structure being adapted for mating engagement with an opening into each cell. 6. The system of claim 5 and including control means for controlling the operation of the system, the control means including means for tracking the recharge cycle of each of the batteries and the water usage of each cell of each of the batteries. 7. The system of claim 6 wherein each of the batteries is identified with a bar code label and said tracking means includes means for reading the bar code label on each battery each time the battery is moved by the transport apparatus. 8. The system of claim 1 and including means for automatically electrically connecting and disconnecting the batteries to and from the vehicle, respectively, in response to the respective steps of loading and removing the batteries at the vehicle. 9. The system of claim 1 and including means in the battery recharge station for automatic electrical connection and disconnection of the batteries to and from the station. 10. A system for automatic loading, unloading and charging of rechargeable batteries used in battery electric traction motor powered vehicles, the system comprising: a battery recharge station; a battery load and unload station adapted for positioning a battery powered vehicle in a preselected position therein; a programmable battery transport apparatus programmed for automatically removing discharged batteries from the vehicle, transporting the discharged batteries to a battery recharge station, unloading the discharged batteries into the recharge station, retrieving charged batteries from the recharge station, transporting the charged batteries to the vehicle and loading the charged batteries onto the vehicle; and a battery management system for accumulating data indicative of recharge history for each of the batteries, including data indicative of water added to each cell of each of the batteries. 11. The system of claim 10 and including means for load-testing each of the batteries after charging. 12. The system of claim 10 and including means for determining specific gravity of electrolyte in each cell of the batteries. 13. A battery cap for covering each cell of a battery comprising a pair of elastomeric members having oppositely facing concave portions, each of the concave portions including diametrical slits for allowing passage therethrough of an elongate probe. 14. The battery cap of claim 13 wherein each of the elastomeric members have annular mating flanges, the cap including a rigid outer structure capturing the flanges of the elastomeric members in abutting relationship, the outer structure being adapted for mating engagement with an opening into each cell. 