An apparatus for replacing a cop in an automated weaving machine is provided. A single, multi-joint robot is situated near the cop replacing position of a shuttle which is reciprocated between warps. A hand stand is provided for supporting first through third hands which can be detachably mounted on the robot arm. The first hand is provided with fingers for individually handling the new cop and the new weft. The second hand includes fingers for handling the old cop and the old weft. The third hand is provided with a suction pad for engaging the shuttle with vacuum suction when transferring the shuttle, and with a hook for raising and lowering the bobbin fitted on a tong of the shuttle. The three hands allow various work steps to be carried out each in an optimum fashion without requiring additional hands to be carried by the robot arm at the same time.
Claims What we claim is: 1. A cop changing device for a weaving machine in which a shuttle, carrying a cop consisting of a bobbin around which weft is wound, is reciprocated between shuttle boxes at opposite ends of warps so as to weave said weft between said warps, said cop changing device comprising: a base for positioning adjacent a shuttle box having a shuttle retention means for selectively retaining a shuttle with a cop; a new cop stand, an old cop stand, and a hand stand mounted on said base; a robot positioned on said base for being in spaced-apart relationship with said shuttle box, said new cop stand, said old cop stand, and said hand stand; a plurality of hands positioned on said hand stand, said hands adapted to be interchangeably and selectively mounted on said robot, said plurality of hands including at least one cop hand having bobbin fingers and weft fingers for positioning cops and wefts, and a shuttle hand having a shuttle finger for positioning the shuttle and a hook for raising and lowering the cops from the shuttle; weft tying means mounted on said base for tying an old weft from an old cop mounted on the old cop stand with a new weft from a new cop mounted on the new cop stand to form a continuous weft; and a control means in communication with the shuttle box, said robot, and said weft tying means for controlling the operations in changing cops and tying wefts. 2. The cop changing device according to claim 1, wherein the cop hand includes a pair of bobbin fingers and a bobbin cap for gripping a bobbin of the cop, and a pair of new gripping fingers for gripping the new weft. 3. The cop changing device according to claim 1, wherein said plurality of hands includes two cop hands, a new cop hand for positioning new cops and new weft on the new cop stand, and an old cop hand for transferring old cops and old weft from the shuttle to the old cop stand and for transferring new cops and weft from the new cop stand to the shuttle. 4. The cop changing device according to claim 3, including an actuating means connected to the new cop hand for applying a new gripping force and to the old cop hand for applying an old gripping force, wherein the new gripping force of the new cop hand is greater than the old gripping force of the old cop hand. 5. The cop changing device according to claim 1, wherein the shuttle finger of the shuttle hand includes a suction pad for moving the shuttle from and to the shuttle box. 6. The cop changing device according to claim 1, wherein the hook on the shuttle hand includes a substantially annular member for pivoting a cop mounting tong in the shuttle. 7. The cop changing device according to claim 1, wherein each of said plurality of hands includes a mounting slot and said mounting stand includes a plurality of tongues for retaining said hands in the desired position for mounting on said robot. 8. The cop changing device according to claim 1, including a force sensor mounted on said robot and connected to said control means for detecting the proper positioning of the new cop in the shuttle. 9. The cop changing device according to claim 1, wherein said old cop stand and said new cop stand include a cup shaped support for a bottom end of the cop and a bobbin head holder for an upper end of the cop to facilitate the free rotation of cops mounted on said stands. 10. The cop changing device according to claim 1, including a cop stocker positioned adjacent said base for supplying new cops, said stocker including a plurality of support pins for supporting the new cops. 11. The cop changing device according to claim 1, wherein said weft tying means includes a welding machine. 12. The cop changing device according to claim 1, including a weft trimming means for trimming an extraneous part from the continuous weft. 13. The cop changing device according to claim 1, wherein the cop hand includes a position sensor connected to said control system for detecting proper clamping of the cops. 14. The cop changing device according to claim 1, including an ejection means formed on said old cop stand for removing the old cop from said old cop stand after the continuous weft has been tied. 15. A cop changing device for a weaving machine in which a shuttle, carrying a cop consisting of a bobbin around which weft is wound, is reciprocated between shuttle boxes at opposite ends of warps so as to weave said weft between said warps, said cop changing device comprising: a base for positioning adjacent a shuttle box having a shuttle retention means for selectively retaining a shuttle, said shuttle including a cop mounted on a tong pivotally attached to said shuttle; a new cop stand, an old cop stand, and a hand stand mounted on said base; a robot positioned on said base for being in spaced-apart relationship with said shuttle box, said new cop stand, said old cop stand, and said hand stand; a plurality of hands positioned on said hand stand, said hands adapted to be interchangeably and selectively mounted on said robot, said plurality of hands including at least one cop hand having bobbin fingers and weft fingers for positioning cops and wefts, and a shuttle hand having a shuttle finger for positioning the shuttle and a hook for pivotally raising and lowering cops mounted on the tong in the shuttle; weft tying means mounted on said base for tying an old weft from an old cop mounted on the old cop stand with a new weft from a new cop mounted on the new cop stand to form a continuous weft; a force sensor mounted on said robot for measuring force when a cop is properly positioned on the tong of said shuttle; and a control means in communication with the shuttle box, said robot, said weft tying means and said force sensor for controlling the operations in changing cops and tying wefts. 