A compliancy joint for a robot has six degrees of compliancy freedom and comprises a housing having an inner ring. A float block is movably disposed in the interior of the housing and a plurality of circumferentially arranged pneumatic cylinders on the housing apply force circumferentially to the float block. Sensors are used to detect when the float block is near its compliancy limit and a controller is operatively connected to the sensors and the cylinders for preventing the float block from reaching its compliancy limit. This joint is able to break away from the robot should the robot exceed the device's compliancy limit, preventing damage to the robot and robot end of arm tooling.
Claims We claim: 1. A six-degree of freedom compliancy joint for use between a first part and a second part, the joint comprising: a housing having an interior, the housing connected to the first part; a float block movably disposed within the interior of the housing and movable in a plurality of directions, the float block connected to the second part, the float block having a compliancy limit of six-degrees of freedom; force means for applying force on the float block for centering the float block within the housing while allowing the float block to move within the housing; release means for releasing the float block from the housing, the release means including an internal support circumferentially extending within the interior of the housing, the internal support having a plurality of blocking portions spaced apart from each other, and a plurality of fingers connected to the float block, each finger located behind a blocking portion of the internal support; and sensing means for sensing when the float block is near the compliancy limit. 2. The joint according to claim 1, wherein the internal support further includes a slot between each blocking portion. 3. The joint according to claim 2, including a pin connected to the housing and extending into the slot between said each blocking portion of the internal support. 4. The joint according to claim 1, wherein the force means comprises at least one pneumatic cylinder means. 5. The joint according to claim 4, wherein the sensing means is located at the pneumatic cylinder means. 6. The joint according to claim 5, wherein the sensing means comprises at least one limit switch on the pneumatic cylinder means. 7. The joint according to claim 6, wherein the limit switch comprises a Hall effect switch. 8. The joint according to claim 6, wherein the limit switch comprises a reed switch. 9. The joint according to claim 1, wherein the fingers are releasably connected to the float block. 10. The joint according to claim 1, wherein the housing and the float block have a hole therethrough. 11. The joint according to claim 1, wherein the housing is circular. 12. The joint according to claim 1, wherein the float block is circular. 13. The joint according to claim 1, wherein the force means comprises hydraulic cylinder means. 14. The joint according to claim 1, further comprising: control means operatively connected to the sensing means and the force means for controlling the force applied to the float block and for preventing the float block from reaching the compliancy limit. 15. The joint according to claim 14, wherein the control means is operative to vary the force applied by said force means to accommodate different load conditions, reducing the force as required to provide more compliance in the joint, and increasing the force as required to provide less compliance in the joint. 16. A six-degree of freedom compliancy joint for use between a first part and a second part, the joint comprising: a housing having an interior, the housing connected to the first part; a float block movably disposed within the interior of the housing and movable in a plurality of directions, the float block connected to the second part, the float block having a compliancy limit of six degrees of freedom; at least one pneumatic cylinder force means for applying force on the float block for centering the float block within the housing while allowing the float block to move within the housing; and sensing means located at the pneumatic cylinder force means for sensing when the float block is near the compliancy limit. 17. The joint according to claim 16, wherein the sensing means comprises at least one Hall effect limit switch on the pneumatic cylinder force means. 18. The joint according to claim 16, wherein the sensing means comprises at least one reed limit switch on the pneumatic cylinder force means. 19. The joint according to claim 16, further comprising control means operatively connected to the sensing means and the pneumatic cylinder force means for controlling the force applied to the float block and for preventing the float block from reaching the compliancy limit. 20. The joint according to claim 19, wherein the control means is operative to vary the force applied by said pneumatic cylinder force means to accommodate different load conditions, reducing the force as required to provide more compliance in the joint, and increasing the force as required to provide less compliance in the joint. 