Method of making multilayer preforms which resist delamination and in a reduced cycle time. A first array of preforms are molded onto a first array of cores in an associated array of mold cavities, the cores and preforms are removed from the mold cavities as soon as possible without significant physical preform deformation, and the preforms are then cooled on the cores while a second array of cores is positioned in the mold cavities. Cooling on the cores prevents delamination of the preform layers and reduces the in-mold cooling time. Providing multiple sets of cores on a rotating turret further reduces the cycle time compared to the prior art use of robotic cooling tubes.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. In a method of forming multilayer plastic preforms, wherein a first array of cores is positioned in an associated array of mold cavities, the mold cavities are filled to form a first plurality of multilayer preforms on the first array of cores, the first array of preforms are cooled in the mold by contact with the mold cavities and cores at a relatively high first rate of cooling, and the first array of preforms are then removed from the mold cavities for further cooling, the improvement comprising: reducing the cooling time in the mold by removing the first array of cores and preforms from the mold cavities as soon as the preforms are able to cool on the cores without significant physical deformation of the preforms; and cooling the multilayer preforms on the cores at a second cooling rate relatively lower than the first Cooling rate so as to maintain the preforms at a higher temperature for a longer time and enable an increase in molecular ordering, diffusion and/or bonding at the layer boundaries, thus yielding an improved delamination resistance. 2. The method of claim 1, further including: providing a second array of cores in the mold cavities to form a second plurality of multilayer preforms while the first plurality of preforms is cooling on the first array of cores outside the mold cavities. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the first and second arrays of cores are provided on a turret which is rotated for sequentially positioning the first and second arrays of cores in the mold cavities. 4. The method of claim 3, further including providing additional arrays of cores on the turret, and wherein the preforms are allowed to cool on the cores for more than one molding cycle. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein there is molecular bonding between the preform layers. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the multiple layers include adjacent layers of polyester polymers having an intrinsic viscosity difference of greater than on the order of 0.1. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein one polyester layer is virgin PET and an adjacent layer is recycled PET. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the multiple layers include adjacent layers of polymer resins that are not melt compatible. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein there is hydrogen bonding between the preform layers. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein one layer is PET and an adjacent layer is EVOH. 11. The method of claim 8, wherein one layer is PET and an adjacent layer is MXD-6 nylon. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the cooling time in the mold is reduced by a factor of 1/3. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the cooling time in the mold is reduced to no greater than about two seconds. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein the multiple layers include adjacent layers of different polymers without adhesives. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein the preform has a sidewall including a core side adjacent the core, a cavity side adjacent the mold cavity, and a center between the core and cavity sides, and wherein during cooling on the cores outside the mold there is a temperature gradient across the sidewall of the preform, the core side being relatively cooler, the center relatively warmer compared to the core side, and the cavity side is intermediate of the core and cavity sides, and wherein radial and axial shrinkage forces across the sidewall are low and uniform due to the core restricting the core side shrinkage. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein the preform has a sidewall and during cooling on the cores outside the mold the amount of shrinkage across the preform sidewall is substantially uniform. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein the preform has a sidewall and during cooling on the cores outside the mold there are low radial and axial shrinkage forces across the preform sidewall. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein the preform has a sidewall with an outer cavity side adjacent the mold cavity, and wherein the preforms are removed from the mold cavities as soon as the outer cavity side of the preform has cooled from a molten fluid to a semi-rigid glassy state. 19. The method of claim 1, wherein the mold cavities and cores have cooling channels through which a cooling fluid is passed. 20. The method of claim 1, wherein the method is used for large volume commercial production of preforms for blow molded containers. 21. The method of claim 20, wherein the containers are single-service beverage containers. 22. The method of claim 1, wherein the time in which the preform layers remain above a critical temperature which enables the increase in molecular ordering, diffusion and/or bonding at the layer boundaries, is increased compared to robotic cooling methods. 23. The method of claim 1, wherein containers blow molded from the preforms have a reduced rate of delamination failure compared to containers blow molded from preforms cooled by robotic cooling methods. 24. The method of claim 1, further comprising transferring the cooled preform to a conveyor or storage container, and wherein the combined cooling time in the mold and cooling time on the cores is reduced compared to robotic cooling methods. 25. The method of claim 1, wherein the method of forming is injection molding. 26. The method of claim 1, wherein the multiple layers include layers of thermoplastic polymers. 27. The method of claim 26, wherein the thermoplastic polymers are selected from the group consisting of polyesters, polyolefins, acrylic/imide, polyamides, amorphous nylon and acrylonitrile styrene. 28. The method of claim 27, wherein the polyesters are selected from the group consisting of virgin and recycled PET, PEN, PETG and copolymers thereof. 29. The method of claim 26, wherein the multiple layers include layers of barrier materials selected from the group consisting of oxygen barrier materials, moisture barrier materials, and carbon dioxide barrier materials. 30. The method of claim 29, wherein the barrier materials are oxygen barrier materials selected from the group consisting of EVOH, PEN, PVOH, PVDC, nylon 6, MXD-6, LCP, amorphous nylon, PAN and SAN. 