A data processing device includes a data bus and a program bus, a data memory connected to the data bus and having data memory locations, and an electronic computation unit connected to the data bus and an accumulator connected to the electronic computation unit and to the data bus. A logic circuit is connected to the program bus for receiving instructions and connected to the data bus for executing logic operations in accordance with at least some of the instructions. The logic operations affect bits in at least one of the data memory locations independently of the electronic computation unit without affecting the accumulator. A control circuit sends instructions to the logic circuit on the program bus and to the electronic computation unit. Other devices, systems and methods are also disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A process control system comprising: sensors responsive to the state of said process; process control elements responsive to directions defined by electrical bits; and a data processing device connected to said sensors and said process control elements and including: a data bus, a program bus, a data memory connected to said data bus and having data memory locations, an electronic computation unit connected to said data bus, an accumulator connected to said electronic computation unit and to said data bus, a logic circuit connected to said program bus for receiving instructions and connected to said data bus for executing logic operations in accordance with at least some of the instructions, the logic operations affecting bits in at least one of said data memory locations independently of said electronic computation unit without affecting said accumulator, and a control circuit for sending instructions to said logic circuit on said program bus and to said electronic computation unit; and an interface for supplying selected bits to said process control elements. 2. The process control system of claim 1 wherein at least one of said process control elements includes a motor the operation of which is directed by at least one of the bits. 3. The process control system of claim 1 wherein at least one of said process control elements includes a relay. 4. The process control system of claim 1 wherein at least one of said process control elements includes a solenoid valve responsive to at least one of the bits. 