The present invention relates to a novel method and apparatus for cutting small pieces of fabric by means of an ultrasonic horn and a hollow open centered cutting anvil. The cutting operation includes a pick mechanism incorporating two tapered pins and a stripper pad to maintain the fabric position before, during, and after the cutting operation. The pick head mechanism is designed to insure accuracy in locating these small fabric pieces, referred to as chips, in a subsequent assembly operation performed by the pick head. The assembly operation relates to attachment of small pieces of fabric by means of two miniature ultrasonic horns. The horns are combined with a pick and place mechanism which incorporates two tapered pins and a stripper pad to maintain the fabric position during the manufacturing process. This pick and place head, when attached to a robotic arm, is designed to insure accuracy in locating these small fabric pieces repeatedly in a thermoplastic cartridge.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of cutting and placing individual chips of light lock material in a cartridge, said method comprising: positioning light lock material between an ultrasonic horn and a hollow centered anvil; contacting said ultrasonic horn and said hollow centered anvil with opposing sides of said light lock material; energizing said ultrasonic horn so as to cut said light lock material and form an individual chip of light lock material; picking said individual chip of light lock material through said hollow center of said anvil; and placing said individual chip of light lock material in a cartridge. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said picking comprises: mounting one or more pins to a pivotable and retractable arm; extending said arm so as to insert said one or more pins into said individual chip of light lock material; and retracting said arm, wherein said individual chip of light lock material is removed through said hollow center of said anvil by said pins as said arm retracts. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein said placing comprises: mounting a retractable pad to said pivotable and retractable arm, said pad having apertures therein for passing of said one or more pins; and extending said pad so as to push said individual chip of light lock material off of said one or more pins and into a cartridge as said one or more pins pass through said pad. 4. The method of claim 3 further comprising tacking said individual chip of light lock material to said cartridge. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein said tacking comprises: mounting one or more retractable ultrasonic horns to said arm, wherein said pad has apertures therein for passage of said one or more ultrasonic horns; extending said one or more ultrasonic horns to contact said individual chip of light lock material held in said cartridge by said pad; and energizing said one or more ultrasonic horns so as to tack said individual chip of light lock material to said cartridge. 