A plurality of removable volumes for magnetic tape units are used as array for the storage of data. First an array of removable volumes is mounted on the magnetic tape units. Then each removable volume of the array is accessed at equivalent logical locations for storage or retrieval of the data file. Responsive to access of the array, data for the data file is striped to the removable volumes of the array beginning at the equivalent location on each removable volume. Depending upon the striping format, null marks may be striped to the removable volumes receiving fewer data than other volumes. This maintains the equivalent logical location for the start of the next file.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An auxiliary data storage system, comprising: a plurality of removable media data storage units; an array of removable volumes for mounting on the removable media data storage units; means for mounting the array of removable volumes on the plurality of removable media data storage units; means for accessing the array at equivalent logical locations on each of the removable volumes of the array for storage or retrieval of a data file distributed across said array of removable volumes; means, responsive to access of an array of removable volumes, for striping data to the removable volumes by bytes with the bytes being organized into at least a first logical packet for each volume and with the logical packet for some volumes being padded if insufficient data exists to complete the logical packet; and means, responsive to access of an array of removable volumes, for striping data to the removable volumes by logical blocks and null marks, wherein null marks are placed in a subset of the volumes if a total number of logical blocks striped to said array of removable volumes is not evenly divisible by a total number of volumes receiving striped data. 2. An auxiliary data storage system as set forth in claim 1, and further comprising: means responsive to exhaustion of storage capacity of a removable volume from an array during access of the array for a write operation for marking all removable volumes for the array for an end of volume condition. 3. An auxiliary data storage system as set forth in claim 2, wherein each array includes a removable volume for redundant information and the auxiliary storage system further comprises: means for generating and writing redundant information onto the removable volume beginning at an equivalent location for the removable volume. 4. An auxiliary data storage system as set forth in claim 1, wherein each removable volume further comprises: a label identifying the array to which the removable volume belongs and an order in the array. 5. An auxiliary data storage system as set forth in claim 4, wherein the label includes: a label header and a label trailer; and the means for mounting includes means for determining if a mounted removable volume is a member of a requested array. 6. An auxiliary data storage system as set forth in claim 5, and further comprising: means responsive to exhaustion of storage capacity of a removable volume from an array during access of the array for a write operation for marking all removable volumes for the array for end of volume. 7. An auxiliary data storage system as set forth in claim 5, wherein the label on each removable volume belonging to the array is not striped. 8. An auxiliary data storage system as set forth in claim 7, wherein each array includes a removable volume for redundant information and the auxiliary storage system further comprises: means for generating and writing redundant information by packets to the removable volume beginning at an equivalent location. 9. A method of storing and recovering a data file on a plurality of the removable media data storage units, the method comprising: mounting an array of removable volumes on the removable media data storage units; accessing the array at equivalent logical locations on each of the removable volumes of the array for storage or retrieval of a data file distributed across said array of removable volumes; responsive to access of an array of removable volumes and selection by a user or host of distributing data by bytes, striping data to the removable volumes by bytes with the bytes being organized into at least a first logical packet for each volume and with the logical packet for some volumes being padded if insufficient data exists to complete the logical packet; and responsive to access of an array of removable volumes and selection by a user or a host of a logical block organization, striping data to the removable volumes by logical blocks and null marks, wherein null marks are placed in a subset of the volumes if a total number of logical blocks striped to said array of removable volumes is not evenly divisible by a total number of volumes receiving striped data. 10. The method of claim 9, and further comprising: responsive to exhaustion of storage capacity of a removable volume from an array during access of the array for a write operation, marking all removable volumes for the array for end of volume. 11. The method of claim 10, and further comprising: striping redundant information to a removable volume of the array. 12. The method of claim 11, further comprising: marking each removable volume for an array with an intact label identifying the array to which the removable volume belongs and an order in the array. 13. The method of claim 12, and further comprising: upon mounting of a removable volume, determining if the removable volume is a member of a requested array. 14. The method of claim 13, and further comprising: responsive to exhaustion of storage capacity of a removable volume from an array during access of the array for a write operation, marking all removable volumes for the array for end of volume. 15. The method of claim 14, and further comprising: striping redundant information to a removable volume of the array. 16. A data processing system, comprising: a host computer; a library of removable volumes for storage of data; a plurality of auxiliary memory drive units for accessing removable volumes; and an array of removable volumes within the library having file format conventions and labels compatible with file format conventions of the library, said array of removable volumes being striped with data for the host computer with data for a given file starting at a first volume of the array and for each volume on an identical block index, wherein said given file begins at a same sequential file on all volumes and a starting location for said given file is identified by a single location pointer also used for volumes not belonging to an array. 17. A data processing system as set forth in claim 16, and further comprising: identification for a volume of the array being accessible upon access of the volume after placement on an auxiliary memory drive unit without accessing of the remaining volumes of the array. 18. A data processing system as set forth in claim 16, and further comprising: a given file striped to the array ends on a single boundary across all volumes of the array, with null marks filling out volumes not receiving as many logical blocks as other volumes. 