The method and apparatus for the manufacture of product subassemblies by computer programmed robots is an end effector fixture assembly, or geometry station wherein at least two individual elements of the particular subassembly are dimensionally positioned relative to one another between a lower base fixture and an upper fixture of the end effector fixture assembly to establish a net location therebetween. The robot manipulates the end effector fixture assembly and transports the two individual elements located therein to a work performing station located within a defined region of the robot to perform work on the subassembly.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for accurately establishing a net location between at least two objects mounted in a unitary frame structure for thereafter performing work on said at least two objects, said apparatus comprising: a base having support means integral therewith; a first frame structure releasably mounted to said support means; means for accurately locating said at least two objects on said first frame structure wherein a net location is established between said at least two objects by said locating means; a second frame structure positioned with respect to said first frame structure, said second frame structure comprising means for retaining said at least two objects at said established net location; means for positioning said second frame structure with respect to said first frame structure; and means for interengaging said second frame structure to said first frame structure to establish said unitary frame structure, said interengaging means being mounted to said first and second frame structures whereby said unitary frame structure is removed from said support means of said base and transported by said positioning means to at least one work performing station located within a defined region surrounding said positioning means. 2. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said means for positioning said second frame structure with respect to said first frame structure comprises: a programmable robot located a predetermined distance from said first frame structure, said programmable robot having a wrist head attached to said second frame structure, wherein said second frame structure is an end effector of said programmable robot; and means for locating said second frame structure relative to said first frame structure while said first frame structure is releasably mounted to said support means. 3. The apparatus as claimed in claim 2 wherein said second frame structure is affixed to said wrist head of said programmable robot operable to move said wrist head along multiple linear and multiple rotational axes. 4. The apparatus as claimed in claim 2 wherein said means for retaining includes securing means affixed to said second frame structure to securely hold said at least two objects in said second frame structure such that said at least two objects remain attached to said second frame structure upon release of said second frame structure from said first frame structure. 5. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said retaining means is affixed to said second frame structure and cooperates with said interengaging means to apply a restraining force upon said at least two objects as said second frame structure is interengaged to said first frame structure to establish said unitary frame structure. 6. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said first frame structure is a T-shaped bar and said second frame structure is a U-shaped bar having a first leg and a second leg, each said first leg and said second leg having a first end, said first ends of said first leg and said second leg of said U-shaped bar being adjacent said T-shaped bar. 