A thermal cycling system and method of use are described. The thermal cycling system is based on the-circulation of temperature-controlled water directly to the underside of thin-walled polycarbonate microtiter plates. The water flow is selected from a manifold fed by pumps from heated reservoirs. The plate wells are loaded with typically 15-20 .mu.l of reagent mix for the PCR process. Heat transfer through the thin polycarbonate is sufficiently rapid that the contents reach thermal equilibrium with the water in less than 15 seconds. Complete PCR amplification runs of 40 three-step cycles have been performed in as little as 14.5 minutes, with the results showing substantially enhanced specificity compared to conventional technology requiring run times in excess of 100 minutes. The plate clamping station is designed to be amenable to robotic loading and unloading of the system. It includes a heated lid, thus eliminating the need for mineral oil overlay of the reactants. The present system includes three or more plate holder stations, fed from common reservoirs but operating with independent switching cycles. The system can be modularly expanded.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A thermal cycling system comprising in combination: a plurality of plate holder stations, each of which including a plate holder for supporting and engaging a plate during a thermal cycling process, and a lid mechanism for exerting a clamping force on said plate; and a flow switching manifold fluidly connected to each of said plate holder stations for rapidly, selectively and sequentially feeding each of said plate holder stations, independently, with fluids at different temperatures from a plurality of temperature controlled reservoirs. 2. The thermal cycling system according to claim 1, further including a computer system for providing a convenient operator interface mechanism, and for controlling and regulating the heating of said plurality of temperature controlled reservoirs. 3. The thermal cycling system according to claim 2, wherein said lid mechanism includes a lid which, in turn, includes a monostatically heated element to maintain said lid at a preselected constant elevated temperature. 4. The thermal cycling system according to claim 2, wherein when said plate engages said plate holder, a cavity is formed therebetween, underneath said plate; wherein said flow switching manifold is formed of a plumbing system and a plurality of remotely operable valves; and wherein said remotely operable valves are selectively opened and closed in such a manner as to admit a selected fluid from one of said plurality of temperature controlled reservoirs to said cavity. 5. The thermal cycling system according to claim 4, wherein said selected fluid flows at a predetermined relatively high rate within and through said cavity, and causes a turbulent flow, so that the temperature of said fluid within said cavity is generally evenly distributed, in order for said plate to be uniformly heated. 6. The thermal cycling system according to claim 5, wherein said plate holder includes a plurality of inlet and outlet openings to allow said selected fluid to flow in and out of said cavity. 7. The thermal cycling system according to claim 6, wherein said plate holder includes two inlet and two outlet openings. 8. The thermal cycling system according to claim 7, wherein the flow rate of said selected fluid is sufficiently high to prevent the formation of bubbles that may tend to form inside said cavity. 9. The thermal cycling system according to claim 8, wherein said selected fluid is water. 10. The thermal cycling system according to claim 8, wherein each of said reservoirs include a closed plumbing loop, such that said selected fluid leaving said plate holder station is returned to its reservoir of origin. 11. The thermal cycling system according to claim 10, wherein each of said plate holder stations has a low thermal mass, for minimizing the change in temperature of said selected fluid flowing within said cavity. 12. The thermal cycling system according to claim 11 for use in a PCR cycling process, which includes three reservoirs maintained at three preselected different temperatures. 13. The thermal cycling system according to claim 12, wherein a first one of said temperatures is about 94.degree. C. for a denaturing step; a second one of said temperatures is about 55.degree. C. for an annealing step; and a third one of said temperatures is about 72.degree. C. for an extending step. 14. The thermal cycling system according to claim 13, further including a fourth reservoir maintained at a cooler temperature for use at the completion of said PCR cycling process. 15. The thermal cycling system according to claim 14, wherein said plate holder is machined from a single block of low thermal mass material, so as to minimize heat transfer between said plate holder and said selected fluid during thermal cycling. 16. The thermal cycling system according to claim 15, wherein said block is made of polycarbonate whose heat capacity is small compared to the heat capacity of the said selected fluid. 17. The thermal cycling system according to claim 16, wherein said plate holder includes a rectangular tray that is limited by an inner raised partition and a peripheral wall; and wherein said raised partition provides a rectangularly shaped cavity for matching the outline of a rectangularly shaped plate, and to further provide a leakage catchment channel. 18. The thermal cycling system according to claim 17, wherein said leakage catchment channel is sloped to convey leaked water to at least one drain fitting. 19. The thermal cycling system according to claim 18, wherein said plate holder includes a plurality of fittings that are machined from the same material as said plate holder, to eliminate stress fracturing arising from differing thermal expansions during said thermal cycling. 20. The thermal cycling system according to claim 2, further including a plurality of reservoir circuits, each of which corresponding to one of said a plurality of temperature controlled reservoirs, wherein each of said reservoir circuits includes a reservoir tank, a temperature sensor for measuring the temperature of a fluid in said reservoir tank, and a heating element for heating and controlling the temperature of said fluid in said reservoir tank. 21. The thermal cycling system according to claim 20, wherein each of said plurality of reservoir circuits further includes a feed pump for drawing said fluid from said reservoir tank, and for supplying it under pressure to a manifold pipe. 22. The thermal cycling system according to claim 21, wherein each of said plurality of reservoir circuits further includes a circulation valve disposed farther away from said reservoir tank in order to avoid stagnation of said fluid and resulting cool down. 23. The thermal cycling system according to claim 22, wherein each of said plurality of reservoir circuits further includes a manifold switching valve for selecting a fluid from one of said plurality of temperature controlled reservoirs, and for returning said selected fluid to its reservoir of origin. 