An improved robotic end effector is disclosed. The end effector of the present invention possesses a novel breakaway clutch, which is combined with mechanically linked finger joints to significantly reduce control complexity while retaining the ability to accomplish enveloping grasps. In another embodiment, a finger using compliant tendons to accomplish enveloping grasps is disclosed. A novel palm/finger configuration which further increases the versatility of the disclosed end effector without unduly increasing complexity is also disclosed. Methods of manipulating an object are also disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for grasping an object, comprising: (a) a palmar surface comprising a grasping surface and a perimeter; (b) a first articulated member comprising a grasping surface, the member attached to said palmar surface by a grip drive having an axis of rotation, wherein the grasping surface of the member is displaced from the axis of rotation and the axis of rotation is attached to the palmar surface at a point inward from the perimeter of the palmar surface, and wherein the articulated member further comprises at least a first and a second rotatable joint, wherein both of the rotatable joints are disposed above the grasping surface of the palmar surface at all times, and the axis of rotation of the first articulated member is fixed at a first position and placed to allow a range of motion of at least 90.degree., and wherein said articulated member is moveable relative to the perimeter; (c) means for actuating said articulated member in coordination with said palmar surface by rotating the first and second rotatable joints and by moving the grip drive about the axis of rotation; and (d) a non-rotatable stationary member affixed to the palmar surface, and comprising a grasping surface, whereby the articulated member and the stationary member can selectively cooperate to grasp an object between them and can selectively be positioned so that a respective grasping surface of each of them is coplanar and can be used to execute a grasp. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: (e) tactile sensor means for sensing the location of a force exerted against said palmar surface and the grasping surface of said articulated member, the sensor disposed at a plurality of locations upon said surfaces. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the stationary member comprises an articulated member. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising at least a second articulated member attached to said palmar surface by a grip drive having an axis of rotation fixed to the palmar surface, wherein the second articulated member comprises a grasping surface displaced from the axis of rotation and wherein the second articulate member is attached to the grip drive at a point inward from the perimeter of the palmar surface, the axis of rotation of the second articulated member fixed at a second position, and placed to allow a range of rotation of at least 90.degree., wherein said articulated members are moveable relative to the perimeter of said palmar surface, whereby the distance between the first and second position permits each of the articulated members to be rotated until their respective grasping surfaces and the grasping surface of the stationary member are coplanar and can be used to execute a grasp. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, further comprising an actuation and linkage system, whereby the motion of said articulated members relative to said palmar surface is equal and in opposite directions along the perimeter of the palmar surface. 6. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the substantially stationary member comprises an articulated member affixed to a point on the palmar surface in a substantially non-rotatable manner. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said first articulated member is comprised of: (a) means for rotating the first rotatable joint; (b) a first link, having two ends, a proximal end of said first link hingably attached to said first rotatable joint, a distal end of said link defining the second rotatable joint; (c) a second link, having two ends, a proximal end of said link hingably attached to said second rotatable joint; (d) means for transferring rotation from the first rotatable joint to the second rotatable joint; and (e) a tendon connected to the first and second rotatable joints. 8. The articulated member of claim 7, wherein said means for actuating said first and second joints is comprised of a tendon and pulley. 9. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the substantially stationary member comprises an articulated member affixed to said palmar surface in a substantially non-rotatable manner, and at least a second articulated member rotatably attached to said palmar surface, the axes of rotation of said first and second articulated members fixed at first and second position, respectively, and placed to allow said first and second articulated members to be moved relative to the perimeter of said palmar surface; whereby the distance between the first and second position permits each of the articulated members to move to a position adjacent the stationary member, whereby the grasping surfaces of the member are coplanar. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein each of said articulated members is comprised of: (a) means for rotating a first rotatable joint; (b) a first link, having two ends, a proximal end of said first link hingably attached to said first rotatable joint, a distal end of said link defining a second rotatable joint; (c) a second link, having two ends, a proximal end of said link hingably attached to said second rotatable joint; (d) means for transferring rotation from the first rotatable joint to the second rotatable joint; and (e) a tendon connecting the first and second rotatable joints. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, further comprising at least a compliant section for compliantly coupling the motion of the first and second rotatable joints. 12. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the tendon comprises at least a compliant section for compliantly coupling the motion of the first and second rotatable joints. 13. The apparatus of claim 12, further comprising a resilient device affixed to the compliant tendon, wherein the compliant coupling is provided by the resilient device. 14. An end effector comprising a palm; a stationary grasping member; and an articulated finger comprising two or more rotatable joints, the finger connected to the palm at a point inward from an edge of the palm to define an axis of rotation fixed in a position and placed to allow a range of motion of at least 180.degree. around the perimeter of the palm, wherein said articulated finger is moveable relative to the perimeter of the palm wherein the finger can be moved to a position adjacent the grasping member so that a grasping surface of articulated finger and the grasping member are in the same plane and can be used to execute a grasp. 15. The end effector of claim 14, comprising a second articulated finger comprising two or more rotatable joints. 16. The end effector of claim 15, wherein both articulated fingers are connected to the palm at spaced apart points so that each of the articulated fingers can be moved about 180.degree. around the palm, whereby all three fingers can be moved to a position adjacent one another so that a grasping surface of each articulated finger is in the same plane and can be used to execute a grasp. 17. An end effector comprising a palm; and two articulated fingers connected to the palm at an axis of rotation inward from an edge of the palm placed to allow a range of motion of at least 180.degree. around the palm, wherein the articulated fingers are moveable relative to the perimeter of the palmar surface, the articulated fingers each comprising two or more rotatable joints disposed above the palm whereby the articulated fingers can be moved to a position adjacent one another so that a grasping surface of each articulated finger is in the same plane and can be used to execute a grasp. 