A control system for a needle infeed device for automatically transferring needles randomly positioned on an indexing conveyor to an engagement device for subsequent conveyance to a processing location. The needle infeed device comprises one or more robots each having a gripper means for picking and placing the needles in the engagement device. The control system comprises a control device for pausing the indexing conveyor to create a dwell cycle for the infeed device, vision tracking apparatus in communication with the control device for imaging needles at one or more predetermined locations on the indexing conveyor and for determining positional and orientation data for each recognized needle during the dwell cycle, a memory device for temporarily storing the positional and orientation data received from the vision tracking device, and, a robot control device for accessing the stored positional and orientation data corresponding to the imaged needles from the memory means and for enabling one of the robots to pick up the imaged needle in accordance with its respective positional and orientation data in order to place the needle in the engagement device.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A control system for a needle infeed device for automatically transferring needles randomly positioned on a conveyor means to a precision engagement device at a further processing location, said needle infeed device comprising one or more robots each having a gripper means for picking and placing said needles, said control system comprising: (a) control means for pausing said conveyor means to create a dwell cycle for said infeed device; (b) at least one vision tracking means for each infeed device, each vision tracking means in communication with said control means for creating an image of said needles during each dwell cycle at one or more predetermined locations on said conveyor means and for calculating positional and orientation data for each needle from the image obtained at said predetermined location during said dwell cycle; (c) memory means for temporarily storing said positional and orientation data received from said vision tracking means; and (d) robot control means for accessing said stored positional and orientation data to select one of said imaged needles, the positional and orientation data stored in said memory means, and enabling said one of said robots to pick up one of said imaged needles in accordance with its respective positional and orientation data and to place said needle in said precision engagement device. 2. The control system for a needle infeed device as claimed in claim 1 wherein said needle infeed device includes a drive means for driving said conveyor means, said robot control means generating a first signal for receipt by said control means requesting said control means to enable said drive means to index said conveyor means. 3. The control system for a needle infeed device as claimed in claim 2 wherein said control means generates a first signal for receipt by said vision tracking means indicating that said conveyor means has finished indexing and is in said dwell cycle. 4. The control system for a needle infeed device as claimed in claim 2 wherein said robot control means automatically polls said memory means to obtain current positional and orientation data of each recognized needle for said robots, said robot control means generating said first signal for receipt by said control means to further index said conveyor means when no positional and orientation data is available in said memory means at a current dwell cycle. 5. The control system for a needle infeed device as claimed in claim 1 wherein said vision tracking means includes one or more camera means for obtaining a video image of said needles on said conveyor means at each of respective said one or more predetermined locations within a field-of-view of each of said one or more cameras. 6. The control system for a needle infeed device as claimed in claim 5 wherein each of said cameras has a plurality of vision parameters associated therewith, said vision tracking means including means for comparing needle parameters obtained from said video image with one or more acceptable needle parameters associated with a current batch of needles to be processed, said one or more needle parameters selected from the group including needle radius, needle angle, and needle width. 7. The control system for a needle infeed device as claimed in claim 1 wherein said vision tracking means further includes means for automatically enhancing said image of a needle by recording successive images of said needle and adjusting one or more of a plurality of vision parameters between each successive image until said image of said needle is acceptable for obtaining positional coordinate data therefrom. 8. The control system for a needle infeed device as claimed in claim 7 wherein said vision parameters include field of view size, iris control for said camera and vision system lighting control for said camera. 9. The control system for a needle infeed device as claimed in claim 1 wherein said positional and orientation data includes positional coordinates of each recognized needle for said robots, said control means enabling said gripper means of each said one or more robots to pick up said one or more needles at said positional coordinates, said robot control means further generating a second signal for receipt by said control means indicating said one or more needles have been picked up by said robot gripper means. 10. The control system for a needle infeed device as claimed in claim 9 wherein said engagement device is located on a second conveyor means having a drive means associated therewith for indexing said needle to said processing location, said robot control means generating a third signal for receipt by said control means requesting said control means to pause said indexing of said second conveyor means to create a second dwell time therefor. 11. The control system for a needle infeed device as claimed in claim 10 wherein said control means generates a signal for receipt by said robot control means indicating that said robot gripper means may place said needle in said engagement device during said second dwell time. 12. The control system for a needle infeed device as claimed in claim 11 wherein said robot control means generates a fourth signal for receipt by said control means indicating that said one or more robots have placed said needles in said engagement devices, said control means enabling first and second jaws of said engagement device to grip said needles placed therein. 13. A method for controlling an automatic infeed device for feeding surgical needles from one location to another location, said infeed device having a first conveyor having randomly positioned needles located thereon, a second conveyance having a plurality of precision needle engagement devices located thereon, and one or more robot means each having a gripper means for picking up a needle from said indexing conveyor, said method comprising the steps of: (a) pausing said first conveyor to create a dwell time for said infeed device; (b) imaging said needles on said conveyor with a vision tracking means during said dwell time to create an image of said needles; (c) calculating positional and orientation data from said image of said needles and determining acceptable needle locations for said one or more robot means to select a needle for each of said robot means; (d) picking up said selected needle at said acceptable needle location with said one or more robot gripper means; and, (e) placing each needle in said precision engagement devices for subsequent conveyance thereof. 14. The method for controlling an automatic infeed device for feeding surgical needles from one location to another location according to claim 13, wherein said step (a) of pausing said first conveyor further includes the step of generating a first control signal from said robot means requesting a control means for said first conveyor to inhibit motion thereof during said dwell time. 15. A method for controlling an automatic infeed device for feeding surgical needles from one location to another location according to claim 14 further including the step of generating a second control signal from said robot means for said control means requesting said control means to index said first conveyor means when no acceptable needle locations are available. 16. The method for controlling an automatic infeed device for feeding surgical needles from one location to another location according to claim 13, wherein said step (b) of visually tracking said needles on said conveyor during said dwell time to determine acceptable needle locations for said one or more robot means further includes the steps of: (a) generating a signal for said vision tracking means indicating that said first conveyor means is in said dwell cycle; (b) obtaining an image of said needles from one or more camera means each having a field of view at one or more predetermined locations on said conveyor means; (c) processing said image to determine positional coordinates for recognizable needles present in said image; and, (d) inputting said positional coordinates into a memory means for access by said robot means. 17. The method for controlling an automatic infeed device for feeding surgical needles from one location to another location according to claim 16, wherein said processing step (b) further includes the steps of: (a) determining one or more needle parameter values for needles identified in said image, said one or more needle parameters selected from the group including needle radius, needle angle, and needle width; and (b) comparing each of said needle parameters values obtained from said image with a predetermined range of acceptable needle parameter values associated with a current batch of needles being processed. 18. The method for controlling an automatic infeed device for feeding surgical needles from one location to another location according to claim 16, wherein said processing step (b) further includes the step of determining whether needles located in said field-of-view overlap with each other. 19. The method for controlling an automatic infeed device for feeding surgical needles from one location to another location according to claim 13, which further includes an image enhancing step to calibrate the device, the enhancing step including the steps of: (a) successively obtaining a series of images of one of said needles during said tracking step; and (b) adjusting one or more of a plurality of camera vision parameters selected from the group including field of view size, iris control for said camera, and vision system lighting control for said camera, between each successive image until said image of said needle is acceptable to obtain data to determine acceptable needle locations. 20. The method for controlling an automatic infeed device for feeding surgical needles from one location to another location according to claim 13, wherein said step (d) of placing each said needles in an engagement device further includes the steps of: (a) pausing said second conveyance having said needle engagement devices located thereon to create a second dwell time for said infeed system; and, (b) generating a control signal indicating to said one or more robot gripper means to place a gripped needle in said needle engagement device during said second dwell time. 21. The method for controlling an automatic infeed device for feeding surgical needles from one location to another location according to claim 20, said method further including the step of generating a signal for enabling a pair of jaws of said engagement device to grip said needle after placement therein by said robot gripper means. 22. The method for controlling an automatic infeed device for feeding surgical needles from one location to another location according to claim 20 further including the step of actuating a push rod means for retracting one jaw of said pair of engagement jaws for enabling the positioning of said needle therebetween, said actuating step occurring prior to the placement of said needle between said pair of engagement jaws. 23. The method for controlling an automatic infeed device for feeding surgical needles from one location to another location according to claim 20 further including the step of orienting said needle while positioned upon said second conveyor means. 