A bi-directional translator is disclosed which translates between low level substantially binary records of a data repository (such as a data log) and substantially equivalent high level English-like terms. Thus, the translator is used to translate English-like queries for the data repository into equivalent binary records which can, in turn, be used in retrieving appropriately matching records from the data repository where the data repository records are redundant and have both time related dependencies between the records and have a plurality of different binary formats. Subsequently, the translator is used to translate the retrieved records into substantially equivalent non-redundant English-like terms having no time related dependencies between terms and such that the data format for the terms is substantially uniform.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for translating data comprising the following steps: storing a plurality of data records, each said data record corresponding to an output of a rebated monitoring component for a system including a plurality of said monitoring components, wherein each said data record having a data format including a plurality of fields, a majority of said fields being identified by a position of the field in the data record; inputting a first query into a means for translating data; translating said first query, using said translating means, to yield a corresponding section query having a data format of at least one of said data records; retrieving a selectable set of data records from said plurality of data records wherein data records of said selectable set satisfy said second query; detecting redundant information in said selectable set; determining a resulting translation, wherein said resulting translation includes a translation of information provided by said selectable set into a data representation having one or more data areas, and for each data area of a majority of said one or more data areas there is a natural language term for identifying the data area and wherein said resulting transition is provided for analyzing said system. 2. A method, as claimed in claim 1, wherein: each said natural language term includes English words. 3. A method, as claimed in claim 1, wherein said step of storing includes retaining said plurality of data records in an order corresponding to a time each said data record is created. 4. A method, as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said step of determining includes providing said resulting translation for diagnosing a fault of said system, said fault represented in said plurality of data records. 5. A method, as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said system includes a data storage and retrieval capability. 6. A method, as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said step of translating includes generating an intermediate query different from said first query and said second query, wherein said intermediate query has a data representation including alphanumeric terms for identifying fields of said intermediate query. 7. A method, as claimed in claim 6, wherein: said step of generating includes generating said second query using said intermediate query. 8. A method, as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said step of retrieving includes comparing a value from said second query with a value of a one record from said plurality of records, wherein said value of said one record being identified by a position within said one record. 9. A method, as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said step of determining includes at least one of: (a) filtering a value unneeded for translation from said selectable set of data records such that the value is not represented in said resulting translation; (b) combining one determined portion of a first data record of said selectable set with another determined portion of a second data record of said selectable set, such that said resulting translation includes data translations of both said one determined portion and said another determined portion so that redundant data in said one determined portion and said another determined portion being non-redundantly represented in said resulting translation. 10. A method, as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said step of determining includes using said selectable set for generating an intermediate result, said intermediate result represented in a data representation including alphanumeric terms for identifying fields of said intermediate result, said intermediate result used for determining said resulting translation. 11. A method, as claimed in claim 1, wherein said first query has one or more data areas, and for each data area of a majority of said one or more data areas, there is a natural language term for identifying the data area. 12. An apparatus for bi-directionally translating data comprising: storage means for storing a plurality of event data records, said event data records corresponding to outputs of a monitoring means for monitoring errors of a system, and each said event data record having an event data representation including a plurality of fields with each field of a majority of said fields being identified by a position in the event data record; transcriber-interpreter means for translating between a natural language-like record and a first set of one or more data records, wherein: (A1) said natural language-like record includes one or more information areas, and for each information area of a majority of said one or more information areas, there being a natural language identification area for identifying the information area; and (A2) said first set of one or more data records being a translation of said natural language-like record, said first set being an intermediate translation used in translating between said natural language-like record and a second set of one or more data records in said event data representation; converter-transcriber means for translating between said first set of one or more data records, and said second set; supervisory means for controlling said transcriber-interpreter means and said converter-interpreter means for translating between said natural language-like record and said second set of one or more event data records; means for retrieving event data records from said storage means using said first set; wherein; (B1) when translating from said natural language-like record to said second set, said second set is an input query to said means for retrieving, and (B2) when translating from said event data records in said storage means to said natural language-like record, said one or more data records in said second set are event data records retrieved from said storage means using said means for retrieving. 13. An apparatus, as claimed in claim 12, wherein: each of said data records in said first set is represented in a data record representation including: (a) an identifier portion having an alphanumeric function identifier from a predetermined set of function identifiers; and (b) a data portion having a predetermined ordering of one or more function parameter designations for each function identifier in said predetermined set of function identifiers, each of said one or more function parameter designations having an alphanumeric representation. 14. An apparatus, as claimed in claim 12, wherein: a majority of said data records of said second set are represented as non-alphanumeric bit strings. 15. An apparatus, as claimed in claim 10, wherein: said supervisory means receives said natural language-like record from a data analysis means for translating said natural language-like record into said second set of event data records by first invoking said transcriber-interpreter means and subsequently invoking said converter-transcriber means. 16. An apparatus, as claimed in claim 12, wherein: said system includes means for archiving and retrieving data and said monitoring means includes a plurality of sensors embedded in said system for outputting error data corresponding to said event data records of stored plurality of event data records. 17. An apparatus, as claimed in claim 12, wherein: said converter-transcriber means translates said first set of one or more data records into output data suitable for a report generation means for generating a report related to an informational content of said first set. 18. An apparatus, as claimed in claim 12, wherein: said transcriber-interpreter means translates said natural language-like record into an English language equivalent. 19. An apparatus as claimed in claim 12, wherein: said transcriber-interpreter means includes an hierarchical collection of rules used for translating. 20. An apparatus, as claimed in claim 12, wherein one of said transcriber-interpreter means and said converter-transcriber means includes a filtering means for removing unrequested information in said second set when translating from said second set to said first set. 21. An apparatus, as claimed in claim 12, wherein one of said transcriber-interpreter means and said converter-transcriber means includes a means for detecting redundant information in said second set when translating from said second set to said first set. 