A prealigner (10) employs an X-Y stage (20) and a rotary stage (26) to position and orient a specimen (12) without centering it on the prealigner. The rotary stage is mounted on the X-Y stage and receives a semiconductor wafer (12) in a substantially arbitrary position and orientation. The prealigner employs the rotary stage and translation in only an X-axis direction to scan a peripheral edge (76) of the wafer across an optical scanning assembly (36, 270) to form a polar coordinate map of the wafer. A microprocessor (162) determines the location and orientation of the wafer from the map and cooperates with a motor drive controller (122, 280) to generate control signals for positioning and orienting the wafer in the preselected alignment without changing the location at which the wafer is held.
Claims We claim: 1. A specimen prealigner for positioning in a preselected alignment a specimen having a peripheral edge that includes a sharp contour transition, the preselected alignment including a selected position and a selected orientation, comprising: a specimen holder releasibly holding the specimen at an arbitrary specimen location and orientation and rotating the specimen at a substantially constant angular rate; a positioner coupled to the specimen holder moving the rotating specimen such that the peripheral edge of the specimen is detected by an optical scanner, the optical scanner including a light source that directs light toward the peripheral edge of the specimen and an array of light detectors that receive the light after it strikes the specimen, the array of light detectors cooperating with the light source to detect the peripheral edge of the specimen and generate alignment data for moving the positioner such that the peripheral edge of the specimen tracks a subset of the array of light detectors, and the array of light detectors cooperating with the light source to detect the sharp contour transition and generate periphery distance data; and a scan data processor using the alignment data and the periphery distance data to generate a periphery map of the specimen. 2. The prealigner of claim 1 in which the positioner is responsive to signals based on the periphery map for positioning the specimen in the preselected alignment without changing the arbitrary specimen location at which the holding means releasibly holds the specimen. 3. The prealigner of claim 1 in which the array of light detectors is a linear array of light detectors and the subset of the array of light detectors is substantially centered in the array of light detectors. 4. The prealigner of claim 3 in which the linear array of light detectors includes charge-coupled devices. 5. The prealigner of claim 3 in which the light source is an incandescent bulb that produces a light beam capable of illuminating a majority of the detectors in the array of light detectors. 6. The prealigner of claim 1 further including a filter that prevents rapid changes in the alignment data produced by the sharp contour transition from controlling moving of the positioner such that the sharp contour transition of the specimen does not track the subset of the array of light detectors. 7. The prealigner of claim 1 in which the light source and the array of light detectors are disposed on opposite sides of the specimen held by the holder with the array of light detectors aligned in a substantially radial direction to an axis of rotation of the specimen holder such that light from the light source is transmitted past the peripheral edge, the periphery distance data are generated in response to a radial positioning of the peripheral edge relative to the array of light detectors, and the periphery distance data represent a number of the light detectors in the array of light detectors that receive at least a predetermined amount of the light. 8. The prealigner of claim 7 in which a particular detector in the array of light detectors is adjacent to the peripheral edge such that the light source partly illuminates the particular detector, and the periphery distance data further include data indicative of a measured amount of light received by the particular detector. 9. The prealigner of claim 7 in which the periphery map includes data indicative of a radial distance from the axis of rotation to the peripheral edge for each of multiple angular rotational increments of the specimen, and the radial distance is a function of a position of the positioner and of the periphery distance data. 10. The prealigner of claim 1 in which the specimen substantially reflects the light directed from the light source and the specimen includes a bar code symbol positioned at a preselected location on the specimen, and in which the optical scanner cooperates with the positioner to form a specimen mapping that identifies the preselected location. 11. The prealigner of claim 10 in which the array of light detectors receives the light reflected by the specimen, and the specimen holder rotates the preselected location past the array of light detectors in an arcuate path to read the bar code symbol. 12. The prealigner of claim 10 in which the array of light detectors receives the light reflected by the specimen, and the positioner moves the preselected location past the array of light detectors in a substantially linear path to read the bar code symbol. 13. In conjunction with a specimen prealigner for positioning in a preselected alignment a specimen having a peripheral edge that includes a sharp contour transition, a specimen prealigning method comprising: receiving the specimen in an arbitrary alignment on a positioner; moving with the positioner the peripheral edge of the specimen into alignment with an optical scanner; rotating the peripheral edge of the specimen past the optical scanner at a substantially constant angular rate; actuating the positioner such that the peripheral edge of the specimen tracks the optical scanner in response to an alignment signal received from the optical scanner; generating a periphery distance value in response to rotating the sharp contour transition past the optical scanner; and producing a polar map of the peripheral edge which is an association between a set of positions of the positioner and a respective set of periphery distance values. 14. The method of claim 13 further including determining a specimen orientation from the polar map, and prealigning the specimen in the preselected alignment in response to the specimen orientation. 15. The method of claim 13 in which the optical scanner includes a linear array of light detectors that are illuminated by a light source. 16. The method of claim 15 in which the linear array of light detectors includes charge-coupled devices. 17. The method of claim 13 in which the actuating step further includes filtering a component of the sharp contour transition out of the alignment signal. 18. The method of claim 15 in which the light source and the array of light detectors are disposed on opposite sides of the specimen with the array of light detectors aligned in a substantially radial direction relative to an axis of rotation of the specimen such that light from the light source is transmitted past the peripheral edge onto the array of light detectors, and the generating step further includes determining a number of detectors in the array of light detectors that receive at least a predetermined amount of the light. 19. The method of claim 18 in which a particular detector in the array of light detectors is adjacent to the peripheral edge such that the light source partly illuminates the particular detector, and the generating step further includes measuring an amount of light received by the particular detector and correcting the periphery distance value by an amount proportional to the measured amount of light received by the particular detector. 20. The method of claim 13 in which the producing step includes computing a radial distance value representing a distance from an axis of rotation of the specimen to the peripheral edge for each of multiple angular rotational increments of the specimen, in which each radial distance value is computed by adding a position datum of the positioner and an associated periphery distance value. 