A heated cover for a receptacle containing a vaporizable substance. The cover is heated to a temperature above the temperature of the substance so as to prevent condensation of vapor evaporated from the substance. A device for placing and removing the cover with respect to the receptacle is designed in connection with a temperature-controlled heating/cooling plate which controls the temperature of the contents of the receptacle.
Claims We claim: 1. A device for covering a receptacle containing a vaporizable substance subject to temperature control, the device comprising: a frame; a base supported on the frame, the base is configured to be positioned against the receptacle and having means for effecting temperature control of the substance; and a cover supported on the frame, the cover is configured to be placed over the receptacle for reducing evaporative loss, the cover and the base are pivoted on the frame in opposing positions such that the receptacle can be positioned between the cover and the base, and the base and cover can be pivotally positioned against the bottom and top, respectively, of the receptacle. 2. A device as in claim 1 further comprising means for controlling temperature of the cover. 3. A device as in claim 2 wherein the means for controlling temperature of the cover controls the temperature of the cover to above the temperature of the substance in the receptacle. 4. A device as in claim 3 wherein the means for controlling temperature of the cover maintains the temperature of the cover 5.degree. C. above the temperature of the substance. 5. For covering a receptacle containing a vaporizable substance, a device comprising a frame; a cover pivotally supported on the frame to allow placement of the cover on the receptacle; and a temperature controlled base pivotally supported on the frame so that the base can be pivoted to position the base against the bottom of the receptacle. 6. A device as in claim 5, further comprising means for controlling the temperature of the cover. 7. A device as in claim 6 wherein the frame is configured for attachment to an automated laboratory workstation which manipulates the receptacle in cooperative function with the device. 8. A laboratory device for processing a biological or chemical sample substance comprising: a receptacle for containing a small volume of vaporizable biological or chemical substance for laboratory processing; a cover configured to cover the receptacle for substantially preventing escape of vapor from the receptacle; temperature means for varying the temperature of the cover; and control means for actively controlling the temperature means to maintain the temperature of the cover to above the temperature of the substance in the receptacle, wherein the control means includes feedback means for feeding back the actual temperature of the cover, 9. A device as in claim 8 wherein the control means controls the temperature means to maintain the temperature of the cover to be slightly above the temperature of the substance in the receptacle. 10. A device as in claim 8 further comprising positioning means for positioning the cover onto the receptacle. 11. A device as in claim 10 wherein the positioning means includes means for providing automatic control to control the positioning of the cover onto the receptacle. 12. A device as in claim 11 wherein the positioning means further includes means for pivoting the cover onto the receptacle. 13. A device as in claim 8 further comprising substance temperature means for effecting temperature control of the substance in the receptacle. 14. A device as in claim 13 further comprising means for positioning the receptacle relative to the substance temperature means for cooperative engagement therewith. 15. A device as in claim 13 wherein the substance temperature means controls the temperature of the substance in accordance with a specified temperature profile. 16. A device as in claim 15 wherein the control means controls the temperature means to maintain the temperature of the cover to be slightly above the temperature of the substance in the receptacle. 17. A device as in claim 15 wherein the control means controls the temperature means to maintain the temperature of the cover to be at a substantially fixed given temperature above the temperature of the substance in the receptacle. 18. A device as in claim 17 wherein the control means controls the temperature means to maintain the temperature of the cover to be substantially 5.degree. C. above the temperature of the substance in the receptacle. 19. A device as in claim 8 wherein the receptacle comprises multiple sample wells. 20. A laboratory device for processing a biological or chemical sample substance comprising: a receptacle for containing a small volume of vaporizable biological or chemical substance for laboratory processing; a cover configured to cover the receptacle for substantially preventing escape of vapor from the receptacle; temperature means for varying the temperature of the cover; and control means for actively controlling the temperature means to maintain the temperature of the cover to above the temperature of the substance in the receptacle, wherein the control means actively controls the temperature means to maintain the temperature of the cover in accordance with a specified temperature profile. 21. A laboratory device for processing a biological or chemical sample substance comprising: a receptacle for containing a small volume of vaporizable biological or chemical substance for laboratory processing; a cover configured to cover the receptacle for substantially preventing escape of vapor from the receptacle; temperature means for varying the temperature of the cover; and control means for actively controlling the temperature means to maintain the temperature of the cover to above the temperature of the substance in the receptacle, wherein the control means controls the temperature means to maintain the temperature of the cover to be at a substantially fixed given temperature above the temperature of the substance in the receptacle. 22. A device as in claim 21 wherein the control means controls the temperature means to maintain the temperature of the cover to be substantially 5.degree. C. above the temperature of the substance in the receptacle. 23. A laboratory device for processing a biological or chemical sample substance comprising: a receptacle for containing a small volume vaporizable biological or chemical substance for laboratory processing; substance temperature means for effecting temperature control of the substance in the receptacle, wherein the substance temperature means controls the temperature of the substance in accordance with a specified temperature profile; a cover configured to cover the receptacle for substantially preventing escape of vapor from the receptacle; cover temperature means for varying the temperature of the cover; and control means for controlling the cover temperature means to maintain the temperature of the cover to above the temperature of the substance in the receptacle. 24. A device as in claim 23 wherein the control means further actively controls the cover temperature means to maintain the temperature of the cover in accordance with a specified temperature profile. 25. A device as in claim 23 wherein the control means controls the cover temperature means to maintain the temperature of the cover to be slightly above the temperature of the substance in the receptacle. 26. A device as in claim 25 wherein the control means controls the cover temperature means to maintain the temperature of the cover to be at a substantially fixed given temperature above the temperature of the substance in the receptacle. 27. A device as in claim 26 wherein the control means controls the temperature means to maintain the temperature of the cover to be substantially 5.degree. C. above the temperature of the substance in the receptacle. 28. A device as in claim 23 further comprising automatic means for automatically positioning the cover onto the receptacle. 29. A device as in claim 28 wherein the automatic means comprises means for pivoting the cover onto the receptacle. 30. A laboratory device for processing of a biological or chemical sample substance comprising: a receptacle for containing a small volume of vaporizable biological or chemical substance for laboratory processing; temperature means for creating a temperature gradient in the receptacle above the substance, said temperature means including means for substantially preventing escape of vapor from the receptacle; and means for actively controlling the temperature means whereby the temperature gradient is maintained in a manner such that the temperature is higher away from the substance. 31. A device as in claim 30 wherein the control means further actively controls the temperature means to maintain the temperature of the temperature means in accordance with a specified temperature profile. 32. A device as in claim 31 wherein the temperature means includes a cover for covering the receptacle. 33. A device as in claim 32 further comprising positioning means for automatic positioning of the cover onto the receptacle. 34. A device as in claim 33 further comprising substance temperature means for effecting temperature control of the substance in the receptacle in accordance with a specified temperature profile. 35. A laboratory device for processing biological or chemical sample substances comprising: a receptacle having multiple wells for containing vaporizable biological or chemical substances; a cover configured to cover the wells for substantially preventing escape of vapor from the wells; temperature means for varying the temperature of the cover; and control means for controlling the temperature means to maintain the temperature of the cover to above the temperature of the substances in the wells, wherein the control means actively controls the temperature means to maintain the temperature of the cover in accordance with a specified temperature profile. 36. A device as in claim 35 further comprising positioning means for automatic positioning of the cover onto the receptacle. 37. A device as in claim 36 further comprising substance temperature means for effecting temperature control of the substances in the receptacle in accordance with a specified temperature profile. 