A robotic arm is driven by a servomotor which is controlled through position and speed control loops. The position and speed control loops are adaptable in response to a flexible position control. Upon receipt of a flexible control command, a position gain and a proportional gain of the speed control loop are lowered in accordance with a set degree of flexibility. The output of an integrator of the speed control loop is also limited to a set clamp value. As a result, a torque command for controlling the servomotor never achieves an expressly large value even if a position deviation increases. In case an obstacle is placed in the transfer path of the robotic arm, the arm can be moved by human power to avoid the obstacle.
Claims We claim: 1. A flexible servo control method for controlling a servomotor to drive a body, said control system being provided with a position control loop and a speed control loop including an integrator, said method comprising the steps of: setting a position gain and a proportional gain of the speed control loop to respective predetermined values; lowering the position gain and proportional gain of the speed control loop to respective lower values in response to a flexible control command input into the control system; clamping an output of the integrator of the speed control loop to a set value; and driving the servomotor with the clamped output of said integrator in response to the flexible control command so that the body driven by said servomotor can be moved manually. 2. A flexible servo control method according to claim 1, further comprising the steps of: storing the output of the integrator of the speed control loop upon entry of the flexible control command in a register as an integrator value before said lowering step; cancelling the flexible control command; restoring the position gain and the proportional gain of the speed control loop to the original predetermined values and releasing the integrator of the speed control loop from the clamping by restoring the integrator value stored in said register to said integrator; and executing position control loop and speed control loop processing to thereby control the servomotor. 3. A flexible servo control method for controlling a servomotor to drive a body in a control system provided with a position control loop and a speed control loop, comprising the steps of: lowering a position gain and a proportional gain of the speed control loop to respective predetermined values from respective original values; storing a value which is disposed in an integrator of the speed control loop in a register and clearing said integrator when a flexible control command is input; executing position control loop and speed control loop processing in accordance with said lowered position and proportional gains while clamping an output of the integrator to a set value; and driving the servomotor with a torque command produced by adding the value stored in said register to the clamped output from said integrator so that the body driven by said servomotor can be moved manually. 4. A flexible servo control method according to claim 3, further comprising the steps of; cancelling the flexible control command; restoring the position gain and the proportional gain of the speed control loop to the respective original predetermined values and releasing the output of the integrator from the clamping when the flexible control command is canceled; and executing position control loop and speed control loop processing to control the servomotor in the control system such that the value stored in said register is set in said integrator. 5. A flexible servo control method according to claim 4, wherein said set value to which the output of said integrator is clamped is a value substantially equivalent to a predetermined frictional resistance. 6. A flexible servo control method according to claim 3, wherein said speed control loop is proportional-plus-integral (PI) control. 7. A flexible servo control method according to claim 3, wherein said speed control loop is integral-plus-proportional (PI) control. 8. A flexible servo control method according to claim 3, wherein said servomotor is a servomotor for moving an arm of a robot. 9. A flexible servo control method according to claim 4, wherein said steps of setting, storing, executing said control loops to drive a value, driving, and executing said control loops to drive the servomotor are sequentially executed by an instructed program. 10. A flexible servo control method according to claim 3, further comprising the steps of: transmitting a position command for said servomotor from a host computer to a digital servo circuit through a shared memory while the digital servo circuit receives position and speed information from the servomotor through a feedback signal register; and executing servo processing by the position control loop and the speed control loop. 