A rangefinding/autofocusing apparatus utilizes a joint transform correlator of a Fourier correlation optical system. A pair of imaging lens systems form a pair of object input images. A lens driving mechanism drives the imaging lens systems in a parallel manner. The pair of object input images are recorded for display. A reference input image is displayed concurrently along with the recorded object input images in an offset relation relative to each other. A photodetector disposed on the correlation plane of the Fourier correlation optical system detects correlation peaks corresponding to a correlation coefficient of the pair of displayed object input images to measure an interval between the detected correlation peaks. The photodetector also detects correlation peaks corresponding to a correlation coefficient of the reference input image and the object input images to determine a correlation between the reference image and the object. A calculation unit calculates a distance between the object and the imaging lens systems to determine a just-focused state of the object depending on the measured interval. The lens driving mechanism shifts the imaging lens systems to thereby establish the just-focused state of the object. A target object is recognized depending on the correlation between the reference image and the object after the just-focused state is established.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A rangefinding/autofocusing apparatus utilizing a joint transform correlator of a Fourier correlation optical system using a coherent light and having a correlation plane, the apparatus comprising: input image forming means including a pair of imaging lens systems for imaging an object to form a pair of input images, a lens driving mechanism for driving the imaging lens systems in parallel manner, recording means for recording the input images, and displaying means for concurrently displaying the pair of the recorded input images in an offset relation relative to each other; photodetecting means disposed on a correlation plane of a Fourier correlation optical system for detecting correlation peaks corresponding to a correlation coefficient of the pair of the displayed input images so as to measure an interval between the detected correlation peaks; a calculation unit operative according to the measured interval of the correlation peaks for calculating a distance between the object and the pair of the imaging lens systems to determine a just-focus spacing between the recording means and the pair of the imaging lens systems; and a feedback mechanism operative according to the determined just-focus spacing for controlling the lens driving mechanism to shift the pair of the imaging lens systems in a parallel manner to thereby establish a just-focus state. 2. A rangefinding/autofocusing apparatus according to claim 1; wherein the recording means and the displaying means are composed integrally of a spatial light modulator of an optically addressed type. 3. A rangefinding/autofocusing apparatus according to claim 1; wherein the recording means comprises a pair of CCD cameras, and the displaying means comprises a pair of liquid crystal televisions. 4. A rangefinding/autofocusing apparatus according to claim 1; wherein the photodetecting means comprises one pair or more of linear photodetectors. 5. A rangefinding/autofocusing apparatus according to claim 1; wherein the input image forming means includes an image memory storing a reference image, a spatial light modulator of an electrically writable type for temporarily displaying the reference image, and an imaging lens system for imaging the displayed reference image on the recording means so that the reference image can be displayed on the displaying means simultaneously in an offset relation from the pair of the input images. 6. A rangefinding/autofocusing apparatus according to claim 5; wherein the recording means comprises a CCD camera, and the displaying means comprises a liquid crystal television. 7. A rangefinding/autofocusing apparatus according to claim 5; wherein the recording means and the displaying means are composed integrally of a spatial light modulator of an optically addressed type. 8. A rangefinding/autofocusing apparatus according to claim 7; wherein the spatial light modulator comprises a ferroelectric liquid crystal light valve of an optically writable type composed of a laminate structure of a transparent substrate, a photoconductive layer of hydrogenized amorphous silicon, a light reflecting layer, a ferroelectric liquid crystal layer,an alignment film layer and an electrode layer for applying a voltage. 9. A rangefinding/autofocusing apparatus according to claim 8; wherein the input image forming means further includes means for driving the ferroelectric liquid crystal light valve such that the photoconductive layer is applied continuously and sequentially with pulse voltages of positive and negative polarities, and is concurrently applied with a given DC bias voltage effective to establish a monostable optical response in the ferroelectric liquid crystal layer. 10. A rangefinding/autofocusing apparatus according to claim 5; wherein the input image forming means further includes means for binarizing the pair of input images so that the pair of input images are displayed as a pair of binarized input images. 11. A rangefinding/autofocusing apparatus according to claim 5; wherein the input image forming means further includes means for changing a size of the reference image on the displaying means according to the calculated distance between the object and the pair of imaging lens systems. 12. A rangefinding/autofocusing apparatus utilizing a joint transform correlator of a Fourier correlation optical system using a coherent light and having a correlation plane, the apparatus comprising: input image forming means for forming input images, the input image forming means including a pair of imaging lens systems for imaging an object to form a pair of input images, a lens driving mechanism for driving the imaging lens systems in parallel manner, an image memory for storing a reference image, a spatial light modulator for temporarily displaying the reference image, an imaging lens system for imaging the displayed reference image as another input image, recording means for recording the input images of the object and the input image of the reference image, and displaying means for concurrently displaying the pair of recorded input images of the object and the recorded input image of the reference image in an offset relation relative to each other; photodetecting means disposed on a correlation plane of a Fourier correlation optical system for detecting correlation peaks corresponding to a correlation coefficient of the pair of displayed input images so as to measure an interval between the detected correlation peaks; a calculation unit operative according to the measured interval of the correlation peaks for calculating a distance between the object and the pair of imaging lens systems to determine a just-focus spacing between the recording means and the pair of imaging lens systems; and a feedback mechanism operative according to the determined just-focus spacing for controlling the lens driving mechanism to shift the pair of imaging lens systems in a parallel manner to thereby establish a just-focus state. 13. A rangefinding/autofocusing apparatus according to claim 12; wherein the recording means comprises a CCD camera, and the displaying means comprises a liquid crystal television. 14. A rangefinding/autofocusing apparatus according to claim 12; wherein the recording means and the displaying means are composed integrally of an optically-addressable spatial light modulator. 15. A rangefinding/autofocusing apparatus according to claim 14; wherein the spatial light modulator comprises a optically-writable ferroelectric liquid crystal light valve composed of a laminate structure of a transparent substrate, a photoconductive layer of hydrogenized amorphous silicon, a light reflecting layer, a ferroelectric liquid crystal layer, an alignment film layer and an electrode layer for applying a voltage. 16. A rangefinding/autofocusing apparatus according to claim 15; wherein the input image forming means further includes means for driving the ferroelectric liquid crystal light valve such that the photoconductive layer is applied continuously and sequentially with pulse voltages of positive and negative polarities, and is concurrently applied with a given DC bias voltage effective to establish a monostable optical response in the ferroelectric liquid crystal layer. 17. A rangefinding/autofocusing apparatus according to claim 12; wherein the input image forming means further includes means for binarizing the pair of input images so that the pair of input images are displayed as a pair of binarized input images. 18. A rangefinding/autofocusing apparatus according to claim 12; further including means for changing a size of the reference image on the displaying means according to the calculated distance between the object and the pair of imaging lens systems. 19. A rangefinding/autofocusing apparatus according to claim 12; wherein the photodetecting means comprises at least two linear photodetectors. 20. A rangefinding/autofocusing apparatus utilizing a joint transform correlator having a correlation plane, the apparatus comprising: input image forming means for forming input images, the input image forming means including an imaging lens system for imaging an object to form a pair of object input images, a lens driving mechanism for driving the imaging lens system, recording means for recording the pair of object input images, reference input image forming means for forming a reference input image of a reference image, and displaying means for concurrently displaying the pair of recorded object input images and the reference input image in an offset relation relative to each other; photodetecting means disposed on a correlation plane of a correlation optical system for detecting correlation peaks corresponding to a correlation coefficient of the pair of displayed object input images so as to measure an interval between the detected correlation peaks, and for detecting correlation peaks corresponding to a correlation coefficient of the reference input image and at least one of the pair of displayed object input images so as to determine a correlation between the reference image and the object; a calculation unit operative according to the measured interval for calculating a distance between the object and the imaging lens system to determine a just-focus spacing between the displaying means and the imaging lens system; and a feedback mechanism operative according to the determined just-focus spacing for controlling the lens driving mechanism to shift the imaging lens system to thereby establish a just-focus state. 21. A rangefinding/autofocusing apparatus according to claim 20; wherein the calculation unit includes recognizing means for recognizing a target object depending on the correlation between the reference image and the object after the feedback mechanism establishes the just-focus state. 22. A rangefinding/autofocusing apparatus according to claim 20; wherein the reference input image forming means further includes reference image storing means for storing a plurality of reference images, and means for repeatedly changing the reference input image to be displayed on the displaying means to enable selection of a particular reference image having a correlation with the object exceeding a predetermined value. 23. A rangefinding/autofocusing apparatus according to claim 20; wherein the input image forming means includes means for displacing the imaging lens system to repeatedly form images of other objects to enable selection of a particular object having a correlation with the reference image exceeding a predetermined value. 24. A rangefinding/autofocusing apparatus according to claim 20; wherein the input image forming means includes means for changing a size of the reference image displayed on the displaying means depending on the calculated distance between the object and the imaging lens system. 25. A rangefinding/autofocusing apparatus according to claim 24; wherein the calculation unit includes recognizing means for recognizing a target object depending on the correlation between the reference image and the object after the just-focus state is established and the size of the reference image is changed. 26. A rangefinding/autofocusing apparatus according to claim 20; wherein the photodetecting means is disposed on a correlation plane of a Fourier correlation optical system. 