A method and apparatus for processing and assembling a plurality of small parts weighing under five pounds using a robot employing a rotatable pallet for holding an array of small parts. Said rotatable pallet being held in place on the robot wrist head, which moves the pallet through a plurality of stationary work-stations located within the operating envelope of the robot, and rotates the pallet at each work-station to index the pallet and to present it to the work-station for an operation on a specific part or parts. Said robot participates in the work-station tasks by moving the rotatable pallet in the X, Y, and Z directions as needed. Movable data pins are used to indicate conditions of individual parts in nests, and of the pallet taken as a whole.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for performing processing operations on work-pieces utilizing a robot including a head movable in the X, Y, and Z directions and a wrist joint rotatable in the horizontal plane, the method comprising the steps of: a. providing a rotatable pallet which has a plurality of nests for retaining said work-pieces; b. mounting a pallet-gripping end effector on said robot head; c. grasping said rotatable pallet with said end effector; d. moving said rotatable pallet by said robot into position adjacent to a processing work-station in a working envelope of said robot such that a selected work-piece in said rotatable pallet is presented to the work-station; e. performing a work-station task on said selected work-piece; f. indexing said pallet to present another work-piece to said work-station by rotating said wrist joint of said robot; g. performing said work-station task on said another work-piece; and h. repeating steps (f) and (g) sequentially until all said work-pieces in said pallet have been worked on at said work-station. 2. A method in accordance with claim 1 wherein said step (c) further comprises the step of grasping said rotatable pallet with said end effector above said pallet. 3. A method in accordance with claim 1 wherein said step (c) further comprises grasping said rotatable pallet with said end effector below said pallet. 4. A method in accordance with claim 1 further comprising repeating said steps (d) through (g) for a plurality of work-stations. 5. A method in accordance with claim 1 further comprising the step of selecting less than all said work-pieces in said pallet for processing in said work-station. 6. A method in accordance with claim 1 wherein said pallet nests are loaded with said work-pieces when said rotatable pallet is moved into said working envelope of said robot. 7. A method in accordance with claim 1 wherein said pallet nests are empty when said rotatable pallet is moved into said working envelope of said robot. 8. A method in accordance with claim 1 further comprising the step of processing said work-pieces in said nests of said rotatable pallet by moving said pallet in the X, Y, and Z directions by said robot as a part of the work-station processing. 9. A method in accordance with claim 1 further comprising the steps of: a. providing a part gripper not moving with said end effector; b. gripping a component from a supply point with said part gripper; c. moving said pallet by said robot relative to said selected work-piece to position said component for assembling to said selected work-piece; d. moving said pallet by said robot to complete the assembling of said component to said selected work-piece; and e. releasing said gripping of said component. 10. A method in accordance with claim 1 further comprising the steps of: a. providing a part gripper not moving with said end effector; b. moving said pallet by said robot to a part gripping position such that said part gripper grips said selected work-piece on said pallet; c. moving said pallet by said robot relative to said selected work-piece to a position away from said selected work-piece; and d. releasing said selected work-piece from said part gripper. 11. A method in accordance with claim 1 further comprising the steps of: a. providing a part gripper not moving with said end effector; b. moving said pallet by said robot to a part gripping position such that said part gripper grips said selected work-piece on said pallet; c. moving said pallet by said robot relative to said selected work-piece to a position away from said selected work-piece; d. performing a work-station processing action on said selected work-piece; e. moving said pallet by said robot to position said selected work-piece back in said pallet; and f. releasing said selected work-piece from said part gripper. 12. A method in accordance with claim 1 further comprising the steps of: a. providing a part gripper not moving with said end effector; b. moving said pallet by said robot to a part gripping position such that said part gripper grips said selected work-piece on said pallet; c. moving said pallet by said robot relative to said selected work-piece to a position away from said selected work-piece; d. reorienting said selected work-piece by said part gripper; e. moving said pallet by said robot to a position where said selected work-piece is back in said pallet; and f. releasing said selected work-piece from said part gripper. 13. A method in accordance with claim 12 wherein said step (d) further comprises the step of positioning said selected work-piece into a different nest than said nest from which it was removed. 14. A method in accordance with claim 1 further comprising the step of moving a movable data pin in said pallet by having said robot move said pallet against an object fixed near said pallet and not attached to said end effector causing said data pin to move relative to a surface of said pallet. 15. A method in accordance with claim 1 further comprising the steps of: a. providing said end effector under said rotatable pallet; b. providing a pallet magazine for stacking a plurality of vertically stacked rotatable pallets; c. moving said robot head up against a lowest one of said plurality of vertically stacked rotatable pallets; d. moving said robot head further up; e. gripping said lowest one of said plurality of vertically stacked rotatable pallets with said end effector; f. withdrawing movable supporting devices of said magazine from below said lowest one of said plurality of vertically stacked rotatable pallets; g. moving said robot head and said plurality of vertically stacked rotatable pallets down; h. inserting said movable supporting devices above said lowest one of said plurality of vertically stacked rotatable pallets and below said rotatable pallet which is above said lowest one of said plurality of vertically stacked rotatable pallets; i. moving said robot head and said lowest one of said plurality of vertically stacked rotatable pallets further down and releasing said lowest one of said plurality of rotatable pallets; and j. moving said robot head and said lowest one of said plurality of rotatable pallets away from under said magazine. 16. A method in accordance with claim 1 further comprising the steps of: a. providing a pallet magazine for stacking a vertical stack of pallets; b. moving said end effector up against a lowest one of said pallets in said vertical stack of pallets; c. moving said end effector further up to raise said stack of pallets; d. withdrawing movable supporting devices of said magazine from below said lowest one of said stack of pallets; e. moving said end effector down to lower said stack of pallets; f. inserting said movable supporting devices between said lowest one of said stack of pallets and another pallet immediately above said lowest one of said stack of pallets; g. moving said end effector further down to release said lowest one of said stack of pallets from said stack of pallets; and h. moving said end effector and said lowest one of said stack of pallets away from said magazine. 17. A method in accordance with claim 1 further comprising the steps of: a. providing an indexing conveyor to move a conveyor pallet; b. supporting said rotatable pallet on said conveyor pallet; c. aligning said end effector with said rotatable pallet; d. gripping said rotatable pallet with said end effector; e. moving said rotatable pallet through a plurality of work-stations and performing selected operations on said work-pieces in said nests; f. aligning said end effector with said rotatable pallet to said conveyor pallet; g. releasing said end effector's grip on said rotatable pallet; h. moving said end effector away from said rotatable pallet; and i. operating said indexing conveyor to move said conveyor pallet out of said working envelope of said robot. 18. A method in accordance with claim 1 further comprising the steps of: a. providing a pallet storage station in said work envelope of said robot; b. providing second robot with a work envelope including said pallet storage station within its work envelope; and c. placing a plurality of rotatable pallets into said storage station with electronic commands to said second robot such that said plurality of rotatable pallets are to be picked up by said second robot. 19. A method in accordance with claim 1 further comprising the steps of: a. imprinting a bar code on said rotatable pallet; b. providing a bar code reader at said processing work-station; c. moving said rotatable pallet such that said bar code is moved past said bar code reader; d. reading said bar code on said rotatable pallet by said bar code reader; e. providing a factory computer data base system for determining identities and processing requirements of said work-pieces; and f. associating said identities and processing requirements of said work-pieces from said factory computer data base system with said work-pieces in said nests in said rotatable pallet. 