An automated drive-up vending facility (10) and method utilizes a plurality of automatic transaction machines (12) located around the periphery of a storage building (14), whereby customers can drive their vehicles along side the building, insert an account/debit card into a card reader (16), and make product selections via a touch screen display terminal (18). The products are stocked within building (14), and an automated picking/sorting subsystem (20) retrieves the selected products for deposit into a dispensing chute (22). Selection and product information is provided at the display terminals (18) via an interactive menu driven program. Selection of products subject to sales restrictions automatically actives video conferencing equipment (26) so that a sales attendant can confirm customer authorization to purchase the selected product. Customer purchasing history is stored and analyzed to improve a product's chances of promotional marketing influencing a customer's product selection prior to the completion of a vending transaction.
Claims I claim: 1. An automated drive-up vending system comprising: a storage facility for housing a plurality of saleable goods, wherein the sale of at least some of said plurality of saleable goods may be subject to particular restrictions; at least one customer input means positioned outside of said storage facility, said at least one customer input means being accessible to an occupant of a vehicle when the vehicle is positioned adjacent to said at least one input means; an automated goods retrieval means located within said storage facility which is responsive to said at least one customer input means for retrieving any goods which are selected by a customer; a goods dispensing means for delivering to the customer the goods retrieved by said retrieval means; and a purchase authorization means comprising: means for detecting customer selection of a good subject to a sales restriction; means responsive to said detection means for automatically providing direct communication between the customer and an authorization attendant; means for communicating customer identification information to the authorization attendant; and means remotely operated by the authorization attendant for enabling completion of the restricted goods sales transaction upon attendant verification of acceptable customer identification information. 2. The system of claim 1 further comprising means for storing inventory information and a means for updating said inventory information in response to goods selected and dispensed to the customer. 3. The system of claim 2 further comprising means for tracking said inventory information for automatically detecting and removing any perishable goods which have passed their expiration dates. 4. The system of claim 1 further comprising means for storing customer purchase information to accumulate a purchase history. 5. The system of claim 4 further comprising means for analyzing said purchase history to determine a customer purchase profile for use in marketing particular goods. 6. The system of claim 1 wherein said storage facility comprises a mobile structure suitable for off-site construction. 7. The system of claim 1 wherein said at least one customer input means comprises a touch video input screen. 8. The system of claim 7 further comprising means for generating at least one selection menu image on said touch video input screen for facilitating selection of goods by the customer. 9. The system of claim 1 further comprising means for reading a customer account identification card, and means for automatically debiting the customer's vending transaction at the end of a transaction. 10. An automated drive-up vending system comprising: a storage facility for housing a plurality of saleable goods, wherein the sale of at least some of said plurality of saleable goods may be subject to particular restrictions; at least one customer input means positioned outside of said storage facility, said at least one customer input means being accessible to an occupant of a vehicle when the vehicle is positioned adjacent to said at least one input means; an automated goods retrieval means located within said storage facility which is responsive to said at least one customer input means for retrieving any goods which are selected by a customer; a goods dispensing means for delivering to the customer the goods retrieved by said retrieval means; means for storing customer purchase information to accumulate a purchase history; and means for analyzing said purchase history to determine a customer purchase profile for use in marketing particular goods. 11. The system of claim 10 further comprising a purchase authorization means comprising: means for detecting customer selection of a good subject to a sales restriction; means responsive to said detection means for automatically providing direct communication between the customer and an authorization attendant; means for communicating customer identification information to the authorization attendant; and means remotely operated by the authorization attendant for enabling completion of the restricted goods sales transaction upon attendant verification of acceptable customer identification information. 12. The system of claim 10 further comprising means for storing inventory information and a means for updating said inventory information in response to goods selected and dispensed to the customer. 13. The system of claim 12 further comprising means for tracking said inventory information for automatically detecting and removing any perishable goods which have passed their expiration dates. 14. The system of claim 10 wherein said storage facility comprises a mobile structure suitable for off-site construction. 15. The system of claim 10 wherein said at least one customer input means comprises a touch video input screen. 16. The system of claim 15 further comprising means for generating at least one selection menu image on said touch video input screen for facilitating selection of goods by the customer. 17. The system of claim 10 further comprising means for reading a customer account identification card, and means for automatically debiting the customer's vending transaction at the end of the a transaction. 18. A method for automated vending of consumer products, said consumer products being inventoried in a vending facility having a video means for displaying the inventoried products to a customer, input means for receiving customer information and product selections, and means for retrieving and dispensing to the customer the selected products from their inventoried location within the facility, said method comprising the steps of: using said video means to prompt a customer to input customer identification information with said input means; determining a customer profile based on said input identification information; determining whether said customer profile satisfies a first set of predetermined product promotional criteria; activating a first predetermined product promotional arrangement if said customer profile satisfies said first predetermined promotional criteria; providing at least one customer requested product selection menu on said video display means; receiving the customer's product selections from said input; retrieving the selected products from the vending facility; and dispensing said retrieved products to the customer. 19. The method of claim 18 further comprising the steps of determining whether the at least one customer requested product selection menu satisfies a second set of predetermined product promotional criteria; and activating a second predetermined promotional arrangement if said second set of predetermined criteria are satisfied. 20. The method of claim 19 wherein said first and second predetermined product promotional arrangements comprise promoting designated products prior to the customer ending the vending transaction. 