The subject invention provides a modular, expandable and reconfigurable robotic system. In one aspect of the invention there is provided a robot having at least two manipulators each having several compact rotary joints. The rotary joints have one input coupling and either one or two output couplings. Each joint is modular including a d.c. brushless motor coupled with a harmonic cup drive and includes position, velocity and torque sensors. Each manipulator may be disassembled and reassembled to assume a multitude of configurations. In another aspect of the invention there is provided an expandable and modular real-time computer control system for controlling the robot. The computer architecture achieves between 5 to 10 MFLOPS with reduced instruction set computing (RISC) processor nodes and a fast point-to-point communication network. Each node includes a host computer and parallel input/output (I/O) modules as well. The nodes are controlled by nearly zero-overhead real-time operating system (OS) kernels responsible for task scheduling, communication and user-interface. Each node is capable of controlling 8 joints at 1 kHz while executing over 1000 floating point operations per joint in each sampling interval.
Claims Therefore what is claimed is: 1. A modular robot joint, comprising: a) a housing provided with first and second housing portions movable with respect to each other, said first and second housing portions each being provided with attachment means to which an associated connector member is releasibly attachable; b) a motor being attached to the first housing portion; c) a transmission being operably coupled to the motor; and d) an elastic member being coupled to said transmission, said elastic member being rigidly attached to the second housing portion, whereby when the transmission is driven by the motor the elastic member is responsively driven by the transmission to pivot the second housing portion relative to the first housing portion, means connected to said elastic member for measuring torque applied to said elastic member. 2. The robot joint according to claim 1 wherein said robot joint has an axis of rotation, and wherein said second housing portion pivots about said axis of rotation. 3. The robot joint according to claim 1 wherein said second housing portion includes first and second attachment means. 4. The robot joint according to claim 3 wherein said first and second attachment means are disposed substantially perpendicular to each other on said second housing portion, wherein when a connector member having an axis of rotation is attached to said first attachment means the connector member axis of rotation is perpendicular to the axis of rotation of said joint, and wherein when said connector member having the axis of rotation is attached to said second attachment means the connector member axis of rotation is collinear with the axis of rotation of said joint. 5. The robot joint according to claim 1 wherein said motor is a direct current brushless motor. 6. The robot joint according to claim 5 wherein said transmission is a harmonic drive transmission. 7. The robot joint according to claim 1 wherein said elastic member includes a cross-shaped portion having four beams. 8. The robot joint according to claim 7 wherein said elastic member is provided with a strain gauge mounted on each of said four beams. 9. The robot joint according to claim 8 including a preamplifier coupled to each of said strain gauges, said preamplifier being attached to said housing. 10. The robot joint according to claim 1 wherein the joint includes position sensing means. 11. The robot joint according to claim 10 wherein said motor includes a motor shaft and wherein said position sensing means senses the angular position of the motor shaft. 12. The robot joint according to claim 9 including computer control means for controlling the movement of said joint, wherein said means for measuring torque applied to the elastic member forms part of a feedback control loop. 13. A robotic manipulator, comprising: a) at least two connector members; b) a robot joint comprising a housing provided with first and second housing portions movable with respect to each other, said first and second housing portions each being provided with attachment means to which an associated connector member is releasibly attached, the robot joint including a motor attached to the first housing portion and a transmission operably coupled to the motor, the joint being provided with an elastic member being coupled to said transmission, said elastic member being rigidly attached to the second housing portion, means connected to said elastic member for measuring torque applied to said elastic member, the robot joint including position sensing means for sensing the position of the joint, whereby when the transmission is driven by the motor the elastic member is responsively driven by the transmission to pivot the second housing portion relative to the first housing portion; and c) computer control means for controlling said robotic manipulator, said computer control means operable to generate control signals for controlling said motor, wherein said means for measuring torque applied to the elastic member and said position sensor form part of a feedback control loop. 14. The robotic manipulator according to claim 13 including two manipulators, said computer control means being operable to simultaneously control said two manipulators. 15. The robotic manipulator according to claim 13 wherein said motor is a direct current brushless motor. 16. The robotic manipulator according to claim 15 wherein said transmission is a harmonic drive transmission. 17. The robotic manipulator according to claim 13 wherein said elastic member includes a cross-shaped portion having four beams. 18. The robotic manipulator according to claim 17 wherein said elastic member is provided with a strain gauge mounted on each of said four beams and including a preamplifier coupled to each of said strain gauges, said preamplifier being attached to said housing. 