A dispensing apparatus comprises a robot device (14) having gripping means (20a, 20b) presentable to a plurality of stations, each station being adapted to provide an operation in a sequence of operations such as to produce a measured quantity or dose from a supply of a hazardous substance, and one of the stations (32) comprising a multi-syringe receiving and filling station comprising syringe receiving means (106) capable of receiving and holding syringes of different sizes each adapted to contain a said substance, the said station having means (95) for operating each syringe when located at that station whereby syringes of different sizes may be operated automatically as selected. The said station may comprise a hazardous liquid filling station for filling items one of which comprises a syringe. The hazardous substance dispensed by the apparatus may comprise a radionuclide, a cytotoxin, a chemotherapeutic agent or a dangerous substance containing one or more bacteriological or viral ingredients or material used in positron emission topography. The said sequence of operations including operations at the filling station may include operations to: (a) elute material from a concentrated source to a user stock source, e.g. in a stock bottle; (b) preparation of different strength doses from the stock source; and (c) preparation of individual patient doses from the appropriate selected doses.
Claims We claim: 1. A dispensing apparatus comprising a robot device having gripping means presentable to a plurality of stations, each station being adapted to provide an operation in a sequence of operations such as to produce a measured quantity or dose from a supply of a hazardous substance, and one of the stations comprising a multi-syringe receiving and filling station comprising syringe receiving means capable of receiving and holding syringes of different sizes each adapted to contain a said substance, the said station having means for operating each syringe when located at that station. 2. An apparatus as in claim 1 and wherein the syringe receiving means comprises a single port having adjustable locating means adapted to locate syringes of different sizes. 3. An apparatus as in claim 1 and wherein the syringe receiving means comprises a plurality of ports in parallel each having locating means to locate a different selected syringe. 4. Apparatus as in claim 2 and wherein the said station further comprises a container receiver and means for moving the locating means relative to the container receiver whereby when a syringe is held by the locating means its end may be moved toward a container when on the container receiver. 5. Apparatus as in claim 4 and wherein the means for moving is such that a needle when held on a syringe held on the locating means can be moved to enter a container on the container receiver. 6. An apparatus as in claim 4 and wherein the said station further includes means for equalising the air pressure in the syringe and the container when one is inserted into the other. 7. An apparatus as in claim 4 and wherein the said station also includes means for rotating the syringe locating means relative to the container receiver whereby in use the container may be arranged after rotation to be above the syringe. 8. Apparatus as in claims 4 and wherein syringes for use in connection with the apparatus each have shoulders for supporting the syringe and a plunger for drawing liquid into and ejecting liquid from the syringe and the said one station comprises a mechanism providing at the syringe port: (a) means for locating the shoulders of the selected syringe in use at the port; (b) means for locating and operating in use the plunger of the syringe; (c) means for locating in use the upper end of a container and for resiliently opposing relative movement of the container and syringe; and (d) means for inverting the container relative to the syringe. 9. Apparatus as claimed in claim 1 and further comprising a container and a shielded receptacle for the container, the receptacle being shaped at an upper end thereof to cooperate with the gripping means. 10. Apparatus as claimed in claim 9 and wherein the receptacle has a base with at least one recess therein, and another of the stations having means for locating the receptacle. 11. Apparatus as claimed in claim 9 and wherein the receptacle has a cap, and the cap has a substantially axial hole therethrough for allowing access to the container. 12. Apparatus as claimed in claim 9 and wherein a further said station comprises monitoring means for locating a container or a said syringe, and for moving the container or the said syringe to a radioactivity detector located at a different level so as to monitor the container or the syringe. 13. Apparatus as claimed in claim 8 and wherein means are provided for controlling the apparatus in a predetermined sequence of operations including operations at the said stations. 14. Apparatus as claimed in claim 13, wherein the predetermined sequence includes operation of means for moving the locating means relative to the corresponding container receiver in the syringe receiving and filling station. 15. Apparatus as claimed in claim 13 and wherein the predetermined sequence includes a plurality of operations of the plunger locating and operating means and thereby of the plunger of a syringe so as to expel air or liquid as appropriate from the syringe. 16. Apparatus as claimed in claim 1 and wherein the gripping means comprise opposing first jaw members, and opposing second jaw members projecting from the first jaw members. 17. Apparatus as claimed in claim 16 and wherein the robot device includes a wrist element for rotating the gripping means whereby items may be picked either by the first law members or by the second law members. 18. Apparatus as in claim 13 and wherein the said sequence of operations comprise the procedures of: (a) elution of material from a concentrated source to a user stock source; (b) preparation of different doses from the user stock source; and (c) preparation of individual patient doses from appropriate selected doses. 19. Apparatus as in claim 18 and wherein the said elution procedure comprises the steps of (a) an empty shielded stock bottle being picked up by the robotic device; (b) the shielded stock bottle being moved by the robotic device to a turnover station and the bottle being turned over by the robotic device and then regripped by the robotic device; (c) the shielded stock bottle being presented by the robotic device to a port from which the radioisotope or other hazardous material at its source may be drawn; and a quantity of the hazardous material being drawn into the stock bottle; (d) the shielded stock bottle and its contents being transferred by the robotic device to a storage station where the bottle is stored until required for use. 20. Apparatus as in claim 18 and wherein the said procedure of preparation of different doses from the user stock source comprises the steps of: (a) a syringe being collected by the robotic device the syringe having a needle fitted therein; (b) the syringe being placed and fitted in an appropriate port in the filling station by the robotic device; (c) the stock bottle with eluted stock solution being placed below the syringe at the filling station by the robotic device; (d) the stock bottle being raised at the filling station so that the syringe needle enters the stock bottle; (e) the syringe and stock bottle being rotated relative to one another at the filling station so that the stock bottle is above the syringe; (f) a quantity of the stock solution being withdrawn by operation of the syringe at the filling station from the stock bottle into the syringe; (g) the stock bottle being returned by the robotic device to its position on a storage tray; (h) a multi-dose preparation vial being placed by the robotic device beneath the syringe; and (i) the contents of the syringe being transferred into the vial by operation of the syringe at the filling station. 