A method and apparatus for obtaining and displaying in real time an image of an object obtained by one modality such that the image corresponds to a line of view established by another modality. In a preferred embodiment, the method comprises the following steps: obtaining a follow image library of the object via a first imaging modality; providing a lead image library obtained via the second imaging modality; referencing the lead image library to the follow image library; obtaining a lead image of the object in real time via the second imaging modality along a lead view; comparing the real time lead image to lead images in the lead image library via digital image analysis to identify a follow image line of view corresponding to the real time lead view; transforming the identified follow image to correspond to the scale, rotation and position of the lead image; and displaying the transformed follow image, the comparing, transforming and displaying steps being performed substantially simultaneously with the step of obtaining the lead image in real time.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for obtaining and displaying an image of an object comprising the following steps: (1) obtaining a follow image library of the object via a first imaging modality; (2) obtaining a real time lead image of the object via a second imaging modality along a lead view; (3) referencing the real time lead image to the follow image library via digital image analysis to identify a follow image line of view corresponding to the lead view; (4) transforming a follow image to correspond to the scale, rotation and position of the real time lead image; and (5) displaying the transformed follow image without displaying the real time lead image, the referencing, transforming and displaying steps being performed substantially in real time after the step of obtaining the real time lead image. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising slicing the transformed follow image to a selected depth prior to the displaying step. 3. An imaging apparatus comprising: a follow image library; a lead imager; a see-through display; and processing means for interreferencing in real time images from the lead imager with a follow image from the follow image library and for displaying images on the see-through display. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 further comprising a depth controller for selecting a depth at which a follow image should be sliced. 5. The apparatus of claim 3 further comprising a lead image library, the processing means further comprising means for interreferencing in real time images from the lead imager with a lead image from the lead image library. 6. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein the see-through display comprises means for mounting the display on a user's head. 7. A method for obtaining and displaying an image of an object having an exterior surface and an interior, the method comprising the following steps: (1) obtaining a follow image library of the object via a first imaging modality; (2) obtaining a real time lead image of the exterior surface of the object via a second imaging modality substantially along a user's line of sight to the exterior surface; (3) referencing the lead image to the follow image library to identify a follow image line of view corresponding to the line of sight; (4) transforming a follow image to correspond to the scale, rotation and position of the real time lead image; and (5) displaying the transformed follow image, the referencing, transforming and displaying steps being performed substantially in real time after the step of obtaining the real time lead image. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein the displaying step comprises forming a composite image from the real time lead image and the transformed follow image and displaying the composite image. 9. The method of claim 7 wherein the referencing step comprises segmenting the real time lead image and the follow image into first and second sets of subobjects. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein the identifying step further comprises classifying the subobjects. 11. The method of claim 7 wherein the step of obtaining a follow image library comprises viewing the interior of the object. 12. The method of claim 7 wherein the displaying step comprises the step of displaying the transformed follow image in the user's line of sight to the exterior of the object. 13. The method of claim 7 wherein the displaying step comprises the step of displaying the transformed follow image on a see-through display mounted on the user's head. 14. The method of claim 7 further comprising, prior to the step of obtaining the real time lead image, the steps of providing a lead image library, and correlating the lead image library to the follow image library. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein a stereotactic frame is used to obtain the follow image library and the lead image library, the step of correlating the lead image library comprising using line of view information provided by the stereotactic frame. 16. The method of claim 14 wherein the step of referencing the real time lead image to the follow image library comprises the use of digital image analysis to correlate the real time lead image with a lead image in the lead image library. 17. The method of claim 14 wherein the step of correlating the lead image library to the follow image library comprises the use of digital image analysis. 18. The method of claim 7 further comprising the step of slicing the transformed follow image to a selected depth prior to the displaying step. 19. A method for obtaining and displaying an image of an object comprising the following steps: (1) obtaining a follow image library of the object via a first imaging modality; (2) obtaining a lead image library of the object via a second imaging modality; (3) correlating the lead image library to the follow image library; (4) obtaining a real time lead image of the object along a lead view; (5) comparing the real time lead image to the lead library images to identify a lead library image corresponding to the real time lead view; (6) transforming the follow image to correspond to the identified lead library image; (7) transforming the follow image to correspond to the scale and position represented by the real time lead image; and (8) displaying the transformed follow image, the comparing, transforming and displaying steps being performed substantially in real time after the step of obtaining the lead image in real time. 20. The method of claim 19 further comprising slicing the transformed follow image to a selected depth prior to the displaying step. 21. The method of claim 19 wherein the steps of obtaining a follow image library and obtaining a lead image library are performed by maintaining common physical coordinates while obtaining the lead library and follow library images, the step of correlating the lead image library to the follow image library comprising using coordinate information from both libraries. 22. The method of claim 21 wherein the coordinate information is provided by a stereotactic frame. 23. The method of claim 19 wherein the step of correlating the real time lead image to the lead library images comprises the use of digital image analysis. 24. The method of claim 19 wherein the lead view comprises a user's line of sight. 25. The method of claim 19 wherein the step of obtaining a follow image library comprises obtaining a follow image library of the object's interior, the step of obtaining a lead image library comprises obtaining a lead image library of the object's exterior substantially along a user's line of sight to the object, and the step of obtaining a real time lead image comprises obtaining a real time lead image of the object's exterior. 26. The method of claim 25 wherein displaying step comprises the step of the displaying the transformed follow image along the user's line of sight to the exterior of the object. 27. The method of claim 19 wherein the displaying step comprises the step of displaying the transformed follow image on a see-through display mounted on the user's head. 28. The method of claim 19 wherein the step of correlating the lead image library to the follow image library comprises using digital image analysis. 29. The method of claim 19 wherein the second imaging modality is video imaging. 30. A method for obtaining and displaying an image of an object having an exterior surface and an interior, the method comprising the following steps: (1) obtaining a follow image library of the object via a first imaging modality; (2) obtaining a real time lead image of the exterior surface of the object substantially along a user's line of sight to the exterior surface; (3) referencing the real time lead image to the follow image library to identify a follow image line to select a follow image corresponding to the scale, rotation and position of the real time lead image; and (4) displaying the selected follow image, the referencing and displaying steps being performed substantially in real time after the step of obtaining the real time lead image. 31. An imaging apparatus comprising: a follow image library; a lead imager comprising a camera mounted on a user's head; processing means for interreferencing in real time images from the lead imager with the follow image library; and means for displaying a follow image from the follow image library. 32. The apparatus of claim 31 further comprising a lead image library, the processing means comprising means for correlating the lead image library to the follow image library. 