Methods and apparatus are disclosed for cleaning storage containers used in petrochemical or oil refineries. A remotely controllable dual tracked robotic vehicle is placed in a container to be cleaned. A cleaning fluid diluent material is directed against waste material in the container causing a portion of it to form a slurry which is vacuumed out by a nozzle and hose carried by the vehicle. A separator system exterior to the tank processes the removed slurry.
Claims We claim: 1. A system under control of an operator for cleaning waste material, or sludge, having a solid phase and a liquid phase from a container comprising: (a) a source of cleaning fluid for supply to a directionally controllable nozzle carried by; (b) a remotely controllable movable robotic vehicle, said vehicle being controllable from outside a direct line of sight of an operator, said movable robotic vehicle capable of directing a stream of said cleaning fluid onto said waste material in an amount sufficient to cause a flow of at least a portion thereof; and (c) said vehicle having an evacuation nozzle and hose capable of evacuating at least a portion of said liquid phase and said flow of said waste material exteriorly to said container. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein said remotely controllable vehicle further comprises: means for video monitoring of the location in said container at which said stream of said cleaning fluid is directed, said monitoring means located at the location of said remote control exterior to said container. 3. The system of claim 2 and further including: means, under operator control, for changing the direction of said stream of cleaning fluid in response to said video monitoring of said stream. 4. The system of claim 3 and further including: means, under operator control, for moving said remotely controllable vehicle in response to said video monitoring of said stream and the location of said vehicle in said container as monitored by a second video monitoring means. 5. The system of claim 4 wherein said remotely controllable vehicle comprises a dual tracked, hydraulically powered vehicle carrying a video camera and a light source each of which are remotely controllable. 6. A remotely controllable movable robotic vehicle sized and adapted for passage in a storage tank containing waste sludge to be removed, comprising: a) dual hydraulically powered tracks separately powered and remotely controllable and attached to either side of a vehicle body platform; b) cannon nozzle means for directing flow of a cleaning fluid in a desired direction; c) video camera means attached to said nozzle for remotely observing the effect of said directed flow of cleaning fluid on said sludge; d) controllable light source means for illuminating the region generally of the direction of flow of said cleaning fluid; and e) evacuation nozzle means attached to said vehicle and remotely controllable and movable therewith to pick up and remove a pumpable slurry of said sludge and said cleaning fluid from the storage tank. 7. The vehicle of claim 6 wherein all electrical components are contained in explosion proof containers to prevent spark generation. 8. The vehicle of claim 7 wherein said camera means magnification factor is remotely controllable. 9. The vehicle of claim 8 wherein the brightness of said light source is remotely controllable. 10. The vehicle system of claim 9 and further including a second separate remotely controllable video camera and a second remotely controllable light source at a fixed location in said tank for monitoring the position of said movable vehicle in said tank. 11. The vehicle system of claim 10 wherein said second separate video camera has a remotely controllable magnification factor. 12. The vehicle system of claim 11 wherein said second light source brightness is remotely controllable. 13. The vehicle system of claim 12 and further including means carried on said vehicle for monitoring the lowest explosive level of gas fumes in said tank. 