The present invention provides a method for removing particulate contaminants from an electrostatic chuck pedestal for a semiconductor workpiece by physical removal employing a soft material workpiece or by creating a plasma sheath which suspends the contaminants from the chuck surface and entrains them in the gas stream of the chamber vacuum exhaust system of the chamber. The contaminant removal processes are particularly effective in continuous plasma processes for the treatment of workpieces.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for cleaning an electrostatic chuck having a surface for retaining a substrate at a processing station within a plasma processing chamber provided with a vacuum exhaust capability and adapted for serially processing substrates within a controlled subatmospheric environment, comprising: a) retaining a substrate at the substrate retaining surface of the electrostatic chuck within a plasma processing chamber; b) communicating into the chamber at least one selected gas; c) applying electrical energy to the chamber to establish a gas plasma and an associated electric field substantially perpendicular to the substrate-retaining surface of the electrostatic chuck so as to perform a plasma process on the substrate; d) removing the processed substrate from the electrostatic chuck surface upon completion of the plasma processing; and e) performing an in-situ electrical or mechanical removal of contaminant particles from the top of the electrostatic chuck surface in the closed chamber prior to introduction of the next substrate to be plasma processed, while maintaining the chamber under a controlled subatmospheric environment without opening the chamber to the atmosphere. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the electrostatic chuck is comprised of a hard surface material. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the contaminant particle removal is effected by creating a cleaning plasma above the substrate retaining surface after removal of a processed substrate, whereby particulate contaminant residues formed on said surface are suspended in the plasma sheath and entrained in the gas flow stream, causing the particles to be drawn from the chamber through the vacuum exhaust. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the density of the plasma is lower than the plasma during the plasma treatment of the substrate. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the electrical energy is r.f. electrical energy. 6. The method of claim 1, in which the plasma is sustained by both said electric field and a magnetic field during substrate processing, and in which the plasma is decreased in density and the intensity of the magnetic field is reduced during the removal of contaminant particles step. 7. The method of claim 6, in which the magnetic field is eliminated during the removal of contaminant particles step. 8. The method of claim 6, in which the pressure within the processing chamber during the removal of contaminant step is lowered below that which is used during the plasma treatment of a substrate. 9. The method of claim 1, in which the plasma is sustained by both said electric field and a magnetic field during substrate processing, and in which the magnetic field is reduced during the removal of contaminant particles step so as to move the peak plasma density away from the electrostatic chuck. 10. The method of claim 9, in which the plasma is decreased in density during the removal of contaminant particles step. 11. The method of claim 10, in which during the contaminant particles removal, the pressure within the processing chamber is lowered below that used during plasma treatment of a substrate. 12. The method of claim 4, wherein a cleaning plasma is created by providing a plasma generating gas at a rate of more than 25 sccm, a magnetic field of less than 50 G, a pressure of less than 200 mTorr, and electrical energy of less than 200 W. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the gases used in the plasma processing of a substrate is also used during the removal of contaminant particles. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein the contaminant particle removal step includes: f) placing a workpiece comprised of a soft resin material surface onto the electrostatic chuck surface in a manner whereby the soft resin material is in contact with the chuck surface; g) applying a direct current chucking voltage the chuck to cause the soft resin material to be drawn and pressed to the surface of the chuck whereby contaminant particles are embedded in the soft resin material; and h) removing the contaminant containing workpiece from the chamber. 15. A method for continuously conducting plasma treatment of semiconductor substrates in a closed vacuum chamber, comprising: a) providing a plasma chamber including a gas exhaust capability and a substrate pedestal having an electrostatic chuck clamp adapted to retain a substrate on the surface of the chuck; b) communicating into the chamber one or more selected plasma generating gases; c) applying electrical energy to the chamber to establish a treatment plasma and an associated electric field substantially perpendicular to the pedestal surface for receiving the substrate so as to perform a treatment of said substrate; d) removing the processed substrate from the electrostatic chuck surface upon completion of the plasma treatment; and e) creating a plasma above the electrostatic chuck pedestal surface of a lower density than said treatment plasma when the electrostatic chuck surface is exposed, whereby particulate contaminant residues formed on said pedestal are suspended in the plasma sheath and entrained in the gas removal stream of the chamber causing the particles to be drawn from the chamber during gas exhaust prior to introduction of the next substrate to be plasma processed. 16. The method of claim 15 further comprising the additional step of: f) sequentially applying a voltage of reverse polarity to the electrostatic chuck during the plasma sheath cleaning step to enhance transfer and suspension of the contaminant particles to the plasma sheath. 17. The method of claim 15 further comprising the step of: f) venting the vacuum chamber to a pressure of greater than 300 mTorr; and g) applying a vacuum to clean the electrostatic chuck surface. 18. The method of claim 15 further comprising the step of employing a magnetic field to aid in sustaining the plasma during treatment of the workpiece, and reducing or eliminating the magnetic field with the establishment of the plasma of reduced density. 19. The method of claim 15 wherein a lower density plasma is created by providing a plasma generating gas at a rate of more than 25 sccm, a magnetic field of less than 50 G, a pressure of less than 200 mTorr, and electrical energy of less than 200 W. 20. The method of claim 15 wherein the plasma treatment process is plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition. 21. The method of claim 15 wherein the plasma treatment process is plasma etch. 22. The method of claim 15 additionally comprising the steps of: f) introducing a workpiece comprised of a soft resin material surface onto the electrostatic chuck surface in a manner whereby the soft resin material is in contact with the chuck surface; g) applying a direct current chucking voltage the chuck to cause the soft resin material to be drawn and pressed to the surface of the chuck whereby contaminant particles are embedded in the soft resin material; and h) removing the contaminant containing workpiece from the chamber. 23. A method of removing contaminant particles from a hard surface electrostatic chuck comprising the steps of: a) providing a plasma chamber comprised of an electrostatic chuck substrate pedestal; b) placing a workpiece comprised of a soft resin material surface onto the electrostatic chuck surface in a manner whereby the soft resin material is in contact with the chuck surface; c) applying a direct current chucking voltage to the chuck to cause the soft resin material to be drawn and pressed to the surface of the chuck whereby relatively large contaminant particles are embedded in the soft resin material; and d) removing the contaminant containing soft resin containing workpiece from the chamber. 24. The method of claim 23 additionally comprising the step of plasma treating the workpiece before removal. 