The present invention concerns in situ polymerase chain reaction and provides methods and reagents for identifying cells containing at least one selected nucleic acid sequence which may be derived from the human immunodeficiency virus.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for identifying cells containing at least one copy of a selected nucleic acid sequence comprising of the steps of: (a) heat fixing cells to a solid support at about 105.degree. C. to produce heat fixed immobilized cells; (b) contacting said heat fixed immobilized cells with paraformaldehyde to produce paraformaldehyde treated, heat fixed immobilized cells; (c) contacting said paraformaldehyde treated, heat fixed immobilized cells containing selected nucleic acid sequence or nucleic acid sequences with oligonucleotide primers fully complementary to regions of selected nucleic acid sequence or sequences to form a nucleic acid hybrid and generating an extension product by the polymerase chain reaction in said cell; (d) separating into single stranded nucleic acid molecules, the extension product generated in step (c) to provide single-stranded nucleic acid molecules of the selected nucleic acid sequence or sequences in said cells; (e) repeating steps (c) and (d) to amplify said selected nucleic acid sequence or sequences; (f) hybridizing a labelled nucleic acid probe to said amplified selected nucleic acid sequence or sequences provided in step (e) in said cells to produce labelled cells; and (g) observing labelled cells produced in step (f), wherein labelled cells indicates cells containing at least one copy of a selected nucleic acid sequence. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein at least one of the selected nucleic acid sequences derive from a human virus. 3. The method of claim 2 whereby at least one of the selected nucleic acid sequences are proviral nucleic acid sequences. 4. The method of claim 2 wherein at least one of said nucleic acid sequences is a nucleic acid sequence from recombinants, mutants or variants of said human virus. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein said cells are human cells. 6. The method of claim 3 wherein said cells are human peripheral blood lymphocytic cells. 7. A method for identifying cells containing at least one copy of a selected nucleic acid sequence comprising the steps of: (a) heat fixing cells to a solid support at about 105.degree. C.; (b) paraformaldehyde treating said heat fixed cells; (c) contacting said heat fixed, paraformaldehyde treated cells containing selected nucleic acid sequence or nucleic acid sequences with a single primer pair fully complementary to regions of selected nucleic acid sequence or sequences to form a nucleic acid hybrid and generating an extension product by the polymerase chain reaction in said cells; (d) separating into single stranded nucleic acid molecules, the extension product generated in step (c) to provide single-stranded nucleic acid molecules of the selected nucleic acid sequence or sequences in said cells; (e) repeating steps (c) and (d) to amplify said selected nucleic acid sequence or sequences; (f) hybridizing a labelled nucleic acid probe to said amplified selected nucleic acid sequence or sequences provided in step (e) in said cells; and (g) observing labelled cells produced in step (f), wherein labelled cells indicates cells containing at least one copy of a selected nucleic acid sequence. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein said oligonucleotide primers are fully complementary to regions of selected nucleic acid sequence or sequences that consist of at least 10 nucleotides. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein said oligonucleotide primers are fully complementary to regions of selected nucleic acid sequence or sequences that comprise 10-30 nucleotides. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein said oligonucleotide primers are fully complementary to regions of selected nucleic acid sequence or sequences that consist of at least 10 nucleotides. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein said oligonucleotide primers are fully complementary to regions of selected nucleic acid sequence or sequences that comprise 10-30 nucleotides. 