A refueling system for a nuclear power plant utilizing a data network to provide for automatic control and enhanced monitoring of the entire fuel transfer process. The refueling system of this invention provides integrated control of the refueling machine within the containment building, the spent fuel handling machine within the fuel storage building, and the fuel transfer system between the buildings. The system provides supervisory control of the overall system operation via a remote control station, while at the same time, having the capability for local on-line control of each element of the system in the event of network failure. The system may automatically identify individual fuel assemblies with an optical scanner. An in-mast sipper connected to the network automatically tests for leaking fuel assemblies. A revised core load pattern and a revised sequence plan can be calculated by the system in the event of the discovery of a leaking fuel assembly. The system may also include a fuel loading guide to facilitate the automatic loading of bowed fuel assemblies. Human interface with the system may be provided at a plurality of locations, including for example, a refueling control station and a remote status panel. The reactivity of the reactor core may be monitored by the system during core loading, and corrective action taken automatically if a predetermined setpoint is exceeded. Core spacing verification may also be performed automatically.
Claims We claim: 1. A refueling system for a nuclear power plant having a reactor containment building housing a reactor with a plurality of core support locations, a fuel storage building having a plurality of fuel assembly storage locations, and a plurality of fuel assemblies, said refueling system comprising: a fuel transfer system operable to move fuel assemblies between said containment building and said fuel storage building; a refueling machine operable to move fuel assemblies among said core support locations, as well as between said reactor and said fuel transfer system; a spent fuel handling machine operable to move fuel assemblies among said fuel assembly storage locations, as well as between said fuel assembly storage locations and said fuel transfer system; a means for operator interface; a network comprising a plurality of nodes interconnected by a data link, said network further comprising nodes connected to said fuel transfer system, said refueling machine, said spent fuel handling machine, and said means for operator interface; a means for controlling said refueling system, said means for controlling being connected to a node of said network and being operable to automatically control the operation of said fuel transfer system, said refueling machine, and said spent fuel handling machine so that fuel assembly moves are accomplished between said containment building and said fuel storage building automatically in accordance with a preselected program; and further comprising a means for measuring the reactivity of said reactor, said means for measuring reactivity being connected to a node of said network. 2. The refueling system of claim 1, wherein said means for controlling is operable to take action to reduce said reactivity whenever the output of said means for measuring reactivity exceeds a predetermined setpoint. 3. A refueling system for a nuclear power plant having a containment building housing a reactor with a plurality of core support locations, a fuel storage building having a plurality of fuel assembly storage locations, a fuel transfer system connecting said containment building and said fuel storage building, and a plurality of fuel assemblies, said refueling system comprising: a refueling machine operable to move fuel assemblies among said core support locations, as well as between said reactor and said fuel transfer system; a means for measuring the reactivity of said reactor; a controller means connected to said means for measuring reactivity, said controller means operable to compare the measured rate of reactivity change to a predetermined setpoint, and further operable to interrupt the movement of said refueling machine whenever the measured rate of reactivity change exceeds said setpoint. 