An optical compound eye sensor (100) comprises a plurality of ommatidium sensors (10) disposed in a fixed relationship to form a multifaceted sensing surface. Each of the ommatidium sensors (10) has a conical body (12) of refractive material situated longitudinally along a respective optic axis (14) and has a lens face (16) and an electro-optic element (18), such as an emitter or detector, situated at substantially opposing ends of the conical body (12) along the respective optic axis (14). The lens face (16) and the conical body (12) direct light either to or from the electro-optic element (18). The lens faces (16) of the ommatidium sensors (10) collectively define the multifaceted surface for receiving light from the light source.
Claims Wherefore, the inventor claims the following: 1. An optical compound eye sensor for detecting distributions of light by apposition, comprising: a plurality of ommatidium sensors disposed in a fixed relationship to form a compound eye sensing means with a multifaceted surface for receiving light; and each of said ommatidium sensors having a substantially conical body of refractive material, or free space, situated longitudinally along a respective optic axis and having a lens face and a light detector situated at substantially opposing ends of said conical body along said respective optic axis, said lens faces and said conical body for directing light to said light detector, said lens faces of each of said ommatidium sensors for collectively defining said multifaceted surface. 2. The optical compound eye sensor of claim 1, wherein said multifaceted surface resides in a single plane. 3. The optical compound eye sensor of claim 1, wherein said multifaceted surface is three dimensional. 4. The optical compound eye sensor of claim 1, further comprising a light emitter located in an ommatidium sensor of said plurality for emitting light outwardly from said ommatidium sensor. 5. The optical compound eye sensor of claim 1, wherein said conical body comprises a reflective material situated about said respective optic axis for directing light inwardly. 6. The optical compound eye sensor of claim 1, wherein said conical body is substantially rigid. 7. The optical compound eye sensor of claim 1, wherein said compound eye sensing means exhibits an asymmetric angle of light acceptance. 8. The optical compound eye sensor of claim 1, wherein said compound eye sensing means exhibits a symmetric angle of light acceptance. 9. The optical compound eye sensor of claim 1, wherein said light detector of at least one of said ommatidium sensors comprises a photo diode. 10. The optical compound eye sensor of claim 1, wherein said light detector of at least one of said ommatidium sensors comprises a variable resistance. 11. The optical compound eye sensor of claim 1, further comprising a means for optically encoding signals from said detector of at least one of said ommatidium sensors. 12. The optical compound eye sensor of claim 1, further comprising a bonding agent for affixing said ommatidium sensors together. 13. The optical compound eye sensor of claim 1, wherein said body of each of said ommatidium sensors further comprises connection fins disposed externally on and protruding outwardly from said body, said connection fins for affixing adjacent ommatidium sensors together. 14. The optical compound eye sensor of claim 1, wherein said body of each of said ommatidium sensors further comprises a threaded connection means for affixing said body to a mounting means. 15. The optical compound eye sensor of claim 1, wherein said conical body includes a lateral external surface, and further comprising a conductive ring disposed on the lateral external surface of said conical body of each said ommatidium sensor and electrically connected to said light detector of each said ommatidium sensor. 16. The optical compound eye sensor of claim 5, further comprising a coating situated on said conical body on said reflective material, said coating for inhibiting penetration of light toward said optic axis. 17. An ommatidium sensor for creating an optical compound eye sensor which can detect a distribution of light by apposition, comprising: a substantially conical body of refractive material, or free space, having a wide end and a narrow end; a lens face situated at said wide end; a light detector at said narrow end, said light detector for receiving light passing through said lens faces and said conical body; and mounting means for mounting said body in a fixed relationship relative to an adjacent body of an adjacent ommatidium sensor; whereby a plurality of said ommatidium sensors are supported in a fixed relationship so that said lens faces of said ommatidium sensors collectively define a multifaceted surface for receiving light. 18. The sensor of claim 17, wherein said mounting means comprises a plurality of connection fin pairs disposed externally on and protruding outwardly from said body, each of said pairs comprising two substantially parallel blades for receiving therebetween in frictional engagement a blade of an adjacent ommatidium sensor. 19. The sensor of claim 17, wherein said mounting means comprises a threaded connector for affixing said body to a mount. 20. The sensor of claim 17, further comprising a conductive ring disposed on the lateral external surface of said body and electrically connected to said detector. 21. The sensor of claim 17, further comprising a means for interfacing said detector to a coaxial cable. 22. The sensor of claim 17, further comprising a means for interfacing said detector to a fiber optic cable. 23. The sensor of claim 17, further comprising a light modulator situated in said body between said lens faces and said detector. 24. A method for creating an optical compound eye sensor which can detect a distribution of light by apposition, comprising the steps of: providing a plurality of ommatidium sensors, each having a substantially conical body of refractive material with a lens face situated at a wide end and with a light detector situated at a narrow end; and mounting said ommatidium sensors in a fixed relationship relative to each other so that said lens faces of said ommatidium sensors collectively define a multifaceted surface for receiving light. 25. An ommatidium sensor for creating an optical compound eye sensor which can detect a distribution of light by apposition, said sensor having a substantially conical body of refractive material, or free space, situated along an optic axis and having a lens face and a light detector situated at substantially opposing ends of said conical body along said optic axis, said detector mounted at an angle with respect to said optic axis, whereby a plurality of said ommatidium sensors are supported in a fixed relationship so that said lens face of said ommatidium sensors collectively define a multifaceted surface for receiving light. 26. An optical compound eye sensor comprising a plurality of ommatidium sensors, each ommatidium sensor having a substantially conical body of refractive material, or free space, situated along an optic axis and having a lens face and the light detector situated at substantially opposing ends of said conical body along said optic axis, said detector mounted at an angle with respect to said optic axis so as to produce an asymmetric angle of acceptance function about said optic axis, said sensors held together in a fixed relationship so as to provide a polarization sensitive compound eye. 