A method of and apparatus for detecting flaws on a composite surface laid-up by a fiber placement machine. The invention includes a vision imaging system (78) mounted on the machine so that it has a field of view of the composite tows after they have been compacted by a compaction roller (74). In one embodiment, the visual imaging system (78) includes a laser analog displacement sensor. The imaging system provides a computer analysis system (84) with data regarding the location of the edges of the individual composite tows. The computer imaging system (84) uses the tow edge location data to compute the location and size of gaps or overlaps between the tows or the presence of foreign material. This information is useful in quality control models to evaluate the manufacturing process or final part quality.
Claims The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows: 1. A method to detect flaws in the placement of composite tows by a fiber placement apparatus after the tows have been laid up on a substrate to form a composite surface, comprising the steps of: acquiring image data across at least a portion of the laid up composite surface; processing the image data to obtain feature data representative of the location of the edges of individual tows forming the laid up composite surface; and determining the occurrence of flaws in the laid up composite surface using the feature data. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the determining step further comprises determining the occurrence of gaps between individual tows forming the laid up composite surface using the feature data. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the determining step further comprises determining the occurrence of overlapping tows on the laid up composite surface using the feature data. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the determining step further comprises determining the presence of foreign material on the laid up composite surface using the feature data. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the acquiring step further comprises acquiring image tow data on the laid up composite surface using a laser analog displacement sensor. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the acquiring step further comprises capturing image data on the laid up composite surface using a laser and a charge coupled device (CCD) camera. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the acquiring step further comprises capturing image data on the laid up composite surface using a laser and time delay integration (TDI line scan camera. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the acquiring step further comprises capturing image data on the laid up composite surface using a line scan camera. 9. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of determining whether the occurrence of flaws exceed a predetermined tolerance threshold. 10. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of producing a report indicative of the quality of the laid up composite surface using the feature data and the data representative of flaws. 11. An apparatus for detecting flaws in the placement of composite tows after they have been placed on a substrate, the apparatus comprising: a fiber placement machine including a fiber placement head and a control system used to place individual composite tows on the substrate; an imaging system coupled to the fiber placement head, the imaging system having a field of view of a portion of individual composite tows that have been placed on the substrate by the fiber placement machine to form the laid up composite surface, the imaging system producing image data representative of the laid up composite surface resulting from placement of the individual composite tows on the substrate; a data analysis system that receives the image data produced by the imaging system and analyses the image data to produce data representative of the occurrence of flaws on the composite surface. 12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the data analysis system analyzes the image data to produce data representative of the occurrence of gaps between the individual composite tows forming the laid up composite surface. 13. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the data analysis system analyzes the: image data to produce data representative of the occurrence of overlaps between individual composite tows that have been placed on the substrate to form the composite surface. 14. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the data analysis system analyzes the image data to produce data representative of the presence of foreign materials on the laid up composite surface. 15. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the imaging system includes laser analog displacement sensor. 16. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the imaging system includes a laser and a charge coupled device (CCD) camera. 17. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the imaging system includes a laser and a time delay integration (TDI) line scan camera. 18. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the data analysis system includes means for producing an indication of the quality of the laid up composite surface using the gap data. 