In this controller, a manipulated variable is produced as a sum of a linear compensation term and a product term, the compensation term being a linear combination of a contouring error and its time derivatives, and the product term being formed by multiplying a fuzzy control term by a saturation term. This controller combines the advantages of the sliding-mode controller with boundary layer and those of the fuzzy controller, and thus represents a robust controller for a wide class of nonlinear nth-order systems.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. In a computer system, a method for controlling dynamic nth-order systems, comprising the steps of: producing a manipulated variable u as a sum of a linear compensation term C and a product term P, the compensation term C being a linear combination of a contouring error e and its time derivatives e.sup.(n-k), and the product term being formed by multiplying a fuzzy control term K.sub.Fuzzy, by a saturation term, sat; and using the manipulated variable .mu. for controlling at least a system component of a dynamic nth-order system; the linear compensation term being given by ##EQU14## e denoting the contouring error, e.sup.(n-k) denoting the time derivatives of e, .lambda. denoting a reciprocal time constant, and n denoting the order of the dynamic system; the saturation term, sat, depending on time derivatives of the contouring error and a boundary layer constant .phi.>0 in accordance with the formula ##EQU15## the fuzzy control term K.sub.Fuzzy being selected such that when F.sup..about. (x,t)>=.vertline.f(x,t).vertline., D(x,t)>=.vertline.d(t).vertline. and v(t)>=.vertline.x.sub.d.sup.(n) (t).vertline., and x(t) denoting a state vector of the system, d(t) denoting disturbances of the system dynamics, f(x,t) denoting nonlinear system components, t denoting time, and .eta. denoting a non-negative constant. 2. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein a sliding surface is formed and wherein the fuzzy control term K.sub.Fuzzy is determined by fuzzy rules in whose condition part a distance, s.sub.p, of a state vector x from the sliding surface and a distance d of the state vector x from a direction of a normal vector of the sliding surface are determined. 3. The method as claimed in claim 2, wherein a) an error vector e is formed from desired values and controlled variables of the process; b) the error vector e is normalized to a normalized error vector e.sub.N having the property that a normalized d.sub.N is situated within a bounded phase region; c) the normalized error vector e.sub.N is used to form the sliding surface, which is given by s(x,t)=0 and by means of which a sign of the manipulated variable u to be specified is determined; d) the distances s.sub.p between e.sub.N and s=0 as well as d between e.sub.N and the normal vector n.sub.N from s=0 are formed, and s.sub.p and d are fuzzified on the basis of prescribed membership functions; e) the fuzzy vector .mu..sub.uN of the normalized manipulated variable u.sub.N is formed with the aid of i fuzzy rules of the form IF s.sub.p =s.sub.pi AND d=d.sub.i THEN u.sub.N =u.sub.Ni ; f) a crisp normalized manipulated variable u.sub.N is formed from the fuzzy vector .mu..sub.uN by defuzzification: g) a physical manipulated Variable u.sup..about. =-K.sub.Fuzz (e,.lambda.) is formed from u.sub.N with the aid of a previously determined denormalization factor; h) a compensation component ##EQU16## is formed, and the manipulated variable u=u.sub.Komp +u.sup..about. .multidot.sat(s/.phi.) is switched onto the system. 