The invention provides a new method and system for establishing, and optionally maintaining, a desired atmosphere for perishable or atmosphere-sensitive goods during their storage and/or transportation. One embodiment includes providing a sealed enclosure around the goods; coupling at least one valve to the sealed enclosure so as to provide a port through which a desired gas from an external gas source may enter the sealed enclosure; coupling a first end of a hose to the at least one valve and a second end of the hose to the external gas source, thereby providing a conduit through which the desired gas may flow from the external gas source into the sealed enclosure; injecting a desired gas from the external gas source into the sealed enclosure so as to provide a desired atmosphere within the sealed enclosure; automatically monitoring an amount of gas which enters the sealed enclosure from the external source; and automatically controlling the flow of the desired gas into the sealed enclosure in response to the act of automatically monitoring.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for packaging goods, comprising: a base cap having a top surface for receiving said goods thereon; a covering surrounding and enclosing said goods between said base cap and said covering, thereby forming a sealed enclosure around said goods; and at least two valves coupled to said sealed enclosure allowing a desired gas to flow into an interior area of the sealed enclosure; wherein at least one valve is attached to and extends outwardly from a surface of said base cap or sealed enclosure and wherein at least one valve is attached to and extends outwardly from a surface of said covering; wherein said at least two valves comprise a first valve and a second valve and the system further comprises: a tank containing a gas therein; a hose having a first end coupled to said first valve; an automated valve coupled to said tank, wherein a second end of said hose is coupled to the automated valve; at least one sensor coupled to said second valve, wherein the sensor receives an atmosphere sample from within said sealed enclosure via the second valve and measures at least one parameter associated with said atmosphere; and a controller coupled to said at least one sensor and said automated valve, wherein the controller receives data from said sensor and automatically opens or closes said automated valve in response to the data so as to either start or stop said gas from flowing into said sealed enclosure. 2. The system of claim 1, further comprising a pallet, wherein said base cap is configured to be received on top of said pallet. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein: said pallet includes at least one slat; and said base cap includes at least one tab extending downwardly from a bottom surface of the base cap, wherein at least one tab is configured to be received within the at least one slat so as to align and secure the base cap to the pallet. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein said sensor periodically monitors said atmosphere within said sealed enclosure and periodically sends data to said controller, wherein said controller automatically opens or closes said automated valve in response to said data periodically received from said sensor so as to establish and/or maintain a desired atmosphere within said sealed enclosure. 5. The system of claim 1, further comprising a computer, coupled to said controller, wherein said computer receives and stores data representative of a measured characteristic of said desired atmosphere from said controller and said computer transmits instructions to said controller to initiate a desired operation by the controller. 6. A system for transporting or storing goods, comprising: a base cap having a top surface for receiving said goods thereon, and a bottom surface; a top cap having a top surface and a bottom surface, wherein the bottom surface of the top cap is configured to be positioned on top of said goods after the goods have been placed onto said top surface of the base cap; a wrapping surrounding the side surfaces of said goods so as to form an enclosure around the goods in conjunction with said base cap and said top cap, wherein said wrapping overlaps said base cap and said top cap so as to form a sealed enclosure around said goods; and at least two valves coupled to said sealed enclosure for allowing a desired gas to flow into an interior area of the sealed enclosure, wherein at least one valve is attached to and extends outwardly from a surface of said base cap or sealed enclosure and at least one valve is attached to and extends outwardly from a surface of said wrapping overlapping said top cap; wherein said at least two valves comprise a first valve and a second valve and the system further comprises: a tank containing a gas source therein; a hose having a first end coupled to said first valve; an automated valve coupled to said tank, wherein a second end of said hose is coupled to the automated valve; at least one sensor coupled to said second valve, wherein the sensor receives an atmosphere sample from within said sealed enclosure via the second valve and measures at least one parameter associated with said atmosphere; and a controller coupled to said at least one sensor and said automated valve, wherein the controller receives data from said sensors and automatically controls said automated valves in response to the data so as to either start or stop said gas from flowing into said sealed enclosure. 7. The system of claim 6, wherein said sensor periodically monitors said atmosphere within said sealed enclosure and periodically sends data to said controller, wherein said controller automatically opens or closes said automated valve in response to said data periodically received from said sensor so as to establish and/or maintain a desired atmosphere within said sealed enclosure. 8. The system of claim 6, further comprising a computer, coupled to said controller, wherein said computer receives and stores data representative of a measured characteristic of said desired atmosphere from said controller and said computer transmits instructions to said controller to initiate a desired operation by the controller. 9. The system of claim 6, further comprising a pallet, wherein said base cap is configured to be received on top of said pallet. 10. The system of claim 9, wherein: said pallet includes at least one slat; and said base cap includes at least one tab extending downwardly from a bottom surface of the base cap, wherein at least one tab is configured to be received within the at least one slat so as to align and secure the base cap to the pallet. 11. A method of providing a desired atmosphere for goods, comprising: providing a sealed enclosure around said goods wherein there are at least two valves coupled to said sealed enclosure allowing a desired gas to flow into an interior area of the sealed enclosure; wherein at least a first valve is attached to and extends outwardly from a surface of a base cap or sealed enclosure and wherein at least a second valve is attached to and extends outwardly from a surface of a covering; coupling at least the first or second valve to said sealed enclosure so as to provide a port through which a desired gas from an external gas source may enter the sealed enclosure; coupling a first end of a hose to said at least the first or second valve and a second end of the hose to said external gas source, thereby providing a conduit through which said desired gas may flow from said external gas source into said sealed enclosure; injecting a desired gas from the external gas source into said sealed enclosure so as to provide a desired atmosphere within the sealed enclosure; automatically monitoring an amount of gas which enters said sealed enclosure from said external source; and controlling the flow of said desired gas into said sealed enclosure in response to said act of automatically monitoring. 12. The method of claim 11, further comprising evacuating air from within said sealed enclosure prior to said act of injecting said desired gas into the sealed enclosure. 13. The method of claim 11, wherein said act of automatically monitoring comprises measuring a concentration level of said desired gas during said act of injecting so as to determine when a desired level of said gas has been injected into said sealed enclosure. 14. The method of claim 11, wherein said act of automatically monitoring comprises measuring a volume of said desired gas flowing into said sealed enclosure so as to determine when a desired amount of said gas has been injected into said sealed enclosure. 15. The method of claim 11, wherein: said step of automatically monitoring comprises: storing a target parameter within a memory coupled to a controller; sampling said desired atmosphere within said enclosure at predetermined time intervals and measuring a predetermined characteristic of said atmosphere sample; and comparing said measured characteristic of the atmosphere sample with the target parameter; and said step of controlling the flow of said desired gas comprises: opening an automated valve coupled to said sealed enclosure so as to allow said desired gas to flaw from said external gas source into said sealed enclosure if said act of comparing indicates a low level of said desired gas within said sealed enclosure; and closing the automated valve if said act of comparing indicates that a target level of said desired gas has been reached. 16. The method of claim 15, further comprising providing an alarm signal when said step of comparing said measured characteristic of said atmosphere sample with said target parameter indicates that the measured characteristic of the atmosphere sample is not within a specified range of the target parameter. 17. The method of claim 15, further comprising: transmitting data corresponding to said measured characteristic from said controller to a computer, coupled to the controller; and transmitting instructions from the computer to the controller to initiate said acts of automatically monitoring and controlling by the controller. 18. The method of claim 11, further comprising: automatically and periodically monitoring said desired atmosphere within said enclosure during transportation or storage of said goods; and automatically controlling the level of said desired gas within said sealed enclosure during transportation or storage of said goods by automatically injecting a desired amount of said desired gas from said external gas source into said sealed enclosure in response to said act of automatically and periodically monitoring so as to maintain said desired atmosphere within the sealed enclosure. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein: said step of automatically and periodically monitoring said desired atmosphere within said sealed enclosure comprises transmitting data representative of a measured characteristic of said desired atmosphere to a computer which is remotely linked to a controller coupled to said external gas source and said sealed enclosure; and said step of automatically controlling the level of said desired gas within said sealed enclosure during transportation or storage of said goods, comprises transmitting command signals from said remote computer to said controller. 20. The method of claim 11, wherein said act of providing a sealed enclosure around said goods, comprises: providing a pallet; positioning a base cap on a top surface of the pallet; positioning the goods on a top surface of the base cap; positioning a top cap of the goods; and covering the exposed side surfaces of the goods between the top cap and the base cap with a desired material, wherein the desired material, the top cap and the base cap form said sealed enclosure around the goods. 21. The method of claim 11, wherein said act of providing a sealed enclosure around said goods, comprises: positioning a base cap on a top surface of the pallet; positioning the goods on a top surface of the base cap; and placing a cover over the goods and sealing the cover around the base cap such that the cover and the base cap form said sealed enclosure around the goods. 