A system and an associated method for positioning a substrate includes transferring a substrate along a path intersecting a plane of a sensor beam; determining a center point and an orientation indicator of the substrate utilizing signals from the sensor beam; and positioning a substrate according to the center point and the orientation indicator of the substrate.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for positioning a substrate, comprising: a) a robot having an en d effector adapted to transfer the substrate; b) one or more emitters disposed to emit a sensor beam in a plane intersecting a path of a substrate being transferred by the robot; c) one or more receivers disposed to receive the sensor beam and to generate signals to a processor; d) a processor adapted to process signals from the one or more receivers to determine a central point and an orientation indicator of the substrate relative to a reference point; and e) a controller for controlling robot movement according to the center point and the orientation indicator of the substrate. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the robot comprises a frog-leg type robot having a rotatable gripper disposed on the end effector. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the robot comprises a multi-link robot. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the robot further comprises a rotatable gripper disposed on the robot end effector. 5. A method for positioning a substrate, comprising: a) transferring a substrate along a path intersecting a plane of a sensor beam; b) determining a center point and an orientation indicator of the substrate utilizing signals from the sensor beam; and c) positioning a substrate according to the center point and the orientation indicator of the substrate. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein the center point of the substrate is determined by minimizing an error function of a set of data points corresponding to a perimeter of the substrate. 7. The method of claim 5 wherein the orientation indicator is determined by comparing a set of data points that exceeds a range of radius deviation values to a set of stored data for an orientation indicator. 8. The method of claim 5 wherein the step of positioning the substrate comprises aligning the center point and the orientation indicator of the substrate with a destination position. 9. The method of claim 5 wherein the step of positioning the substrate comprises: i) rotating the substrate to a desired orientation on an end effector of a robot; ii) rotating the robot to position the substrate for insertion into a chamber; and iii) extending the robot to align the center point of the substrate with a destination position in the chamber. 10. The method of claim 5 wherein the step of positioning the substrate comprises: i) rotating a robot to position the substrate for insertion into a chamber; ii) extend the robot to align the center point of the substrate with a destination position in the chamber; iii) lifting the substrate off the robot; iv) positioning a rotatable robot end effector aligned with the center point of the substrate; v) lowering the substrate onto the rotatable robot end effector; and vi) rotating the substrate to a desired orientation. 