The present invention provides a method and apparatus for dispensing a small volume of a selected liquid, such as a biological sample or reagent, onto a substrate. The device includes a tube adapted to contain the liquid. An elongate fiber is disposed within the tube for axial movement therein between raised and lowered positions. Upon shifting or oscillating the fiber between its raised and lowered positions, a liquid spot can be formed at a selected position on the substrate. The device is readily adaptable for the production of micro-arrays having a great number of individual spots.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for micro-spotting a predetermined volume of a liquid at a plurality of spaced regions on a substrate or substrates, comprising: a tube adapted to contain such liquid, and having a lower end defining an orifice with an inner diameter less than about 200 .mu.m; a workpiece holder for holding such substrate(s), an elongate, flexible fiber having a diameter of less than about 100 .mu.m and a distal free end, said fiber being disposed within said tube for axial movement therein between raised and lowered positions at which the fiber's free end is spaced from and in contact with the surface of such a substrate(s), respectively, with the substrate(s) held in the workpiece holder, shifting means operatively connected to said fiber for shifting the same between its raised and lowered positions, positioning means for positioning said tube and associated fiber laterally with respect to the holder, at selected deposition positions with respect to the substrate(s), and a control unit operatively connected to the positioning means and shifting means for use in successively (i) positioning the tube and associated fiber at a selected deposition position with respect to a substrate, and (i) shifting the fiber to its lowered position, to deposit a selected volume of liquid upon such substrate, with variations in the distance between the tube's lower end and the substrate being accommodated by flexing of the fiber. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said positioning means is operatively connected to said tube and said shifting means. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, for use in micro-spotting a predetermined volume of a liquid at a preselected position on each of a plurality of different substrates in the workpiece holder, wherein the control unit is operable to position the tube successively at such preselected position on each substrate. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the diameter of the orifice is between about 10-100 .mu.m larger than that of the fiber. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the tube has a substantially uniform diameter, and further includes a larger-diameter upper reservoir for holding such liquid. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the tube's inner diameter tapers on progressing downwardly to a defined-volume tube end region having the diameter of said orifice, the diameter of the tube end region is substantially the same as that of the fiber, and the fiber's end, with such in its raised position, is disposed above the tube end region, such that shifting of the fiber from its raised to its lowered position is effective to expel from the tube a volume of liquid contained in said tube end region. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, for use in micro-spotting a predetermined volume of such a liquid simultaneously at selected deposition regions on a substrate, which further includes a plurality of such tubes, and associated fibers and shifting means. 8. An apparatus for micro-spotting a predetermined volume of a liquid on a substrate, comprising: a tube adapted to contain such liquid, and having an inner diameter that tapers on progressing downwardly to a defined-volume tube end region having a substantially uniform diameter of less than about 500 .mu.m, an elongate fiber having a diameter substantially the same as that of said tube end region, said fiber being disposed within said tube for axial movement therein between raised and lowered positions at which the fiber's free end is disposed above and below said tube end region, respectively, and shifting means operatively connected to said fiber for shifting the same between its raised and lowered positions, whereby a defined volume of liquid contained in said tube end region is expelled from the tube onto such a substrate disposed below the tube. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the tube end region has a diameter of less than about 200 .mu.m. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein said fiber is a flexible fiber, and the fiber in its lowered position is adapted to make contact with such a substrate. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, for use in micro-spotting a predetermined volume of a liquid at a preselected position at each of a plurality of substrates, wherein said apparatus further includes positioning means for positioning said tube and associated fiber successively at said preselected position, and variations in the distance between the tube's lower end and the different substrate positions is accommodated by fiber flexing. 12. The apparatus of claim 8, for use in micro-spotting a predetermined volume of such a liquid simultaneously at multiple selected deposition regions on a substrate, which further includes a plurality of such tubes, and associated fibers and shifting means. 13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the tube end regions have diameters of less than about 200 .mu.m, said fibers are flexible fibers, and the fibers in their lowered positions are adapted to make contact with such a substrate, with variations in the distance between the tubes's lower ends and the associated positions on the substrate being accommodated by fiber flexing. 14. An apparatus for micro-spotting a predetermined volume of a liquid at a plurality of spaced regions on a substrate or substrates, comprising: a tube adapted to contain such liquid, and having a lower end defining an orifice with an inner diameter less than about 200 .mu.m; a workpiece holder for holding such substrate(s), an elongate, flexible fiber having a diameter of less than about 100 .mu.m and a distal free end, said fiber being disposed within said tube for axial movement therein between raised and lowered positions at which the fiber's free end is spaced from and in contact with the surface of such a substrate(s), respectively, with the substrate(s) held in the workpiece holder, an actuator movable between two positions, said actuator operatively connected to said fiber for shifting the same between its raised and lowered positions, and an x-y positioner operatively connected to said tube for positioning said tube and associated fiber laterally with respect to the holder, at selected deposition positions with respect to the substrate(s), and a control unit operatively connected to the x-y positioner and vertical actual for use in successively (i) positioning the tube and associated fiber at a selected deposition position with respect to a substrate, and (i) shifting the fiber to its lowered position, to deposit a selected volume of liquid upon such substrate, with variations in the distance between the tube's lower end and the substrate being accommodated by flexing of the fiber. 15. An apparatus for micro-spotting a predetermined volume of a liquid on a substrate, comprising: a tube adapted to contain such liquid, and having an inner diameter that tapers on progressing downwardly to a defined-volume tube end region having a substantially uniform diameter of less than about 500 .mu.m, an elongate fiber having a diameter substantially the same as that of said tube end region, said fiber being disposed within said tube for axial movement therein between raised and lowered positions at which the fiber's free end is disposed above and below said tube end region, respectively, and an actuator movable between two positions, said actuator operatively connected to said fiber for shifting the same between its raised and lowered positions, whereby a defined volume of liquid contained in said tube end region is expelled from the tube onto such a substrate disposed below the tube. 