A control system for performing a synchronously cooperative operation among some robots of a plurality of robots connected by a communication line. A plurality of robots No. 1 to No. 4 is operated individually and also is operated in synchronous cooperation. Further, some robots No. 1 and 2 is operated in synchronous cooperation while the other robots Nos. 2 and 4 are operated in synchronous cooperation. The robots Nos. 3 and 4 are operated in synchronous cooperation. The robots No. 1 and 3 is operated in synchronous cooperation while the robots Nos. 2 and 4 are operated individually. The synchronously cooperative operation is performed by any desired combination in that the above robot control part keeps motion procedures denoting changes, which are corresponding to the frame notifications of the passage of time from the above media reproduction part; and moves the above robot according toe the above motion procedures, in the corresponding frame.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A control system for performing a synchronously cooperative operation using a plurality of robots comprising: a plurality of robot controllers connected with one another by a communication line, for respectively controlling the plurality of robots, wherein at least one master robot controller for controlling at least one master robot selected from said plurality of robots sends data regarding positions of taught points and interpolation points for the master robot to each of one or more slave robot controllers for controlling one or more slave robots selected from the rest of the plurality of robots through the communication line, so that each slave robot controller controls the slave robot thereof to perform the synchronously cooperative operation with said master robot based on the data received from said master robot controller. 2. A control system for a plurality of robots according to claim 1, wherein each of said master robot controller and said slave robot controllers stores a series of operation programs as a combination of a master program to operate the controlled robot as the master robot, a slave program to operate the controlled robot as the slave robot and a normal program to operate the controlled robot independently of the other robots. 3. A control system for a plurality of robots according to claim 1, wherein the synchronously cooperative operation of said master robot and said slave robots is started and terminated by a program command in an operation program stored in the master robot controller. 4. A control system for cooperative operation of a plurality of robots according to claim 1, wherein each of said master controller and said slave controllers stores an operation program with an attribute for the synchronously cooperative operation, and the synchronously cooperative operation of said master robot and said slave robots starts when said master robot controller and said slave robot controller start execution of the operation programs having the attributes of the synchronously cooperative operation, and terminates with completion of the operation programs having the attribute. 5. A control system for a plurality of robots according to claim 1, wherein said master robot controller and said slave robot controller output signals indicative of the midst or the ready of the synchronously cooperative operation when said master robot and said slave robots are in the midst or the ready of the synchronously cooperative operation. 6. A control system for performing a synchronously cooperative operation using a plurality of robots comprising: robot controllers connected with one another by a communication line, for respectively controlling at least three robots, wherein at least one master robot controller for controlling at least one master robot selected from said robots sends data regarding positions of taught points and interpolation points for the master robot to each of one or more slave robot controllers for controlling one or more slave robots selected for the master robot from the rest of the plurality of robots through the communication line, so that each slave robot controller controls the slave robot thereof to perform the synchronously cooperative operation with said master robot based on the data received from said master robot controller. 7. A control system for a plurality of robots according to claim 6, wherein each of said plurality of robot controllers has a series of operation programs as a combination of a master program to operate the associated robot as the master robot, a slave program to operate the associated robot as the slave robot and a normal program to operate the associated robot independently of the other robots, so as to perform the cooperation of the master robot and the slave robot sequentially. 8. A control system for a plurality of robots according to claim 6, wherein the synchronously cooperative operation of said master robot and said slave robots is started and terminated by a program command in an operation program stored in the master robot controller. 9. A control system for a plurality of robots according to claim 6, wherein each of said master controller and said slave controllers stores an operation program with an attribute for the synchronously cooperative operation, and the synchronously cooperative operation of said master robot and said slave robots starts when said master robot controller and said slave robot controller start execution of the program having the attribute of the synchronously cooperative operation, and terminates with completion of the operation program having the attribute. 10. A control system for a plurality of robots according to claim 6, wherein said master robot controller and said slave robot controller output a signal indicative of the midst or the ready of the synchronously cooperative operation when said master robot and said slave robots are in the midst or the ready of the synchronously cooperative operation. 