A man-machine interface which provides tactile feedback to various sensing body parts is disclosed. The device employs one or more vibrotactile units, where each unit comprises a mass and a mass-moving actuator. As the mass is accelerated by the mass-moving actuator, the entire vibrotactile unit vibrates. Thus, the vibrotactile unit transmits a vibratory stimulus to the sensing body part to which it is affixed. The vibrotactile unit may be used in conjunction with a spatial placement sensing device which measures the spatial placement of a measured body part. A computing device uses the spatial placement of the measured body part to determine the desired vibratory stimulus to be provided by the vibrotactile unit. In this manner, the computing device may control the level of vibratory feedback perceived by the corresponding sensing body part in response to the motion of the measured body part. The sensing body part and the measured body part may be separate or the same body part.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for providing a tactile sensation to a sensing body part in relation to a variable state signal, said system comprising: means for generating said variable state signal; a mass-moving actuator comprising a shaft and an eccentric mass mounted on said shaft for transmitting vibrations to said sensing body part, said mass moving actuator rotating said shaft; and a signal processor for receiving and interpreting said state signal to produce an activating signal and transmitting said activating signal to said mass-moving actuator for activating said mass-moving actuator to produce a variable tactile sensation in relation to said variable state signal as a result of varying the frequency and amplitude of said vibration. 2. A system according to claim 1, wherein said activating signal provides varying levels of activating said mass-moving actuator for varying the rotation of said shaft. 3. A system according to claim 1, wherein said mass-moving actuator is an electric motor and said apparatus comprises electrical connection means connecting said electric motor to said signal processor. 4. A system according to claim 1, wherein said eccentric mass is pie-shaped. 5. A system according to claim 1, comprising a plurality of mass-moving actuators. 6. A system according to claim 1 further comprising a casing containing said mass-moving actuator. 7. A system for providing a tactile sensation to a sensing body part, said system comprising: means for generating said variable state signal; a plurality of mass-moving actuators, each of said actuators comprising a shaft and an eccentric mass mounted on said shaft for transmitting vibrations to said sensing body part, each of said mass moving actuators rotating said associated shaft; and a signal processor for receiving and interpreting said state signal to produce multiple activating signals and transmitting said activating signals to said mass-moving actuators for individually activating each of said mass-moving actuators to produce a complex tactile sensation as a result of varying the frequency and amplitude of said vibration. 8. An apparatus for providing a tactile sensation to a sensing body part in relation to a variable state of a measured body part, said apparatus comprising at least one vibrotactile unit, wherein each unit comprises: a mass-moving actuator comprising a shaft and an eccentric mass mounted on said shaft for transmitting vibrations to said sensing body part, said mass moving actuator rotating said shaft; wherein said apparatus further comprises: a state sensor for measuring the variable state of said measured body part and generating a state signal in relation to said variable state; and a signal processor for receiving said state signal to produce an activating signal and transmitting said activating signal to said mass-moving actuator for activating said mass-moving actuator to produce a variable tactile sensation in relation to said variable state. 9. An apparatus according to claim 8, wherein said activating signal provides varying levels of activating said mass-moving actuator for varying the rotation of said shaft. 10. An apparatus according to claim 9, wherein said mass-moving actuator is a variable speed electric motor. 11. An apparatus according to claim 8, wherein said eccentric mass is pie-shaped. 12. An apparatus according to claim 8, comprising a plurality of vibrotactile units, wherein said signal processor produces multiple activating signals for individually activating each vibrotactile unit of said plurality of vibrotactile units to produce a complex tactile sensation. 13. An apparatus according to claim 8, wherein said apparatus has a plurality of state sensors, each state sensor for measuring the state of a different said measured body part. 14. An apparatus according to claim 8 further comprising a casing containing said vibrotactile unit. 15. An apparatus for providing a complex tactile sensation to a sensing body part in relation to a variable state signal, said apparatus comprising at least one vibrotactile unit, wherein each unit comprises: a mass-moving actuator comprising a shaft and an eccentric mass mounted on said shaft for transmitting vibrations to said sensing body part, said mass moving actuator rotating said shaft; wherein said apparatus further comprises a signal processor for interpreting said state signal to produce an activating signal and transmitting said activating signal to said mass-moving actuator for activating said mass-moving actuator to produce a variable complex tactile sensation in relation to said variable state signal. 16. An apparatus according to claim 15, comprising a plurality of vibrotactile units, wherein said signal processor produces multiple activating signals for individually activating each vibrotactile unit of said plurality of vibrotactile units to produce said complex tactile sensation. 17. A method for providing a tactile sensation to a sensing body part in relation to a variable state signal, employing an apparatus comprising a vibrotactile unit, wherein said vibrotactile unit comprises: a mass-moving actuator comprising a shaft and an eccentric mass mounted on said shaft, said mass-moving actuator rotating said shaft; said method comprising: producing said variable state signal in relation to a condition; interpreting said state signal to produce an activating signal; and transmitting said activating signal to said mass-moving actuator for varying the rotation of said shaft to provide a tactile sensation to said sensing body part, said tactile sensation relating to said state signal as a result of varying the frequency or amplitude of vibration of said mass-moving actuator. 18. A method according to claim 17, wherein said mounting comprises mounting each of a plurality of vibrotactile units on different said sensing body parts; and said transmitting comprises transmitting individual activating signals to each of said vibrotactile units to produce a complex tactile sensation. 19. An eccentric mass vibrotactile unit for generating tactile vibration sensations and in communication with a host computer, the vibrotactile unit comprising: motor means for rotating a shaft; an eccentric mass coupled to said shaft; means for receiving a signal from said host computer, said signal used to correlate events within a graphical computer simulation running on said host computer with a desired tactile sensation to be imparted by rotation of said eccentric mass; and means for modulating the current to said motor means based upon said signal, wherein the magnitude of the desired tactile sensation is controlled by modulating pulses of current sent to said motor means and the frequency of the desired tactile sensation is controlled independently of the magnitude by repeating pulses of current sent to said motor means at a selected rate. 20. An apparatus for providing a tactile sensation to a sensing body part in response to a variable state signal generated by a host computer, said apparatus comprising: a mass-moving actuator comprising a shaft and an eccentric mass mounted on said shaft for transmitting vibrations to said sensing body part, said mass moving actuator rotating said shaft; and a signal processor, separate from said host computer, for receiving and interpreting said state signal to produce an activating signal and transmitting said activating signal to said mass-moving actuator for activating said mass-moving actuator to produce a variable tactile sensation in response to said variable state signal as a result of varying the frequency and amplitude of said vibration. 21. An apparatus according to claim 20, wherein said mass-moving actuator is an electric motor and said signal processor is connected to said host computer by communication means. 22. An apparatus according to claim 20, wherein said signal processor includes a signal processor computer for interpreting said state signal and causing said activating signal to be produced. 23. An apparatus according to claim 22 wherein said signal processor includes a driver that receives a control signal from said signal processor computer and produces said activating signal from said control signal. 24. An apparatus as recited in claim 20 wherein said activating signal is a current that is bi-directionally controlled to both accelerate and decelerate said mass. 25. An apparatus as recited in claim 20 wherein said host computer is running a computer simulation, wherein said variable state signal is produced based on said computer simulation. 26. An apparatus for providing a tactile sensation to a sensing body part in response to a variable state signal generated by a host computer, said apparatus comprising: a plurality of mass-moving actuators, each of said actuators comprising an associated shaft and an associated eccentric mass mounted on said shaft for transmitting vibrations to said sensing body part, each of said mass moving actuators rotating its associated shaft; and a signal processor, separate from said host computer, for receiving and interpreting said state signal to produce multiple activating signals and transmitting at least one of said activating signals to a mass-moving actuator for individually activating each of said mass-moving actuators to produce a complex tactile sensation in relation to said variable state signal as a result of varying the frequency and amplitude of said vibration. 27. A method for creating complex tactile sensations through a computer interface device, said sensations generated by driving an inertial mass to produce a force upon a user, said method comprising: providing a sensor in said computer interface device, said sensor tracking the motion of said computer interface device or an element thereof, wherein data from said sensor is used to update a graphical computer simulation; providing an inertial mass within said computer interface device, said inertial mass movable under software control by an actuator, said actuator capable of accelerating and decelerating said mass to create an impulse or vibration to be felt by a user; receiving a signal from a host computer, said signal used to correlate events within a graphical computer simulation with a desired tactile sensation by causing the acceleration or deceleration of said inertial mass, the desired tactile sensation to be perceived by said user, and based on the signal, modulating power to said actuator to selectively accelerate and decelerate said inertial mass so as to produce said desired tactile sensation having a magnitude and frequency that are independently variable. 28. A method as recited in claim 27 wherein the power to the actuator is modulated at a variable frequency. 29. A method as recited in claim 27 wherein the power is modulated as a sequence of pulses, the amplitude of each of said pulses affecting the magnitude of the tactile sensation and the frequency of said pulses affecting the perceived frequency of the tactile sensation. 30. A method as recited in claim 29 wherein both the amplitude of the pulses to the actuator and the frequency of the pulses to the motor are independently variable over time. 31. A method as recited in claim 27 wherein said computer interface device includes a plurality of actuators controlling a plurality of inertial masses, said actuators controllable in unison to create a complex tactile sensation. 32. A method as recited in claim 27 wherein said computer interface device includes a plurality of actuators controlling a plurality of inertial masses, said actuators spaced apart at a distance and controllable in sequence to create a tactile sensation that simulates motion across a bodily surface area in contact with said computer interface device. 33. A method as recited in claim 27 wherein said inertial mass and said actuator are both encased within a plastic housing. 34. A method as recited in claim 27 wherein a physical spring is coupled to said actuator to modify the natural frequency of the inertial mass system. 35. A method as recited in claim 27 wherein a particular graphical object within said graphical simulation is updated based upon said sensor data and wherein said desired tactile sensation is correlated with said particular graphical object touching another graphical object within said graphical simulation. 36. A method as recited in claim 35 wherein said particular graphical object is a graphical hand. 37. A method as recited in claim 27 wherein said complex tactile sensation corresponds with and is correlated to musical output provided by said host computer. 38. A method as recited in claim 27 wherein said actuator is a variable speed rotary motor. 39. A method as recited in claim 27 wherein said actuator is a linearly-moving actuator. 40. A method as recited in claim 29 wherein the magnitude of the pulses to the actuator are varied over time, thereby creating a non-uniform signal profile. 41. A method of decoupling control over the magnitude and frequency components of the tactile vibration sensations generated by an eccentric mass-based vibrotactile unit, said method comprising: providing a rotary motor with an eccentric mass coupled to a shaft of the rotary motor; receiving one or more signals from a host computer, said signals used to correlate events within a graphical computer with a desired tactile sensation to be imparted on a user by rotation of said eccentric mass; and based upon said signals controlling said rotary motor to produce said desired tactile sensation, the magnitude of tactile sensation being controlled by modulating the power sent to said motor, the frequency of the tactile sensation being controlled independently of said magnitude by repeating pulses of current sent to said motor at a selected rate. 42. A method as recited in claim 41 wherein said controlling said rotary motor is performed using a processor separate from said host computer. 43. An eccentric mass vibrotactile unit for generating tactile vibration sensations and in communication with a host computer, wherein the control over the magnitude and frequency components of said tactile vibration sensations are decoupled, the vibrotactile unit comprising: a rotary motor having a shaft; an eccentric mass coupled to said shaft of the rotary motor, and a processor separate from said host computer, said processor receiving a signal from said host computer, said signal used to correlate events within a graphical computer simulation running on said host computer with a desired tactile sensation to be imparted by rotation of said eccentric mass, wherein said processor controls said rotary motor based upon said signal, wherein the magnitude of the desired tactile sensation is controlled by modulating the power sent to said motor and the frequency of the desired tactile sensation is controlled independently of the magnitude by repeating pulses of current sent to said motor at a selected rate. 44. A method of decoupling control over the magnitude and frequency components of the tactile vibration forces generated by an eccentric mass-based vibrotactile unit, said method comprising: providing a rotary motor with an eccentric mass coupled to a shaft of said rotary motor; receiving one or more signals from a host computer, said signals used to correlate events within a graphical computer simulation with said desired tactile vibration forces to be imparted by rotation of said eccentric mass; and based upon said signal, using a processor separate from said host computer to control said rotary motor to produce said desired tactile vibration forces, the magnitude of the desired tactile vibration forces being controlled by modulating the power of drive signals sent to said motor, the frequency of the desired tactile vibration forces being controlled independently of said magnitude by modulating the frequency of said drive signals. 45. A method of controlling the magnitude and frequency components of tactile vibration forces generated by an eccentric mass-based vibrotactile unit, said method comprising: providing a rotary motor with an eccentric mass coupled to a shaft of said rotary motor; receiving one or more signals from a host computer, said signals used to correlate events within a graphical computer simulation with desired tactile vibration forces to be imparted by said vibrotactile unit on a user; and based upon said signals, controlling said rotary motor to produce said desired tactile vibration forces, the magnitude of the desired tactile vibration forces being controlled by modulating pulses of current sent to said motor, the frequency of the desired tactile forces being controlled independently of the magnitude by repeating pulses of current sent to said motor at a selected rate. 46. A method as recited in claim 45 wherein said controlling said rotary motor is performed using a processor separate from said host computer. 47. A method as recited in claim 45 wherein said pulses of current go to approximately zero magnitude at or before the time the eccentric mass completes a half rotation about the motor shaft. 48. A method as recited in claim 45 wherein said mass is attached to a mechanical spring element. 49. A method as recited in claim 45 wherein said motor is a variable speed rotary motor. 50. A method as recited in claim 45 wherein said desired tactile force is intended to represent a virtual interaction with a displayed graphical object. 51. A method as recited in claim 45 wherein the direction of said current is inverted at or before the time the eccentric mass completes a full rotation about the motor shaft. 52. A method as recited in claim 45 wherein a sensor is used to track the angular position of the eccentric mass as it rotates about the motor shaft, thereby allowing more precise control of said magnitude and frequency of said desired tactile vibration forces. 53. A method as recited in claim 45 wherein two or more eccentric mass-based vibrotactile units are used in combination, thereby conveying different amplitude or frequency profiles. 54. A method as recited in claim 45 wherein said tactile sensation is correlated with with a virtual interaction with a displayed graphical object. 55. A method as recited in claim 45 wherein said current is bi-directionally controlled to both accelerate and decelerate said mass. 56. A method as recited in claim 45 wherein velocity of the mass is brought to approximately zero between impulses of said desired tactile vibration forces. 57. A method of creating tactile sensations using a moving mass vibrotactile unit, said method allowing the independent control of magnitude and frequency of said tactile sensations, said method comprising: providing an actuator with a movable mass attached, said actuator capable of accelerating and decelerating said mass to create an impulse or vibration sensation to a user, receiving one or more signals from a host computer, said signals used to correlate events within a graphical computer simulation with a desired tactile force to be imparted by the vibrotactile unit; and based upon said signals, using a processor separate from said host computer to control said actuator in order to selectively accelerate and decelerate said moving mass, the magnitude of the desired tactile force being controlled by adjusting the amplitude of a current signal sent to said actuator, the frequency of the desired tactile force being independently controllable by the frequency of said current signal sent to said actuator. 58. A method of creating tactile sensations using a moving mass vibrotactile unit, said method allowing the independent control of magnitude and frequency of said tactile sensations, said method comprising: providing an actuator with a movable mass coupled thereto, said actuator capable of accelerating and decelerating said mass to create a desired tactile force upon a user; receiving one or more signals from a host computer, said signals used to correlate events within a graphical computer simulation with said desired tactile force to be imparted by the vibrotactile unit; and based upon said signals, modulating the current to said actuator in order to selectively accelerate and decelerate said moving mass, the magnitude of the desired tactile force being controlled by adjusting the power of a signal sent to said actuator, the frequency of the desired tactile force being independently controllable by the frequency of a signal sent to said actuator. 59. A method as recited in claim 58 wherein said modulating is performed using a processor separate from said host computer. 60. A method as recited in claim 58 wherein said tactile sensation is intended to represent interaction with a graphical object with said graphical computer simulation. 