The invention is a carrier comprising three support elements connected by an underlying frame. The periphery of a wafer rests upon the support elements. The invention also comprises a wafer handler with a plurality of arms. Spacers space the carrier above a base plate associated with a station in a wafer handling area. An arm slides beneath the frame and between the spacers, but the handler does not contact the wafer. A method of using the handler and carrier is provided where the handler lifts and rotates the carrier with the wafer through various stations in a wafer handling area. A control device reduces the handler speed only at critical points of the processing cycle. The handler is capable of moving a plurality of carriers and wafers simultaneously.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of handling a semiconductor wafer comprising the steps of: providing a wafer carrier having a plurality of spaced support elements defining a wafer support plane and configured to receive spaced peripheral portions of a wafer, said carrier having a frame spaced below said plane connecting the support elements; inserting an end effector carrying a wafer between the plane and the frame to transfer a wafer to said carrier; inserting an arm of a wafer handler beneath said carrier; lifting said carrier without contacting the wafer; rotating said handler, with said carrier and wafer supported by said arm, to a second station; lowering said handler arm to transfer the carrier and wafer onto a plurality of spacers at said second station; and rotating said wafer handler arm without said carrier and wafer to a position out from beneath the carrier. 2. A method of handling a semiconductor wafer comprising the steps of: providing a wafer carrier having a plurality of radially extending support arms having on their outer ends spaced support elements defining a wafer support plane and configured to receive spaced peripheral portions of a wafer, and having a frame below said plane connecting the support arms; inserting an end effector carrying a wafer between the plane and the frame to transfer the wafer to said carrier by depositing the wafer on said support elements; and moving said carrier and said wafer from a first station to a second station by positioning a robotic handler to engage the frame without contacting said wafer. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein the step of moving said carrier and wafer comprises: inserting an arm of a wafer handler between the carrier and a support; lifting said carrier from the support; moving said wafer handler with said carrier and wafer supported by said arm to the second station; lowering said carrier and wafer onto a plurality of spacers at said second station; and moving said wafer handler arm without said carrier and wafer to a position out from beneath the carrier. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein said moving step includes rotating said handler. 5. The method of claim 3, wherein a plurality of wafers and carriers are lifted and rotated by wafer handler arms, to a plurality of stations, said handler arms moving beneath the carriers and avoiding contact with the spacers associated with each station that support each carrier. 6. The method of claim 3, wherein said lifting step includes vertically lifting said wafer handler arm at a slow speed. 7. The method of claim 3, wherein said moving said wafer handler with said carrier and wafer step includes rotating said wafer handler at a medium speed. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein said lowering step includes vertically lowering said wafer handler arm at a slow speed. 9. The method of claim 7, wherein said step of moving said wafer handler arm without said carrier and wafer includes rotating said wafer handler at a fast speed. 10. The method of claim 3, wherein said lowering step includes vertically lowering said wafer handler arms at a slow speed. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein said moving said step of wafer handler arm without said carrier and wafer includes rotating said wafer handler at a fast speed. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein said step of moving said wafer handler with said carrier and wafer includes rotating said wafer handler at a medium speed. 13. The method of claim 3, wherein said moving said wafer handler arm without said carrier and wafer step includes rotating said wafer handler at a fast speed. 