Apparatus for testing catalyst candidates including a multicell holder e.g. a honeycomb or plate, or a collection of individual support particles that have been treated with solutions/suspensions of catalyst ingredients to produce cells, spots or pellets holding each of a variety of combinations of the ingredients and dried, calcined or treated as necessary to stabilize the ingredients in the cells, spots or pellets. The apparatus also includes structure for contacting the catalyst candidates with a potentially reactive feed stream or batch e.g., biochemical, gas oil, hydrogen plus oxygen, propylene plus oxygen, CCl.sub.2 F.sub.2 and hydrogen, etc. The reaction occurring in each cell can be measured, e.g. by infrared thermography, spectroscopic detection of products or residual reactants, or by sampling, e.g. by multistreaming through low volume tubing, from the vicinity of each combination, followed by analysis e.g. spectral analysis, chromatography etc, or by observing temperature change in the vicinity of the catalyst e.g. by thermographic techniques, to determine the relative efficacy of the catalysts in each combination. Robotic techniques can be employed in producing the cells, spots, pellets, etc.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for evaluating a plurality of candidate catalysts, the method comprising providing a plurality of candidate catalysts having differing compositions in a parallel reactor having an infrared-transparent window, simultaneously contacting the plurality of candidate catalysts with one or more reactants under reaction conditions to catalyze at least one reaction, and detecting infrared radiation emitted from the reaction through the infrared-transparent window during the course of the reaction to determine the relative efficacy of the plurality of candidate catalysts. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the plurality of candidate catalysts are provided at a plurality of sites on a common support. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein each of the plurality of candidate catalysts are tagged or labeled to identify particular catalyst candidates, the method further comprising collecting candidate catalysts showing catalytic activity, and analyzing the tag or label of the collected candidate catalysts to determine the catalyst candidates having catalytic activity. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the radiation emitted during the course of the reaction is simultaneously detected from the reaction catalyzed by each of the plurality of candidate catalysts. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein at least one reaction is catalyzed by each of the plurality of candidate catalysts. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the plurality of catalyst candidates are chemical conversion catalysts. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein the plurality of catalyst candidates are hydrocarbon conversion catalysts. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein the plurality of catalyst candidates are inorganic catalysts. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein the plurality of catalyst candidates are metals or metal oxides. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein the plurality of catalyst candidates are transition metals or transition metal oxides. 11. The method of claim 1 wherein the plurality of catalyst candidates are zeolites. 12. The method of claim 1 wherein the plurality of catalyst candidates are metallocenes. 13. The method of claim 1 wherein the plurality of catalyst candidates are enzymes. 14. The method of claim 1 wherein the plurality of catalyst candidates are cells. 15. The method of claim 1 wherein the plurality of catalyst candidates are supported catalysts. 16. The method of claim 1 wherein the plurality of candidate catalysts are simultaneously contacted with the one or more reactants in a plurality of reactor channels formed in a monolithic support. 17. The method of claim 1 wherein the one or more reactants are in the gas phase. 18. The method of claim 1 wherein the one or more reactants are in the liquid phase. 19. The method of claim 1 wherein the plurality of candidate catalysts comprises fifteen candidate catalysts. 20. The method of claim 1 wherein the plurality of candidate catalysts comprises twenty-four candidate catalysts. 21. The method of claim 1 wherein the plurality of candidate catalysts are formed by calcining catalyst precursors at different temperatures. 22. The method of claim 1 wherein the plurality of catalysts comprises an array of at least twenty-four chemical conversion catalysts, the catalysts are simultaneously contacted with reactants in a common reactor, at least one reaction is catalyzed by each of the plurality of candidate catalysts, and the infrared radiation emitted is detected simultaneously from the reaction catalyzed by each of the plurality of candidate catalysts by imaging. 23. A method for evaluating a plurality of candidate catalysts, the method comprising providing a plurality of candidate catalysts having differing compositions at a plurality of sites on a common support, encasing the support in a reaction chamber of a parallel reactor, the reaction chamber having an infrared-transparent window, simultaneously contacting the plurality of candidate catalysts with one or more reactants under reaction conditions to catalyze at least one reaction, and simultaneously detecting infrared radiation emitted from the reaction at each of the plurality of sites with an infrared camera through the infrared-transparent window during the course of the reaction to determine the relative efficacy of the plurality of candidate catalysts. 24. A method for evaluating a plurality of candidate catalysts, the method comprising providing a plurality of candidate catalysts having differing compositions at a plurality of sites on a common support, encasing the support in a reaction chamber having an infrared-transparent window, pressurizing the reaction chamber with a gas comprising one or more reactants such that the plurality of candidate catalysts are contacted with the one or more reactants under reaction conditions to catalyze at least one reaction, and detecting infrared radiation emitted from the reaction at each of the plurality of sites through the infrared-transparent window during the course of the reaction to determine the relative efficacy of the plurality of candidate catalysts. 25. A method for evaluating a plurality of candidate catalysts, the method comprising providing a plurality of candidate catalysts having differing compositions at a plurality of sites on a common support, simultaneously contacting the plurality of candidate catalysts with one or more reactants under reaction conditions to catalyze at least one reaction, observing infrared radiation emitted from the reaction at each of the plurality of sites during the course of the reaction, and correcting the observed infrared emissions for emissivity variations associated with differences in composition of the candidate catalysts. 26. The method of claim 25 wherein the emissivity variations associated with differences in composition of the candidate catalysts are determined by detecting infrared radiation emitted from each of the plurality of candidate-catalyst-containing sites under nonreactive conditions. 27. The method of claim 25 wherein the observed infrared emissions are corrected by a method that includes determining the relative emissivity associated with each of the plurality of candidate-catalyst-containing sites under nonreactive conditions at each of several constant temperatures, and normalizing the observed infrared emissions with the determined relative emissivity at the reaction temperature. 28. The method of claim 25 wherein the observed infrared emissions are corrected by a method that includes observing infrared radiation emitted from the support material as a control reference, and normalizing the infrared emissions observed from each of the plurality of candidate-catalyst-containing sites to the control reference. 29. The method of claim 1, 22 or 24 wherein the radiation emitted during the course of the reaction is detected by imaging. 30. The method of claim 2, 22, 24 or 25 wherein the support is a plate or sheet having a surface comprising the candidate-catalyst-containing sites. 31. The method of claim 2, 22, 24 or 25 wherein the support is a plate having a plurality of wells as candidate-catalyst-containing sites. 32. The method of claim 2, 22, 24 or 25 wherein the support is a monolithic support comprising a plurality of reaction channels as candidate-catalyst-containing sites. 33. The method of claim 1, 22, 24 or 25 wherein the plurality of candidate catalysts are contacted with the one or more reactants under reaction conditions that include a temperature greater than 100.degree. C., and additionally, or alternatively, a pressure of greater than 1 bar. 34. The method of claim 1 or 22 wherein the parallel reactor is a parallel batch reactor. 35. The method of claim 1, 2, 23, 24 or 28 wherein the plurality of candidate catalysts comprises thirty candidate catalysts. 36. A parallel reactor for evaluating a plurality of differing compositions for catalysis, the reactor comprising a plurality of candidate catalysts having differing compositions, a reaction chamber encasing the plurality of candidate catalysts, the reaction chamber being adapted such that the reaction chamber can be pressurized with a gas comprising one or more reactants to simultaneously contact the plurality of candidate catalysts under reaction conditions, and an infrared-transparent window in the reaction chamber, the infrared-transparent window and reactor chamber being adapted to allow for detection of infrared radiation emitted from the reaction catalyzed by each of the plurality of candidate catalysts through the infrared-transparent window during the course of a reaction to determine the relative efficacy of the plurality of candidate catalysts. 37. The reactor of claim 36 further comprising the plurality of candidate catalysts provided at a plurality of sites on a common support. 38. The reactor of claim 37 wherein the support is a plate or sheet having a surface comprising the candidate-catalyst-containing sites. 39. The reactor of claim 37 wherein the support is a plate having a plurality of wells as candidate-catalyst-containing sites. 40. The reactor of claim 37 wherein the support is a monolithic support comprising a plurality of reaction channels as candidate-catalyst-containing sites. 41. An apparatus for evaluating a plurality of differing compositions for catalysis, the apparatus comprising the parallel reactor of claim 37, and a detector for detecting infrared radiation emitted from eat of the plurality of candidate catalysts through the infrared-transparent window during the course of the reaction. 42. An apparatus for evaluating a plurality of differing compositions for catalysis, the apparatus comprising a parallel reactor comprising a plurality of candidate catalysts having differing compositions, a reaction chamber encasing the plurality of candidate catalysts, the reaction chamber being adapted such that the reaction chamber can be pressurized with a gas comprising one or more reactants to simultaneously contact the plurality of candidate catalysts under reaction conditions, the reaction chamber having an infrared-transparent window, and an infrared camera for simultaneously detecting infrared radiation emitted from the reaction catalyzed by each of the plurality of candidate catalysts through the infrared-transparent window during the course of a reaction to determine the relative efficacy of the plurality of candidate catalysts. 43. The apparatus of claim 42 further comprising the plurality of candidate catalysts provided at a plurality of sites on a common support. 44. A parallel reactor for evaluating a plurality of differing compositions for catalysis, the reactor comprising a plurality of reaction channels comprising a plurality of candidate catalysts having differing compositions, the reaction channels being adapted such that a fluid comprising one or more reactants can simultaneously contact the plurality of candidate catalysts under reaction conditions, and an infrared-transparent window, the infrared-transparent window and reactor channels being adapted to allow for detection of infrared radiation emitted from the reaction catalyzed. 45. The parallel reactor of claim 36 or 44 wherein the plurality of candidate catalysts comprises thirty candidate catalysts. 46. The apparatus of claim 41 or 42 wherein the plurality of candidate catalysts comprises thirty candidate catalysts. 