Wafer polishing systems include a series of polish modules alongside a neighboring series of secondary modules. A conveyor travels along the series of polish modules and the series of secondary modules. When a polishing operation is completed, the wafers are transferred to a series of near-by storage modules. The polish modules include a pair of traveling wafer gantries, each of which delivers a wafer to a polishing surface, applying the necessary force to complete polishing of the wafer surface.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Wafer polishing apparatus, comprising: a linear array of polish modules having respective wafer support arrangements independently operable with respect to one another, the linear array of polish modules having opposed first and second ends; a linear array of secondary modules for treating exposed surfaces of said wafers, located alongside said linear array of polish modules, said secondary modules independently operable with respect to one another and the linear array of secondary modules having opposed first and second ends, with the first end adjacent the first end of said linear array of polish modules; and an automated wafer handling means for transporting wafers between modules of said linear arrays of said polish modules and modules of said linear array of said secondary modules. 2. The wafer polishing apparatus of claim 1 further comprising superstructure having an upper end and surrounding said linear array of polish modules and wherein said second automated wafer handling means is suspended from at least one track mounted to the upper end of said superstructure, above said wafer support arrangements and said secondary modules. 3. The wafer polishing apparatus of claim 2 wherein said second automated wafer handling means include at least two wafer grippers which travel back and forth along said at least one track, along both said linear array of polish modules and said linear array of secondary modules. 4. The wafer polishing apparatus of claim 3 wherein at least one of said first and said second automated wafer handling means includes an elongated arm carrying a plurality of edge grippers, with at least one edge gripper mounted for linear reciprocating movement toward and away from the other edge grippers and is moved by linear actuator drive means located at one end of said arm. 5. The wafer polishing apparatus of claim 3 wherein said second automated wafer handling means includes a first robotic end effector for selectively acquiring and selectively releasing wet wafers and a second robotic end effector for selectively acquiring and selectively releasing dry wafers. 6. The wafer polishing apparatus of claim 3 wherein said wafers include edges and said first and said second robotic end effectors grip said wafer edges to acquire said wafers. 7. The wafer polishing apparatus of claim 1 wherein said linear array of secondary modules includes a metrology module for performing metrology tests on said wafers. 8. The wafer polishing apparatus of claim 7 wherein: said wafer polishing apparatus further includes computer control means coupled to said polish modules for automated control of said polish modules; and said metrology module performs dry metrology tests on said wafers and includes data output means coupled to said automated control means. 9. The wafer polishing apparatus of claim 1 wherein said linear array of secondary modules includes modules for drying said wafers. 10. The wafer polishing apparatus of claim 1 wherein said linear array of secondary modules includes modules for rinsing said wafers. 11. The wafer polishing apparatus of claim 1 wherein said linear array of secondary modules includes modules for scrubbing said wafers, including a pair of rollers forming a nip through which said wafer is passed. 12. The wafer polishing apparatus of claim 1 wherein said linear array of secondary modules includes modules for buffing said wafers. 13. The wafer polishing apparatus of claim 1 wherein said linear array of secondary modules includes modules for inverting said wafers. 14. The wafer polishing apparatus of claim 13 wherein said modules for inverting said wafers rotates said wafers about an axis passing across a surface of said wafer. 15. The wafer polishing apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a polishing supply means common to all of said polish modules for supplying utility inputs to said polish modules, said utility inputs including at least one of said electrical power, compressed air, deionized water source, polishing slurry source, chemicals, and data communication busses. 16. The wafer polishing apparatus of claim 15 wherein said polish modules are mounted for sliding movement toward and away from said polish supply means. 17. The wafer polishing apparatus of claim 1 wherein said polish modules are enclosed to define environments separate and independent from one another. 18. The wafer polishing apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a secondary supply means common to all of said secondary modules for supplying utility inputs to said secondary modules, said utility inputs including at least one of said electrical power, compressed air, deionized water source, chemical source, and date communication busses. 19. The wafer polishing apparatus of claim 18 wherein said secondary supply means is mounted for sliding movement between servicing and operating positions. 20. The wafer polishing apparatus of claim 1 wherein said polishing modules each have a single one of said wafer support arrangements, at least two wafer-receiving load cups, at least two wafer carriers and at least two carrier actuating means for moving said wafer carriers between said load cups and said wafer support arrangement and for pressing said wafer carriers in contact with said wafer support arrangements to apply polishing pressure to wafers carried by said wafer carriers. 21. The wafer polishing apparatus of claim 20 wherein said carrier actuating means includes carrier tracks for suspending said carriers above said wafer support arrangement. 22. The wafer polishing apparatus of claim 21 wherein said carriers are movable back and forth along said carrier tracks, between said load cups and said wafer support arrangement. 23. The wafer polishing apparatus of claim 21 wherein said carriers are movable in multiple directions in planes parallel to said wafer support arrangement. 24. The wafer polishing apparatus of claim 20 wherein said carriers of each polish module are independently movable in staggered polishing operations where one wafer is received by one wafer support arrangement while another wafer is being polished. 25. The wafer polishing apparatus of claim 20 wherein said carriers of each polish module are movable in unison for simultaneous polishing operations. 26. The wafer polishing apparatus of claim 20 wherein said carriers of each polish module are movable to press wafers against and remove wafers from said wafer support arrangement as said wafer support arrangement is continuously rotated. 27. The wafer polishing apparatus of claim 26 wherein said polishing modules further comprise conditioning means for conditioning said wafer support arrangements. 28. The wafer polishing apparatus of claim 27 wherein said polishing modules each have a conditioning actuating means for moving said conditioning means across said wafer support arrangement and for pressing said conditioning means against said wafer support arrangement. 29. The wafer polishing apparatus of claim 27 wherein said conditioning actuating means includes conditioning carrier tracks for suspending said conditioning means above said wafer support arrangement. 30. The wafer polishing apparatus of claim 29 wherein said conditioning means are movable back and forth along said conditioning carrier tracks across the surface of said wafer support arrangement. 31. The wafer polishing apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising: wafer storage means adjacent the first ends of said linear arrays of said polish modules and said secondary modules; and automated wafer transport means for transporting wafers between said wafer storage means and the first end of at least one of said linear array of polish modules and said linear array of secondary modules. 