Apparatus and method to facilitate the insertion, alignment, and bending of metal sheets in a press brake machine is described herein. Automated insertion of properly aligned sheets into a bending machine can be accomplished using a press brake that includes at least two press brake fingers that act independently with respect to one another to determine whether the sheet has been received by the respective finger. The fingers are electrically coupled (via the sheet itself, for example) to a processor that communicates with. a robot. As the robot inserts the metal sheet into the press brake, it adjusts the alignment of the sheet until the sheet contacts the back planes of both press brake fingers. An electrical connection is formed when the metal sheet is received by the fingers (which are maintained at a nominal potential of 24V). When electrical connections are formed with both fingers, the processor tells the robot that the sheet is aligned and bending of the sheet can begin. Thus, each finger acts as a sensing device to determine whether the sheet is completely inserted and properly aligned in the press brake.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for aligning a sheet within a bending machine, said apparatus comprising: an electrically conductive support member and conductive back plane; an insulator having a first surface and a second surface, said first surface is attached to said conductive support member; and an insulator shield disposed on said second surface of said insulator opposite said conductive support member and conductive back plane, wherein said insulator shield is electrically isolated from said electrically conductive support member and said conductive back plane. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said insulator shield is fastened to said insulator. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said electrically conductive support member is substantially covered with insulator tape. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said insulator shield is comprised of metal. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said insulator shield is a dielectric. 6. A press brake finger, said finger comprising: an L-shaped member comprised of an electrically insulated support and an electrically conductive back plane; and an insulator shield disposed on a first surface of said electrically insulated support, wherein said insulator shield does not contact said electrically conductive back plane. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein said electrically insulated support is substantially horizontal. 8. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein said electrically conductive back plane is substantially vertical. 9. A method for bending a metal sheet, said method comprising the steps of: a. inserting a metal sheet underneath a press brake tool and over two support fingers, said support fingers comprising a sensing device on a back plane that electrically communicates with a processor; b. aligning said metal sheet by said processor electrically communicating to a robotic operator to manipulate said metal sheet until said metal sheet hits both of said sensing devices on said back plane thereby creating a signal that said sheet is aligned; and c. transmitting said signal from said processor to begin bending. 