Rapid characterization and screening of polymer samples to determine average molecular weight, molecular weight distribution and other properties is disclosed. Rapid flow characterization systems and methods, including liquid chromatography and flow-injection analysis systems and methods are preferably employed. High throughput, automated sampling systems and methods, high-temperature characterization systems and methods, and rapid, indirect calibration compositions and methods are also disclosed. The described methods, systems, and devices have primary applications in combinatorial polymer research and in industrial process control.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for preparing a composition for calibrating polymer characterization systems for characterization of a target polymer sample, the method comprising injecting a plurality of target-polymer standards into a polymer characterization system, each of the plurality of target-polymer standards having a different known molecular weight and having a polydispersity index of more than about 1.10, detecting the hydrodynamic volume of each of the injected target-polymer standards, injecting a plurality of narrow-band polymer standards into the polymer characterization system, the narrow-band polymer standards comprising polymer molecules having a different repeat unit than polymer molecules of the target-polymer standards, each of the injected narrow-band polymer standards having a different known molecular weight and having a polydispersity index ranging from about 1.00 to about 1.10, detecting the hydrodynamic volume of each of the injected narrow-band standards, selecting narrow-band standards having a hydrodynamic volume substantially equivalent to the hydrodynamic volumes of the plurality of target-polymer standards, and forming a composition comprising the selected narrow-band standards. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the composition formed consists essentially of the selected narrow-band standards and a continuous liquid phase. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the polymer characterization system is a liquid chromatography system. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the polymer characterization system is a liquid chromatography system comprising a chromatographic column having a stationary phase for size-exclusion chromatography. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the plurality of target-polymer standards comprises 5 or more target-polymer standards. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the plurality of target-polymer standards comprises 10 or more target-polymer standards. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein the narrow-band polymer standards are polystyrene standards. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein the target-polymer standards are selected from the group consisting of polyisobutylene, polyethylene and polypropylene. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein the plurality of narrow-band standards each have a polydispersity index ranging from about 1.00 to about 1.05. 10. The composition prepared by the process of claim 1. 11. A method for preparing a correlation suitable for calibrating a polymer characterization system for characterization of a target polymer, the method comprising injecting the composition of claim 10 into a polymer characterization system, detecting a property of the narrow-band polymer standards of the injected composition, and assigning the value for the detected property of each of the narrow-band polymer standards to the target-polymer standard having substantially equivalent hydrodynamic volume as the narrow-band polymer standard, to prepare the correlation. 12. A set of narrow-band polymer standards suitable for calibration of a polymer characterization system for characterization of a target polymer sample, the set consisting essentially of a plurality of narrow-band polymer standards, each of the narrow-band polymer standards comprising polymer molecules having a different repeat unit than polymer molecules of the target polymer sample, each of the narrow-band polymer standards having a polydispersity index ranging from about 1.00 to about 1.10 and each having a hydrodynamic volume substantially equivalent to the hydrodynamic volume of one of a plurality of target-polymer standards, the target-polymer standards having different known molecular weights and having a polydispersity index of more than about 1.10. 13. The set of narrow-band polymer standards of claim 12 wherein the plurality of target-polymer standards comprises 5 or more target-polymer standards. 14. The set of narrow-band polymer standards of claim 12 wherein the plurality of target-polymer standards comprises 10 or more target-polymer standards. 15. The set of narrow-band polymer standards of claim 12 wherein the polydispersity index of the plurality of narrow-band polymer standards ranges from about 1.00 about 1.05. 16. The set of narrow-band polymer standards of claim 12 wherein the narrow-band polymer standards are polystyrene standards. 17. The set of narrow-band polymer standards of claim 12 wherein the plurality of target-polymer standards are selected from the group consisting of polyisobutylene, polyethylene and polypropylene. 18. A composition for calibrating polymer characterization systems, the composition consisting essentially of the set of narrow-band polymer standards of claim 12, and a continuous liquid phase in which each of the narrow-band standards are dissolved, dispersed or emulsified. 19. The composition of claim 18 wherein the polydispersity index of the narrow-band standards range from about 1.00 about 1.05. 20. The composition of claim 18 wherein the narrow-band polymer standards are polystyrene s tandards. 21. A method for preparing a correlation suitable for calibrating a polymer characterization system for characterization of a target polymer, the method comprising injecting the composition of claim 18 into a polymer characterization system, detecting a property of the narrow-band polymer standards of the injected composition, and assigning the value for the detected property of each of the narrow-band polymer standards to the target-polymer standard having substantially equivalent hydrodynamic volume as the narrow-band polymer standard, to prepare the correlation. 22. A method for characterizing a plurality of target-polymer samples, the method comprising calibrating a polymer characterization system with the composition of claim 10, serially injecting a plurality of the target-polymer samples into the polymer characterization system, and detecting a property of the injected target-polymer samples. 23. A method for characterizing a plurality of target-polymer samples, the method comprising calibrating a polymer characterization system with the composition of claim 18, serially injecting a plurality of the target-polymer samples into the polymer characterization system, and detecting a property of the injected target-polymer samples. 24. The method of claims 22 or 23 wherein the polymer characterization system is a high-performance liquid chromatography system. 25. The method of claims 22 or 23 wherein the polymer characterization system is a high-performance liquid chromatography system, and the target-polymer samples are non-biological polymer samples. 26. The method of claims 22 or 23 wherein the polymer characterization system is a flow-injection analysis system. 27. The method of claims 22 or 23 wherein the polymer characterization system is a flow-injection analysis system, and the target-polymer samples are non-biological polymer samples. 28. The method of claims 22 or 23 wherein the target-polymer samples are polymerization product mixtures. 29. The method of claims 22 or 23 wherein the target-polymer samples are polymerization product mixtures resulting from polymerization reactions that are varied with respect to reactant materials, catalysts, catalyst precursors, initiators, additives or the relative amounts thereof. 30. The method of claims 22 or 23 wherein the target-polymer samples are polymerization product mixtures resulting from polymerization reactions that are varied with respect to reaction conditions. 31. The method of claims 22 or 23 wherein the target-polymer samples are polymerization product mixtures resulting from synthesis in a parallel polymerization reaction. 32. The method of claims 22 or 23 wherein the target-polymer samples are included within a library of four or more target-polymer samples spatially separated on a common substrate. 