An end effector for handling stacks of plastic cups, dishes, and similar items. The end effector includes a bracket of similar mechanism for coupling the end effector to the end of a robot arm. A gripping assembly is coupled to the bracket. The gripping assembly includes a main plate with a plurality of pairs of spring blades mounted on the bottom of the main plate. Each spring blade has a plurality of teeth and the pairs of spring blades are positioned such that the teeth from each spring blade are interweaved with one another. Two end blades are also mounted on the bottom of the main plate. The spring blades and end blades form a plurality of parallel bays. Each bay is formed by two spring blades or one spring blade and one end blade. When the end effector is coupled to the robot arm and moved down over the stacks of items to be picked up, the spring blades flex allowing the items to pushed into each bay. The teeth in each spring blade are bent in such a way that as the cups move up into the bay, the teeth move back toward their original position, thereby holding the items in place. To release the items from the bays, a release assembly is driven by an actuator to eject the items from the bays.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An end effector comprising: a bracket capable of being coupled to a robot; a gripping assembly including at least one bay for holding a desired item, the at least one bay formed at least in part by a spring blade; a linear actuator coupled to the bracket; and a release assembly coupled to the actuator, the release assembly having an ejector mechanism coupled to the linear actuator and positioned in the bay. 2. An end effector comprising: a bracket capable of being coupled to a robot; a gripping assembly coupled to the bracket; the gripping assembly including a plurality of bays for holding a desired item, and at least one pair of spring blades, each spring blade having a plurality of teeth, and positioned such that the teeth from each blade are interweaved with the teeth from another spring blade; an actuator coupled to the bracket; and a release assembly coupled to the actuator, the release assembly having a support plate coupled to the actuator, and a plurality of ejector bars, each ejector bar coupled to the support plate and individually positioned within one of the bays of the gripping assembly. 3. The end effector as in claim 2, wherein one blade in the pair of blades has two end teeth and three main teeth and the other blade in the pair of blades has four main teeth. 4. The end effector as in claim 2, wherein each tooth has a main portion and a V-shaped tip portion. 5. The end effector as in claim 2, wherein the gripping assembly further comprises two end blades. 6. An end effector comprising: a bracket capable of being coupled to a robot; a gripping assembly coupled to the bracket; the gripping assembly including a main plate with a bottom; a plurality of pairs of spring blades mounted on the bottom of the main plate, each spring blade having a plurality of teeth, the spring blades positioned such that the teeth from each spring blade are interweaved with one another; two end blades mounted on the bottom of the main plate; a plurality of bays, each bay formed by two spring blades or one spring blade and one end blade; an actuator coupled to the bracket; and a release assembly coupled to the actuator, the release assembly having a support plate coupled to the actuator, and a plurality of ejector bars, each ejector bar coupled to the support plate and individually positioned within one of the bays of the gripping assembly. 7. The end effector as in claim 6, wherein one blade in each pair of blades has two end teeth and three main teeth and the other blade in the pair of blades has four main teeth. 8. The end effector as in claim 7, wherein each tooth has a main portion and a V-shaped tip portion. 