A dual paddle end effector robot is disclosed which is capable of parallel processing of workpieces. The end effector includes a lower paddle rotatably coupled to an end of the distal link, and an upper paddle rotatably coupled to the lower paddle. The lower paddle supports a drive assembly capable of rotating the upper paddle with respect to the lower paddle. In one embodiment of the present invention, the dual paddle end effector robot may be used within a wafer sorter to perform parallel processing of workpieces on a pair of aligners within the sorter. In such an embodiment, the robot may first acquire a pair of workpieces from adjacent shelves within the workpiece cassette. After withdrawing from the cassette, the respective paddles on the end effector may fan out and transfer the wafers to the chucks of the respective aligners. After processing of the workpieces on the aligners is complete, the fanned end effector paddles may re acquire the workpieces, the upper paddle may return to its home position located directly over the lower paddle, and then return the processed workpieces to their original cassette or to a new cassette. Parallel processing of workpieces in this fashion provides significantly greater throughput than in conventional wafer sorter systems. Throughput may be improved still further by providing buffering locations for the workpieces at the respective aligners.
Claims We claim: 1. A workpiece transfer robot capable of simultaneously supporting a plurality of workpieces, comprising: a base; a first link rotatable with respect to said base; a second link rotatable with respect to said first link; and an end effector rotatable with respect to said second link, said end effector including a first paddle capable of supporting a first workpiece of the plurality of workpieces and a second paddle capable of supporting a second workpiece of the plurality of workpieces, said first paddle capable of rotating with respect to said second paddle. 2. A workpiece transfer robot as recited in claim 1, said first and second paddles having a common axis of rotation. 3. A workpiece transfer robot as recited in claim 1, wherein said first paddle is fixedly mounted on said end effector and said second paddle is capable of rotation. 4. A workpiece transfer robot as recited in claim 1, wherein said first paddle is capable of rotation and said second paddle is capable of rotation. 5. A workpiece transfer robot as recited in claim 1, further comprising a third paddle mounted on said end effector capable of rotation with respect to at least one of said first and second paddles. 6. An end effector for a workpiece transfer robot, the end effector capable of simultaneously supporting a plurality of workpieces, the end effector comprising: a first workpiece support paddle, said first workpiece support paddle including a base; a second workpiece support paddle rotatably mounted to said base; and a drive assembly supported on said base, said drive assembly including an output shaft affixed to said second workpiece support paddle for rotating said second workpiece support paddle with respect to said first workpiece support paddle. 7. An end effector for a workpiece transfer robot as recited in claim 6, said base including a cover plate, said second workpiece support paddle being rotatably mounted to said cover plate. 8. An end effector for a workpiece transfer robot as recited in claim 7, further comprising fasteners for affixing said cover plate to said base, said fasteners capable of adjusting a planarity of said cover plate and said second workpiece support paddle with respect to said base and said first workpiece support paddle. 9. An end effector for a workpiece transfer robot as recited in claim 6, wherein a spacing between said first and second workpiece support paddles is substantially equal to a spacing of the first and second workpieces in a cassette from which the end effector acquires the first and second workpieces. 10. An end effector for a workpiece transfer robot as recited in claim 6, further comprising a sensor fixedly mounted with respect to said base for sensing when said second workpiece support paddle is aligned directly over said first workpiece support paddle. 11. An end effector for a workpiece transfer robot as recited in claim 6, further comprising a low pressure communicated through to a surface of said first workpiece support platform for securing the first workpiece on said first workpiece support platform during transport of said first workpiece. 12. An end effector for a workpiece transfer robot as recited in claim 11, further comprising a low pressure communicated through to a surface of said second workpiece support platform for securing the second workpiece on said second workpiece support platform during transport of said second workpiece. 13. An end effector for a workpiece transfer robot as recited in claim 6, wherein said drive assembly comprises a first drive assembly, the end effector further comprising a second drive assembly for rotating said first workpiece support paddle with respect to said second workpiece support paddle. 14. An end effector for a workpiece transfer robot as recited in claim 6, wherein said drive assembly is capable of rotating said second workpiece support paddle. 15. An end effector for a workpiece transfer robot as recited in claim 6, wherein said drive assembly is capable of rotating said first workpiece support paddle and said second workpiece support paddle. 16. An end effector for a workpiece transfer robot, the robot capable of transferring workpieces between a first set of support surfaces and a second set of support surfaces, the end effector comprising: at least a first workpiece support paddle for transferring at least a first workpiece between a support surface of the first set of support surfaces and a support surface of the second set of support surfaces; and at least a second workpiece support paddle for transferring at least a second workpiece between a support surface of the first set of support surfaces and a support surface of said second set of support surfaces, said at least second workpiece support paddle capable of moving with respect to said at least first workpiece support paddle; wherein said at least first support paddle and said at least second workpiece support paddle are capable of transferring said at least first workpiece and said at least second workpiece to said second set of support surfaces at substantially the same time. 17. An end effector for a workpiece transfer robot as recited in claim 16, wherein said at least first workpiece support paddle and said at least second workpiece support paddles are capable of fanning out with respect to each other. 18. A method of transferring workpieces between a container and a pair of support surfaces for the workpieces with a workpiece transfer robot, the robot including first and second workpiece support paddles capable of rotating with respect to each other, comprising the steps of: (a) acquiring a first workpiece on the first support paddle with the first and second paddles substantially aligned one on top of the other; (b) acquiring a second workpiece on the second support paddle with the first and second paddles substantially aligned one on top of the other; (c) fanning the first and second support paddles with respect to each other; (d) transferring the first workpiece to the first support surface; and (e) transferring the second workpiece to the second support surface. 19. A method of transferring workpieces between a container and a pair of support surfaces for the workpieces as recited in claim 18, wherein said step (a) of acquiring the first workpiece and said step (b) of acquiring the second workpiece occur at substantially a same time. 20. A method of transferring workpieces between a container and a pair of support surfaces for the workpieces as recited in claim 18, wherein the first and second support paddles remain substantially aligned one on top of the other between said step (b) of acquiring a second workpiece on the second support paddle and said step (e) of transferring the second workpiece to the second support surface. 21. A method of transferring workpieces between a container and a pair of support surfaces for the workpieces as recited in claim 18, further comprising the step (f) of reacquiring the first workpiece on the first support paddle from the first support surface with the first and second support paddles fanned out with respect to each other, and said (g) of reacquiring the second workpiece on the second support paddle from the second support surface with the first and second support paddles fanned out with respect to each other. 22. A method of transferring workpieces between a container and a pair of support surfaces for the workpieces as recited in claim 21, wherein said step (f) of reacquiring the first workpiece on the first support paddle occurs at a different time than said step (g) of reacquiring the second workpiece on the second support paddle. 23. A method of transferring workpieces between a container and a pair of support surfaces for the workpieces as recited in claim 21, wherein the first workpiece is reacquired on center on the first support paddle in said step (f), and the second workpiece is reacquired on center on the second support paddle in said step (g). 24. A method of transferring workpieces between a container and a pair of support surfaces for the workpieces as recited in claim 21, further comprising the step (h) of rotating the first and second support paddles until the first and second support paddles are substantially aligned one on top of the other after said step (g) of reacquiring the second workpiece on the second support paddle. 25. A method for processing workpieces, including the steps of transferring the workpieces between a container and first and second support surfaces within a processing tool with an end effector including first and second workpiece support paddles, the first support surface having a first buffer location associated therewith, and the second support surface having a second buffer location associated therewith, the method comprising the steps of: (a) acquiring first and second workpieces from the container on the first and second workpiece support paddles with the first and second workpiece support paddles substantially aligned one on top of the other; (b) transferring the first and second workpieces on the first and second workpiece support paddles to the first and second support surfaces; (c) processing said first and second workpieces; (d) acquiring third and fourth workpieces from the container on the first and second workpiece support paddles with the first and second workpiece support paddles substantially aligned one on top of the other during said step (c) of processing; (e) transferring the third and fourth workpieces on the first and second workpiece support paddles to the first and second buffer locations; (f) acquiring the first and second workpieces from the first and second support surfaces on said first and second workpiece support paddles; (g) transferring the third and fourth workpieces to the first and second support surfaces; (h) processing the third and fourth workpieces; and (i) transferring the first and second workpieces back to the container on the first and second workpiece support paddles during said step (h) of processing. 26. A method for processing workpieces as recited in claim 25, further comprising said step (j) of transferring said third and fourth workpieces back to said first and second buffer locations after said step (h) of processing. 27. A method for processing workpieces as recited in claim 25, wherein acquiring the first and second workpieces on said first and second workpiece support paddles in said step (a) occurs substantially simultaneously. 28. A method for processing workpieces as recited in claim 25, wherein transferring the first and second workpieces to the first and second support platforms in said step (b) occurs substantially simultaneously. 29. A method for processing workpieces as recited in claim 25, wherein acquiring the third and fourth workpieces on said first and second workpiece support paddles in said step (d) occurs substantially simultaneously. 30. A method for processing workpieces as recited in claim 25, wherein transferring the third and fourth workpieces to the first and second buffer locations in said step (e) occurs substantially simultaneously. 31. A method for processing workpieces as recited in claim 25, wherein acquiring the first and second workpieces on said first and second workpiece support paddles in said step (f) occurs substantially simultaneously. 32. A method for processing workpieces as recited in claim 25, wherein transferring the first and second workpieces on said first and second workpiece support paddles in said step (g) occurs substantially simultaneously. 