The present invention provides an integrated structural unit that includes a diagnostic form that includes at least one active ingredient that is present in an amount that advantageously does not vary by more than about five percent from a predetermined target amount. In one embodiment, the unit form comprises a substrate, a deposit that is disposed on the substrate, and a spreading layer that overlies the deposit and is used to retain and spread a sample of liquid which is to be assayed. The deposit comprises a powder, including the active ingredient(s). The diagnostic form is created via a dry powder deposition apparatus that electrostatically deposits the powder on the substrate utilizing an electrostatic chuck and charged powder delivery apparatus.
Claims We claim: 1. A structural unit comprising an integrated diagnostic form, the diagnostic form comprising: a polymeric substrate; an active ingredient, electrostatically deposited on the surface of said substrate; and a porous spreading layer electrostatically deposited on the active ingredient, said spreading layer comprising particles of controlled particle size, wherein said spreading layer serves to retain and spread a sample of liquid which is to be diagnosed. 2. The structural unit of claim 1, wherein said active ingredient is present in an amount that does not vary from a target amount by more than about 5 weight percent. 3. The structural unit of claim 2, wherein said substrate comprises a planar film. 4. The structural unit of claim 3, wherein the particles of the spreading layer comprise latex beads with a diameter of from about 1 micron to about 200 microns. 5. The structural unit of claim 4, wherein the latex beads have a diameter of from about 40 microns to about 200 microns. 6. The structural unit of claim 3, wherein the particles of the spreading layer comprise cellulose acetate or inorganic particulate materials. 7. The structural unit of claim 3, wherein the distance between the particles in the spreading layer results in average pore sizes of from about 1.5 microns to about 50 microns. 8. The structural unit of claim 7, wherein the average pore size is from about 10 microns to about 30 microns. 9. The structural unit of claim 3, wherein the void volume in the spreading layer is between from about 60% to about 90%. 10. The structural unit of claim 3, wherein the particles of the spreading layer are deposited in a uniform layer with a thickness of at least a monolayer. 11. The structural unit of claim 3, further comprising an ingredient electrostatically deposited onto, or codeposited with, the spreading layer, such ingredient selected from the group consisting of surfactants, carriers, binders, buffering agents, solvents, and reagents for detection. 