Improving upon conventional endoscope patent, the proposed design (Creeping colonoscope) has a new mechanism for movement of the conventional colonoscope in the large intestine. This method of movement, which resembles climbing a ladder, where hands could assist the climbing force of the feet results from consecutive appliance of a pair of sucking arms on the tip of the colonoscope to the adjacent mucosa. The sucking arms adhere to the mucosa by vacuum power provided by an external suction device and pull the mucosa toward the tip of the fiberoptic colonoscope after mucosal adhesion. Successive repetition of this operation not only pulls the mucosa over the colonoscope but also moves the colonoscope tip onward. It should be noted that this mechanism of action is not a substitute of the primary mode of movement of the colonoscope induced by pushing of the shaft. But this minor movement help the colonoscope to pass the flexures more smoothly and with less pushing force that induce pain and discomfort for the patients. Passing the tip beyond the flexure, the endoscopist would be able to perform hooking and shortening (straightening) maneuver more easily and this leads to better transmitting of the pushing force to the tip of the colonoscope. The result is less effort and procedure time on the physicians' end and less pain and discomfort on the patients' end.
Claims Having described the specification for the new colonoscope design, I submit the following as my claims: 1. A colonoscope designed to move into the intestine, comprising: a pair of effectors, one on each side of a distal end of the colonoscope, each effector comprising an external tube fixed to a sidewall of the distal end of the colonoscope and an internal tube axially movable within the external tube, a distal end of the internal tube comprising a sucking pad; a connecting system for communicating a source of vacuum power to the pair of effectors; an ejection system for ejecting the internal tubes forwardly from a retracted position within the external tubes; and a control system for regulating movement of the effectors by selectively triggering the ejection system of either effector to eject the internal tube forwardly from the retracted position and selectively applying the vacuum power to either effector to adhere the sucking pad of the internal tube to the bowel mucosa and retract the internal tube thereafter to the retracted position, thereby moving the distal end of the colonoscope relative the intestine. 2. The colonoscope of claim 1 wherein the sucking pad is funnel-shaped. 3. The colonoscope of claim 1 wherein the sucking pad is cut at an angle with respect to the length of the internal tube. 4. The colonoscope of claim 1 wherein the external tubes are secured to the distal end of the colonoscope by holding strips. 5. The colonoscope of claim 1 wherein the ejection system for each effector comprises a locking system for releasably locking the internal tube in the retracted position a spring within the external tube for ejecting the internal tube upon release of the locking system. 6. The colonoscope of claim 5 wherein the control system includes a connecting wire for releasing the locking system for each effector. 7. The colonoscope of claim 6 wherein the connecting system comprises a connecting tube for communicating the vacuum power from the source to each effector. 8. The colonoscope of claim 7 wherein the connecting wire runs inside the connecting tube. 9. The colonoscope of claim 7 wherein the control system comprises a control button for controlling the application of vacuum power to each effector. 10. The colonoscope of claim 9 wherein the control button has a pipe canal which communicates the vacuum power to the atmosphere unless blocked by the user. 11. The colonoscope of claim 9 wherein the control button is also used to release the locking system. 12. The colonoscope of claim 9 wherein the control button is biased to an inactive position where no vacuum power is applied to the effector. 13. A method of advancing an endoscope within a body cavity, comprising: a) equipping the endoscope with the following: a pair of effectors, one on each side of a distal end of the endoscope, each effector comprising an external tube fixed to a sidewall of the distal end of the endoscope and an internal tube axially movable within the external tube, a distal end of the internal tube comprising a sucking pad; a connecting system for communicating vacuum power to the pair of effectors; an ejection system for ejecting the internal tubes forwardly from a retracted position within the external tubes; and a control system for selectively triggering the ejection system of either effector and selectively applying the vacuum power to either effector; b) selectively triggering the ejection system of one effector to eject the internal tube forwardly from the retracted position; c) selectively applying the vacuum power said one effector to adhere the sucking pad of the internal tube to a wall of the body cavity and retract the internal tube thereafter to the retracted position, thereby moving the distal end of the endoscope relative the cavity; d) selectively releasing the vacuum power from said one effector to release it from the body cavity wall e) repeating steps b-d alternately with the other effector. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein the ejection system of the other effector is triggered after the one effector has been retracted but before the one effector is released from the body cavity wall. 15. The method of claim 13 wherein the body cavity is the one of the large intestine and the small intestine and the body cavity wall is the bowel mucosa. 16. The method of claim 13 wherein the ejection system for each effector comprises a locking system for releasably locking the internal tube in the retracted position a spring within the external tube for ejecting the internal tube upon release of the locking system. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein the control system includes a connecting wire for releasing the locking system for each effector. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein the connecting system comprises a connecting tube for communicating the vacuum power from the source to each effector. 19. A The method of claim 17 wherein the control system comprises a control button for controlling the application of vacuum power to each effector. 20. The method of claim 19 wherein the control button is also used to release the locking system. 