A radiation curable, flexible, paintable composition produced from epoxy compounds and one or more polyol(s) has enhanced durability, thick and thin film adhesion, resistance to mold growth and dimensional changes while reducing solvent emissions. The composition can reduce, if not eliminate, runs and drips during the thermal bake cycles which are associated with using conventional compositions in automotive applications.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for providing a cured coating on a substrate comprising: (a) introducing a composition comprising a combination comprising at least one epoxy compound, at least one silane, at least one polyol, and least one phenoxy resin, and at least one photoinitiator, onto a substrate; and (b) exposing the substrate to a source of radiation sufficient to cause cross-linking of at least a portion of the composition thereby forming a coating upon the substrate. 2. The method according to claim 1 wherein the substrate comprising at least one member selected from the group consisting of metal, wood, concrete and cement. 3. The method according to claim 1 wherein the substrate comprises metal and the coating overlies a joint between at least two metal substrates. 4. The method according to claim 3 wherein the joint is formed by welding together at least two automotive body components. 5. The method according to claim 1 further comprising (c) heating the coated substrate to a temperature sufficient to improve adhesion of the composition to the substrate and (d) painting the coated substrate. 6. The method according to claim 1 wherein the at least one epoxy compound comprises a cyclyaliphatic epoxy compound. 7. The method according to claim 1 wherein the polyol comprises at least one polyether polyol, at least one polyester polyol or mixture thereof. 8. The method according to claim 1 wherein the photoinitiator comprises at least one UV photoinitiator. 9. The method according to claim 8 wherein the radiation comprises ultraviolet radiation. 10. The method according to claim 1 wherein the photoinitiator comprises an onium salt. 11. A composition obtained from a combination comprising: (a) at least one epoxy compound; (b) at least one polyol; (c) at least one photoiniator (d) at least one silane, and; (e) at least one phenoxy resin. 12. The composition according to claim 11 wherein the epoxy compound comprises at least one cycloaliphatic compound. 13. The composition according to claim 11 wherein the polyol comprises at least one polyester polyol, polyether polyol or mixture thereof. 14. The composition according to claim 11 wherein the photoinitiator at least one UV photoinitiator. 15. The composition according to claim 14 wherein the photoinitiator comprises at least one onium salt. 16. The composition according to claim 11 further comprising (d) a thickening agent. 17. The composition according to claim 16 wherein the thickening agent comprises silica. 18. The composition according to claim 16 wherein the thickening agent is present in amount effective to provide a thixotropic composition. 19. The composition according to claim 16 further comprising (c) at least one monomeric material chosen from the group of acrylates, caprolatones, and polycarbonates. 20. The composition according to claim 19 further comprising (f) at least one gelling agent. 21. The composition according to claim 11 wherein the ratio of epoxy compound to polyol is about 1:1 to about 2:1. 22. A method of providing a self supporting article or layer comprising: (a) providing a first component comprising at least one epoxy compound, and a second component comprising a combination comprising at least one acid source, at least one photoiniator, at least one phenoxy resin, and at least one polyol, and (b) contacting the first and second components. 23. The method according to claim 22 further comprising (c) introducing the reaction product of (b) onto a substrate, and exposing the reaction product to a source of radiation. 24. The method according to claim 22 wherein both of the first and second components comprise at least one polyol. 25. A method according to claim 22 wherein the polyol comprises at least one polyester polyol, the epoxy compound comprises at least one cycloaliphatic epoxy compound, and the acid comprises phosphoric acid. 26. A composition comprising: (a) a first component comprising at least one epoxy compound, and (b) a second component comprising a combination comprising at least one Lewis acid source, wherein at least one of the first and second component comprises at least one photoinitiator, at least one phenoxy resin, and at least one polyol. 27. The composition according to claim 26 wherein both the first and second components comprise at least one polyol. 28. A method according to claim 26 wherein the polyol comprises at least one polyester polyol, the epoxy compound comprises at least one cycloaliphatic epoxy compound, and the at least one Lewis acid comprises phosphoric acid. 29. The composition of claim 11 wherein said composition is substantially free of volatile organic compounds, and polyvinyl chloride and monomers thereof. 30. The composition of claim 26 wherein said at least one Lewis acid source comprises at least one member chosen from the group of sulfonic and phosphoric acids. 31. The composition of claim 30 wherein the composition further comprises a least one member chosen from the group of bis-phenol A epoxy, bis-F epoxy, novalac epoxy, and elastomer modified or adducted epoxy. 32. The composition of claim 31 wherein said member comprises bis-F epoxy. 33. A method for treating an automotive component comprising: providing a radiation curable composition comprising a combination comprising at least one epoxy, at least one polyol, at least one phenoxy resin and at least one photoiniator, providing an automotive component having an E-coated surface, applying the composition onto at least a portion of said automotive component, exposing the composition and said at least a portion of the component to a source of radiation, heating the exposed composition and said component, painting the composition and said component. 34. A method for sealing a welded joint or a seam between automotive components comprising, providing a radiation curable composition comprising a combination comprising at least one epoxy, at least one polyol, at least one phenoxy resin, and at least one photoiniator, providing automotive components having a weld or seam therebetween, applying the composition onto said weld or into said seam, exposing the composition and at least a portion of said components to a source of radiation, painting the composition and said component. 35. A method for repairing a painted automotive component comprising: providing a radiation curable composition comprising a combination of at least one epoxy, at least one polyol, at least one phenoxy resin and at least one photoiniator, providing a painted automotive component, applying the composition onto at least a portion of said painted automotive component, exposing the composition and said at least a portion of said component to a source of radiation, and; painting the composition and said component. 