The present invention provides methods and compositions for accessing, in a generally unbaised manner, a diverse genetic pool for genes involved in biosynthetic pathways. The invention also provides compounds which can be identified by cloning biosynthetic pathways.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for cloning at least one gene of a biosynthetic pathway, comprising i) providing host cells containing a replicable vector including genomic DNA isolated from a source of uncultivated microorganisms, wherein the genomic DNA included in at least some of the vectors is at least 50 kb, and which host cells are provided under conditions wherein expression of open reading frame sequence(s) of the genomic DNA occurs; and ii) identifying a host cell comprising a biosynthetic pathway which is dependent on expression of at least one of the open reading frames by the host cell, to thereby clone at least one gene of a biosynthetic pathway. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the biosynthetic pathway produces or transmutes a non-polymeric compound. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the biosynthetic pathway produces or transmutes a non-proteinaceous compound. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the biosynthetic pathway produces a compound having a molecular weight less than 7500 amu. 5. The method of any of claim 1, wherein the genomic DNA included in at least some of the vectors is at least 75 kilobases. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the genomic DNA included in at least some of the vectors is at least 100 kilobases. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the DNA includes DNA from prokaryotic cells. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the DNA includes DNA from prokaryotic cells of the Archaea Domain. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the DNA includes DNA from Archaea cells selected from the group consisting Crenarachaeota, Euryarachaeota, Karachaeota, and combinations thereof. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the the DNA is isolated from soil samples, invertebrate guts, plant rhizospheres, microbial mats, sulfur pools samples, or marine samples. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the DNA includes DNA from prokaryotes having low G/C content genomes. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the DNA includes DNA from anerobes. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the host cells comprise a variegated population of vectors containing different genomic DNA sequences. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein variegated population of vectors include genomic DNA from at least 10 different microorganism species. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein the host cells are a species of Bacteria selected from the group consisting of Acetobacter, Actinomyces, Aerobacter, Agrobacterium, Azotobacter, Bacillus, Bacteroides, Bordetella, Brucella, Chlamydia, Clostridium, Corynebacterium, Erysipelothrix, Escherichia, Francisella, Fusobacterium, Haemophilus, Klebsiella, Lactobacillus, Listeria, Mycobacterium, Myxococcus, Neisseria, Nocardia, Pasteurella, Proteus, Pseudomonas, Rhizobium, Rickettsia, Salmonella, Serratia, Shigella, Spirilla, Spirillum, Staphylococcus, Streptococcus, Streptomyces, Trepanema, Vibrio, Vibrio, and Yersinia. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the host cells are a species of Escherichia or Streptomyces. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the host cells are Escherichia coli. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein the vector is a low-copy number vector. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein the vector is a single-copy number vector. 20. The method of claim 18, wherein the vector is a BAC or PAC vector. 21. The method of claim 1, comprising the further step of identifying or isolating individual genes from the genomic DNA. 22. The method of claim 1, further comprising subjecting the isolated genomic DNA of step i) (b) to an enzymatic manipulation and then to a second electrophoresis step, prior to insertion into the replicable vector. 23. The method of claim 22, wherein the enzymatic manipulation is a restriction digestion. 24. The method of claim 1, wherein the genomic DNA carried by the vector is at most 300 kb. 25. A cell engineered with a replicable vector including heterologous genomic DNA isolated from a source of uncultivated microorganisms, wherein the heterologous genomic DNA in the vector is at least 50 kb, which host cell produces a compound in a manner dependent on expression of at least one open reading frame of the genomic DNA. 26. A library of cells comprising a replicable vector including heterologous genomic DNA isolated from a source of uncultivated microorganisms, wherein the library includes a variegated population of genomic DNA sequences and at least some of the vectors include an insert having at least 50 kb, and at least a portion of the cells produce a compound in a manner dependent on expression of at least one open reading frame of the genomic DNA. 27. A method for cloning at least one gene of a biosynthetic pathway, comprising i) providing host cells containing a replicable vector including genomic DNA isolated from soil, wherein the genomic DNA in at least some of the vectors is at least 20 kb, and which host cells are provided under conditions wherein expression of open reading frame sequence(s) of the genomic DNA occurs; and ii) identifying a host cell comprising a biosynthetic pathway which is dependent on expression of at least one of the open reading frames by the host cell, to thereby clone at least one gene of a biosynthetic pathway. 28. The method of claim 27, further comprising subjecting the isolated genomic DNA of step i) (b) to an enzymatic manipulation and then to a second electrophoresis step, prior to insertion into the replicable vector. 29. The method of claim 28, wherein the enzymatic manipulation is a restriction digestion. 30. The method of claim 27, wherein the genomic DNA carried by the vector is at most 300 kb. 31. A cell engineered with a replicable vector including heterologous genomic DNA isolated from soil, wherein the genomic DNA in the vector is at least 20 kb, which host cell produces a compound in a manner dependent on expression of at least one open reading frame of the genomic DNA. 32. A library of cells comprising a replicable vector including heterologous genomic DNA isolated from soil, wherein the library includes a variegated population of genomic DNA sequences and at least some of the vectors include an insert having at least 20 kb, and at least a portion of the cells produce a compound in a manner dependent on expression of at least one open reading frame of the genomic DNA. 