A method and system for the storage and retrieval of media cartridges in an automated storage library having media cartridge storage cells each housing a single media cartridge. A robotic mechanism is operable to move through the storage library to access the media cartridges in the media cartridge storage cells. A vibration sensor is associated with the robotic mechanism for generating a vibration signal indicative of vibration of the robotic mechanism. A controller is operable with the vibration sensor for processing the vibration signal to determine if the vibration of the robotic mechanism is abnormal. In the event that the vibration is abnormal, the controller generates a warning signal to warn the operator of the storage library of a possible problem prior to actual failure of the robotic mechanism. The controller is also operable to associated the vibration of the robotic mechanism with particular storage library locations to warn the operator of possible problem locations of the storage library.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automated storage library for the storage and retrieval of a plurality of media cartridges, the storage library comprising: a plurality of media cartridge storage cells each housing a media cartridge; a robotic mechanism operable to move to access the media cartridges in the media cartridge storage cells; a vibration sensor associated with the robotic mechanism for generating a vibration signal indicative of vibration of the robotic mechanism; and a controller operable with the vibration sensor for processing the vibration signal to determine vibration of the robotic mechanism. 2. The storage library of claim 1 wherein: the controller is further operable to generate a warning signal indicative of improper operation of the robotic mechanism if the vibration of the robotic mechanism is abnormal. 3. The storage library of claim 1 wherein: the robotic mechanism is a robotic pod operable to move on tracks to access the media cartridges in the media cartridge storage cells. 4. The storage library of claim 3 wherein: the robotic pod includes wheels for rotating on tracks to move the robotic pod to access the media cartridges in the media cartridge storage cells, wherein the vibration sensor generates a vibration signal indicative of vibration associated with rotation of the wheels on the tracks. 5. The storage library of claim 3 wherein: the robotic pod includes a drive mechanism for propelling the robotic pod to move the robotic pod to access the media cartridges in the media cartridge storage cells, wherein the vibration sensor generates a vibration signal indicative of vibration associated with propulsion of the drive mechanism. 6. The storage library of claim 1 wherein: the robotic mechanism includes a gripper mechanism for gripping the media cartridges in the media cartridge storage cells, wherein the vibration sensor generates a vibration signal indicative of vibration associated with gripping of the media cartridges. 7. The storage library of claim 1 wherein: the controller compares the generated vibration signal to a known vibration signal indicative of normal operation of the robotic mechanism to determine if operation of the robotic mechanism is abnormal. 8. The storage library of claim 1 wherein: the controller compares the generated vibration signal to a threshold signal to determine if operation of the robotic mechanism is abnormal. 9. The storage library of claim 1 wherein: the controller is operable with the robotic mechanism to know the location of the robotic mechanism as the robotic mechanism moves, wherein the controller associates the vibration signal with the location of the robotic mechanism to determine if the vibration of the robotic mechanism is abnormal at a particular location. 10. The storage library of claim 1 wherein: the vibration sensor is an accelerometer mounted to the robotic mechanism. 11. An automated storage library for the storage and retrieval of a plurality of media cartridges, the storage library comprising: a plurality of media cartridge storage cells each housing a media cartridge; tracks disposed adjacent to the media cartridge storage cells for enabling access to each of the media cartridge storage cells; and a robotic pod operable to move on the tracks to access the media cartridges in the media cartridge storage cells; a vibration sensor associated with the robotic pod for generating a vibration signal indicative of vibration of the robotic pod; and a controller operable with the vibration sensor for processing the vibration signal to determine vibration of the robotic pod. 12. The storage library of claim 11 wherein: the controller is further operable to generate a warning signal indicative of improper operation of the robotic pod if the vibration of the robotic pod is abnormal. 13. The storage library of claim 11 wherein: the robotic pod includes wheels for rotating on the tracks, wherein the vibration sensor generates a vibration signal indicative of vibration associated with rotation of the wheels on the tracks. 14. The storage library of claim 11 wherein: the controller compares the generated vibration signal to a known vibration signal indicative of normal operation of the robotic pod to determine if operation of the robotic pod is abnormal. 15. The storage library of claim 11 wherein: the controller is operable with the robotic pod to know the location of the robotic pod as the robotic pod moves, wherein the controller associates the vibration signal with the location of the robotic pod to determine if the vibration of the robotic pod is abnormal at a particular location. 16. A method for operating an automated storage library having a plurality of media cartridge storage cells each housing a media cartridge, the method comprising: moving a robotic mechanism to access the media cartridges in the media cartridge cells; monitoring vibration of the robotic mechanism; generating a vibration signal indicative of the vibration of the robotic mechanism; and processing the generated vibration signal to determine vibration of the robotic mechanism. 17. The method of claim 16 further comprising: generating a warning signal indicative of improper operation of the robotic pod if the vibration of the robotic mechanism is abnormal. 18. The method of claim 16 wherein: processing the generated vibration signal includes comparing the generated vibration signal to a known vibration signal indicative of normal operation of the robotic pod to determine if operation of the robotic mechanism is abnormal. 19. The method of claim 16 further comprising: monitoring the location of the robotic mechanism as the robotic mechanism moves; and associating the generated vibration signal with the location of the robotic mechanism to determine if the vibration of the robotic mechanism is abnormal at a particular location. 20. The method of claim 16 wherein: processing the generated vibration signal includes comparing the generated vibration signal to a threshold signal to determine if operation of the robotic mechanism is abnormal. 