A cassette stocker includes a plurality of cassette storage shelves positioned adjacent a cleanroom wall above a cassette docking station, and a cassette mover to carry a cassette between the shelves and the docking station. An interstation transfer apparatus includes an overhead support beam and a transfer arm adapted to carry a cassette between processing stations.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A fabrication system, comprising: a first processing station to perform a first fabrication step on a substrate, the first processing station including a first docking station, a first frame, a first plurality of cassette storage shelves fixedly mounted on the first frame and positioned above the first docking station, and a first cassette mover mounted on the first frame to carry a cassette between the first plurality of shelves and the first docking station; a second processing station to perform a second fabrication step on the substrate, the second processing station including a second docking station, a second frame, a second plurality of cassette storage shelves fixedly mounted on the second frame and positioned above the second docking station, and a second cassette mover mounted on the second frame to carry a cassette between the second plurality of shelves and the second docking station; and an interstation cassette mover to transport a cassette between one of the first plurality of shelves and one of the second plurality of shelves. 2. The fabrication system of claim 1, wherein the first processing system performs a first fabrication step. 3. The fabrication system of claim 2, wherein the second processing system is a metrology system. 4. The fabrication system of claim 1, wherein the shelves are arranged in columns above the docking stations, and the interstation cassette mover transports a cassette between a topmost shelf of each of the first and second plurality of shelves. 5. The fabrication system of claim 1, wherein the interstation cassette mover includes a support member positioned in front of the shelves and movable in a path parallel to a cleanroom wall, and an end effector configured to engage the cassette, the end effector vertically movable relative to the support member. 6. The fabrication system of claim 5, further comprising a supporting part mounted between the first frame and the second frame, the support member being movably mounted on the supporting part. 7. An apparatus for storing cassettes, comprising: one or more docking stations positionable adjacent a cleanroom wall and each including a respective door adapted to seal an opening in the cleanroom wall; a frame positioned adjacent the cleanroom wall; one or more cassette storage shelves fixedly mounted on the frame and adjacent the one or more docking stations; a horizontally-extending guide mounted on the frame; and a cassette mover including a slider mounted for movement along the guide. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein the one or more cassette storage shelves are disposed above the one or more docking stations. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 further comprising a loading station disposed adjacent the one or more docking stations. 10. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein each docking station includes a docking platform to support a cassette, and the frame is at least partially disposed below the docking platform. 