An automotive vehicle body can be sanded with a robotic sanding (polishing) disk that is carried on a robotic head, such that the sanding disk has a relatively constant unit pressure on the vehicle surface as the head moves the sanding disk along the vehicle surface. An automatic supply mechanism can be employed to periodically remove a worn sanding disk from the head, and replace the worn sanding disk with a new sanding disk.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A vehicle sanding mechanism comprising: a.) at least one sanding head adapted for movement along a vehicle surface; b.) a carriage mounted on said head for movement along a line normal to the vehicle surface; c.) a rotary motor mounted on said carriage; said motor having a hollow drive shaft rotatable around an axis that is parallel to said aforementioned line; d.) a resilient pad (52) carried by said drive shaft; e.) a replaceable sanding disk adhesively secured to said pad, whereby said sanding disk rotates with the motor shaft; said sanding disk having an abrasive surface adapted to have three hundred sixty degree pressure contact with a vehicle surface; f.) force-responsive power means trained between said sanding head and said carriage for maintaining a relatively constant pressure between the sanding disk and the vehicle surface while the motor is operating and the head is moving along the vehicle surface; and g.) means for automatically replacing the sanding disk when said disk has a diminished sanding capability; said disk replacement means comprising a first device for stripping a worn disk from said resilient pad, and a second device for attaching a replacement sanding disk to said paid; said second device comprising means for holding a stack of replacement sanding disks in a predetermined orientation below the disk attachment pad, and weight means overlying edge areas of said stack so that when said disk attachment pad is in the process of lifting a replacement disk from the stack, said weight means exerts sufficient force on the stack to separate the uppermost disk from the stack. 2. The sanding mechanism of claim 1, wherein said resilient pad has a circular flat face adapted to adhesively engage an adhesive surface on an associated sanding disk; each sanding disk having a greater diameter than the diameter of the flat face on said resilient pad, whereby the disk has an annular edge area extending beyond the pad; said first device comprising a disk gripper means that includes an anvil surface aligned with an edge area of worn sanding disk, and a moveable gripper element moveable toward said anvil surface, whereby an edge area of a worn disk can be gripped between said gripper element and said anvil surface. 3. A vehicle sanding mechanism comprising: a.) at least one sanding head adapted for movement along a vehicle surface; b.) a carriage mounted on said head for linear movement along a line normal to the vehicle surface during a vehicle sanding operation c.) a rotary motor mounted on said carriage; said motor having a hollow drive shaft rotatable around an axis that is parallel to said aforementioned line; d.) a resilient pad (52) carried by said drive shaft; e.) a replaceable sanding disk adhesively secured to said pad, whereby said sanding disk rotates with the motor shaft; said sanding disk having an abrasive surface adapted to have three hundred sixty degree pressure contact with a vehicle surface; f.) means for feeding water through a hollow drive shaft onto the abrasive surface of the sanding disk; g.) force-responsive power means trained between said sanding head and said carriage for maintaining a relatively constant pressure between the sanding disk and the vehicle surface while the motor is operating and the head is moving along the vehicle surface; and h.) means for introducing ambient air into the interface between the sanding disk and the vehicle surface, to prevent an undesired vacuum lock action between the disk and vehicle surface; said air-admitting means comprising plural air holes formed in said sanding disk at circumferentially spaced points around the disk. 4. The sanding mechanism of claim 3, wherein said air holes are located relatively close to the disk peripheral edge and relatively remote from the disk rotational axis. 5. The sanding mechanism of claim 4, and further comprising interlocking hook-and-loop adhesive attachment means between said resilient pad and said sanding disk; said hook-and-loop attachment means forming miniature air cavities that enable air to flow from the ambient atmosphere to the air holes in the sanding disk. 6. The sanding mechanism of claim 3 wherein said force-responsive power means comprises a fluid cylinder trained between said head and said carriage, and a pressure-responsive load cell trained between said carriage and said head so that a signal generated by said load cell controls the pressure developed by said fluid cylinder. 