Uroplakins Ia and Ib are the major urothelial receptors of type 1 fimbriated microorganisms. These uroplakins are used to screen compounds for treating urinary tract infections by testing if the compounds inhibit bacterial adhesion to the uroplakins. Additionally, compounds which inhibit adhesion of microorganisms expressing type 1 fimbriae, such as Tamm-Horsfall protein, are used to treat or inhibit infection by these microorganisms.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for screening and testing compounds useful for treatment of urinary tract infection, comprising: incubating uroplakin Ia and/or uroplakin Ib with a labeled microorganism expressing type I fimbriae which bind to uroplakin Ia and/or uroplakin Ib, in the presence or absence of a compound to be tested; measuring an amount of labeled microorganism bound to said uroplakin Ia and/or Ib in the presence of said compound relative to in the absence of said compound, whereby the lower the amount of labeled microorganism bound to said uroplakin Ia and/or Ib, the better the inhibition of binding and the more likely that said compound is useful for the treatment of urinary tract infection; and obtaining any compound found likely to be useful for the treatment of urinary tract infection in said measuring step. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein both uroplakin Ia and uroplakin Ib are incubated with a labeled microorganism expressing type I fimbriae which bind to uroplakin Ia and/or uroplakin Ib in the presence of a compound to be tested. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein said uroplakin Ia and uroplakin Ib are provided in the form of purified urothelial plaques. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the labeled microorganism is selected from the group consisting Salmonella, Klebsiella, Citrobacter, Shigella, Enterobacter, Serratia, Proteus, Morganella, and Providencia. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the labeled microorganism is labeled with a tag selected from the group consisting of .sup.35 [s]-methionine, an enzyme, biotin, and a fluorescent molecule. 