A semiconductor wafer cassette mapper. A photo-detecting array is used as a receiver. During a mapping process, an accurate and complex driving system is not necessary. The invention provides a semiconductor wafer cassette mapper. A strip light source is used as an emitter and a photo-detecting array is used as a receiver for a semiconductor wafer cassette mapper. During the mapping process, the strip light source, the photo-detecting array and the wafer cassette do not need to move for scanning. The receiver obtains an information about all wafers in the wafer cassette by receiving all signals at one time, so that a mapping time is reduced. The invention provides another semiconductor wafer cassette mapper. A parallel scanning light source serves as an emitter and a photo-detecting array serves as a receiver of semiconductor wafer cassette mapper. During the mapping process, the parallel scanning light source moves quickly to scan the wafers in the wafer cassette. The method can reduce the mapping time.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A semiconductor wafer cassette mapper for detecting position of a wafer in a wafer cassette, wherein wafers are coaxially disposed in the wafer cassette and a plurality of intervals are formed between the adjacent wafers, the wafer cassette mapper comprising: a photo-detecting array mounted at one side of the wafer cassette; and a strip light source, wherein a parallel light generated from the strip light source is perpendicular to an axis of the wafers and passes through the wafer cassette to the photo-detecting array, wherein the strip light source further comprises: a paraboloidal mirror; a point light source located at a focus of the paraboloidal mirror, wherein the paraboloidal mirror reflects a light generated from the point light source to generate a strip parallel light; and a plane mirror, wherein the paraboloidal mirror reflects light generated from the point light source to generate the parallel light, the parallel light is incident upon the plane mirror, and the parallel light reflected from the plane mirror passes through the wafer cassette to the photo-detecting array. 2. The semiconductor wafer cassette mapper of claim 1, wherein the photo-detecting array includes a linear charge coupled device. 3. The semiconductor wafer cassette mapper of claim 1, wherein a length of the photo-detecting array is longer than the wafer cassette. 4. The semiconductor wafer cassette mapper of claim 1, wherein a length of the strip light source is longer than the wafer cassette. 5. A semiconductor wafer cassette mapper for detecting position of a wafer in a wafer cassette, wherein the wafers are coaxially disposed in the wafer cassette and a plurality of intervals are formed between the adjacent wafers, the wafer cassette mapper comprising: a photo-detecting array mounted at one side of the wafer cassette; and a parallel scanning light source, wherein a beam generated from the parallel scanning light source is perpendicular to an axis of the wafers and passes through the wafer cassette to the photo-detecting array. 6. The semiconductor wafer cassette mapper of claim 5, wherein the photo-detecting array includes a linear charge coupled device. 7. The semiconductor wafer cassette mapper of claim 5, wherein a length of the photo-detecting array is longer than the wafer cassette. 8. The semiconductor wafer cassette mapper of claim 5, wherein the parallel scanning light source further comprises: a driving system; a plane mirror mounted on the driving system, wherein a moving path of the plane mirror is parallel to an axis of the wafers and the plane mirror moves linearly; and a light source aligned with the plane mirror generating a parallel beam, wherein the parallel beam reflected from the plane mirror passes through the wafer cassette to the photo-detecting array by adjusting an angle of the plane mirror and a location of the light source, and a moving length of the plane mirror is a longer than a length of the wafer cassette. 9. The semiconductor wafer cassette mapper of claim 8, wherein the light source includes a laser. 10. The semiconductor wafer cassette mapper of claim 8, wherein the driving system further comprises: a drive rail, wherein a plane mirror moves on the drive rail; and a power device mounted on the drive rail, wherein the power device drives the plane mirror. 11. A semiconductor wafer cassette mapper for detecting a position of a wafer in a wafer cassette, wherein the wafers are coaxially disposed in the wafer cassette and a plurality of intervals are formed between the adjacent wafers, the wafer cassette mapper comprising: a photo-detecting array mounted at one side of the wafer cassette; and a light source, wherein a parallel light generated from the light source is perpendicular to an axis of the wafers and parallel to the wafers, and the parallel light passes through the wafer cassette to the photo-detecting array. 12. The semiconductor wafer cassette mapper of claim 11, wherein the photo-detecting array includes a linear charge coupled device. 13. The semiconductor wafer cassette mapper of claim 11, wherein a length of the photo-detecting array is longer than the wafer cassette. 14. The semiconductor wafer cassette mapper of claim 11, wherein the light source includes a strip light source. 15. The semiconductor wafer cassette mapper of claim 14, wherein a length of the strip light source is longer than the wafer cassette. 16. The semiconductor wafer cassette mapper of claim 14, wherein the strip light source further comprises: a paraboloidal mirror; a point light source located at a focus of the paraboloidal mirror, wherein the paraboloidal mirror reflects light generated from the point light source to form a parallel light; and a plane mirror, wherein the paraboloidal mirror reflects the light generated from the point light source to generate the parallel light, the parallel light is incident upon the plane mirror, and the parallel light reflected from the plane mirror passes through the wafer cassette to the photo-detecting array. 17. The semiconductor wafer cassette mapper of claim 11, wherein the light source includes a parallel scanning light source. 18. The semiconductor wafer cassette mapper of claim 17, wherein the parallel scanning light source further comprises: a driving system; a plane mirror mounted on the driving system, wherein a moving path of the plane mirror is parallel to an axis of the wafers and the plane mirror moves linearly; and a light source aligned with at the plane mirror for generating a parallel beam, wherein the parallel beam parallel to the wafers is reflected from the plane mirror and passes through the wafer cassette to the photo-detecting array by adjusting an angle of the plane mirror and a location of the light source, and a moving length of the plane mirror is a longer than that of the wafer cassette. 19. The semiconductor wafer cassette mapper of claim 18, wherein the light source includes a laser. 