A robotic gripper for fixturing and manipulating a sheet of substantially rigid material, e.g. a sheet metal part, has three fingers with circumferential grooves thereon. Each of the fingers has three degrees of movement. The sheet metal part has at least one opening of a size suited to accommodate one of the fingers. The other fingers can engage the edges of other openings in the sheet metal part or the outside edge of the part. The fingers can be moved away from each other or towards each other respectively depending on the positioning of the fingers, whereby the sheet metal part is fixtured by means of the grooves of the fingers. By using three fingers each having three degrees of movement, and having grooves thereon, an object can be held and kinematically locked without the application of force.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A gripper for holding in place an object having at least an edge, the gripper comprising: at least three rigid non-jointed fingers, each finger being relatively movable to another finger in three orthogonal directions in a frame of reference relative to a position of the another finger, at least one of the fingers having at least a groove for engaging said at least said edge; and, drive means for moving the fingers relatively to each other. 2. A gripper as defined in claim 1, wherein the drive means comprise a plurality of actuators, the plurality of actuators for independently moving each of the at least three fingers in three orthogonal directions. 3. A gripper as defined in claim 2, wherein the fingers are sized to grasp a sheet of material defining an outside edge and having at least one opening therein, at least one of said fingers being sized to fit within said at least one opening, each of the fingers having a groove for preventing a grasped sheet from slipping, the fingers for providing kinematic locking of the object. 4. The gripper as defined in claim 3, wherein the groove for preventing said sheet from slipping comprises means for tracking along an edge of said at least one opening as the fingers are relatively moved. 5. The gripper as defined in claim 4, wherein the means for tracking comprises a circumferential groove near the tip of one of the fingers. 6. The gripper as defined in claim 4, wherein the circumferential groove is a tapered V-groove. 7. The gripper as defined in claim 3, wherein the at least one of the grooves is tapered to receive a range of edge thicknesses. 8. A gripper as defined in claim 1 comprising actuators for moving each of the at least three fingers, independently in three orthogonal directions. 9. A gripper for holding a sheet of material having slots defined therein by walls of a thickness t, the gripper comprising: at least three grasping fingers relatively movable, each finger being controllably movable relative to at least another of the at least three grasping fingers in three orthogonal directions in a frame of reference relative to a position of the another finger, the fingers each being sized to fit within one of the slots and having a groove of a width of at least t for sliding along a respective slot wall and for preventing said sheet from slipping or moving relative to the fingers when the fingers are placed in the slots and moved as far apart as possible or as close to one another as possible within the slots; and, drive means for moving the fingers. 10. A gripper for holding a sheet of material having at least an opening defined therein, comprising: at least three controllably movable grasping fingers, each finger being movable relative to at least another of the at least three grasping fingers in three orthogonal directions in a frame of reference relative to a position of the another finger, at least one of the fingers being sized to fit within the at least one opening, each of the at least three fingers having means for engaging the sheet and for preventing the sheet from substantially slipping or moving relative to the fingers when the fingers have been controllably moved to kinematically grasp the sheet in a locking manner; and, drive means for moving the fingers. 11. The gripper as defined in claim 10, wherein the means for engaging the sheet and for preventing the sheet from substantially slipping is a groove within each of the fingers, said groove sized to accommodate the edge of the sheet. 12. The gripper as defined in claim 11, wherein the groove is substantially larger than the thickness of the edge of the sheet. 13. A method of gripping a sheet of material having at least an opening defined therein, comprising the steps of: providing three non-jointed fingers each of which is relatively movable to another finger from the three non-jointed fingers via actuators in each of three orthogonal directions in a frame of reference relative to a position of the another finger, at least one finger having a groove for being guided along a wall defining the opening; placing at least one finger in the opening, the fingers being spaced from one another; and, moving the fingers toward or away from one another until movement is ceased such that the object is kinematically securely held, the fingers forming 3 vertices of a triangle. 14. A method of gripping a sheet of material having at least an opening defined therein, comprising the steps of: providing three non-jointed fingers each of which is relatively movable to another of the three non-jointed fingers in a frame of reference relative to a position of the another via actuators in three orthogonal directions, at least one finger having a groove for being guided along a wall defining the opening; placing at least one finger in the opening, the fingers being spaced from one another; and, moving the fingers toward or away from one another until movement is ceased such that the object is kinematically securely held the fingers forming 3 vertices of a triangle wherein the groove is substantially larger than the thickness of the sheet material, allowing for error in locating the sheet. 15. A method for holding and moving an object having at least an edge comprising the steps of: providing a gripper supported by a supporting member, the gripper having at least three rigid non-jointed fingers, each finger being relatively movable to another of the three rigid non-jointed fingers in three orthogonal directions in a frame of reference relative to a position of the another, at least one of the fingers having at least a groove for engaging said at least said edge; and, providing drive means for relatively moving the fingers, placing the fingers about edges of the object and grasping the object such that the at least a groove engages the object and the object is kinematically held; moving the object from a first position to a second different position without moving the supporting member. 16. A method as defined in claim 15, wherein the step of moving the object from a first position to a second different position is performed while each of the fingers maintain contact with the object at a location substantially identical between the contact with the object in the first position and the contact of the object in the second different position. 