A device for cleaning semiconductor wafers is provided. The device includes a carrier for holding wafers during the cleaning process. The carrier includes a frame with an open top and a plurality of carrier rods extending between opposite ends of the frame. The carrier rods have grooves that receive marginal edge portions of the wafers to retain them against movement in the carrier during cleaning and transportation. The grooves are structured to reduce the amount of contaminants remaining on the wafers after cleaning. The frame may be made substantially entirely of a polymeric material.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for holding a plurality of semiconductor wafers during cleaning, said apparatus including: a frame with a bottom and an open top and having a longitudinal axis, said frame including a pair of first carrier rods secured to and extending between opposite ends of the frame, said first carrier rods being in spaced apart relation and positioned on opposite sides of the longitudinal axis of the frame and between the longitudinal axis and the frame bottom, each said first carrier rod having a plurality of transverse grooves in spaced apart relation along the length of the first carrier rod and opening into the interior of the frame, each groove in one first carrier rod being substantially transversely aligned with a respective groove in the other said first carrier rod and adapted to receive a semiconductor wafer therein for support in a generally vertical orientation, the grooves having an open top, a bottom surface and generally opposite side surfaces each facing a respective opposite side of a wafer and retaining the wafer in the generally vertical orientation, said first carrier rods being transversely spaced a distance less than the diameter of the wafer, the groove side surfaces being spaced apart a distance greater than the thickness of the wafer, each said groove side surface having a channel recessed therein opening into the groove and positioned between the bottom surface and the open top of the groove forming an enlarged flow passage for flow of liquid out of the grooves and away from the wafers. 2. An apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein the channels have opposite ends opening exteriorly of the groove. 3. An apparatus as set forth in claim 2 wherein the channels provide an enlarged width in the groove generally centrally between the bottom surface and the open top of the groove. 4. An apparatus as set forth in claim 3 wherein the grooves are tapered outwardly from the bottom surface to the open top. 5. An apparatus as set forth in claim 4 wherein the depth of the channels is in the range of about 1.5 mm thru about 3 mm. 6. An apparatus as set forth in claim 5 wherein the height of a channel is in the range of about 25% thru about 75% of the maximum height of a respective grove. 7. An apparatus as set forth in claim 6 further including at least one second carrier rod mounted on the frame and having a plurality of second grooves spaced apart along the length of the second carrier rod, said second grooves being spaced apart approximately the same distance as the spacing of the grooves in the first carrier rods and each being generally transversely aligned with a respective groove in each of the first carrier rods forming wafer receiving sockets, said second carrier rod being positioned between the first carrier rods and the frame bottom. 