The present invention provides an assembly system employing at least a robotic or automated assembly apparatus to manipulate the components to be assembled and at least a first vision alignment system to align the components prior to their assembly. An adhesive dispense system is provided to connect, attach or otherwise adhere the components together. In a method in accord with the present invention for assembling components, a source of the components is provided is located relative to a global reference system. The components held by the source are then located relative to the global reference system based upon the determined location of the source. An adhesive is dispensed onto a first of the components and a second component is manipulated into an initial attachment position relative to the first component. The components are imaged by a local imaging system to establish their position relative to each other and the second component is moved into a desired attachment position and then moved into engagement with the adhesive and the first component. The adhesive may then be at least partially cured if desired.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for assembling a plurality of components to each other, said method comprising: determining, an absolute reference system; providing at least one source for a plurality of components; determining the location of the at least one source relative to the absolute reference system; determining the locations of the components relative to the source; determining the relative positions of the two components to be assembled to each other, said determining step including: providing a camera for imaging the two components; disposing the two components such that said components are within the field of view of the camera and within the depth of focus; and imaging the two components with the camera; dispensing an adhesive onto a first of the components; and disposing a second of the components into an adhering position relative to the first component. 2. The method of claim 1 and further including: determining the location of the second component relative to the first component. 3. The method of claim 2 and further including: curing the adhesive at least partially. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein said curing step includes: exposing the adhesive to an ultraviolet light source. 5. The method of claim 1 and further including: curing the adhesive at least partially. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein said curing step includes: exposing the adhesive to an ultraviolet light source. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein the first component is a flex circuit. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein the first component is a suspension. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein the first component is a suspension. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein the source includes optical targets and further including: determining the location of the optical targets relative to the absolute reference system. 11. The method of claim 1 wherein said step of determining the location of the at least one source comprises: imaging the at least one source with a first camera. 12. The method of claim 1 and further including: disposing the source at a predetermined source location; and disposing the first camera at a predetermined initial position for imaging the at least one source. 13. The method of claim 1 wherein the source comprises at least one tray holding the components. 14. The method of claim 1 determining the relative positions of the two components to be assembled to each other, said determining step including imaging the two components simultaneously with a camera. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein the source includes optical targets and further including: determining the location of the optical targets relative to the absolute reference system, said step of determining the location of the optical targets including imaging the at least one source with a camera. 16. The method of claim 15 and further including: curing the adhesive at least partially. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein said curing step includes: exposing the adhesive to an ultraviolet light source. 18. The method of claim 15 wherein said step of disposing a second of the components into an adhering position relative to the first component comprises: determining a preferred relative position of the second component relative to the first component; picking up the second component and moving it into an initial position relative to the first component; calculating the relative positions of the first and second components based upon the step of imaging the components; and moving the second component to a new position closer to the preferred relative position. 19. The method of claim 18 and further including: curing the adhesive at least partially. 20. The method of claim 19 wherein said curing step includes: exposing the adhesive to an ultraviolet light source. 21. The method of claim 14 wherein the two components are aligned for attachment calculating the relative positions of alignment targets on the components that are out of the field of view of the cameras. 22. The method of claim 21 wherein the source includes optical targets and further including: determining the location of the optical targets relative to the absolute reference system, said step of determining the location of the optical targets including imaging the at least one source with a camera. 23. The method of claim 22 and further including: curing the adhesive at least partially. 24. The method of claim 22 wherein said step of disposing a second of the components into an adhering position relative to the first component comprises: determining a preferred relative position of the second component relative to the first component; picking up the second component and moving it into an initial position relative to the first component; calculating the relative positions of the first and second components based upon the step of imaging the components; and moving the second component to a new position closer to the preferred relative position such that said alignment targets are properly aligned for attachment of the components to each other. 25. The method of claim 1 wherein said field of view does not exceed about 4 mm by 4 mm. 26. The method of claim 1 wherein the two components are aligned for attachment calculating the relative positions of alignment targets on the components that are out of the field of view of the cameras. 27. The method of claim 26 wherein said step of disposing a second of the components into an adhering position relative to the first component comprises: determining a preferred relative position of the second component relative to the first component; picking up the second component and moving it into an initial position relative to the first component; calculating the relative positions of the first and second components based upon the step of imaging the components; and moving the second component to a new position closer to the preferred relative position such that said alignment targets are properly aligned for attachment of the components to each other. 28. The method of claim 27 wherein said field of view does not exceed about 4 mm by 4 mm. 