A robot capable of moving against gravity uses at least one vacuum cup assembly having a port for applying a lubricant on the working surface so the cup may slide on the surface as the robot is maneuvered with the aid of powered wheels. The wheels and vacuum cut assemblies are coordinated to move on varied surfaces. The robot module may be equipped with various task-performing assemblies, and may be employed in caravans, trains, or separately in swarms.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A vacuum cup assembly including a vacuum cup comprising a stem member and a flexible, substantially conical body, a port in said body for a vacuum source, at least two annular ridges projecting downwardly from said body for intimately contacting a base surface, and at least one port for introducing lubricant to an interface of at least one of said ridges and the base surface. 2. A vacuum cup assembly of claim 1 including a filter in said vacuum source port. 3. A vacuum cup assembly of claim 1 wherein said flexible body has at least three annular ridges, said annular ridges being substantially concentric. 4. A vacuum cup assembly of claim 1 mounted on a chassis including means for attaching a task-performing device to said chassis. 5. A vacuum cup assembly of claim 4 including powered wheels for moving said chassis. 6. A vacuum cup assembly of claim 5 wherein said wheels are powered by motors on said vehicle and are capable of being independently steered. 7. Method of manipulating a robot on a working surface comprising drawing a vacuum on at least one vacuum cup having a flexible surface for adhering to a working surface, feeding a lubricant to said flexible surface to form a film between said flexible surface and said working surface, and activating a locomotion means to propel said robot in a desired direction. 8. Method of claim 7 wherein said locomotion means are wheels. 9. Method of claim 7 wherein the reaction force R.sub.SC of said vacuum cup is determined at least partly by the relationship where R.sub.SC is the reaction force, P.sub.V is the vacuum pressure applied to the suction cup, p.sub.a is the atmospheric pressure acting on the outside of the suction cup, A.sub.O is the outside area of the suction cup, A.sub.I is the inside area of the suction cup, and N is the normal force acting or load applied to the suction cup, usually the vehicle weight. 10. A robot comprising at least one robot module comprising (a) a locomotion section comprising locomotion means for moving said module on a work surface, and (b) a slidable adherence section for adhering said module to a work surface while said module is moving thereon and a means for feeding a lubricant to said slidable adherence section to form a film between said slidable adherence section and said work surface. 11. A robot of claim 10 wherein said locomotion section comprises at least one wheel, a motor therefor, and means for steering said wheel. 12. A robot of claim 10 wherein said slidable adherence section comprises a vacuum cup having a top side and an underside, a lubricant port therein, and a duct for delivering lubricant through said duct to the underside of said vacuum cup. 13. A robot of claim 10 wherein said slidable adherence section comprises a vacuum cup having a stem member, a flexible, substantially conical body, a port in said body for a vacuum source, at least two substantially concentric annular ridges projecting downwardly therefrom for intimately contacting a base surface, and at least one port for introducing lubricant to an interface of at least one of said ridges and the base surface. 14. A robot of claim 10 including at least one spring for urging said wheel toward said work surface. 15. A robot of claim 10 including a berth for a specific task-performing device. 16. A robot of claim 10 including an antenna for receiving control signals. 17. A robot of claim 10 including a flexible tube for connection to a remote source of vacuum. 18. A robot of claim 10 including a flexible wire for connection to a remote source of electric power. 19. A robot of claim 10 including a flexible tube for connection to a remote source of lubricant. 20. A robot of claim 10 including a microprocessor for controlling at least one function on said robot. 