An apparatus for processing a microelectronic workpiece in a micro-environment is set forth. The apparatus includes a first chamber member having an interior chamber wall and a second chamber member having an interior chamber wall. The first and second chamber members are adapted for relative movement between a loading position in which the first and second chamber members are distal one another and a processing position in which the first and second chamber members are proximate one another to define a processing chamber. At least one workpiece support assembly is disposed between the first and second chamber members for supporting the microelectronic workpiece. The workpiece support assembly is operable to space the workpiece a first distance, x1, from an interior chamber wall of at least one of the first and second chamber members when the first and second chamber members are in the loading position and to space the workpiece a second distance, x2, from the interior chamber wall when the first and second chamber members are in the processing position, wherein x1>x2.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for processing a workpiece comprising: a first chamber member having an interior first chamber member wall; a second chamber member having an interior second chamber member wall, the first and second chamber members adapted for relative movement between a loading position in which the first and second chamber members are spaced apart from each other, and a processing position in which the first and second chamber members are engaged to each other, to define a processing chamber, and with the interior first and second chamber member walls parallel to each other in both the loading position and in the processing, position; at least one workpiece support assembly for supporting the workpiece, the at least one workpiece support assembly having a plurality of support members operable to space the workpiece a first distance from the interior first chamber member wall, when the first and second chamber members are in the loading position, and also operable to space the workpiece a second distance from the interior first chamber member wall, when the first and second chamber members are in the processing position, with the first distance greater than the second distance. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the workpiece support assembly comprises: a biasing member disposed to engage the workpiece support members, the biasing member urging the workpiece support members to space the workpiece at the first distance from the interior first chamber wall when the first and second chamber members are in the loading position, and with relative movement between the first and second chamber members urging the workpiece support members against the bias of the biasing member to drive the workpiece support members to space the workpiece at the second distance from the first interior chamber wall when the first and second chamber members are in the processing position. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein first and second chamber members move linearly together and apart. 4. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the biasing member comprises at least one leaf spring. 5. The apparatus of claim 2 and further comprising: a first fluid inlet disposed through the first interior chamber wall for delivering a first processing fluid onto a first side of the workpiece, and a second fluid inlet disposed through the second interior chamber wall for delivering a second fluid onto a second side of the workpiece. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 and further comprising: at least one processing fluid inlet disposed through at least one of the first and second interior chamber walls for delivering processing fluid onto the workpiece when the first and second chamber members are in the processing position. 7. The machine of claim 1 wherein the plurality of radially spaced apart support members extend through the first interior chamber member wall. 8. The machine of claim 1 wherein the plurality of radially spaced apart support members are located adjacent to a peripheral circumferential edge of the first chamber member. 9. An apparatus for processing a workpiece, comprising: an upper chamber member having an upper chamber interior wall; a lower chamber member having an lower chamber interior wall; the upper chamber member and the lower chamber member relatively movable between a loading position in which the upper and lower chamber members are spaced apart, and a processing position in which the upper and lower chamber members form a processing chamber generally conforming to the shape of the workpiece, and rotatable about an axis, the processing chamber having at least one fluid outlet at a peripheral region thereof; at least one processing fluid inlet extending through at least one of the upper and lower interior chamber walls for delivering processing fluid onto the workpiece, when the upper and lower chamber members are in the processing position; a workpiece support assembly for supporting the workpiece, the workpiece support assembly having a plurality of workpiece support members engaging the workpiece at its peripheral edges and holding workpiece a first distance from the lower interior chamber wall when the upper and lower chamber members are in the loading position, and holding the workpiece at a second distance, less than the first distance, from the lower interior chamber wall when the upper and lower chamber members are in the processing position, the workpiece support members adapted to support the workpiece in the processing chamber in a position to allow distribution of a fluid supplied through the at least one processing fluid inlet across at least one face of the workpiece via centrifugal force. 10. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein the at least one processing fluid inlet extends through the upper interior chamber wall, to deliver processing fluid to substantially an entire upper surface of the workpiece, the apparatus further comprising a second processing fluid inlet extending through the lower interior chamber wall to deliver processing fluid to substantially an entire a lower surface of the workpiece. 11. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein the workpiece support assembly further comprises a biasing member engaging the workpiece support members, the biasing member constantly urging the workpiece support members upwardly to space the workpiece the first distance from the lower interior chamber wall when the first and second chamber members are in the loading position, with relative movement between the lower and upper chamber members urging the workpiece support members downwardly against the bias of the biasing member to drive the workpiece support members downwardly to space the workpiece at the second distance from the lower interior chamber wall when the lower and upper chamber members are in the processing position. 12. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein the plurality of workpiece support members each have an upstanding portion and a support surface; with a biasing member engaging the upstanding portions of the plurality of workpiece support members, the biasing member urging the workpiece support members to space the workpiece the first distance from the lower interior chamber wall when the upper and lower chamber members are in the loading position, relative movement between the upper and lower chamber members using the workpiece support members against the bias of the biasing member to drive the workpiece support members to space the workpiece the second distance from the lower interior chamber wall when the upper and lower chamber members are in the processing position. 13. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein the biasing member comprises a plurality of leaf spring members extending from a central hub, with end portions of the leaf spring members contacting respective upstanding members of the workpiece support members. 14. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein the plurality of workpiece support members are disposed through the lower chamber member and wherein the biasing member is secured to the lower chamber member at the hub of the biasing member by a securement that forms the processing fluid inlet of the lower chamber member. 15. A machine for processing a workpiece, comprising: a processing chamber having a top wall and a bottom wall; a top inlet in the top wall; a bottom inlet in the bottom wall; a plurality of bottom spacing members on the bottom wall, adapted to hold a workpiece spaced apart from the bottom wall. 16. The machine of claim 15 wherein the processing chamber comprises an upper chamber member engaged to a lower chamber member. 17. The machine of claim 15 further including a plurality of top spacing members on the top wall, with the top and bottom spacing members substantially aligned with each other. 18. The machine of claim 17 where at least one of the first and second spacing members is adjacent to the outlet. 19. A machine for processing a workpiece comprising: a first chamber member having a first interior chamber member wall; a second chamber member having a second interior chamber member wall, and an annular sidewall extending toward the first interior chamber member wall; and with the first and second chamber members engageable together to form a substantially closed processing chamber; and a plurality of first spacing members extending from the first interior chamber member wall in a first direction; a plurality of second spacing members extending from the second interior chamber member wall in a second direction opposite to the first direction, to hold a workpiece space apart from the first and second interior chamber member walls. 20. A machine for processing a workpiece, comprising: a first chamber member having a first interior chamber member wall; a second chamber member having a second interior chamber member wall; the first and second chamber members forming a processing chamber; at least one inlet and at least one outlet in the processing chamber; a plurality of first spacing members extending from the first interior chamber member wall; a plurality of second spacing members extending from the second interior chamber member wall; with the second spacing members moveable from a loading position, where the second spacing members extend outwardly from the second interior chamber member wall, to hold a workpiece at first distance from the second interior chamber member wall, for loading and unloading the workpiece, to a processing position, where the second spacing members are held adjacent to the second interior chamber member wall, by the first chamber member, to hold a workpiece in a processing position where the workpiece is spaced apart from each of the first and second interior chamber walls by a distance substantially equal to the thickness of the workpiece. 21. The machine of claim 20 further including an annular sidewall on the first chamber member extending towards the second chamber member, and with the annular sidewall positioned so that when a workpiece is placed in the chamber, the circumferential edge of the workpiece is spaced apart from the annular sidewall by a distance substantially equal to the thickness of the workpiece. 22. A machine for processing a workpiece, comprising: a first chamber member; a second chamber member; the first and second chamber members together forming a processing chamber; at least one inlet and at least one outlet in the processing chamber; a plurality of fasteners extending between the first and second chamber members, with substantially each fastener having an arm extending radially inwardly into the processing chamber, to support edges of a workpiece in the processing chamber; and biasing means for biasing the first and second chamber members towards each other. 23. The machine of claim 22 further including workpiece support members on the first chamber member. 24. The machine of claim 23 further comprising a support arm on each support member, with the support arm extending radially inwardly towards a center point of the first chamber member. 25. The machine of claim 22 with at least one of the fasteners including a rod on the second chamber member slidably positioned at least partially within a cylinder on the first chamber member. 26. A machine for processing a workpiece, comprising: a first chamber member; a second chamber member; the first and second chamber members forming a processing chamber; at least one inlet and at least one outlet in the processing chamber; a plurality of workpiece support members extending through the first chamber member; and a biasing member urging the workpiece support members towards the second chamber member. 27. The machine of claim 26 with the biasing member comprising at least one leaf spring. 28. The machine of claim 27 where movement of the first and second chamber members towards each other drives the workpiece support members against the at least one leaf spring, until the workpiece is clamped between the support surfaces of the workpiece support members and the corresponding projections extending from the interior chamber wall of the second chamber member. 29. The machine of claim 26 where the workpiece support members include conical ends for contacting the workpiece. 30. The machine of claim 26 further including projections on the second chamber member aligned with the support members. 31. A machine for processing a workpiece, comprising: a first chamber member; a second chamber member; the first and second chamber members forming a processing chamber; at least one inlet and at least one outlet in the processing chamber; a plurality of workpiece support members extending through the first chamber member; first biasing means urging the workpiece support members in a first direction; and second biasing means urging the second chamber member in a second direction, opposite the first direction. 32. A machine for processing a workpiece, comprising: a first chamber member and a second chamber member together forming a processing chamber; at least one inlet and at least one outlet in the processing chamber; a plurality of fasteners extending between the first and second chamber members, with the fasteners spaced apart circumferentially around an outer perimeter of the processing chamber; a spring element associated with substantially each fastener, for biasing the first and second chamber members together. 33. The machine of claim 32 wherein the fasteners extend through the first and second chamber members. 