Antisense compounds, compositions and methods are provided for modulating the expression of PTEN. The compositions comprise antisense compounds, particularly antisense oligonucleotides, targeted to nucleic acids encoding PTEN. Methods of using these compounds for modulation of PTEN expression and for treatment of diseases and conditions associated with expression of PTEN are provided. Such conditions include diabetes and hyperproliferative conditions. Methods for decreasing blood glucose levels, inhibiting PEPCK expression, decreasing blood insulin levels, decreasing insulin resistance, increasing insulin sensitivity, decreasing blood triglyceride levels or decreasing blood cholesterol levels in an animal using the compounds of the invention are also provided. The animal is preferably a human; also preferably the animal is a diabetic animal.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A compound target to a nucleic acid molecule encoding PTEN wherein the compound is an antisense oligonucleotide having a sequence consisting of SEQ ID NOS: 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 48, or 49. 2. The compound of claim 1, wherein the antisense oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified internucleoside linkage. 3. The compound of claim 2, wherein the modified internucleoside linkage is a phosphorothioate linkage. 4. The compound of claim 1, wherein the antisense oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified sugar moiety. 5. The compound of claim 4, wherein the modified sugar moiety is a 2'-O-methoxyethyl sugar moiety. 6. The compound of claim 1, wherein the antisense oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified nucleobase. 7. The compound of claim 6, wherein the modified nucleobase is a 5-methylcytosine. 8. The compound of claim 1, wherein the antisense oligonucleotide is a chimeric oligonucleotide. 9. A composition comprising the compound of claim 1, and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent. 10. The composition of claim 9, further comprising a colloidal dispersion system. 11. A method of inhibiting the expression of PTEN in cells or tissues comprising contacting said cells or tissues in vitro with the compound of claim 1, so that expression of PTEN is inhibited. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the cells or tissues are human cells or tissues. 13. The method of claim 11, wherein the cells or tissues are rodent cells or tissues. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the rodent cells or tissues are mouse cells or tissues. 15. The method of claim 13, wherein the rodent cells or tissues are rat cells or tissues. 16. The method of claim 11, wherein the cells or tissues are liver, kidney or adipose cells or tissues. 17. A method of treating an animal having diabetes associated with PTEN expressions comprising administering to said diabetic animal a therapeutically or prophylactically effective amount of an antisense oligonucleotide having a sequence consisting of SEQ ID NO:48 or SEQ ID NO:49 so that expression of PTEN is inhibited and blood glucose levels of said animal are decreased. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein the animal is a human or rodent. 19. The method of claim 17, wherein the diabetes is Type 2 diabetes. 20. The method of claim 17, wherein the blood glucose levels are plasma glucose levels or serum glucose levels. 21. A method of inhibiting expression of PEPCK, phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase, in cells or tissues from a diabetic animal comprising contacting said cells or tissues from a diabetic animal with an antisense oligonucleotide having a sequence consisting of SEQ ID NO:48 or SEQ ID NO:49 so that both expression of PEPCK and PTEN are inhibited. 22. A method of decreasing blood insulin levels in a diabetic animal comprising administering to said diabetic animal an antisense oligonucleotide having a sequence consisting of SEQ ID NO:48 or SEQ ID NO:49 wherein expression of PTEN is inhibited and blood insulin levels are decreased. 23. The method of claim 22, wherein the animal is a human or a rodent. 24. The method of claim 22, wherein the blood insulin levels plasma insulin levels or serum insulin levels. 25. A method of decreasing insulin resistance in a diabetic animal comprising administering to said diabetic animal an antisense oligonucleotide having a sequence consisting of SEQ ID NO:48 or SEQ ID NO:49 wherein expression of PTEN is inhibited and insulin resistance is decreased. 26. The method of claim 25, wherein the animal is a human or a rodent. 27. A method of increasing insulin sensitivity in a diabetic animal comprising administering to said diabetic animal an antisense oligonucleotide having a sequence consisting of SEQ ID NO:48 or SEQ ID NO:49 wherein expression of PTEN is inhibited and insulin sensitivity is increased. 28. The method of claim 27, wherein the animal is a human or a rodent. 29. A method of decreasing blood triglyceride levels in a diabetic animal comprising administering to said diabetic animal an antisense oligonucleotide having a sequence consisting of SEQ ID NO:48 or SEQ ID NO:49 wherein expression of PTEN is inhibited and blood triglyceride levels are decreased. 30. The method of claim 29, wherein the animal is a human or a rodent. 31. A method of decreasing blood cholesterol levels in a diabetic animal comprising administering to said diabetic animal an antisense oligonucleotide having a sequence consisting of SEQ ID NO:48 or SEQ ID NO:49 wherein expression of PTEN is inhibited and blood cholesterol levels are decreased. 32. The method of claim 31, wherein the animal is a human or a rodent. 