A coaxial drive employs a base member which is secured to a housing and is open to atmosphere and mounts rotatably an interior drive shaft about said base member so that rotation of the drive member in either direction in a full 360.degree. circle. An electrical slip ring is provided between the base and the drive member with a ferrofluidic seal disposed proximate the lower end of the interior drive shaft such that atmospheric pressure passing through the base member and through the electrical slip ring is blocked by the ferrofluidic seal which has an opposite end disposed to the vacuum in the central processing apparatus.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. In a coaxial drive device, an electrical connection between two coaxially driven parts comprising: an isolation cup extending along a central axis and having a bottom opening and a central shaft opening to a topmost opening; a drive member coaxially disposed about said isolation cup for rotation in either angular direction; a central contact shaft non-rotatably secured to said isolation cup through the topmost opening thereof; said drive member having a hollow interior extending coaxially along said central axis and being of a stepped configuration as defined by a first cylindrical opening having a first given diameter and a second cylindrical opening having of a second given diameter communicating with said first cylindrical opening; said first given opening diameter being smaller than said second given opening diameter and said first cylindrical opening ending in an endwall; a ferrofluidic seal located within said second cylindrical opening of said drive member, and being sized to receive said central contact shaft therein; said first cylindrical opening being sized to receive a portion of said central contact shaft therein; and at least one annular contact ring connected to the central contact shaft and held in an associated electrical passage disposed in an inner surface of said first drive member defining said first cylindrical opening to define an electrical slip ring between the central contact shaft and drive member; wherein the ferrofluidic seal in the second cylindrical opening is disposed between the central contact shaft and said drive member for keeping vacuum from said contact ring. 2. A coaxial drive having one part exposed to an atmosphere and another part exposed to a vacuum, said drive comprising: a base member secured to a housing extending vertically therefrom along a central axis; a drive member having a generally hollow internal confine which is disposed over said base member for rotation in either rotational direction with a gap extending therebetween; said drive member and said base including a circumferentially disposed contact means concentrically located about said central axis between said base and said drive member, said drive member having contact leads which are located coincidentally with said contact means and in contact therewith for effecting a 360.degree. relative rotation contact between said base member and said drive member; and a seal carried by said drive member and located thereon between said atmosphere and said vacuum so as to prevent said atmosphere from entering said vacuum. 3. A coaxial drive as defined in claim 2 further characterized by said drive member having a plurality of permanent magnets disposed circumferentially thereabout. 4. A coaxial drive as defined in claim 2 further characterized by said base being defined by an isolation cup having a top and a bottom end and a central contact shaft which is mounted to the top end of said isolation cup. 5. A coaxial drive as defined in claim 4 further characterized by an electrical connector being housed within the central contact shaft and having a plurality of leads which extend along the central axis. 6. A coaxial drive as defined in claim 5 further characterized by said central shaft having a hollow interior confine and having a plurality of openings extending transversely of said central axis. 7. A coaxial drive as defined in claim 6 further characterized by said drive member having a stepped interior confine as defined by a first cylindrical opening ending in an end wall at a top end of said drive member and a second cylindrical opening communicating with said first cylindrical opening and ending in an opened end of said drive member. 8. A coaxial drive as defined in claim 7 further characterized by a second drive member disposed coaxially about said drive member and said base member and having a plurality of permanent magnets disposed annularly thereabout. 9. A coaxial drive as defined in claim 8 further characterized by said seal being a ferrofluidic seal which is disposed in said second opening of said drive member. 10. A coaxial drive as defined in claim 9 further characterized by providing a gap between said base and said drive member, the gap being in said vacuum, and using said ferrofluidic seal to seal the gap and to separate said vacuum from said atmosphere which is associated with a side of the seal which is located facing said first cylindrical opening of said drive member. 11. A coaxial drive as defined in claim 10 further characterized by a second drive member disposed coaxially about said drive member and said base member and having a plurality of permanent magnets disposed annularly thereabout. 12. A coaxial drive as defined in claim 9 further characterized by a location of said plurality of permanent magnets on said one drive member being in a location axially different from the location of said plurality of permanent magnets on said second drive member. 13. A coaxial drive as defined in claim 7 further characterized by said drive member having a plurality of circumferentially disposed contact rings disposed along a surface defining said first cylindrical opening therein and being located axially spaced along said central axis coincidentally with each of said plurality of transverse openings. 14. A coaxial drive as defined in claim 13 further characterized by said drive member including an axially extending opening formed through a top surface of said drive member which communicates with each of said contact rings for housing a lead associated with each of said contact rings for connection with an electrical apparatus. 15. A coaxial drive as defined in claim 2 further characterized by contact means being disposed in communication with said gap and said atmosphere environment. 