Multilayered particulate materials are formed by coating a particulate substrate with a metal and adsorbing an organic layer comprising a recognition moiety onto the metal film. The recognition moiety interacts with an analyte of interest allowing for its detection, purification, etc. Suitable recognition moieties can be selected from a range of species including, small molecules, polymers and biomolecules and the like. The novel particulate materials of the invention can be utilized in an array of methods including, ion-exchange, ion-selective ion-exchange, assays, affinity dialysis, size exclusion dialysis, as supports in solid phase synthesis, combinatorial synthesis and screening of compound libraries and the like.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A multilayered material comprising: a particulate substrate; a metal film essentially completely coating said substrate and layered onto said substrate by electroless deposition; an organic layer attached to said metal film; and a recognition moiety covalently attached to said organic layer. 2. The material according to claim 1, wherein said substrate is a member selected fro the group consisting of silicon oxides and aluminum oxides. 3. The material according to claim 1, wherein said substrate is silicon dioxide. 4. The material according to claim 1, wherein said substrate has a diameter of from about 1 micrometers to about 1000 micrometers. 5. The material according to claim 4, wherein said substrate has a diameter of from about 50 micrometers to about 500 micrometers. 6. The material according to claim 1, wherein said metal ilm is a member selected from the group consisting of mickel film, copper film, silver film, gold film, platinum film, palladium film and combinations thereof. 7. The material according to claim 6, wherein said metal film is a gold film. 8. The material according to claim 1, wherein said organic layer comprises a plurality of components, each component comprising a moiety which associates with said metal film. 9. The material according to claim 8, wherein said moiety associates with said metal film through a mechanism which is a member selected from the group consisting of covalent bonding, ionic bonding, coordination, van der Waals interactions, chemisorption, physisorption and combinations thereof. 10. The material according to claim 1, wherein said organic layer comprises an organosulfur moiety. 11. The material according to claim 10, wherein said organic layer comprises a group having the structure: wherein R.sup.1 is a linking group between sulfur and X.sup.1 ; X.sup.1 is a member selected from the group consisting of H, halogen, recognition moieties, hydrophilic polymers and combinations thereof; n is a number between 1 and 50. 12. The material according to claim 11, wherein R.sup.1 is a member selected from the group consisting of stable linking groups and cleaveable linking groups. 13. The material according to claim 12, wherein R.sup.1 is a stable linking group which is a member selected from the group consisting of alkyl, substituted alkyl, aryl, arylalkyl, substituted aryl, substituted arylalkyl, saturated cyclic hydrocarbon, unsaturated cyclic hydrocarbon, heteroaryl, heteroarylalkyl, substituted heteroaryl, substituted heteroarylalkyl, hetcrocyclic, substituted heterocyclic and heterocyclicalkyl groups. 14. The material according to claim 13, wherein R.sup.1 is a member selected from the group consisting of alkyl and substituted alkyl groups. 15. The material according to claim 12, wherein R.sup.1 is a cleaveable linking group comprising a cleaveable moiety which is a member selected from group consisting of disulfide, ester, imide, carbonate, nitrobenzyl, phenacyl and benzoin groups. 16. The material according to claim 10, wherein said organic layer comprises: wherein, X.sup.1 is a member selected from the group consisting of halogen and recognition moieties; Q, Q.sup.1 and Q.sup.2 are independently members selected from the group consisting of H and halogen; Z.sup.1 is a member selected from the group consisting of --CQ.sub.2 --, --CQ.sup.1.sub.2 --, --CQ.sup.2.sub.2 --, --O--, --S--, --NR.sup.1 --, --C(O)NR.sup.1 and R.sup.1 NC(O)--, in which; R.sup.1 is a member selected from the group consisting of H, alkyl, substituted alkyl, aryl, substituted aryl, heteroaryl and heterocyclic groups; m is a number between 0 and 40; and n is a number between 0 and 40. o is a number between 0 and 5. 17. The material according to claim 16, wherein Q, Q.sup.1 and Q.sup.2 are independently members selected from the group consisting of H and fluorine. 18. The material according to claim 11, wherein said organic layer comprises: in which R.sup.2 is a member selected from the group consisting of H, alkyl, acyl and recognition moieties; u is a number between 1 and 50; and v is a number between 0 and 20. 19. The material according to claim 18, wherein R.sup.2 is a member selected from H and CH.sub.3. 20. The material according to claim 18, wherein u is a number between 5 and 20. 21. The material according to claim 1, wherein said recognition moiety is a member selected from the group consisting of biomolecules, organic groups, metal chelates and organometallic moieties. 22. The material according to claim 21, wherein said organic group is a member selected from the group consisting of amines, carboxylic acids, drugs, chelating agents, crown ethers, cyclodextrins and combinations thereof. 23. The material according to claim 21, wherein said biomolecule is a member selected from the group consisting of antibodies, antigens, carbohydrates, nucleic acids, peptides, enzymes and receptors. 24. A method of producing a multilayered particle comprising: (a) contacting a particulate substrate with a metal plating solution to form a particle having a metal film essentially completely coating said particle; (b) contacting said particle from step (a) with a solution complising nitric acid, thereby activating said metal film; (c) contacting said particle from step (b) with a plurality of organic molecules that associate with the activated metal film, thereby forming an organic layer on said particle. 25. The material according to claim 24, wherein said metal film is a member selected from the group consisting of nickel film, copper film, silver film, gold film, platinum film, palladium film and combinations thereof. 26. The method according to claim 24, further comprising, prior to step (a), contacting a particulate substrate with a sensitizer to form a sensitized particulate substrate. 27. The method according to claim 26, further comprising, prior to step (a), contacting said sensitized particulate substrate with a silver solution to form a silver coated particle. 28. The method according to claim 27, wherein said silver solution comprises AgNO.sub.3. 29. The method according to claim 27, wherein said silver solution further comprises ammonia. 30. The method according to claim 26, wherein said sensitizer is a transition metal salt. 31. The method according to claim 30, wherein said transition metal salt is a salt of Sn.sup.+2. 32. The method according to claim 24, wherein said particulate substrate is a member selected from silica particles, alumina particles and carbohydrate particles. 33. The method according to claim 24, wherein said gold plating solution comprises a reducible gold salt. 34. The method according to claim 33, wherein said gold plating solution further comprises a reducing agent. 35. The method according to claim 33, wherein said reducible gold salt is Na.sub.3 Au(SO.sub.3).sub.2. 36. The method according to claim 33, wherein said reducing agent is formaldehyde. 37. The method according to claim 24, wherein said plurality of organic molecules comprises an organosulfur. 38. The method according to claim 24, wherein said plurality of organic molecules comprises a moiety selected from the group consisting of recognition moieties, reactive moieties, protected reactive moieties and combinations thereof. 39. The method according to claim 38, wherein said plurality of organic molecules comprises a reactive moiety and said method further comprises: (d) reacting said reactive moiety with a recognition moiety. 40. The method a ccording to claim 38, wherein said plurality of organic molecules comprises a protected reactive moiety and said method further comprises: (d) deprotecting said protected reactive moiety to form a reactive moiety; (e) reacting said re active moiety with a recognition moiety. 41. The method according to claim 24, wherein said organic layer comprises: wherein, X.sup.1 is a member selected from the group consisting of halogen, drugs, chelating agents, crown ethers, cyclodextrins, antibodies, antigens, carbohydrates, nucleic acids, peptides, enzymes, receptors and combinations thereof; Q, Q.sup.1 and Q.sup.2 are independently members selected from the group consisting of H and halogen; Z.sup.1 is a member selected from the group consisting of --CQ.sub.2, --CQ.sup.1.sub.2 --, --CQ.sup.2.sub.2 --, --O--, --S--, --NR.sup.1 --, --C(O)NR.sup.1 and R.sup.1 NC(O)--, in which; R.sup.1 is a member selected from the group consisting of H, alkyl, substituted alkyl, aryl, substituted aryl, heteroaryl and heterocyclic groups; m is a number from 0 to 40; n is a number from 0 to 40; o is a number from 0 to 5. 42. A multilayered material comprising: a particulate substrate; a metal film essentially completely coating said substrate, applied to said substrate by electroless deposition; and an organic layer attached to said metal film, comprising; wherein, X.sup.1 is a member selected from the group consisting of halogen, drugs, chelating agents, crown ethers, cyclodextrins, antibodies, antigens, carbohydrates, nucleic acids, peptides, enzymes, receptors and combinations thereof; Q, Q.sup.1 and Q.sup.2 are independently members selected from the group consisting of H and halogen; Z.sup.1 is a member selected from the group consisting of --CQ.sub.2 --, --CQ.sup.1.sub.2 --, --CQ.sup.2.sub.2 --, --O--, --S--, --NR--, --C(O)NR.sup.1 and R.sup.1 NC(O)--, in which; R.sup.1 is a member selected from the group consisting of H, alkyl, substituted alkyl, aryl, substituted aryl, heteroaryl and heterocyclic groups; m is a number from 0 to 40; n is a number from 0 to 40; and o is a number from 0 to 5. 43. A multilayered material comprising: a particulate substrate; a metal film essentially completely coating said substrate, applied to said substrate by electroless deposition; and an organic layer attached to said metal film, comprising; wherein, R.sup.2 is a member selected from the group consisting of H, alkyl, acyl and recognition moieties; u is a number from 1 to 50; and v is a number from 0 to 20. 44. The multilayered material according to claim 43, wherein said recognition moiety is a member selected from the group consisting of halogen, drugs, chelating agents, crown ethers, cyclodcxtrins, antibodies, antigens, carbohydrates, nucleic acids, peptides, enzymes, receptors and combinations thereof. 