A spherical robot having a spherical body and a drive mechanism. The spherical body defines a cavity and a center. The drive mechanism is disposed within the cavity, coupled to the spherical body, wherein said drive mechanism includes a plurality of masses coupled to said body which are radially positionable within said cavity to create a moment about said center of said body, and is adapted to create a moment about the center of the body. This moment causes the body to rotate.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A spherical robot comprising: a spherical body defining a cavity and a center; and a drive mechanism having a shaft fixed to said spherical body disposed within said cavity and coupled to said spherical body, wherein said drive mechanism includes a plurality of masses coupled to said body which are radially movable within said cavity to create a moment about said center of said body, said moment causing said body to rotate. 2. The spherical robot of claim 1 further including an actuating assembly coupled to said body, said actuating assembly adapted to position said masses within said cavity in response to a positioning signal. 3. The spherical robot of claim 2 further including a controller for generating said positioning signal. 4. The spherical robot of claim 2 wherein said drive mechanism includes a frame fixed to said body and wherein said plurality of masses are movably coupled to said frame. 5. The spherical robot of claim 4 wherein said frame includes four spokes intersecting at a hub, said plurality of masses including four masses, said four masses being coupled for sliding movement along said four spokes. 6. The spherical robot of claim 5 further including an actuating assembly adapted to slide said four masses along said four spokes in response to said positioning signal. 7. The spherical robot of claim 2 further including sensor means and a controller communicating with said sensor means, said sensor means for generating configuration data for the spherical body. 8. The spherical robot of claim 7 wherein said controller includes a navigation controller having input means for receiving target data and said configuration data from said sensor means, said navigation controller generating target angular velocities. 9. The spherical robot of claim 8 wherein said sensor means further includes mass position sensors for generating mass position data, wherein said controller further includes a drive mechanism controller, said drive mechanism controller receiving said configuration data, said target angular velocities, and said mass position data, said drive mechanism controller generating said positioning signals and communicating said positioning signals to said actuating assembly. 10. The spherical robot of claim 1 further including telescoping limbs movable between a retracted position wherein said limbs are retracted into said cavity and an extended position wherein said limbs extend from said cavity. 11. The spherical robot of claim 1 further including a camera movable between a retracted position wherein said camera is retracted into said cavity and an extended position wherein said camera extends from said cavity. 12. The spherical robot of claim 1 further including a controller and sensing means communicating with said controller for determining configuration data for the spherical body, said controller communicating with said drive mechanism to move said sphere from a starting configuration to a target configuration. 13. The spherical robot of claim 12 wherein said controller is adapted to move said spherical body to said target configuration such that said spherical body is in an upright orientation at said target configuration. 14. A method for moving a spherical robot from a first configuration to a second configuration comprising the steps of: (a) providing a robot having a spherical body defining a cavity with a drive mechanism disposed in said cavity and coupled to said body wherein said drive mechanism includes a shaft fixed to said spherical body and a plurality of masses coupled to said shaft which are radially positionable within said cavity to create a moment about said center of said body; (b) sensing the position and orientation of said body; (c) calculating target angular velocities for rotating said body to said second configuration; and (d) actuating said drive mechanism to rotate said body at said target angular velocities. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein said body defines a center, wherein said drive mechanism includes a plurality of masses coupled to said body and positionable within said cavity to create a moment about said center, and wherein the step of actuating said drive mechanism includes positioning said masses within said cavity so that said body rotates at said target angular velocities. 16. The method of claim 15 wherein said drive mechanism includes an actuating assembly coupled to said body and adapted to position said masses within said cavity in response to a positioning signal, and wherein the step of actuating said drive mechanism includes generating said positioning signal and communicating said positioning signal to said actuating assembly. 