The invention relates to a method for purifying of a nucleic acid from a biological sample. The method involves contacting a biological sample containing a nucleic acid with a hydrophilic polyvinylidene fluoride (PVDF) membrane which contains pores having an average diameter less than about 0.45 .mu.m and recovering the nucleic acid. The method can further include adding silica beads to the biological sample prior to the contacting step.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for purifying a nucleic acid, comprising: (a) contacting a biological sample containing a nucleic acid with a hydrophilic polyvinylidine fluoride (PVDF) membrane which contains pores having an average diameter less than about 0.45 .mu.m; and (b) recovering the nucleic acid. 2. A method according to claim 1, further comprising adding silica beads to the biological sample prior to the contacting step. 3. A method according to claim 2, wherein the silica beads have an average diameter of from about 0.2 microns to about 5.0 microns. 4. A method according to claim 1, wherein said nucleic acid is RNA. 5. A method according to claim 4, wherein said RNA is viral RNA. 6. A method according to claim 1, wherein said nucleic acid is DNA. 7. A method according to claim 1, wherein the membrane contains pores having an average diameter of from about 0.1 .mu.m to about 0.3 .mu.m. 8. A method according to claim 7, wherein the membrane contains pores having an average diameter of from about 0.15 .mu.m to about 0.25 .mu.m. 9. A method according to claim 8, wherein the membrane contains pores having an average diameter of about 0.22 .mu.m. 10. A method according to claim 1, wherein the hydrophilic PVDF membrane is low protein-binding. 11. A method according to claim 1, further comprising applying a pressure differential across the membrane after the contacting step. 12. A method according to claim 11, wherein the applying step comprises applying negative pressure below the membrane. 13. A method according to claim 11, wherein the applying step comprises applying positive pressure above the membrane. 14. A method according to claim 1, wherein the contacting step comprises applying centrifugal force. 15. A method according to claim 1, further comprising lysing the biological sample before the contacting step. 16. A method according to claim 15, further comprising adding silica beads to the biological sample after the lysing step and prior to the contacting step. 17. A method according to claim 1, wherein the nucleic acid has a length less than about 40,000 nucleotides. 18. A method according to claim 1, wherein the nucleic acid has a length less than about 30,000 nucleotides. 19. A method according to claim 1, further comprising removing cellular components of the biological sample prior to contacting the biological sample to the membrane. 20. A method according to claim 19, wherein the biological sample is a blood sample, and blood cells are removed from the biological sample after the contacting step and prior to the recovering step. 21. A method according to claim 19, wherein the biological sample is a cell culture, and the cultured cells are removed from the culture medium after the contacting step and prior to the recovering step. 22. A method according to claim 1, wherein the biological sample is substantially free of cellular components. 23. A method according to claim 22, wherein the biological sample is serum or plasma. 24. A method according to claim 1, further comprising amplifying the nucleic acid to provide an amplified nucleic acid. 25. A method according to claim 24, further comprising quantitating the amplified nucleic acid. 26. A method according to claim 25, wherein the quantitating comprises amplifying the nucleic acid using RT-PCR. 27. A method according to claim 1, further comprising identifying the nucleic acid by hybridizing with an oligonucleotide probe that uniquely hybridizes with the nucleic acid. 