A fluid delivery manifold and a method of manufacturing a fluid delivery manifold is provided. A first manifold portion having a contoured interior face is set in registry with a second manifold portion having a contoured interior face to form an uncoupled manifold having a plurality of fluid inlets and a plurality of fluid outlets. The contoured interiors of the first and second manifold portions form a plurality of material channels and a plurality of fluid channels in the uncoupled manifold. A second shot material is injected into the material channels to couple the first and second manifold portions and to compensate for any variation or differences between the pitch of the fluid inlets and fluid outlets.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of manufacturing a fluid delivery manifold, the method comprising: providing a first manifold portion having a contoured interior face; providing a second manifold portion having a contoured interior face; setting the first and second manifold portions in registry to form an uncoupled manifold, the contoured interiors of the first and second manifold portions forming a plurality of material channels and a plurality of fluid channels in the uncoupled manifold, the uncoupled manifold having a plurality of inlets at a first pitch and a plurality of outlets at a second pitch, the first pitch being different from the second pitch; and injecting a molding material into the material channels, the molding material coupling the first and second manifold portions of the uncoupled manifold. 2. A method according to claim 1, wherein the first pitch is variable and the second pitch is uniform. 3. A method according to claim 1, wherein injecting the molding material into the material channels comprises injecting the molding material into the material channels through a material channel inlet. 4. A method according to claim 1, wherein the two manifold portions are formed from the same material as the molding material. 5. A method according to claim 1, wherein the two manifold portions are formed from a first material and the molding material comprises a second material. 6. A method according the claim 1, wherein the molding material is glass filled polyester. 7. A method according to claim 1, wherein providing the first manifold portion comprises: providing a molding device, the molding device including a center rotating plate having a first face and a second face, the first and second faces being identical; and performing an injection procedure from a first injection position to form manifold portions on the first face of the rotating plate. 8. A method according to claim 7, wherein setting the first and second manifold portions in registry comprises: providing a robotic arm; rotating the center plate; removing the second manifold portion from the rotating plate with the robotic arm; and positioning the removed second manifold portion in registration on the first manifold portion. 9. A fluid delivery manifold produced by the process of claim 8. 10. A fluid delivery manifold produced by the process of claim 7. 11. A fluid delivery manifold produced by the process of claim 1. 12. A method of manufacturing a fluid delivery manifold, the method comprising: positioning a first manifold portion in registration with a second manifold portion to form an uncoupled manifold, the uncoupled manifold having a plurality of material channels, a plurality of fluid channels, a plurality of fluid inlets, and a plurality of fluid outlets, wherein the fluid outlets are at a different pitch than the fluid inlets; and injecting a molding material into the material channels to seal the fluid channels and form a coupled manifold. 13. A method according to claim 12, wherein the first pitch is variable and the second pitch is uniform. 14. A method according to claim 12, wherein injecting the molding material into the material channels comprises injecting the molding material into the material channels through a material channel inlet. 15. A method according to claim 12, wherein the two manifold portions are formed from the same material as the molding material. 16. A method according to claim 12, wherein the two manifold portions are formed from a first material and the molding material comprises a second material. 17. A method according the claim 12, wherein the molding material is glass filled polyester. 