Nucleotide triphosphate probes containing a fluorophore attached to the .gamma.-phosphate and a quencher moiety sufficiently proximal to the fluorophore moiety for use in pyrophosphate detection assays are disclosed. These probes exhibit distinguishable fluorescence characteristics when the fluorophore is attached to the nucleotide through the .gamma.-phosphate and when it is unattached to the nucleotide. The present invention also provides kits and integrated systems for practicing the assays described herein.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A heterogeneous assay method for detecting pyrophosphate cleavage, the components of the assay comprising a labeled NTP, a target nucleic acid, a primer nucleic acid and a polymerase, said method comprising: (a) flowing said labeled nucleotide triphosphate (NTP) having a .gamma.-phosphate with a fluorophore moiety attached thereto, past an immobilized component selected from the group consisting of said polymerase and said target nucleic acid; (b) incorporating said NTP on a primer strand hybridized to said target nucleic acid using said polymerase and releasing said .gamma.-phosphate with said fluorophore moiety attached thereto; and (c) detecting said fluorescent moiety thereby detecting pyrophosphate cleavage. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein said nucleotide triphosphate (NTP) is a member selected from the group consisting of deoxyadenosine triphosphate, deoxycytosine triphosphate, deoxyguanosine triphosphate, deoxythymidine triphosphate, and deoxyuridine triphosphate. 3. The method according to claim 1, wherein said nucleotide triphosphate (NTP) is a member selected from the group consisting of adenosine triphosphate, cytosine triphosphate, guanosine triphosphate and uridine triphosphate. 4. The method according to claim 1, wherein each of said detection is based upon a change in either intensity measurement or fluorescent lifetime measurement. 5. The method according to claim 1, wherein said nucleotide triphosphate (NTP) is a plurality of nucleotide triphosphates (NTPs). 6. The method according to claim 1, wherein each of said plurality of nucleotide triphosphates (NTPs) has an indicator of identity. 7. The method according to claim 6, wherein said indicator of identity allows said plurality of NTPs to be distinguished from one another. 8. The method according to claim 1, wherein said polymerase is a member selected from the group consisting of a DNA polymerase, a DNA dependent RNA polymerase and a reverse transcriptase. 9. The method according to claim 8, wherein said polymerase is a DNA polymerase. 10. The method according to claim 1, wherein said polymerase is immobilized on a solid support. 11. The method according to claim 1, wherein said target nucleic acid is immobilized on a solid support. 12. The method according to claim 11, wherein said solid support is a member selected from the group consisting of controlled pore glass, a glass plate, polystyrene, an avidin coated polystyrene bead, cellulose, nylon, acrylamide gel and activated dextran. 13. The method according to claim 1, wherein said assay is part of an integrated system for high-throughput DNA sequencing. 14. An assay method for detecting pyrophosphate cleavage, the components of the assay comprising a labeled NTP, a target nucleic acid, a primer nucleic acid and a polymerase, said method comprising: (a) flowing said labeled nucleotide triphosphate (NTP) having a .gamma.-phosphate with a fluorophore moiety attached thereto, past an immobilized component selected from the group consisting of said polymerase and said target nucleic acid; (b) incorporating said NTP on a primer strand hybridized to said target nucleic acid using said polymerase and releasing said .gamma.-phosphate with said fluorophore moiety attached thereto; and (c) detecting said fluorescent moiety thereby detecting pyrophosphate cleavage. 15. The method according to claim 14, wherein said nucleotide triphosphate (NTP) is a member selected from the group consisting of deoxyadenosine triphosphate, deoxycytosine triphosphate, deoxyguanosine triphosphate, deoxythymidine triphosphate, and deoxyuridine triphosphate. 16. The method according to claim 14, wherein said nucleotide triphosphate (NTP) is a member selected from the group consisting of adenosine triphosphate, cytosine triphosphate, guanosine triphosphate and uridine triphosphate. 17. The method according to claim 14, wherein each of said plurality of fluorescent species is detected based upon a change in either intensity measurement or fluorescent lifetime measurement. 18. The method according to claim 14, wherein said nucleotide triphosphate (NTP) is a plurality of nucleotide triphosphates (NTPs). 19. The method according to claim 14, wherein each of said plurality of nucleotide triphosphates (NTPs) has an indicator of identity. 20. A method for sequencing a target nucleic acid using an assay method for detecting pyrophosphate cleavage, the components of the assay comprising a labeled NTP, a target nucleic acid, a primer nucleic acid and a polymerase, said method comprising: (a) providing said labeled nucleotide triphosphate (NTP) having a .gamma.-phosphate with a fluorophore moiety attached thereto, and an immobilized component selected from the group consisting of said polymerase and said target nucleic acid; (b) incorporating said NTP on said primer strand hybridized to said target nucleic acid using said polymerase and releasing said .gamma.-phosphate with said fluorophore moiety attached thereto; and (c) detecting said fluorescent moiety by detecting pyrophosphate cleavage, thereby sequencing said target nucleic acid. 21. The method according to claim 20, wherein said polymerase is a DNA polymerase. 22. The method according to claim 20, wherein said polymerase is immobilized on a solid support. 23. The method according to claim 20, wherein said target nucleic acid is immobilized on a solid support. 24. The method according to claim 23, wherein said solid support is a member selected from the group consisting of controlled pore glass, a glass plate, polystyrene, an avidin coated polystyrene bead, cellulose, nylon, acrylamide gel and activated dextran. 25. The method according to claim 20, wherein said assay is part of an integrated system for high-throughput DNA sequencing. 