A system and method for controlling a robot (1), includes at least three setting devices (2, 3, 4) which can be extended or shortened in the longitudinal direction. Each setting device being directly or indirectly secured in a fixed frame (6) via a first joint (20, 30, 40) so that each setting device is pivotable in all directions in relation to the frame and that each setting device is attached at one end in a movable position head (8) via a second joint (21, 31, 41). Each sensor is provided with a length sensor (LS.sub.1, LS.sub.2, LS.sub.3), said sensors forming a part of control system (S1) for controlling the location (X, Y, Z), wherein the control system cooperates with a feedback control system (R2) arranged to correct the location (X, Y, Z) and feedback control system (R2) operate in accordance with different coordinate systems.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A control system for a robot (1), which robot comprises at least three setting devices (2, 3, 4) which can be extended or shortened in the longitudinal direction, each setting device being directly or indirectly secured in a fixed frame (6) via a first joint (20, 30, 40) so that each setting device is pivotable in all directions in relation to the frame and that each setting device is attached at one end in a movable positioning head (8) via a second joint (21, 31, 41), and also a rigid arm (10) joined to and emanating from the positioning head and arranged between the setting devices, the arm being radially guided but axially displaceably journalled in a universal joint (12) relative to and rigidly connected to the frame, each setting device being provided with a length sensor (LS.sub.1, LS.sub.2, LS.sub.3), said sensors forming a part of a control system (S1) for controlling the location (X, Y, Z) of the positioning head in the work space of the robot characterized in that the control system cooperates with a feedback control system (R2) arranged to correct the location (X, Y, Z) of the positioning head in the work space and that the control system (S1) and feedback control system (R2) operate in accordance with different coordinate systems. 2. A control system as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that the control system (S1) is arranged to operate in accordance with a cartesian coordinate system and that the control system (R2) is arranged to operate in accordance with a spherical coordinate system. 3. A control system as claimed in claim 2, characterized in that a first angle sensor (71), a second angle sensor (72), and a length sensor (73) are placed in conjunction with the universal joint, these three sensors (71, 72, 73) indicating the actual location (.alpha., .beta., l) in accordance with the spherical coordinate system and cooperating with the control system (S1) to determine the deviation (.DELTA.X, .DELTA.Y, .DELTA.Z) between the spatial location of the set point (X.sub.b, Y.sub.b, Z.sub.b) and actual position (X.sub.a, Y.sub.a, Z.sub.a) of the positioning head, whereupon correction of the location (X+.DELTA.X, Y+.DELTA.Y, Z+.DELTA.Z) of the positioning head in the work space of the robot is arranged to be performed. 4. A control system as claimed in claim 3, characterized in that the sensors (71, 72, 73) are placed for measurement on or near a part which is movable in the robot and accompanies movement of the robot, wherein said part is free of tension. 5. A control system as claimed in claim 4, characterized in that the angle sensors (71, 72) of the control system (R2) are placed on the universal joint (12) and that the length sensor (73) is placed on the arm (10). 6. A control system as claimed in claim 5, characterized in that at least two additional angle sensors (81, 82) are connected to the control system, placed on a tool holder (80). 7. A method for controlling the location of a positioning head of a robot, characterized in that a) a control system controls the positioning head in accordance with a cartesian coordinate system, b) a feedback control system senses the location (.alpha., .beta., l) of the positioning head in accordance with a spherical coordinate system, c) a coordinate transformation is performed of the location (.alpha.,.beta., l) of the positioning head from the spherical coordinate system to the cartesian coordinate system, d) the deviation .DELTA.X, .DELTA.Y, .DELTA.Z obtained between set point and actual position in the cartesian coordinate system is added to the previous set point X, Y, Z of the positioning head, thus producing a new set point X.sub.n =X+.DELTA.X, Y.sub.n =Y+.DELTA.Y, Z.sub.n =Z+.DELTA.Z, e) the location of the positioning head is altered to this new set point, f) steps a)-e) are repeated to achieve continuous control of the set point. 8. A method for controlling the location of the positioning head (8) of a robot as claimed in claim 7, characterized in that the method is used in a robot (1) which comprises at least three setting devices (2, 3, 4) which can be extended or shortened in a longitudinal direction, each setting device being directly or indirectly secured in a fixed fram (6) via first joint (20, 30, 40) so that each setting device is pivotable in all directions in relation to the frame and that each setting device is attached at one end in a movable positioning head (8) via a second joint (21, 31, 42), and also a rigid arm (10) joined to and emanating from the positioning head and arranged between the setting devices, the arm being radially guided but axially displaceably journalled in a universal joint (12) relative to and rigidly connected to the frame, each setting device being provided with a length sensor (LS.sub.1, LS.sub.2, LS.sub.3), said sensors forming a part of a control system (S1) for controlling the location (X,Y,Z) of the positioning head in the work space of the robot and in that the control system cooperates with a feedback control system (R2) arranged to correct the location (X,Y,Z) of the positioning head in the work space and that the control system (S1) and feedback control system (R2) operate in accordance with different coordinate systems. 