A modeling operation of a shape of a work (3) is performed by a CAD (1). A tool path calculation section (15) calculates path data having, as an attribute, position and force information by a fuzzy inference or the like by shape information, machining information and machined surface information. A machining program is produced on the basis of the path data in a machining program producing section (17). Orbit data for every renewal cycle Tm concerning the position, posture, force and moment are calculated in a position and/or force operation planning section (19) and a position and/or force orbit producing section (21). Then, a simultaneous feedback control is performed for the position and the frictional force in a controlling section (23).
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A CAD/CAM apparatus for producing machining information accounting for force information, comprising: path data calculation means for calculating path data used for calculating a machining path for machining of a workpiece by a machine, the path data having as attributes a position of the workpiece with respect to the machine used for machining the workpiece and at least one of a force and an energy applied to one of the machine and the workpiece during machining of the workpiece, the path data being calculated in accordance with shape information of the workpiece, machining information including a parameter needed for machining the workpiece and machined surface information representing a surface roughness of a surface of the workpiece to be machined; and operation planning calculation means for calculating an operation plan of the path of the workpiece or the machine wherein the calculated operation plan is used to machine the workpiece on the basis of the path data calculated by the path data calculation means. 2. A CAD/CAM apparatus according to claim 1; further comprising one of a two- or three-dimensional CAD system for generating the shape information of the workpiece. 3. A CAD/CAM apparatus according to either one of claims 1 and 2; wherein the path data calculation means includes means for producing a predetermined function on the basis of an algorithm in which the level of skill of a skilled artisan is reflected with respect to at least one of the shape information, the machining information and the machined surface information of the workpiece, and for calculating the path data on the basis of the predetermined function. 4. A CAD/CAM apparatus according to claim 3; wherein the algorithm performs a fuzzy inference method, the predetermined function comprises a membership function, and the path data includes data based on at least one of a position, a posture, a force and a moment. 5. A CAD/CAM apparatus according to either one of claims 1 and 2; wherein the operation planning calculation means includes means for setting the operation plan for at least one of the position and the force during machining of the workpiece in order to traverse the calculated path smoothly based on the path data calculated by the path data calculation means. 6. A machining apparatus for producing machining information accounting for force information, comprising: path data calculation means for calculating path data used for calculating a machining path for machining of a workpiece by a machine, the path data having as attributes a position of the workpiece with respect to the machine used for machining the workpiece and at least one of a force and an energy applied to one of the machine and the workpiece during machining of the workpiece, the path data being calculated in accordance with shape information of the workpiece, machining information including a parameter needed for machining the workpiece and machined surface information representing a surface roughness of a surface of the workpiece to be machined; operation planning calculation means for calculating an operation plan of the path of one of the workpiece and the machine used to machine the workpiece on the basis of the path data calculated by the path data calculation means; position and/or force orbit producing means for calculating target orbit producing data for a predetermined cycle of at least one of the position and the force on the basis of the operation plan calculated by the operation planning calculation means; and controlling means for feedback controlling at least one of the position and the force of the workpiece with respect to the machine on the basis of the target orbit producing data calculated by the position and/or force orbit producing means. 7. A machining apparatus according to claim 6; further comprising a grinding unit for grinding a predetermined surface of the workpiece at a tangential velocity; and a robot for pressing one of the workpiece and the grinding unit against the other with a desired contact area; wherein force control is performed between the workpiece and the grinding unit so that a grinding energy used for grinding the workpiece becomes an energy having a value specified by the path data. 8. A machining apparatus according to claim 7 wherein the controlling means compares a force generated at a portion of the workpiece which is in contact with the grinding unit with force data calculated by the position and/or force orbit producing means and adjusts a force generated by the robot between the workpiece and the grinding unit on the basis of the difference between the generated force and the force data. 9. A machining apparatus according to claim 7; wherein the controlling means compares an actual position in a tangential direction of the workpiece or the grinding unit with position data calculated by the position and/or force orbit producing means and adjusts a forces in the tangential direction of the robot on the basis of the difference between the actual position and the position data. 10. A machining apparatus according to claim 9; wherein adjustment of the position is calculated by excluding the influence of at least one of a generated force and an effect of gravity on the workpiece and the grinding unit. 11. A machining apparatus for producing machining information accounting for force information according to any one of claims 8, 9 and 10; further comprising position and/or force target orbit producing means for producing a designated force value or a designated position value by producing, as a smooth time function, a plurality of target values based on position, posture, force and moment values supplied to a force control system, for a force control system having a degree of freedom for a plurality of factors of the position, posture, force and moment, the position and/or force target orbit producing means comprising node setting means for setting the target values as a designated value of the position, the posture, the force and the moment at a time representative of the plurality of operations, time region dividing means for dividing a time region by projecting nodes defined by the node setting means to a time axis as a logic sum of a degree of freedom of the control, and element operation designating means for calculating the target orbit function composed of a cubic or quintic polynomial while giving a boundary condition for every time region divided by the time region dividing means. 12. A CAD/CAM apparatus for producing machining information accounting for a force to be applied to a workpiece during machining thereof, comprising: path data calculation means for calculating path data used for determining a machining path for machining of the workpiece by a machine based on information relating to the shape of the workpiece, machining information including one or more parameters needed for machining the workpiece and machined surface information representing a surface roughness of a surface of the workpiece to be machined, the path data including positioning data for positioning of the machine with respect to the workpiece during machining of the workpiece and at least one of force data and a energy data representing a force or an energy to be applied to the workpiece during machining thereof; and operation planning calculation means for calculating an operation plan of the path of the workpiece or the machine wherein the calculated operation plan is used to machine the workpiece on the basis of the path data calculated by the path data calculation means. 13. A CAD/CAM apparatus according to claim 12; further comprising one of a two- or three-dimensional CAD system for generating the shape information of the workpiece. 14. A CAD/CAM apparatus according to claim 12; wherein the path data calculation means includes means for producing a predetermined function on the basis of an algorithm reflecting the level of skill of a skilled artisan with respect to at least one of the shape information, the machining information and the machined surface information of the workpiece, and for calculating the path data on the basis of the predetermined function. 15. A CAD/CAM apparatus according to claim 14; wherein the algorithm performs a fuzzy inference method, the predetermined function comprises a membership function, and the path data includes data based on at least one of a position, a posture, a force and a moment. 16. A CAD/CAM apparatus according to claim 12; wherein the operation planning calculation means includes means for setting the operation plan for at least one of the position and the force during machining of the workpiece in order to traverse the path smoothly based on the path data calculated by the path data calculation means. 17. In a method of machining a workpiece, the combination of steps comprising: calculating path data used for determining a machining path for machining of the workpiece by a machine, based on information relating to the shape of the workpiece, machining information including one or more parameters needed for machining the workpiece and machined surface information representing a surface roughness of a surface of the workpiece to be machined, the path data including positioning data for positioning of the machine with respect to the workpiece during machining of the workpiece and at least one of force data and a energy data representing a force or an energy to be applied to the workpiece during machining thereof; and calculating an operation plan of the path of the workpiece or the machine wherein the calculated operation plan is used to machine the workpiece on the basis of the calculated path data. 18. A method according to claim 17; further comprising the step of determining the information relating to the shape of the workpiece using one of a two- or three-dimensional CAD system. 19. A method according to claim 17; wherein the step of calculating the path data includes the steps of producing a predetermined function on the basis of a level of skill of a skilled artisan with respect to at least one of the information relating to the shape of the workpiece, the machining information and the machined surface information of the workpiece; and calculating the path data on the basis of the predetermined function. 20. A method according to claim 19; wherein the step of producing the predetermined function includes the step of performing a fuzzy inference method. 21. A method according to claim 20; wherein the predetermined function comprises a membership function, and the path data includes data based on at least one of a position, a posture, a force and a moment. 22. A method according to claim 17; wherein the step of calculating an operation plan comprises the steps of setting the operation plan for at least one of the position and the force during machining of the workpiece in order to traverse the path smoothly based on the calculated path data. 