A parallel mechanism is capable of positioning and orienting an end platform with up to six or more degrees of freedom. In preferred embodiments, the mechanism includes six links having a first and second ends. The first end is connected to an end platform for supporting a tool, while the second end is connected to an actuator capable of translating the second end. A rotational drive mechanism may be provided for rotating an object mounted on the end platform at varying orientations of the end platform independently of movement of the end platform as a whole. The links may be curved in order to avoid interference between adjoining links, thereby permitting an increased range of motion and improved dexterity of the mechanism.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A parallel mechanism for manipulating an object in space comprising: a platform for supporting an object to be manipulated; a plurality of links each having a first end movably connected to the platform and a second end spaced from the platform with the platform being kinematically restrained by the links; a plurality of first rotatable joints each rotatably connecting the first end of one of the links to the platform and a plurality of second rotatable joints each connected to the second end of one of the links, each of the first joints having a center of rotation located on a first circle with a first axis and each of the second joints having a center of rotation, the mechanism having a reference position in which the center of rotation of each of the second joints is located on a second circle coaxial with and spaced from the first circle, a line connecting the centers of rotation of the first and second joints of each link crossing a line connecting the centers of rotation of the first and second joints of another of the links when the mechanism is in the reference position and viewed along the first axis; a plurality of linear motors each associated with one of the links and having a movable portion capable of translating the first end of one of the links to move the platform; a rotatable support member rotatably supported by the platform; and a drive member for rotating the rotatable support member spaced from the platform and drivingly connected to the rotatable support member. 2. A parallel mechanism as claimed in claim 1 wherein each of the linear motors is rotatably connected to the second end of one of the links. 3. A parallel mechanism as claimed in claim 2 wherein the movable portions of the linear motors are movable parallel to a common axis. 4. A parallel mechanism as claimed in claim 2 wherein each of the linear motors is a moving coil linear motor. 5. A parallel mechanism as claimed in claim 3 including a plurality of linear guides each supporting the movable portion of one of the linear motors for movement parallel to the common axis. 6. A parallel mechanism as claimed in claim 5 wherein each linear guide movably supports a coil of one of the linear motors. 7. A parallel mechanism as claimed in claim 1 wherein the first end of each link is rotatably connected to the platform. 8. A parallel mechanism as claimed in claim 1 including a base supporting the second ends of the links, the drive member being mounted on the base. 9. A parallel mechanism as claimed in claim 1 wherein the drive member is connected to the rotatable support member in a manner enabling the drive member to rotate the rotatable support member at varying angles and positions of the platform relative to the drive member. 10. A parallel mechanism as claimed in claim 1 wherein the rotatable support member has an axis of rotation which is fixed with respect to the platform. 11. A parallel mechanism as claimed in claim 10 wherein the rotatable support member comprises a support plate for supporting an object rotatably mounted on the platform. 12. A parallel mechanism as claimed in claim 1 wherein the drive member comprises a rotary actuator, the mechanism including a drive shaft for transmitting torque from the rotary actuator to the rotatable support member and capable of translating with respect to the rotary actuator in an axial direction of the drive shaft as the drive shaft is rotating. 13. A parallel mechanism as claimed in claim 12 including a ball spline connected between the drive shaft and the rotary actuator. 14. A parallel mechanism as claimed in claim 9 including a universal joint connected between the drive member and the rotatable support member to enable an angle between the drive member and the rotatable support member to vary. 15. A parallel mechanism as claimed in claim 1 further including a plurality of sensors each associated with one of the linear motors for generating a signal indicative of movement of the movable portion of the linear motor. 16. A parallel mechanism as claimed in claim 15 further including a slave mechanism controlled by the parallel mechanism. 17. A parallel mechanism for manipulating an object in space comprising: a platform for supporting an object to be manipulated; a plurality of links each having a first end rotatably connected to the platform and a second end spaced from the platform, the platform being kinematically restrained by the links, at least one of the links being a nonlinear link having a portion not coinciding with a straight line between the first and second ends of the link; a plurality of linear motors each associated with one of the links for translating the first ends of the links to move the platform; a rotatable support member rotatably supported by the platform; and a drive member for rotating the rotatable support member spaced from the platform and drivingly connected to the rotatable support member. 18. A parallel mechanism as claimed in claim 17 wherein each of the links is a nonlinear link. 19. A parallel mechanism as claimed in claim 17 including six links, at least three of which are nonlinear links. 20. A parallel mechanism as claimed in claim 17 wherein the nonlinear link has a curved region between its first and second ends. 21. A parallel mechanism as claimed in claim 17 including a plurality of first rotatable joints each rotatably connecting the first end of one of the links to the platform and a plurality of second rotatable joints each connected to the second end of one of the links, each of the first and second joints having a center of rotation where two axes of rotation of the joint intersect, the mechanism having a reference position in which the centers of rotation of the first joints lie in a first plane, the centers of rotation of the second joints lie in a second plane parallel to the first plane, and for each link, a line connecting the centers of rotation of the first and second joints of the link intersects a line connecting the centers of rotation of the first and second joints of another of the links, none of the links intersecting each other in the reference position. 22. A parallel mechanism as claimed in claim 21 wherein each link does not contact any of the other links when the mechanism is in the reference position. 23. A parallel mechanism for manipulating an object in space comprising: first through sixth links each having a first end and a second end; a platform kinematically restrained by the links for supporting an object to be manipulated; a plurality of first rotatable joints each rotatably connecting the first end of one of the links to the platform and a plurality of second rotatable joints each connected to the second end of one of the links, each of the first and second joints having a center of rotation where two axes of rotation of the joint intersect; and an actuator associated with each link for translating the first ends of the links to move the platform, the centers of rotation of the first joints being spaced at substantially equal angular intervals about a first axis, and the centers of rotation of the second joints being spaced at substantially equal angular intervals about a second axis wherein the mechanism has a reference position in which the centers of rotation of the first joints lie in a first plane and the centers of rotation of the second joints lie in a second plane parallel to the first plane and the centers of rotation of the first joints are located on two concentric and coplanar circles. 24. A parallel mechanism as claimed in claim 23 wherein the centers of rotation of the first joints lie on a first circle and the centers of rotation of the second joints lie on a second circle coaxial with and axially spaced from the first circle when the mechanism is in the reference position. 25. A parallel mechanism as claimed in claim 23 wherein the centers of rotation of the second joints are located on two concentric and coplanar circles when the mechanism is in the reference position. 26. A parallel mechanism as claimed in claim 23 wherein when the mechanism is in the reference position, the first and second axes are coincident, the centers of rotation of the first joints of the first through sixth links are located at angles of approximately 0, 60, 120, 180, 240, and 300 degrees, respectively, with respect to the axes, and the centers of rotation of the second joints of the first through sixth links are located at angles of approximately 60, 0, 180, 120, 300, and 240 degrees, respectively, with respect to the axes when the mechanism is viewed along the axes, taking a location of an arbitrary one of the first joints as 0 degrees. 27. A parallel mechanism for manipulating an object in space comprising: first through sixth links each having a first end and a second end; a platform kinematically restrained by the links for supporting an object to be manipulated; a plurality of first rotatable joints each rotatably connecting the first end of one of the links to the platform and a plurality of second rotatable joints each connected to the second end of one of the links, each of the first and second joints having a center of rotation where two axes of rotation of the joint intersect; and an actuator associated with each link for translating the first ends of the links to move the platform, the centers of rotation of the first joints being spaced at substantially equal angular intervals about a first axis, and the centers of rotation of the second joints being spaced at substantially equal angular intervals about a second axis, wherein the mechanism has a reference position in which the centers of rotation of the first joints lie in a first plane and the centers of rotation of the second joints lie in a second plane parallel to the first plane and the centers of rotation of the second joints are located on two concentric and coplanar circles when the mechanism is in the reference position. 28. A parallel mechanism as claimed in claim 27 wherein the centers of rotation of the first joints lie on a first circle and the centers of rotation of the second joints lie on a second circle coaxial with and axially spaced from the first circle when the mechanism is in the reference position. 29. A parallel mechanism as claimed in claim 27 wherein when the mechanism is in the reference position, the first and second axes are coincident, the centers of rotation of the first joints of the first through sixth links are located at angles of approximately 0, 60, 120, 180, 240, and 300 degrees, respectively, with respect to the axes, and the centers of rotation of the second joints of the first through sixth links are located at angles of approximately 60, 0, 180, 120, 300, and 240 degrees, respectively, with respect to the axes when the mechanism is viewed along the axes, taking a location of an arbitrary one of the first joints as 0 degrees. 