A robotic arm has a pair of gripper fingers designed to grip a variety of containers, including capped and uncapped test tubes as well as containers having unique gripping means. The fingers each have upper and lower projections separated by a groove, the respective projections facing each other when mounted to grippers on the robotic arm. The projections and groove serve to firmly hold the containers as well as self-align the unique gripping means on initially unaligned containers within the fingers as the fingers close around the containers. The fingers have clearance to avoid contact with caps on capped test tubes. Stops are provided at the top of each finger to engage one another and prevent fully closed fingers from deforming. The robotic arm may be transported along a rail mounted above the instrument and a gripper assembly, having a gripper arm, mounted to the robotic arm may be rotated above the instrument to move the container to various locations within the instrument. Side posts on the instruments have a gap between them that permits the gripper arm to rotate and extend outwards to interface with an adjacent instrument or a lab automation transport line.
Claims We claim: 1. A robotic arm for an instrument having a rail, said robotic arm having a platform for coupling to said rail for movement of the robotic arm along a first axis, a gripper assembly, a first means, mounted to said platform and coupled to said gripper assembly, for moving said gripper assembly along a second axis perpendicular to said first axis, a second means, coupled to said platform, for pivoting said gripper assembly about said second axis, and an absolute encoder coupled to said gripper assembly, wherein said absolute encoder comprises a disk, having a center, a first sector and second sector, said second sector having a larger outer diameter than said first sector, and a sensor positioned adjacent said disk to detect said larger outer diameter of said second sector of said disk but not said first sector. 2. An analytical instrument comprising a rail, a robotic arm, a homing device being co-axial with said rail and defining a plurality of lateral zones, said robotic arm having a platform coupled to said rail for movement of the robotic arm through said plurality of zones along a first axis, a gripper assembly, a first means, mounted to said platform and coupled to said gripper assembly, for moving said gripper assembly along a second axis perpendicular to said first axis, and a second means, coupled to said platform, for pivoting said gripper assembly. 3. The instrument of claim 2 further comprising a beam to which said rail and said zonal homing device are mounted, and wherein said zonal homing device comprises a bar, mounted to said beam having a plurality of elongated openings therein so as to define said plurality of zones along said beam, and a sensor coupled to said platform, said bar being shaped to trigger said sensor when said platform of said robotic arm is in said first zone and not to trigger said sensor when said platform is in a second position along said first axis. 4. In an analytical instrument having a robotic arm, at least a first zone and a second zone, and a first absolute encoder for detecting said first and second zones, a method of determining whether said robotic arm may be safely homed without hitting an obstruction on said instrument comprising using said first absolute encoder to determine whether said robotic arm is in said first zone or said second zone. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein said first and second zones comprise first and second arcuate sectors, respectively, about a first axis, and said instrument further comprises a second axis, at least a third zone, in which said robotic arm may be rotated between said first and second sectors about said first axis without hitting said obstruction on said instrument, and a fourth zone, in which said robotic arm may not be rotated between said first and second sectors, said third and fourth zones extending along said second axis, and a second absolute encoder, said method further comprising defining said third and fourth zones with said second absolute encoder to determine whether said robotic arm is in said third zone or said fourth zone. 