The apparatus has four links pivotally coupled together. First and second links each includes a first portion having an angular portion extending therefrom at an angle of between 120-135 degrees. The first link is pivotally coupled to the angular portion of the second link; the third link is pivotally coupled to the second link at about the juncture of its angular portion and its first portion; and the fourth link is pivotally coupled to the third link and to the first link at about the juncture of its angular portion and its first portion. The first portion of the second link is employed for holding a tool or a utility device thereto. A first linear actuator is pivotally coupled to the pivotal connection between the third and fourth links and a second linear actuator is pivotally coupled to the angular portion of the first link. The first linear actuator can impart linear movement to the second link in a given direction and the second linear actuator can impart linear movement to the second link in a different direction. The two linear actuators when activated simultaneously can impart a curvilinear trajectory to the second link. The effective length of each of the first and third links between their pivotal connections is equal to R and the effective length of each of the second and fourth links between their pivotal connections is equal to r. The ratio R/r is equal to a magnitude of 3 to 7.
Claims I claim: 1. An apparatus for operating a tool, comprising: a first link comprising a first portion with an angular portion extending from said first portion at an angle .eta. between 120 degrees and 135 degrees, a second link comprising a first portion with an angular portion extending from said second portion of said second link at said angle .eta. between 120 degrees and 135 degrees, a third link, a fourth link, a first pivot means pivotally coupling said third and fourth links together, a second pivot means pivotally coupling said fourth link to said first link at about the juncture of said first portion and said angular portion of said first link, a third pivot means pivotally coupling said first link to said angular portion of said second link, a fourth pivot means pivotally coupling said third link to said second link at about the juncture of said first portion and said angular portion of said second link, the distance between said first and second pivot means being about equal to the distance between said third and fourth pivot means, the distance between said first and fourth pivot means being about equal to the distance between said second and third pivot means, said four links pivotally coupled together by said first, second, third, and fourth, pivot means define a parallelogram between said four pivot means, said first portion of said second link comprising means for use for coupling a tool thereto, first support means pivotally coupled to said first pivot means for moving said first pivot means and hence said second link to different positions, second support means pivotally coupled to said angular portion of said first link for moving said angular portion of said first link and hence said second link to different positions. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein: the distance between said first and fourth pivot means and hence between said second and third pivot means is equal to R, the distance between said first and second pivot means and hence between said between said third and fourth pivot means is equal to r, the ratio of R/r is equal to a magnitude in the range of 3 to 7. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein: said angle .eta. is equal to about 126.87 degrees. 4. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein: said ratio R/r is equal to a magnitude of about 5. 5. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein: said ratio R/r is equal to a magnitude of about 5. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein: said first support means comprises first linear activating means for moving said first pivot means linearly in a given direction. said second support means comprises second linear activating means for moving said first link linearly in a given direction. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, comprising: means for supporting said first linear activating means in different positions and orientations, and means for supporting said second linear activating means in different positions and orientations. 