An apparatus and method for providing targeted cooling to a pre-molded article, such as a preform. A cooling pin is inserted into the preform such that it makes contact with targeted area, such as the mold gate area. This permits conductive cooling of the targeted area. The apparatus and method are particularly suited to post-mold cooling in conjunction with a robotic take-out plate.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus for providing targeted cooling to a molded article in a post-mold operation, comprising: a cooling pin, disposed apart from the mold and having a targeting portion configured to conform to a targeted area on an inside surface of a partially cooled article outside the mold, the targeting area comprising less than the entire inside surface of the partially cooled article; means, disposed apart from the mold, to insert the cooling pin into the partially cooled article outside the mold such that the targeting portion contacts the corresponding inside surface of the targeted area; and means to cool the pin to conductively cool the targeted area. 2. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the cooling pin is adapted to cool an article which comprises a preform. 3. An apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the cooling pin is adapted to cool a preform which is formed of polyethylene teraphthalate. 4. An apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the preform is carried on a transfer mechanism. 5. An apparatus according to claim 4, wherein the transfer mechanism includes a take-out plate. 6. An apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the targeted area includes a gate portion of the preform. 7. An apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the targeted area includes a neck finish portion of the preform. 8. An apparatus according to claim 4, wherein the transfer mechanism carries the preform into engagement with the cooling pin. 9. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the cooling pin is carried on a frame. 10. An apparatus according to claim 9, wherein the frame is powered to move the cooling pin toward the article. 11. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the cooling pin is provided with cooling channels. 12. An apparatus according to claim 11, wherein a cooling fluid circulates through the cooling channels to cool the pin. 13. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the cooling pin is formed of a thermally conductive material. 14. An apparatus according to claim 12, wherein the cooling pin is formed of steel. 15. An apparatus according to claim 12, wherein the cooling pin is formed of copper. 16. An apparatus according to claim 12, wherein the cooling pin is formed of aluminum. 17. An apparatus according to claim 16, wherein the aluminum is a porous aluminum. 18. Apparatus for cooling an injection-molded plastic preform after it is removed from a mold, comprising: a cooling pin disposed outside the mold and having at least one interior passage for circulating a cooling medium inside said cooling pin, said cooling pin having an enlarged head for cooling a head portion of the plastic preform outside the mold, the enlarged head comprising less than an entire outer surface of the cooling pin; and take-off structure which removes the plastic preform from the mold and places it over said cooling pin to cause said cooling pin enlarged head to cool the plastic preform head portion. 19. Apparatus according to claim 18, wherein said take-off structure includes cooling structure which cools an outside surface of the plastic preform. 20. Apparatus according to claim 18, wherein said cooling pin further comprises an enlarged base portion which cools a corresponding base portion of the plastic preform. 21. Apparatus for cooling a plurality of plastic injection-molded preforms outside a mold, comprising: a plurality of cooling pins disposed outside the mold to cool a corresponding plurality of plastic preforms after a molding operation, each cooling pin having a surface which varies to cool a predetermined targeted area of the corresponding plastic preform outside the mold, each cooling pin having internal structure for circulating a cooling fluid inside said cooling pin, the targeted area of each preform comprising less than an entire inner surface of the preform; and take-off structure which removes the plurality of plastic preforms from the mold and places them over said plurality of cooling pins outside the mold, to cause said plurality of cooling pins to cool the predetermined targeted areas of the corresponding plastic preforms. 22. Apparatus according to claim 21, wherein the surface which varies in each cooling pin comprises an enlarged head. 23. Apparatus according to claim 21, wherein the surface which varies in each cooling pin comprises an enlarged base. 24. Apparatus according to claim 21, wherein said take-off structure comprises a plurality of holders each of which cools an outside surface of a corresponding plastic preform. 25. Apparatus according to claim 24, wherein a number of holders on said take-off structure is greater than a number of preform cavities in the mold. 