Rapid characterization and screening of polymer samples to determine average molecular weight, molecular weight distribution and other properties is disclosed. Rapid flow characterization systems and methods, including liquid chromatography and flow-injection analysis systems and methods are preferably employed. High throughput, automated sampling systems and methods, high-temperature characterization systems and methods, and rapid, indirect calibration compositions and methods are also disclosed. The described methods, systems, and devices have primary applications in combinatorial polymer research and in industrial process control.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for sampling a plurality of polymer samples, the method comprising (a) withdrawing a first polymer sample from a first container at a first location into a probe of an auto-sampler at a first withdrawal time, t.sub.ASW1, (b) delivering at least a portion of the withdrawn first sample to an injection port or a loading port of a polymer characterization system, (c) after steps (a) and (b), withdrawing a second polymer sample from a second container at a second location into the auto-sampler probe at a second withdrawal time, t.sub.ASW2, the difference in time, t.sub.ASW2 -t.sub.ASW1, being not more than about 40 seconds, and delivering at least a portion of the withdrawn second sample to the injection port or the loading port of the polymer characterization system. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the difference in time, t.sub.ASW2 -t.sub.ASW1, is not more than about 30 seconds. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the difference in time, t.sub.ASW2 -t.sub.ASW1, is not more than about 20 seconds. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the difference in time, t.sub.ASW2 -t.sub.ASW1, is not more than about 10 seconds. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the difference in time, t.sub.ASW2 -t.sub.ASW1, is not more than about 5 seconds. 6. The method of claim 1 further comprising, after step (a) and before step (b), expelling the withdrawn first sample to a sample-preparation container, pretreating the first sample in the sample-preparation container to form a pretreated first sample, and withdrawing the pretreated first sample from the sample-preparation container into the auto-sampler probe for delivery to the polymer characterization system. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein pretreating comprises diluting the first sample. 8. The method of claim 6 wherein pretreating comprises separating one or more components of the first polymer sample from other components thereof. 9. The method of claim 6 wherein pretreating comprises mixing the first sample with an additional component. 10. The method of claim 1 further comprising, after step (b) and before step (c), expelling a residual portion of the first sample from the auto-sampler probe. 11. The method of claim 1 further comprising, after step (b) and before step (c), cleaning the auto-sampler probe. 12. The method of claim 1 further comprising, after step (b) and before step (c), expelling a residual portion of the first sample from the auto-sampler probe, and cleaning the auto-sampler probe. 13. The method of claim 1 wherein the polymer samples are selected from the group consisting of polymer solutions, polymer emulsions and polymer dispersions. 14. The method of claim 1 wherein the first and second containers are sample-containing wells within an array of wells. 15. The method of claim 1 wherein the plurality of samples is 8 or more samples. 16. The method of claim 1 wherein the plurality of samples is 40 or more samples. 17. The method of claim 1 wherein the plurality of samples is 80 or more samples. 18. The method of claim 1 wherein the plurality of samples is 150 or more samples. 19. The method of claim 1 wherein the plurality of samples is 400 or more samples. 20. The method of claim 1 wherein the plurality of samples is 1000 or more samples. 21. The method of claim 1 wherein the polymer characterization system is a high-performance liquid chromatography system. 22. The method of claim 1 the characterization system is a high-performance liquid chromatography system, and the polymer samples are non-biological polymer samples. 23. The method of claim 1 wherein the polymer characterization system is a flow-injection analysis system. 24. The method of claim 1 wherein the polymer characterization system is a flow-injection analysis system, and the polymer samples are non-biological polymer samples. 25. The method of claims 21, 22, 23, or 24 wherein the polymer samples are polymerization product mixtures. 26. The method of claim 25 wherein the polymer samples are polymerization product mixtures resulting from polymerization reactions that are varied with respect to reactant materials, catalysts, catalyst precursors, initiators, additives or the relative amounts thereof. 27. The method of claim 25 wherein the polymer samples are polymerization product mixtures resulting from polymerization reactions that are varied with respect to reaction conditions. 28. The method of claim 25 wherein the four or more polymer samples are polymerization product mixtures resulting from synthesis in a parallel polymerization reaction. 29. The method of claims 21, 22, 23 or 24 wherein polymer samples are included within a library of four or more different polymer samples spatially separated on a common substrate. 30. The method of claims 21, 22, 23 or 24 wherein the sample containers are reaction vessels or glass-lined reaction vessels. 31. The method of claims 21, 22, 23 or 24 wherein the difference in time, t.sub.ASW2 -t.sub.ASW1, is not more than about 30 seconds. 32. The method of claims 21, 22, 23 or 24 wherein the difference in time, t.sub.ASW2 -t.sub.ASW1, is not more than about 20 seconds. 33. The method of claims 21, 22, 23 or 24 wherein the difference in time, t.sub.ASW2 -t.sub.ASW1, is not more than about 10 seconds. 