A storage library includes a first robotic mechanism having an energy coupler and a second robotic mechanism having an energy coupler. The storage library further includes tracks disposed adjacent to media object storage cells for enabling access to each of the media object storage cells, and powered rails associated with the tracks for providing energy. The first robotic mechanism is movable toward the second robotic mechanism to enable the energy coupler of the first robotic mechanism to couple with the energy coupler of the second robotic mechanism to transfer energy from the first robotic mechanism to the second robotic mechanism. The energy couplers of the first and second robotic mechanisms couple together to transfer energy from the powered rails to the second robotic mechanism. The energy couplers of the first and second robotic mechanisms couple together to transfer energy between on-board energy sources.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A storage library comprising: a first robotic mechanism having an energy coupler; a second robotic mechanism having an energy coupler, wherein the energy coupler of the first robotic mechanism couples with the energy coupler of the second robotic mechanism to transfer energy from the first robotic mechanism to the second robotic mechanism. 2. The storage library of claim 1 wherein: the first robotic mechanism has an energy source, wherein the energy coupler of the first robotic mechanism couples with the energy coupler of the second robotic mechanism to transfer energy from the energy source of the first robotic mechanism to the second robotic mechanism. 3. The storage library of claim 1 wherein: the second robotic mechanism has an energy source, wherein the energy coupler of the first robotic mechanism couples with the energy coupler of the second robotic mechanism to transfer energy from the first robotic mechanism to the energy source of the second robotic mechanism. 4. The storage library of claim 1 wherein: the second robotic mechanism includes a propulsion mechanism, wherein the energy coupler of the first robotic mechanism couples with the energy coupler of the second robotic mechanism to transfer energy from the first robotic mechanism to the second robotic mechanism in order to drive the propulsion mechanism. 5. The storage library of claim 1 wherein: the second robotic mechanism includes a gripper mechanism, wherein the energy coupler of the first robotic mechanism couples with the energy coupler of the second robotic mechanism to transfer energy from the first robotic mechanism to the second robotic mechanism in order to drive the gripper mechanism. 6. The storage library of claim 1 wherein: the energy transferred between the first and second robotic mechanism is electrical energy. 7. The storage library of claim 1 wherein: the energy transferred between the first and second robotic mechanism is magnetic energy. 8. The storage library of claim 1 wherein: the energy transferred between the first and second robotic mechanism is infrared energy. 9. The storage library of claim 1 wherein: the energy transferred between the first and second robotic mechanism is mechanical energy. 10. A storage library for the storage and retrieval of media objects, the storage library comprising: a plurality of media object storage cells each housing a media object; tracks disposed adjacent to the media object storage cells for enabling access to each of the media object storage cells; a first robotic mechanism having an energy coupler, the first robotic mechanism being movable along the tracks; and a second robotic mechanism having an energy coupler, wherein the first robotic mechanism moves along the tracks toward the second robotic mechanism to enable the energy coupler of the first robotic mechanism to couple with the energy coupler of the second robotic mechanism to transfer energy from the first robotic mechanism to the second robotic mechanism. 11. The storage library of claim 10 further comprising: powered rails associated with the tracks for providing energy, wherein the energy coupler of the first robotic mechanism couples with the energy coupler of the second robotic mechanism to transfer energy from the powered rails to the second robotic mechanism. 12. The storage library of claim 10 wherein: the first robotic mechanism has an energy source, wherein the energy coupler of the first robotic mechanism couples with the energy coupler of the second robotic mechanism to transfer energy from the energy source of the first robotic mechanism to the second robotic mechanism. 13. The storage library of claim 10 wherein: the second robotic mechanism has an energy source, wherein the energy coupler of the first robotic mechanism couples with the energy coupler of the second robotic mechanism to transfer energy from the first robotic mechanism to the energy source of the second robotic mechanism. 14. The storage library of claim 10 wherein: wherein the energy coupler of the first robotic mechanism couples with the energy coupler of the second robotic mechanism to transfer energy from the first robotic mechanism to the second robotic mechanism while the storage library is operating. 15. The storage library of claim 10 wherein: the second mechanism has a secondary mechanism, wherein the energy coupler of the first robotic mechanism couples with the energy coupler of the second robotic mechanism to transfer energy from the first robotic mechanism to the second robotic mechanism in order to drive the secondary mechanism. 16. The storage library of claim 10 wherein: the second robotic mechanism includes a propulsion mechanism for moving the second robotic mechanism along the tracks, wherein the energy coupler of the first robotic mechanism couples with the energy coupler of the second robotic mechanism to transfer energy from the first robotic mechanism to the second robotic mechanism in order to drive the propulsion mechanism for moving the second robotic mechanism along the tracks. 17. The storage library of claim 10 wherein: the second robotic mechanism includes a gripper mechanism for gripping the media objects, wherein the energy coupler of the first robotic mechanism couples with the energy coupler of the second robotic mechanism to transfer energy from the first robotic mechanism to the second robotic mechanism in order to drive the gripping mechanism for gripping the media objects. 18. A method for operating a storage library, the method comprising: providing a first robotic mechanism having an energy coupler; providing a second robotic mechanism having an energy coupler; and coupling the energy coupler of the first robotic mechanism with the energy coupler of the second robotic mechanism to transfer energy from the first robotic mechanism to the second robotic mechanism. 19. The method of claim 18 further comprising: providing the first robotic mechanism with an energy source; and coupling the energy coupler of the first robotic mechanism with the energy coupler of the second robotic mechanism to transfer energy from the energy source of the first robotic mechanism to the second robotic mechanism. 20. The method of claim 18 further comprising: providing the second robotic mechanism with an energy source; and coupling the energy coupler of the first robotic mechanism with the energy coupler of the second robotic mechanism to transfer energy from the first robotic mechanism to the energy source of the second robotic mechanism. 21. The method of claim 18 further comprising: providing the second robotic mechanism with a propulsion mechanism; and coupling the energy coupler of the first robotic mechanism with the energy coupler of the second robotic mechanism to transfer energy from the first robotic mechanism to the second robotic mechanism in order to drive the propulsion mechanism. 22. The method of claim 18 further comprising: providing the second robotic mechanism with a gripper mechanism; and coupling the energy coupler of the first robotic mechanism with the energy coupler of the second robotic mechanism to transfer energy from the first robotic mechanism to the second robotic mechanism in order to drive the gripper mechanism. 23. The method of claim 18 further comprising: moving the first robotic mechanism toward the second robotic mechanism to enable the energy coupler of the first robotic mechanism to couple with the energy coupler of the second robotic mechanism. 