A tactile sensor device is disclosed that can be used for high resolution tactile sensing. The sensor may be used as a tactile shear sensor. It comprises a circuit substrate; an array of contact pads on the circuit substrate, and a set of nanowires attached to each of the contact pads. The contact pads may be isolated or formed from a matrix of interconnecting strips of material. Each set of nanowires comprises at least one and preferably a plurality of nanowires that are desirably vertically aligned and equal in length. When an object contacts at least one of the plurality of sets of nanowires, it causes at least one set of nanowires to bend and make contact along a portion of the length thereof with at least another set of nanowires. The position and movement activity of the object can be sensed by electrically interrogating pairs of contact pads to determine whether a connection has been made between them.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A tactile sensor device for detecting the position and movement activity of an object, the sensor device comprising: a circuit substrate having a surface; at least a first and a second contact pad disposed on the surface; at least one nanowire attached to the first contact pad to define a first set of nanowires and at least one nanowire attached to the second contact pad to define a second set of nanowires; wherein when the object contacts the first set of nanowires, the object causes the first set of nanowires to bend and make contact along a portion of the length thereof with the second set of nanowires, whereby the position and movement activity of the object can be sensed by electrically interrogating at least one of the first and second contact pads to determine whether the first and second sets of nanowires have made a connection. 2. The device of claim 1 in which the tactile sensor device comprises a tactile shear sensor. 3. The device of claim 1 in which the contact pads are defined by intersecting strips of conductive material. 4. The device of claim 1 in which the nanowires of each said set are substantially equal in length and substantially vertically aligned relative to the circuit substrate. 5. The device of claim 1 further comprising at least one spacer disposed on the surface of the circuit substrate for preventing damage to at least one of the sets of nanowires. 6. The device of claim 1 attached by growing the nanowires directly on the contact pads by an in-situ growth process. 7. The device of claim 1 attached by growing the nanowires on a dissolvable layer, solder bonding the nanowires onto the circuit substrate, and removing the dissolvable layer. 8. A tactile sensor device for detecting the position and movement activity of an object, the sensor device comprising: a circuit substrate having a surface; an array of contact pads on the surface of the circuit substrate, wherein each one of the contact pads defining the array is in the absence of a tactile activation, electrically isolated from each of the other contact pads defining the array; a set of nanowires attached to each said one of the contact pads, each set of nanowires comprising a plurality of substantially-vertically aligned and substantially equi-length nanowires; wherein when the object contacts at least one set of nanowires, the object causes said at least one set of nanowires to bend and make contact along a portion of the length thereof with at least another set, whereby the position and movement activity of the object can be sensed by electrically interrogating at least one of the contact pads to determine whether a connection has been made between sets of nanowires. 9. The device of claim 8, in which the length of each one of the plurality of nanowires deviates from the average length of every one of the plurality of nanowires by less than twenty percent. 10. The device of claim 8, in which each one of the plurality of nanowires deviates from complete vertical alignment of 90 degrees relative to the circuit substrate by less than twenty-five degrees. 11. The device of claim 8 in which each said set of nanowires comprises at least five nanowires. 12. The device of claim 8 in which the average diameter of the plurality of nanowires is less than 200 nm. 13. The device of claim 8 in which the average length of the plurality of nanowires is in the range of about 1 to 100 micrometers. 14. The device of claim 8 in which the plurality of nanowires comprise single-wall or multi-wall carbon nanotubes, semiconductor nanowires, or ceramic nanowires. 15. The device of claim 14, in which the semiconductor nanowires comprise at least one of Si, Ge, and GaAS and the ceramic nanowires comprise at least one of an oxide, nitride, carbide, or boride. 16. The device of claim 8 in which the surface of the circuit substrate comprises a non-flat surface. 17. The device of claim 8 in which the array of contact pads comprises a matrix of contact positions. 18. The device of claim 17, in which the matrix of contact positions comprises intersecting strips of conductive material. 19. The device of claim 8, in which each one of the contact pads defining the array of contact pads is separated from any other contact pad defining the array by a distance of less than 50 micrometers. 20. A tactile shear sensor device for detecting the position and movement activity of an object, the sensor device comprising: a circuit substrate having a surface; an array of contact pads on the surface of the circuit substrate, wherein each one of the contact pads defining the array, is in the absence of a tactile activation, electrically isolated from each of the other contact pads, and each said one of the contact pads is configured to be coupled to a mechanism for electrically interrogating said contact pads; a set of nanowires attached to each said one of the isolated contact pads, each set of nanowires comprising a plurality of nanowires, in which the length of each one of the plurality of nanowires deviates from the average length of every one of the plurality of nanowires by less than twenty percent and the vertical alignment of the plurality of nanowires deviates from complete vertical alignment of 90 degrees relative to the circuit substrate by less than twenty-five degrees; a metallic coating disposed on the outer surface of the plurality of nanowires; a plurality of stress-limiting spacers disposed on the surface of the circuit substrate for preventing damage to the sets of nanowires; wherein when the object contacts at least one set of nanowires, the object causes said at least one set of nanowires to bend and make contact along a portion of the length thereof with at least another set, whereby the position and movement activity of the object can be sensed by electrically interrogating at least two of the contact pads to determine whether an electrical connection has been made between them. 