Bonded vehicular glass assemblies utilizing two-component urethane adhesives to attach dynamic load-bearing attachment members to glass substrates to form a joint suitable for use on a vehicle, and related methods of forming are described herein. In addition, methods of attaching components to glass by use of these adhesives are disclosed. The two-component urethane adhesives utilized in this invention have been found to provide surprisingly strong bonds between glass and other materials which meet or exceed OEM requirements, and be particularly well suited for use in vehicles.
Claims The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows: 1. A movable vehicular window assembly comprising: a glass panel having a first surface and an opposing second surface and comprising a layer of frit disposed on said first surface; an attachment member comprising a material selected from the group consisting of metal, plastic, and combinations thereof, said attachment member being selected from the group consisting of mounting members, hinges, clevises, latches, lift brackets, division bars, positionable members, guide tracks, handles, guide pins, strut-mounting hardware, strikers, struts, power-mounting hardware, track members, rails, latch members, antennas, wiper mounts, sealing members, cosmetic articles, pin components, hinge members, brake lights, gaskets and rearview mirrors; and said glass panel and said attachment member joined by an adhesive layer; said adhesive layer consisting essentially of a layer of a two-component urethane adhesive disposed between said layer of frit and said attachment member, wherein said adhesive comprises an isocyanate component and a polyol component, said layer of adhesive cured to form a joint suitable for use on a vehicle; said layer of cured adhesive bonding said attachment member to said layer of frit on said first surface of said glass panel prior to installation of said assembly in the vehicle and without exposure of said attachment member on said second surface of said panel; and wherein said polyol component includes at least one plural amine compound. 2. The movable vehicular window assembly of claim 1 wherein said movable vehicular window assembly is a window assembly selected from the group consisting of a hinged window assembly, a sunroof, a door lift window, a liftgate, and a sliding window assembly. 3. The movable vehicular window assembly of claim 1 further comprising a layer of at least one of an adhesive promoter and a primer disposed between said layer of frit on said glass panel and said layer of adhesive. 4. The movable vehicular window assembly of claim 3 wherein said at least one of said adhesion promoter and said primer is selected from the group consisting of silane compounds, titanium coupling agents, zirconium coupling agents, and moisture-curable urethane prepolymers. 5. The movable vehicular window assembly of claim 3 wherein the thickness of said layer of at least one of said adhesion promoter and said primer is from about 0.01 mils to about 3.5 mils. 6. The movable vehicular window assembly of claim 5 wherein the thickness of said layer of at least one of said adhesion promoter and said primer is from about 0.05 mils to about 2 mils. 7. The movable vehicular window assembly of claim 6 wherein the thickness of said layer of at least one of said adhesion promoter and said primer is from about 0.1 mils to about 1.0 mils. 8. The movable vehicular window assembly of claim 1 wherein the thickness of said adhesive layer disposed between said attachment member and said glass panel is from about 0.01 mm to about 4.0 mm. 9. The movable vehicular window assembly of claim 8 wherein the thickness of said adhesive layer is from about 0.25 mm to about 2.0 mm. 10. The movable vehicular window assembly of claim 9 wherein the thickness of said adhesive layer is from about 0.5 mm to about 1.0 mm. 11. The movable vehicular window assembly of claim 1 wherein said at least one plural amine compound has a molecular weight in the range of from about 115 to about 5000. 12. The movable vehicular window assembly of claim 1 wherein said at least one plural amine compound has a molecular weight in the range of from about 210 to about 290. 13. The movable vehicular window assembly of claim 1 wherein said at least one plural amine compound comprises one of a penta-amine and a hexa-amine. 14. The movable vehicular window assembly of claim 13 wherein said at least one plural amine compound contains one of 11 carbon atoms and 12 carbon atoms. 15. The movable vehicular window assembly of claim 1 wherein said at least one plural amine compound comprises an aminated reaction product of pentaerythritrol, glucose or sucrose. 