Objects of this invention include provision of magnetic resonance (MR) imaging methods, MR apparatus, and radio-frequency (RF) receiving coil devices permitting interactive MR examination of a patient. In particular, this invention includes means for generating MR images by a moveable RF coil which can be moved across a patient during an MR examination. The MR apparatus includes a position detection system which detects the current position and orientation of the moveable RF coil. The coil can be hand held for manual movement or can be attached to mechanical manipulators for controlled movement. The imaging methods determine and generate magnetic gradient and RF pulse sequences to excite nuclear magnetization in a 3D region determined with respect to the current 3D position and 3D orientation of the moveable RF coil. The invention also includes moveable RF coils for receiving and transmitting which are configured and sized for convenient manipulation by an operator. A preferable moveable RF coil assembly includes markers necessary to interact with a particular position detection system, display means for displaying reconstructed images in real-time, and control means for operator entry of signals controlling the MR apparatus. This invention also includes a carrier medium with recorded program instructions for controlling a programmable MR apparatus to perform the disclosed methods.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for generating magnetic resonance (MR) images by an MR apparatus comprising: positioning a moveable radio-frequency (RF) coil holder in proximity to an object to be examined, positioning the object so that a part of the object in proximity to the RF coil holder is positioned in a homogeneity volume of a main magnetic field of the MR apparatus; determining a current 3D position and a current 3D orientation of the moveable RF coil holder, determining magnetic field gradient pulses and RF pulses for exciting nuclear magnetization in a region of interest with a 3D position and a 3D orientation located relative to the current 3D position and the current 3D orientation of the moveable RF coil holder, applying the determined magnetic field gradient pulses and RF pulses in order to excite nuclear magnetization in the determined region of interest, receiving RF imaging signals that are generated by the excited nuclear magnetization by an RF coil in the moveable RF coil holder, and reconstructing an MR image of the region of interest from the received RF imaging signals. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of determining a current 3D position and current 3D orientation further comprises determining the spatial coordinates of three non-collinear markers on the moveable RF coil holder. 3. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of displaying the reconstructed MR image on a display in proximity to the moveable RF coil holder. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the determined RF pulses are transmitted by an RF coil in the RF coil holder. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein wherein the step of determining magnetic gradient field and RF pulses is responsive to a current position of the region of sensitivity of the RF coil in the RF coil holder, the current position of the region of sensitivity depending on the reference sensitivity profile of the RF coil and on the current 3D position and current 3D orientation of the moveable RF coil holder. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the RF coil holder comprises control means for the entry of parameters, and wherein the step of determining magnetic gradient field and RF pulses is responsive to the parameters entered by the control means. 7. The method of claim 1 further comprising repetitively executing the steps of positioning, determining a position and an orientation, determining magnetic field and RF pulses, applying, receiving, and reconstructing in order to generate a plurality of MR images from a plurality of regions of interest. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein the moveable RF coil assembly is hand held, and wherein the RF coil assembly is manually positioned by an operator in proximity to the object. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein the moveable RF coil assembly is coupled to a mechanical manipulator, and wherein the mechanical manipulator is controlled by the operator to position the moveable RF coil holder in proximity to the object. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein the nuclear magnetization is excited in a cylinder with a longitudinal axis substantially perpendicular to a plane of the RF receiving coil holder, and wherein a one-dimensional MR image of the cylinder is reconstructed. 11. The method of claim 1 wherein the nuclear magnetization is excited in a slice with a adjustable position and orientation with respect to the current 3D position and current 3D orientation of the moveable RF receiving coil holder, and wherein a two-dimensional image of the region of the slice is reconstructed. 12. A computer readable media encoded with program instructions for causing a programmable control means of an MR apparatus to perform the method of claim 1. 13. An MR system for generating magnetic resonance (MR) images of a region of interest of an object to be examined comprising: a main field magnet for generating a steady magnetic field in the region of interest, a magnetic field gradient system for generating temporary gradients in the steady magnetic field in the region of interest, a radio-frequency (RF) transmitter system for transmitting RF pulses to the region of interest, a moveable RF receiving coil assembly that includes (i) a moveable RF coil holder including an RF receiving coil for receiving RF imaging signals for reconstructing an MR image, (ii) means for providing position signals representative of a 3D position and a 3D orientation of the RF coil holder, (iii) means for displaying to the operator reconstructed MR images, and (iv) means for manipulating the moveable RF coil holder and the means for displaying, a position detection system for detecting the position signals, an RF receiver for receiving RF imaging signals from the RF receiver coil, control means responsive to the detected position signals for (i) controlling the position detection system to determine the current 3D position and the current 3D orientation of the moveable RF receiving coil holder, (ii) determining magnetic field gradient pulses and RF pulses for exciting nuclear magnetization in a region determined with respect to the current 3D position and the current 3D orientation of the moveable RF receiving coil holder, (iii) controlling the magnetic field gradient system and the RF transmitter system to apply the determined magnetic field gradient pulses and RF pulses in order to excite nuclear magnetization in the determined region, (iv) controlling the RF receiver to receive RF imaging signals generated by the excited nuclear magnetization, and (v) reconstructing an MR image of the region of interest from received MR imaging signals, and positioning means to position the object so that a part of the object in proximity to the RF coil holder is positioned in a homogeneity volume of the main magnets field. 14. The system of claim 13 wherein the control means further comprises memory means and processing means, and wherein the processing means are responsive to one or more programs resident in the memory means in order to perform the controlling. 15. The system of claim 13 wherein the moveable RF coil holder further includes an RF coil for transmitting RF pulses. 16. The system of claim 13 wherein the moveable RF coil assembly further comprises entry means for operator entry of parameters, and wherein the determining by the control means of magnetic gradient field and RF pulses is responsive to the parameters entered by control means. 