The present invention relates to an automated grading process and apparatus for grading an animal carcass. The process includes the steps of generating and receiving signals; determining the location of the ribs in the carcass therefrom; determining a predetermined reference point on the carcass; determining a probing location; and probing the carcass. As an example the predetermined reference point may be the first rib and the probe location may be between the third and fourth ribs. The present invention also includes a method for determining the location of the ribs and a method for determining the first rib. The apparatus includes a base, a clamping sub-system for positioning the carcass and a sensing-probing subsystem. The sensing-probing subsystem includes a signal generator and a signal receiver each directed at the clamped carcass; a method of determining the location of the ribs; a method of determining a predetermined reference point on the carcass; a method of determining a probing location; and a probe. The probe is attached to a robotic arm.
Claims What is claimed as the invention is: 1. An automated grading process for grading an animal carcass having a plurality of ribs comprising the steps of: generating and receiving signals directed at the carcass to obtain data wherein the signals are chosen from the group of ultrasonic and laser; determining the location of the ribs in the carcass from the data to determine the identified ribs; determining a predetermined reference point on the carcass; determining a probing location with reference to the predetermined reference point and the identified ribs; and probing the carcass and obtaining a grading measurement at the probing location. 2. An automated grading process for grading an animal carcass as claimed in claim 1 wherein the predetermined reference point is a first rib of the identified ribs in the carcass. 3. An automated grading process for grading an animal carcass as claimed in claim 2 wherein the location of a third and fourth rib are identified and wherein the probing location is between the third and fourth ribs. 4. An automated grading process for grading an animal carcass as claimed in claim 3 further including the step of determining the outside edge and wherein the probing location is determined with reference to the outside edge. 5. An automated grading process for grading an animal carcass as claimed in claim 4 further including the step of determining the normal to the skin at the probe location and wherein the probe is inserted normal to the skin. 6. An automated grading process for grading an animal carcass as claimed in claim 5 wherein the probing is invasive probing. 7. An automated grading process for grading an animal carcass as claimed in claim 7 wherein the probing is ultrasonic probing. 8. An automated grading process for grading an animal carcass as claimed in claim 7 further including the step of determining the outside edge and wherein the probing location is determined with reference to the outside edge. 9. An automated grading process for grading an animal carcass as claimed in claim 8 further including the step of determining the normal to the skin at the probe location and wherein the probe is inserted normal to the skin. 10. An automated grading process for grading an animal carcass as claimed in claim 5 wherein the signal is an ultrasonic signal and wherein the normal to the skin is determined by using a method running on a computer including the steps of: generating and receiving ultrasonic signals with an ultrasonic sensor directed at the carcass to obtain ultrasonic skin data in relation to the position of the sensor; moving the ultrasonic sensor and changing the direction of the signal in relation to the carcass; determining the position of the sensor when it is normal to the skin. 11. A method of determining the normal to the skin as claimed in claim 10 wherein the sensor is operating in pulse echo mode. 12. A method of determining the normal to the skin as claimed in claim 11 determining the position of the sensor when the amplitude of the echo is a maximum which equals the position of the sensor when it is normal to the skin. 13. An automated grading process for grading an animal carcass as claimed in claim 1 wherein a probing location is at least a first probing location and further including determining a plurality of probing locations relative to the identified ribs and the predetermined reference point and further including probing the carcass at the plurality of probing locations and obtaining a plurality or predetermined type of measurements. 14. An automated grading process for grading an animal carcass as claimed in claim 1 wherein the grading measurement is a fat/lean measurement. 15. An automated grading process for grading an animal carcass as claimed in claim 1 wherein the probing is invasive probing. 16. An automated grading process for grading an animal carcass as claimed in claim 1 wherein the probing is ultrasonic probing. 17. An automated grading process for grading an animal carcass as claimed in claim 1 wherein the signals are ultrasonic signals and wherein the location of the ribs are determined by using a method running on a computer including the steps of: defining rules for identification of the ribs based on anatomical parameters of known carcass ribs including at least an ultrasonic signal profile of a rib; comparing the ultrasonic data with the rules; and determining portions of the ultrasonic data that correspond with at least one rib to determine at least one identified rib. 18. An automated grading process according to claim 17 wherein a further anatomical parameter is a width of the rib. 19. An automated grading process according to claim 18 wherein a further anatomical parameter is a distance between ribs. 20. An automated grading process according to claim 19 further including the step of first passing the ultrasonic data through a low-pass filter to remove high frequency components. 21. An automated grading process according to claim 19 further including the steps of defining an ultrasonic first rib rule for identification of a first rib based on an ultrasonic signal profile of a first rib of known carcass first rib; comparing the portions of the ultrasonic data corresponding with ribs with the ultrasonic first rib rule; and determining portions of the ultrasonic data that correspond with a first rib to determine the identified ultrasonic first rib. 22. An automated grading process according to claim 19 further including the steps of defining a width first rib rule for identification of a first rib based on a width of a first rib of known carcass first rib; comparing the portions of the ultrasonic data corresponding with ribs with the width first rib rule; determining portions of the ultrasonic data that correspond with a first rib to determine the identified width first rib; determining confidence levels for the identified width first rib and the identified ultrasonic first rib; and determining a highest confidence level and thereafter determining the identified first rib. 23. An automated grading process according to claim 22 further including the steps of defining a distance first rib rule for identification of a first rib based on distance to the above next adjacent identified rib of known carcass first rib; comparing the portions of the ultrasonic data corresponding with ribs to the above next adjacent identified rib with the distance first rib rule; determining portions of the ultrasonic data that correspond with a first rib to determine the identified distance first rib determining confidence levels for the identified distance first rib, the identified width first rib and the identified ultrasonic first rib; and determining a highest confidence level and thereafter determining the identified first rib. 24. An automated grading process according to claim 21 further including the steps of defining a distance first rib rule for identification of a first rib based on distance to the above next adjacent identified rib of known carcass first rib; comparing the portions of the ultrasonic data corresponding with ribs to the above next adjacent identified rib with the distance first rib rule; determining portions of the ultrasonic data that correspond with a first rib to determine the identified distance first rib determining confidence levels for the identified distance first rib and the identified ultrasonic first rib; and determining a highest confidence level and thereafter determining the identified first rib. 25. An automated grading process according to claim 19 further including the steps of defining a width first rib rule for identification of a first rib based on a width of a first rib of known carcass first rib; comparing the portions of the ultrasonic data corresponding with ribs with the width first rib rule; and determining portions of the ultrasonic data that correspond with a first rib to determine the identified width first rib. 26. An automated grading process according to claim 19 further including the steps of defining a distance first rib rule for identification of a first rib based on the distance to the above next adjacent identified rib of known carcass first rib; comparing the portions of the ultrasonic data corresponding with ribs to the above next adjacent identified rib with the distance first rib rule; and determining portions of the ultrasonic data that correspond with a first rib to determine the identified distance first rib. 27. An automated grading process according to claim 17 wherein a further anatomical parameter is a distance between ribs. 28. A method running on a computer of determining the location of ribs in a scanned carcass from ultrasonic data scanned therefrom comprising the steps of: defining rules for identification of the ribs based on anatomical parameters of known carcass ribs including at least an ultrasonic signal profile of a rib; comparing the ultrasonic data with the rules; and determining portions of the ultrasonic data that correspond with at least one rib to determine at least one identified rib. 29. A method of determining the location of ribs according to claim 28 wherein a further anatomical parameter is a width of the rib. 30. A method of determining the location of ribs according to claim 29 wherein a further anatomical parameter is a distance between ribs. 31. A method of determining the location of ribs according to claim 30 further including the steps of defining an ultrasonic first rib rule for identification of a first rib based on an ultrasonic signal profile of a first rib of known carcass first rib; comparing the portions of the ultrasonic data corresponding with ribs with the ultrasonic first rib rule; and determining portions of the ultrasonic data that correspond with a first rib to determine the identified ultrasonic first rib. 32. A method of determining the location of ribs according to claim 31 further including the steps of defining a width first rib rule for identification of a first rib based on a width of a first rib of known carcass first rib; comparing the portions of the ultrasonic data corresponding with ribs with the width first rib rule; determining portions of the ultrasonic data that correspond with a first rib to determine the identified width first rib; determining confidence levels for the identified width first rib and the identified ultrasonic first rib; and determining a highest confidence level and thereafter determining the identified first rib. 33. A method of determining the location of ribs according to claim 32 further including the steps of defining a distance first rib rule for identification of a first rib based on distance to the above next adjacent identified rib of known carcass first rib; comparing the portions of the ultrasonic data corresponding with ribs to the above next adjacent identified rib with the distance first rib rule; determining portions of the ultrasonic data that correspond with a first rib to determine the identified distance first rib determining confidence levels for the identified distance first rib and the identified ultrasonic first rib; and determining a highest confidence level and thereafter determining the identified first rib. 34. A method of determining the location of ribs according to claim 32 further including the steps of defining a distance first rib rule for identification of a first rib based on distance to the above next adjacent identified rib of known carcass first rib; comparing the portions of the ultrasonic data corresponding with ribs to the above next adjacent identified rib with the distance first rib rule; determining portions of the ultrasonic data that correspond with a first rib to determine the identified distance first rib; determining confidence levels for the identified distance first rib, the identified width first rib and the ultrasonic first rib; and determining a highest confidence level and thereafter determining the identified first rib. 35. A method of determining the location of ribs according to claim 30 further including the steps of defining a width first rib rule for identification of a first rib based on a width of a first rib of known carcass first rib; comparing the portions of the ultrasonic data corresponding with ribs with the width first rib rule; and determining portions of the ultrasonic data that correspond with a first rib to determine the identified width first rib. 36. A method of determining the location of ribs according to claim 30 further including the steps of defining a distance first rib rule for identification of a first rib based on distance to the above next adjacent identified rib of known carcass first rib; comparing the portions of the ultrasonic data corresponding with ribs to the above next adjacent identified rib with the distance first rib rule; and determining portions of the ultrasonic data that correspond with a first rib to determine the identified distance first rib. 37. A method of determining the normal to the skin of a carcass having an inside and an outside and a split edge comprising the steps of: generating and receiving ultrasonic signals with an ultrasonic sensor directed at the carcass to obtain ultrasonic skin data in relation to the position of the sensor wherein the ultrasonic sensor is directed towards a point on the inside skin of the carcass a predetermined distance from the split edge; moving the ultrasonic sensor and changing the direction of the signal in relation to the carcass and directing the ultrasonic sensor to the point on the inside skin of the carcass; determining the position of the sensor when it is normal to the skin. 38. A method of determining the normal to the skin as claimed in claim 37 wherein the sensor is operating in pulse echo mode. 39. A method of determining the normal to the skin as claimed in claim 38 determining the position of the sensor when the amplitude of the echo is a maximum which equals the position of the sensor when it is normal to the skin. 40. A method of determining the location of ribs according to claim 28 wherein a further anatomical parameter is a distance between ribs. 41. A method of determining the location of ribs according to claim 28 further including the step of first passing the ultrasonic data through a low-pass filter to remove high frequency components. 42. An automated meat grading apparatus for grading an animal carcass having a plurality of ribs comprising: a base; a clamping sub-system for positioning the carcass connected to the base; and a sensing-probing sub-system connected to the base, the sensing-probing subsystem including: a signal generator and a signal receiver each directed at the clamped carcass to obtain data wherein the signal generator is chosen from the group of ultrasonic and laser signal generators and the signal receiver is chosen from the group of ultrasonic and laser signal receivers; means for determining the location of the ribs in the carcass from the ultrasonic data; means for determining a predetermined reference point on the carcass; means for determining a probing location relative to the identified ribs and the predetermined reference point; and a probe for probing the carcass and obtaining a predetermined type of measurement at the probing location. 43. An automated meat grading apparatus as claimed in claim 42 wherein the signal generator is an ultrasonic signal generator and the receiver is an ultrasonic signal receiver. 44. An automated meat grading apparatus as claimed in claim 42 wherein the signal generator is a laser signal generator and the receiver is a laser signal receiver. 45. An automated meat grading apparatus as claimed in claim 42 wherein the components are modular. 46. An automated meat grading apparatus as claimed in claim 45 wherein the sensing-probing subsystem is movable vertically and horizontally relative to the clamping subsystem. 47. An automated meat grading apparatus as claimed in claim 45 wherein the sensing-probing subsystem includes a robotic arm and wherein the probe is attached thereto. 