A sensor determines the planar inclination of a surface and includes a sensor body having a light emitting end. Three Z-axis sensors are positioned within the sensor body. Each Z-axis sensor includes a laser assembly having a light output for emitting a light beam from the light emitting end onto a surface to be scanned. An optical detector receives reflected light that had been emitted from the laser assembly onto a surface to be scanned. A processor is operatively connected to the optical detectors and calculates the planar inclination of the surface based on the light scattered back from the surface to be scanned. Each laser assembly has a sine wave modulation that is different from the sine wave modulation of a respective other laser assembly. The sine wave modulation is a function of amplitude, frequency modulation, DC offset, time and phase.
Claims That which is claimed is: 1. A sensor for determining the planar inclination of a surface comprising: a sensor body having a light emitting end and defining a longitudinal axis; three sensors positioned within said sensor body, each sensor comprising: a laser assembly having a light output for emitting a light beam from the light emitting end in a longitudinal direction substantially parallel to the longitudinal axis onto a surface to be scanned; and an optical detector for receiving scattered light that had been emitted from said laser assembly onto a surface to be scanned; a processor operatively connected to said optical detectors for calculating the planar inclination of the surface based on the light scattered back from the surface to be scanned; and a sine wave generator for generating a sine wave modulation for a laser assembly, wherein each laser assembly has a sine wave modulation that is different from the sine wave modulation of a respective other laser assembly based on stored values within a wave table, wherein the sine waves are a frequency that are prime relative to each other. 2. A sensor according to claim 1, wherein said sine wave generator further comprises a digital signal processor (DSP). 3. A sensor according to claim 1, wherein said sine wave modulation is a function of amplitude, frequency of modulation, DC offset, time and phase. 4. A sensor according to claim 1, wherein said laser assemblies are positioned within said sensor body at a spaced-apart angle of about 120 degrees with respect to each other. 5. A sensor according to claim 1, wherein each optical detector is positioned at an angle with respect to the longitudinal axis of the sensor body and to each laser assembly. 6. A sensor according to claim 1, wherein each optical detector comprises a position sensitive detector and a lens for directing light reflected from a surface to be scanned into the position sensitive detector. 7. A sensor according to claim 6, wherein said sensor body further comprises a lower section that contains said laser assemblies and said lens of each optical detector, and a mid-section that contains each position sensitive detector. 8. A sensor according to claim 7, wherein said mid-section further comprises an inside surface having a mirror adjacent each respective position sensitive detector for creating an optical lever and increasing the effective distance that the sensor can be used. 9. A sensor according to claim 1, wherein said body further comprises an upper section including a preamplifier connected to each position sensitive detector. 10. A sensor according to claim 1, wherein each optical detector further comprises a filter. 11. A sensor according to claim 1, wherein each laser assembly further comprises a laser diode, beam circularization optics and beam focusing optics. 12. A sensor according to claim 1, wherein said sensor body is cylindrically configured. 13. A sensor for determining the planar inclination of a surface comprising: a sensor body having a light emitting and; three laser assemblies mounted within the sensor body, wherein each laser assembly has a light output for emitting a light beam from the light emitting end onto a surface to be scanned; three optical detectors each associated with a respective laser assembly and positioned within the sensor body and positioned for receiving scattered light that had been emitted from an associated laser onto a surface to be scanned; a processor operatively connected to said three optical detectors for calculating the planar inclination of the surface based on the light reflected back from the reflection points on the surface; and a sine wave generator for generating a sine wave modulation for a laser assembly, assembly has a sine wave modulation that is different from the sine wave modulation of a respective other laser assembly based on stored values within a wave table, wherein the sine waves are a frequency that are prime relative to each other. 14. A sensor according to claim 13, wherein said sine wave generator further comprises a digital signal processor (DSP). 15. A sensor according to claim 13, wherein said sine wave modulation is a function of amplitude, frequency of modulation, DC offset, time and phase. 16. A sensor according to claim 13, wherein said laser assemblies are positioned within said sensor body at a spaced-apart angle of about 120 degrees with respect to each other. 17. A sensor according to claim 13, wherein each optical detector is positioned at an angle with respect to the longitudinal axis of the sensor body. 18. A sensor according to claim 13, wherein each optical detector comprises a position sensitive detector and lens for directing light reflected from a surface to be scanned into the position sensitive detector. 19. A sensor according to claim 18, wherein said sensor body further comprises a lower housing section that contains said laser assemblies and said lens of each optical detector and a mid-section that contains each position sensitive detector. 20. A sensor according to claim 19, wherein said mid-section further comprises an inside surface having a mirror adjacent each respective position sensitive detector for creating an optical lever and increasing the effective distance that the sensor can be used. 21. A sensor according to claim 20, wherein said body further comprises an upper section including a preamplifier connected to each position sensitive detector. 22. A sensor according to claim 13, wherein each optical detector further comprises a filter. 23. A sensor according to claim 13, wherein each laser assembly further comprises a laser diode, beam circularization optics and beam focusing optics. 24. A sensor according to claim 13, wherein said sensor body is cylindrically configured. 25. A sensor body for use with a sensor that determines the planar inclination of a surface comprising: a body member defining a longitudinal axis and having a light emitting end, said body member further comprising: a lower section having three orifices for receiving respective laser optic assemblies within each orifice, and three orifices inclined with respect to the longitudinal axis for receiving receiver optics; a mid-section having three chip seats that each receive a position sensitive detector on which reflected light is impinged; and an upper section for holding respective preamplifiers, each connected to each position sensitive detector, wherein each laser assembly is adapted to be modulated with a different sine wave frequency based on stored values within a wave table, wherein the sine waves are a frequency that are prime relative to each other. 26. A sensor body according to claim 25, wherein said mid-section further comprises an inside surface having a mirror surface adjacent each chip seat for creating an optical lever and increasing the effective distance that a sensor can be used. 27. A sensor body according to claim 25, wherein said three orifices of said lower section that receive laser optic assemblies are positioned at a spaced-apart angle of about 120 degrees with respect to each other. 28. A sensor for determining the planar inclination of a surface comprising: a sensor body defining a longitudinal axis and having a light emitting end and defining a longitudinal axis; three sensors positioned within said sensor body, each sensor comprising: a laser assembly having a light output parallel to the longitudinal axis of the sensor for emitting a light beam from the light emitting end in a longitudinal direction substantially parallel to the longitudinal axis onto a surface to be scanned; and an optical detector for receiving scattered light that had been emitted from said laser assembly onto a surface to be scanned; a processor operatively connected to said optical detectors for calculating the planar inclination of the surface based on the light scattered back from the surface to be scanned; and a sine wave generator for generating a sine wave modulation for a laser assembly, wherein each laser assembly has a sine wave modulation that is different from the sine wave modulation of a respective other laser assembly based on stored values within a wave table, wherein the sine waves are a frequency that are prime relative to each other. 29. A sensor according to claim 28, wherein said sine wave generator further comprises a digital signal processor (DSP). 30. A sensor according to claim 28, wherein said sine wave modulation is a function of amplitude, frequency of modulation, DC offset, time and phase. 31. A sensor according to claim 28, wherein said laser assemblies are positioned within said sensor body at a spaced-apart angle of about 120 degrees with respect to each other. 32. A sensor according to claim 28, wherein each optical detector is positioned at an angle with respect to the longitudinal axis of the sensor body and to each laser assembly. 33. A sensor according to claim 28, wherein each optical detector comprises a position sensitive detector and a lens for directing light reflected from a surface to be scanned into the position sensitive detector. 34. A sensor according to claim 33, wherein said sensor body further comprises a lower section that contains said laser assemblies and said lens of each optical detector, and a mid-section that contains each position sensitive detector. 35. A sensor according to claim 34, wherein said mid-section further comprises an inside surface having a mirror adjacent each respective position sensitive detector for creating an optical lever and increasing the effective distance that the sensor can be used. 36. A sensor according to claim 28, wherein said body further comprises an upper section including a laser power supply and amplifier for each position sensitive detector. 37. A sensor according to claim 28, wherein each optical detector further comprises a narrow band-pass interference filter. 38. A sensor according to claim 28, wherein each laser assembly further comprises a laser diode, beam circularization optics and beam focusing optics. 39. A sensor according to claim 28, wherein said sensor body is cylindrically configured. 40. A sensor body for use with a sensor that determines the planar inclination of a surface comprising: a body member defining a longitudinal axis and having a light emitting end, said body member further comprising: a lower section having three orifices for receiving respective laser optic assemblies within each orifice, said orifices being substantially parallel to the longitudinal axis of the body member, and three orifices inclined with respect to the longitudinal axis for receiving receiver optics; a mid-section having three chip seats that each receive a position sensitive detector on which scattered light is impinged; and an upper section for mounting respective preamplifiers, each connected to each position sensitive detector, wherein each laser assembly is adapted to be modulated with a different sine wave frequency based on stored values within a wave table, wherein the sine waves are a frequency that are prime relative to each other. 41. A sensor body according to claim 40, wherein said mid-section further comprises an inside surface having a mirror surface adjacent each chip seat for creating an optical lever and increasing the effective distance that a sensor can be used. 42. A sensor body according to claim 40, wherein said three orifices of said lower section that receive laser optic assemblies are positioned at a spaced-apart angle of about 120 degrees with respect to each other. 