Methods and apparatus for fabricating a multiple display modular assembly. In one example of a method, a first flexible layer is coupled to a substrate, a second flexible layer is coupled to the first flexible layer, and a third flexible layer is coupled to the second flexible layer. Each of the flexible layers may be generated from a separate web-line process. In one example, one flexible layer may have a display plane with a driver backplane, a second flexible layer may have a fine interconnect, and a third flexible layer may have gross interconnect. The multiple flexible layer modular assembly may apply to either flexible or rigid displays.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for fabricating an assembly, said method comprising: dispensing a slurry over a substrate, said slurry containing a plurality of shaped blocks which are deposited onto receptor regions of said substrate and which each contain at least one functional component; coupling a first flexible layer to said substrate; and coupling a second flexible layer to said first flexible layer. 2. The method as in claim 1, said method further comprising the step of coupling the second flexible layer to the first flexible layer through depositing a display medium onto the first flexible layer. 3. A method for fabricating an assembly having a plurality of electrical blocks, said method comprising: depositing a plurality of blocks onto a substrate, each of said plurality of blocks comprising at least one electrical component fabricated in a semiconductor material; coupling a first flexible layer to said substrate; and coupling a second flexible layer to said first flexible layer. 4. The method as in claim 1 or 3 further comprising coupling a third flexible layer to the second flexible layer. 5. The method as in claim 1 or 3 wherein a display backplane is coupled to the first flexible layer. 6. The method as in claim 1 or 3 wherein a fine interconnect is deposited onto the second flexible layer. 7. The method as in claim 1 or 3 wherein gross interconnect is deposited onto the third flexible layer. 8. The method as in claim 1 or 3 wherein said second flexible layer is coupled to said first flexible layer. 9. The method as in claim 1 or 3 wherein said substrate is flexible. 10. The method as in claim 1 or 3 wherein said substrate is rigid. 11. The method as in claim 1 or 3 further comprising: depositing a first layer of interconnect onto said first flexible layer; depositing a dielectric layer onto the first layer of interconnect; and depositing a second layer of interconnect onto the first layer of interconnect. 12. The method as in claim 1 or 3 further comprising: depositing a first layer of interconnect onto said second flexible layer; depositing a dielectric layer onto the first layer of interconnect; and depositing a second layer of interconnect onto the first layer of interconnect. 13. The method as in claim 1 or 3 further comprising: depositing a first layer of interconnect onto a first surface of the first flexible layer; depositing a second layer of interconnect onto a second surface of the first flexible layer. 14. The method as in claim 1 or 3 further comprising: depositing a first layer of interconnect onto a first surface of the second flexible layer; depositing a second layer of interconnect onto a second surface of the second flexible layer. 15. The method as in claim 4 further comprising: depositing a first layer of interconnect onto a first surface of the third flexible layer; depositing a second layer of interconnect onto a second surface of the third flexible layer. 16. The method as in claim 1 further comprising: grasping at least one shaped block with a robotic arm and depositing at least one said shaped block onto said substrate. 17. The method as in claim 1 or 3 wherein each of said shaped blocks comprises a pixel electrode for an active matrix display panel. 18. The method as in claim 1 or 3 wherein each of said shaped blocks comprises a pixel electrode for a passive matrix display panel. 19. The method as in claim 1 or 3 wherein the first flexible layer comprises a material selected from polyether sulfone, polyethylene terephthalate, polycarbonate, polybutylene terephthalate, polyphenylene sulfide, polypropylene, polyester, aramid, polyamide-imide, polyimide, aromatic polyimides, polyetherimide, metallic materials, acrylonitrile butadiene styrene, polyvinyl chloride, polyethylene naphthate, polybutylene naphthalate, and polycycloolefins. 20. The method as in claim 1 or 3 wherein the second flexible layer comprises a material selected from the group of polyether sulfone, polyethylene terephthalate, polycarbonate, polybutylene terephthalate, polyphenylene sulfide, polypropylene, polyester, aramid, polyamide-imide, polyimide, aromatic polyimides, polyetherimide, metallic materials, acrylonitrile butadiene styrene, polyvinyl choloride, polyethylene naphthate, polybutylene naphthalate, and polycycloolefins. 21. The method as in claim 4 wherein the third flexible layer comprises a material selected from the group of polyether sulfone, polyethylene terephthalate, polycarbonate, polybutylene terephthalate, polyphenylene sulfide, polypropylene, polyester, aramid, polyamide-imide, polyamide, aromatic polyimides, polyetherimide, metallic materials, acrylonitrile butadiene styrene, polyvinyl choloride, polyethylene naphthate, polybutylene naphthalate, and polycycloolefins. 22. The method as in claim 1 or 3 wherein the first flexible layer comprises a polymer material. 23. The method as in claim 1 or 3 wherein the second flexible layer comprises a polymer material. 24. The method as in claim 4 wherein the third flexible layer comprises a polymer material. 25. The method as in claim 1 or 3 wherein the second flexible layer is coupled to the first flexible layer through a display medium. 26. The method as in claim 17 wherein the assembly has a display medium which is liquid crystal. 27. The method as in claim 17 wherein the assembly has a display medium which comprises organic light emitting diode. 