A data processing device is used with peripheral devices having addressees and differing communication response periods. The data processing device includes a digital processor adapted for selecting different ones of the peripheral devices by asserting addresses of each selected peripheral device. Addressable programmable registers hold wait state values representative of distinct numbers of wait states corresponding to different address ranges. Circuitry responsive to an asserted address to the peripheral devices asserted by the digital processor generates the number of wait states represented by the value held in one of the addressable programmable registers corresponding to the one of the address ranges in which the asserted address occurs, thereby accommodating the differing communication response periods of the peripheral devices.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An integrated circuit comprising: A. a substrate of semiconductor material; B. processor circuits formed on the substrate, the processor circuits including address leads on the substrate, the address leads carrying address signals defining an addressable memory space, the addressable memory space being divided into at least two segments, and the processor circuits including data leads on the substrate coupled to addressable locations in the addressable memory space; and C. wait state register circuits formed on the substrate and coupled to the address leads, the wait state register circuits including at least two registers each containing memory wait state information, one register for each segment of the addressable memory space, the registers being coupled to the data leads to receive the memory wait state information in the form of data signals from the data leads, and the memory wait state information in each register defining a number of memory wait states for each segment. 2. The integrated circuit of claim 1 in which the processor circuits include multiplier circuits coupled to arithmetic and logic units circuits. 3. The integrated circuit of claim 1 in which each register contains at least four binary bits of information. 4. The integrated circuit of claim 1 in which the memory wait state information in each register is a binary number of from zero to fifteen. 5. The integrated circuit of claim 1 including decoder circuits coupled to the address leads that decode the address signals to select a register and wait state generator circuits including a logic gate to effect the wait states. 6. The integrated circuit of claim 1 including decoder circuits coupled to the address leads and the registers that decode the address signals to select a register and wait state generator circuits coupled to the registers that include binary down counter circuits and a logic gate to effect the wait states. 