Multiphasic microfluidic apparatus for performing product fluid manipulation and separation in a single continuous unit are provided. Related methods, kits, and compositions are also provided.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of performing a polymerase chain reaction in a microfluidic apparatus, said method comprising: providing a microfluidic device comprising at least two intersecting channels in fluid communication; filling at least one of said two intersecting channels with an electrophoretic phase selected from the group consisting of a sieving matrix and a molecular partition matrix, wherein the electrophoretic phase comprise at least two PCR reactants and a thermostable polymerase dispersed therein; performing the polymerase chain reaction in the presence of the electrophoretic phase to produce at least a first product. 2. The method of claim 1, said method further comprising a step of separating the at least first product from the reactants in the presence of the electrophoretic phase. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of said intersecting channels comprise a reaction region. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the microfluidic device comprises a high-resistance channel region for heating the at least two PCR reactants. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the two PCR reactants are heterogeneously dispersed throughout at least a portion of the electrophoretic phase. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the two PCR reactants are homogeneously dispersed throughout at least a portion of the electrophoretic phase. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the two PCR reactants is heterogeneously dispersed in at least a portion of the electrophoretic phase and one of the two PCR reactants is homogeneously dispersed throughout the electrophoretic phase. 8. A method of performing a polymerase chain reaction in a microfluidic apparatus, said method comprising: providing a microfluidic device comprising at least two intersecting channels in fluid communication; filling at least one of said two intersecting channels with a mixture comprising a sieving matrix, a thermostable polymerase and a plurality of PCR reaction components; performing the PCR in the presence of the sieving matrix to produce at least a first product. 9. The method of claim 8, said method further comprising a step of separating the at least first product from the PCR reaction components in the presence of the sieving matrix. 10. The method of claim 8, wherein the step of separating is carried out in a channel region different from a channel region for performing the PCR. 11. The method of claim 8, wherein the sieving matrix is selected from a group consisting of agarose, linear polyacrylamide, methylcellulose, polyethylene oxide and hydroxy ethyl cellulose. 12. The method of claim 8, wherein one of said at least two intersecting channels have an interior dimension of between about 0.1 .mu.m and 500 .mu.m. 13. The method of claim 8, wherein the two PCR reactants are heterogeneously dispersed throughout at least a portion of the sieving matrix. 14. The method of claim 8, wherein the two PCR reactants are homogeneously dispersed throughout at least a portion of the sieving matrix. 15. The method of claim 8, wherein at least one of the two PCR reactants is heterogeneously dispersed in at least a portion of the sieving matrix and one of the two PCR reactants is homogeneously dispersed throughout the sieving matrix. 16. The method of claim 8, wherein one of said at least two intersecting channels comprise a reaction region. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the reaction region is substantially filled with the sieving matrix. 18. The method of claim 8, wherein one of said at least two intersecting channels comprise a separation region. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein the separation region is substantially filled with the sieving matrix. 