A method and system for system for welding a workpiece is disclosed. The workpiece is preheated while the weld is being performed. The preheating is performed fast enough that it can be done on-the fly-immediately in advance of the weld. The preheating is preferably accomplished with an induction heating system. The induction coil is mounted with the welding torch such that as the torch is moved along the weld path, the coil precedes it, preheating the weld path.
Claims The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property is claimed are defined as follows: 1. A system for welding a workpiece, along a weld path comprising; a welding power supply; a welding torch in electrical communication with the power supply; an induction heating power supply having an output at a frequency of less than 50 KHz; and an induction coil in electrical communication with the induction heating power supply, wherein the induction coil is adapted to be disposed near the welding torch such that as the torch is moved relative to said weldpath to perform welding on said workpiece the induction coil is moved with the torch, to preheat said workpiece along said weld path. 2. The welding system of claim 1, wherein the induction coil is in a fixed position relative to the torch. 3. The welding system of claim 1, wherein the induction coil is mounted with the torch. 4. The welding system of claim 3, wherein the induction coil is mounted such that as the torch moves relative to the weld path, the induction coil precedes the torch along the weld path. 5. The welding system of claim 1, wherein the induction coil is further adapted to be moved relative to a weld path preceding the torch along the weld path. 6. The welding system of claim 1, wherein the induction heating power supply includes capacitors that may be changed to adjust the frequency of an induction output. 7. The welding system of claim 1, further comprising means to automatically move the welding torch and the induction coil. 8. The welding system of claim 1, wherein the induction heating power supply has an adjustable frequency output. 9. A method of welding a workpiece along said weld path comprising; providing power to a welding torch; providing power to an induction coil at an output frequency of less than 50 KHz; moving the induction coil along said weld path so that said, wherein the weld path on the workpiece is preheated by the coil; moving the welding torch along the weld path with the coil, so that a weld is performed at said weldpath, wherein said coil is disposed near said torch such as said torch is moved the coil is moved along with said torch. 10. The method of claim 9, including holding the induction coil in a fixed position relative to the torch. 11. The method of claim 9, including the step of adjusting the frequency of the power applied to the induction coil. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the step of adjusting the frequency includes changing a capacitance of a power supply that supplies the power to the induction coil. 13. The method of claim 9 including automatically moving the torch and coil along the weld path. 14. A system for welding a workpiece along a weld path comprising; a welding power supply means for supplying welding power; a welding torch means for applying an arc to the workpiece along said weld path, wherein the torch means is in electrical communication with the power supply means; an induction heating power supply means having an output at a frequency of less than 50 KHz for supplying power induction heating power; and an induction coil means for inducing current in said workpiece along said weldpath for preheating said workpiece along saud weldpath, wherein the induction coil means is in electrical communication with the induction heating power supply means, and means for moving the induction coil means and the torch means that as the torch means is moved the induction coil means is moved with the torch. 15. The welding system of claim 14, wherein the means for moving includes means for holding the induction coil means in a fixed position relative to the torch means. 16. The welding system of claim 14, wherein the means for holding includes means for mounting the induction coil means for moving the induction coil means along a weld path, preceding the torch means. 17. The welding system of claim 14, wherein the induction heating power supply means includes tuning means for adjusting the frequency of an induction output. 18. The welding system of claim 14, wherein the means for moving includes a means for automatically moving the welding torch means and the induction coil means. 