A method and apparatus for fabricating known good semiconductor dice are provided. The method includes the steps of: testing the gross functionality of dice contained on a semiconductor wafer; sawing the wafer to singulate a die; and then testing the die by assembly in a carrier having an interconnect adapted to establish electrical communication between the bond pads on the die and external test circuitry. The interconnect for the carrier can be formed using different contact technologies including: thick film contact members on a rigid substrate; self-limiting contact members on a silicon substrate; or microbump contact members with a textured surface. During assembly of the carrier, the die and interconnect are optically aligned and placed into contact with a predetermined contact force. This establishes an electrical connection between the contact members on the interconnect and the bond pads of the die. In the assembled carrier the die and interconnect are biased together by a force distribution mechanism that includes a bridge clamp, a pressure plate and a spring clip. Following testing of the die, the carrier is disassembled and the tested die is removed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of manufacturing a semiconductor device comprising the acts of: forming a singulated die for said device; establishing electrical contact with said singulated die; subjecting said singulated die to a supply of heat; electrically testing said singulated die through use of said established electrical contact; and packaging said singulated die after said heating and said electrical testing. 2. A method of manufacturing a semiconductor device comprising the acts of: forming a singulated die for said device; electrically testing said singulated die; heating said singulated die during said electrical testing; and packaging said electrically tested singulated die to form said device. 3. A method of manufacturing a semiconductor device comprising thee acts of: forming a singulated die for said device; placing said singulated die in a fixture and establishing electrical contact with said singulated die; subjecting said singulated die to a supply of heat; electrically testing said singulated die while subject to the supply of heat; and assembling said electrically-tested singulated die with additional circuitry to form said semiconductor device. 4. A method of manufacturing a semiconductor device comprising the acts of: fabricating a singulating die; heating said singulated die while electrically testing said singulated die; and packaging said singulated die after the electrical testing. 5. A method of manufacturing semiconductor devices, comprising the following steps performed in order: forming a plurality of circuit dies on a substrate; segmenting said dies from one another; subjecting said dies to electrical testing and a temperature change; and subsequent to said electrical testing and temperature change, packaging selected dies of said plurality of tested circuit dies to form semiconductor devices. 6. A method of manufacturing a semiconductor integrated circuit, comprising: fabricating a singulated die; performing burn-in testing on said singulated die; and packaging said burn-in tested singulated die to form a semiconductor integrated circuit. 7. A method of fabricating a packaged integrated circuit assembly, comprising: manufacturing a singulated die for use in said integrated circuit; establishing electrical contact with said singulated die and burn-in testing said singulated die; and assembling said burn-in tested singulated die into a packaged integrated circuit assembly. 8. A method of manufacturing semiconductor integrated circuits, comprising the steps of: fabricating a plurality of die on a wafer; cutting said wafer to segment said die from one another; performing burn-in testing on said segmented die; packaging selected burn-in tested die. 9. A method of manufacturing an integrated circuit, the method comprising the steps of: (a) providing a wafer having a plurality of die; (b) performing a first electrical functionality test on the plurality of die on the wafer; (c) segmenting the wafer into a plurality of individual die; (d) subjecting at least a portion of the plurality of individual die to a burn-in test; and (e) performing a second electrical functionality test of at least a portion of the individual die subjected to the burn-in test. 10. The method, as set forth in claim 9, wherein step (a) comprises the step of: fabricating the plurality of die on the wafer. 11. The method, as set forth in claim 9, wherein step (b) comprises the step of: identifying which of the plurality of die do not pass the first electrical functionality test. 12. The method, as set forth in claim 9, wherein step (c) comprises the step of: placing the individual die into a respective carrier. 13. The method, as set forth in claim 9, wherein step (d) comprises the step of: electrically biasing the individual die during the burn-in test. 14. The method, as set forth in claim 9, wherein step (e) comprises the step of: performing the second electrical functionality test at ambient temperature. 15. The method, as set forth in claim 14, wherein step (e) comprises the step of: removing the individual die from the respective carrier. 