The present invention provides systems, methods and apparatus for depositing titanium films at rates up to 200 .ANG./minute on semiconductor substrates from a titanium tetrachloride source. In accordance with an embodiment of the invention, a ceramic heater assembly with an integrated RF plane for bottom powered RF capability allows PECVD deposition at a temperature of at least 400.degree. C. for more efficient plasma treatment. A thermal choke isolates the heater from its support shaft, reducing the thermal gradient across the heater to reduce the risk of breakage and improving temperature uniformity of the heater. A deposition system incorporates a flow restrictor ring and other features that allow a 15 liters/minute flow rate through the chamber with minimal backside deposition and minimized deposition on the bottom of the chamber, thereby reducing the frequency of chamber cleanings, and reducing clean time and seasoning. Deposition and clean processes are also further embodiments of the present invention.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A substrate processing apparatus comprising a chamber, having a chamber volume; a gas delivery system comprising a plurality of gas sources, at least one of said gas sources supplying a source gas comprised of a metal and halogen, said gas delivery system introducing said source gas at a flow rate for use in said chamber; a heater pedestal having a surface for supporting a substrate, said heater pedestal comprising a heater assembly and a thermal choke disposed between said heater assembly and a metal support shaft; and a plasma system comprising an RF generator and an RF plane, said RF plane being disposed in said heater pedestal below said surface. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said RF plane is disposed less than about 200 mil below said surface. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said RF plane is disposed less than about 50 mil below said surface. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said RF plane comprises molybdenum. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said RF plane has an area extending substantially under said surface where said substrate is to be supported. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said halogen in said source gas comprises chlorine. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said source gas comprises titanium tetrachloride. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said heater assembly comprises ceramic. 9. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein said heater assembly comprises aluminum nitride. 10. A substrate processing apparatus comprising: a chamber, having a chamber volume; a gas delivery system comprising a plurality of gas sources, at least one of said gas sources supplying a source gas comprised of a metal and halogen, said gas delivery system introducing said source gas at a flow rate for use in said chamber; a heater pedestal having a surface for supporting a substrate, said heater pedestal comprising a heater assembly and a thermal choke disposed between said heater assembly and a metal support shaft; a plasma system comprising an RF generator and an RF plane, said RF plane being disposed in said heater pedestal below said surface; and a plug disposed in said support shaft, said plug being a substantially solid material having through-holes providing vias for running electrical wires through or delivering gas to said support shaft, wherein said plug displaces an interior volume of said support shaft thereby reducing risk of RF arcing. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein said plug comprises an upper fused silicon plug, said upper fused silica plug providing thermal isolation between said heater assembly and said metal support shaft. 12. The apparatus of claim 11 further comprising at least one lower plug comprised of ceramic, said lower plug providing DC blocking effects between said electrical wires, said lower plug aligned and coupled to said upper plug such that said lower plug has co-axial holes with said through-holes of said upper plug. 13. The apparatus of claim 12 further comprising a ceramic sleeve liner disposed within said co-axial holes in said lower plug and within said through-hole in said lower plug such that said sleeve liner spans a joint between said upper and lower plugs, said ceramic sleeve liner thereby minimizing gas transfer between said chamber and said electrical wires or gas within said through-holes. 14. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein said lower plug extends through substantially the entire length of said support shaft. 15. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein a filler material of high electrical resistivity is disposed in said support shaft with ceramic sleeve liners disposed through said filler material for running electrical wires or delivering purge gas. 16. A substrate processing apparatus comprising: a chamber, having a chamber volume; a gas delivery system comprising a plurality of gas sources, at least one of said gas sources supplying a source gas comprised of a metal and halogen, said gas delivery system introducing said source gas at a flow rate for use in said chamber; a heater pedestal having a surface for supporting a substrate, said heater pedestal comprising a heater assembly and a thermal choke disposed between said heater assembly and a metal support shaft; a plasma system comprising an RF generator and an RF plane, said RF plane being disposed in said heater pedestal below said surface; and a vacuum system coupled to said chamber, said vacuum system capable of controlling exhaust out of said chamber, said chamber maintained at a pressure of less than about 10 torr by controlling said gas delivery system to control said flow rate at greater than twice said chamber volume per minute. 17. A substrate processing apparatus comprising: a chamber, having a chamber volume; a gas delivery system comprising a plurality of gas sources, at least one of which said gas sources supplying a source gas comprised of a metal and halogen, said gas delivery system introducing said source gas at a flow rate for use in said chamber; a heater pedestal having a surface for supporting a substrate, said heater pedestal comprising a ceramic heater assembly and a thermal choke disposed between said heater assembly and a metal support shaft; a plasma system comprising an RF generator and an RF plane, said RF plane being disposed in said heater pedestal below said surface; and an electrical wire coupled to an electrode of said heater pedestal, said electrical wire being coiled to provide stress relief when said heater pedestal is heated or when said apparatus is assembled or disassembled. 18. A substrate processing apparatus comprising: a chamber, having a chamber volume; a gas delivery system comprising a plurality of gas sources, at least one of said gas sources supplying a source gas comprised of a metal and halogen, said gas delivery system introducing said source gas at a flow rate for use in said chamber; a heater pedestal having a surface for supporting a substrate, said heater pedestal comprising a ceramic heater assembly and a thermal choke disposed between said heater assembly and a metal support shaft; a plasma system comprising an RF generator and an RF plane, said RF plane being disposed in said heater pedestal below said surface; and a radiation heat shield disposed at least under said heater assembly, said radiation heat shield made of fused silica. 19. The apparatus of claim 18 wherein said radiation heat shield further comprises an edge disposed along sides of said heater assembly. 20. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said heater assembly is capable of heating said substrate to a temperature of up to about 625.degree. C. in said environment of halogenated plasma species. 21. The apparatus of claim 20 wherein said halogenated plasma species comprises a chlorinated species. 22. A substrate processing apparatus comprising: a chamber, having a chamber volume; a gas delivery system comprising a plurality of gas sources, at least one of which said gas sources supplying a source gas comprised of a metal and halogen, said gas delivery system introducing said source gas at a flow rate for use in said chamber; a heater pedestal having a surface for supporting a substrate, wherein said heater pedestal has a short flanged stub, said heater pedestal comprising a heater assembly; and a plasma system comprising an RF generator and an RF plane, said RF plane being disposed in said heater pedestal below said surface. 23. A substrate processing apparatus comprising: a chamber, having a chamber volume; a gas delivery system comprising a plurality of gas sources, at least one of which said gas sources supplying a source gas comprised of a metal and halogen, said gas delivery system introducing said source gas at a flow rate for use in said chamber; a heater pedestal having a surface for supporting a substrate, said heater pedestal comprising a ceramic heater assembly and a thermal choke disposed between said heater assembly and a metal support shaft; and a plasma system comprising an RF generator and an RF plane, said RF plane being disposed in said heater pedestal below said surface; and wherein said heater pedestal comprises a long a hollow portion within said shaft, a shaft end coupled to a ceramic shaft, a gas-tight seal between said ceramic shaft and said shaft end, and a gas inlet port coupled to said hollow portion such that said hollow portion may be evacuated or pressurized via said gas inlet port. 24. The apparatus of claim 23 further comprising an RF electrode within said hollow portion of said ceramic shaft wherein said hollow portion is pressurized to suppress arcing. 25. The apparatus of claim 23 wherein said hollow portion of said ceramic shaft is pressurized with a purge gas at a pressure above a chamber pressure. 26. The apparatus of claim 23 further comprising a gas outlet port disposed in said heater pedestal wherein said gas outlet port communicates with said hollow portion of said ceramic shaft and with said gas inlet port such that a purge gas may flow into said chamber from said gas input port, said hollow portion, and said gas output port. 27. The apparatus of claim 23 wherein said gas-tight seal comprises O-rings. 28. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said heater assembly is capable of resistively heating to a temperature of at least 400.degree. C. in an environment of halogenated plasma species. 29. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said thermal choke is stainless steel. 30. The apparatus of claim 29 wherein said heater assembly is ceramic and said shaft is aluminum. 31. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said thermal choke comprises a web. 32. The apparatus of claim 31 wherein said web is stainless steel. 33. The apparatus of claim 31 wherein said web is between 20-100 mil thick. 34. The apparatus of claim 31 wherein said web is between 40-60 mil thick. 35. The apparatus of claim 33 wherein said web is between 0.6 and 1.0 inches long. 36. The apparatus of claim 33 wherein a vertical portion of said web is between 0.2-0.5 inches long. 37. The apparatus of claim 31 wherein said heater assembly is ceramic and said shaft is metal and wherein said thermal choke is part of a coupler used to secure said heater assembly to said shaft. 38. The apparatus of claim 37 wherein said coupler includes an outer circumference spaced apart from an inner circumference of an upper portion of said shaft, said upper portion of said shaft extending above said thermal choke. 