A movable robotic module including a framework defining a set of vertex elements, a set of edge elements, or a set of face elements, with the framework substantially shaped to permit face centered cubic packing. Each module includes a pivot mechanism on its framework to permit rotation of the framework with respect to other movable robotic modules. A power unit supplies operational power to each module, the power being used for rotation of the module, sensor and/or a control unit connected to the pivot mechanism and/or the power unit to control rotation of the framework.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A movable robotic module comprising: a framework defining at least one of a set of vertex elements, a set of edge elements, and a set of face elements, with the framework substantially shaped to permit face centered cubic packing, a pivot mechanism attached to the framework to permit rotation of the framework with respect to other movable robotic modules, a power unit connected to the pivot mechanism to supply operational power for rotation; and a control unit connected to at least one of the pivot mechanism and the power unit to control rotation of the framework. 2. The movable robotic module of claim 1, wherein the framework substantially consists of vertex elements radiating from a center connection, with the pivot mechanism attached to each respective vertex of the vertex elements. 3. The movable robotic module of claim 1, wherein the framework substantially consists of edge elements joined together to substantially define a space filling rhombic dodecahedron, with the pivot mechanism attached to each respective edge of the edge elements. 4. The movable robotic module of claim 1, wherein the framework substantially consists of face elements joined together to substantially define a space filling rhombic dodecahedron, with the pivot mechanism attached to each respective face of the face elements. 5. The movable robotic module of claim 1, wherein the power unit is attached and substantially contained within the framework. 6. The movable robotic module of claim 1, wherein the power unit is positioned substantially external to the framework. 7. The movable robotic module of claim 6, further comprising a power switching module to direct power from the movable robotic module to at least one additional movable robotic module. 8. The movable robotic module of claim 1, wherein the control unit is attached and substantially contained within the framework. 9. The movable robotic module of claim 1, wherein the control unit is positioned substantially external to the framework. 10. The movable robotic module of claim 1, wherein the movement mechanism is a pivot mechanism attached to the framework to permit rotation of the framework with respect to other movable robotic modules. 11. An assemblage of movable robotic modules, the assemblage comprising: a plurality of robotic modules, each robotic module substantially shaped to at least in part define a rhombic dodecahedral surface; and a distributed control unit defined at least in part by a plurality of individual control units in each of the plurality of robotic modules. 12. A method for defining structure assembly from an assemblage of movable robotic modules, the method comprising the steps of: providing a set of goals for position of movable robotic modules, requiring each movable robotic module to move toward one member of the set of goals; and passing information about goal state for the set of goals from each of the movable robotic modules to adjacent movable robotic modules. 13. A movable robotic module comprising: a framework defining at least one of a set of vertex elements, a set of edge elements, and a set of face elements, with the framework substantially shaped to permit face centered cubic packing, the framework substantially consisting of edge elements joined together to substantially define a space filling rhombic dodecahedron, with the pivot mechanism attached to each respective edge of the edge elements, a pivot mechanism attached to the framework to permit rotation of the framework with respect to other movable robotic modules, a power unit connected to the pivot mechanism to supply operational power for rotation; and a control unit connected to at least one of the pivot mechanism and the power unit to control rotation of the framework. 14. A movable robotic module comprising: a framework defining at least one of a set of vertex elements, a set of edge elements, and a set of face elements, with the framework substantially shaped to permit face centered cubic packing, the framework substantially consisting of face elements joined together to substantially define a space filling rhombic dodecahedron, with the pivot mechanism attached to each respective face of the face elements; a pivot mechanism attached to the framework to permit rotation of the framework with respect to other movable robotic modules; a power unit connected to the pivot mechanism to supply operational power for rotation; and a control unit connected to at least one of the pivot mechanism and the power unit to control rotation of the framework. 15. A movable robotic module comprising: a framework defining at least one of a set of vertex elements, a set of edge elements, and a set of face elements, with the framework substantially shaped to permit face centered cubic packing, a pivot mechanism attached to the framework to permit rotation of the framework with respect to other movable robotic modules, a power unit connected to the pivot mechanism to supply operational power for rotation, the power unit being positioned substantially external to the framework; a control unit connected to at least one of the pivot mechanism and the power unit to control rotation of the framework; and a power switching module to direct power from the movable robotic module to at least one additional movable robotic module. 