A piezoelectric actuated device for acquiring and dispensing fluid samples is described. Fluid samples are acquired or drawn up into the device by dipping the tip into a fluid and applying an alternating current electrical signal to the piezoelectric element. Removing the tip from the fluid and applying another electrical signal causes drops of fluid to be ejected for non-contact dispensing. The device optionally incorporates a second piezoelectric element functioning as a sensor to detect if it is empty, plugged or working properly. An optional heater, temperature sensor and feedback circuitry regulate the temperature of the device.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A diffuser pump comprising: a pipette including a capillary having a first end including a nozzle and a piezoelectric actuating element adjacent to the capillary; and an alternating current voltage source coupled across the piezoelectric actuating element and operable to generate and provide the alternating current voltage to the piezoelectric actuating element when the nozzle is immersed in a sample fluid; whereby with the nozzle immersed in a sample fluid, and the capillary at least partially filled with a working fluid, the alternating current voltage applied to the actuating element causes sample fluid to be drawn into the capillary. 2. A diffuser pump as defined in claim 1 wherein the alternating current voltage source provides alternating current voltage having one of a saw-tooth square-wave and sine-wave waveform. 3. A diffuser pump as defined in claim 1 wherein the capillary has a second end opposite the first end and wherein the diffuser pump further includes a reservoir attached to the second end of the capillary. 4. A diffuser pump comprising: a pipette including a capillary having a first end including a nozzle; a piezoelectric actuating element adjacent to the capillary; an alternating current voltage source coupled across the piezoelectric actuating element; wherein the capillary has a second end opposite the first end and wherein the diffuser pump further includes a first conduit attached to the first end and a second conduit attached to the second end whereby, with fluid filling the capillary and the conduits, the diffuser pump functions as a continuous flow pump. 5. A diffuser pump comprising a pipette including a capillary having a first end including a nozzle; a piezoelectric actuating element adjacent to the capillary; an alternating current voltage source coupled across the piezoelectric actuating element; wherein the capillary includes a second end opposite the first end, wherein the diffuser pump further includes a second pipette including a capillary having a first end including a nozzle and a second end opposite the first end and a piezoelectric actuating element adjacent the capillary, wherein the second ends of pipettes are attached for communicating with each other, and wherein the diffuser pump further includes conduit means attached to the first ends of the pipettes, whereby, with alternating current voltage selectively applied across the actuating elements, and with fluid filling the capillaries and conduits, the diffuser pump is arranged to function as a reversible continuous flow pump. 6. A diffuser pump as defined in claim 1 further including a mounting arm for disposing the nozzle immersed in a sample fluid. 7. A pipette sensing arrangement for sensing a working condition of a pipette, the arrangement comprising; a capillary having an end including a nozzle; a piezoelectric actuating element adjacent the capillary; first electrodes for applying electrical energy across the piezoelectric actuating element; a piezoelectric sensing element adjacent the capillary; and second electrodes for coupling the piezoelectric sensing element to a voltage sensor. 8. An arrangement as defined in claim 7 wherein the sensing element is proximal to the actuating element with reference to the nozzle. 9. An arrangement as defined in claim 7 wherein the voltage sensor includes an analog to digital converter for generating digital data responsive to the sensing element. 10. An arrangement as defined in claim 9 further including means for analyzing the digital data. 11. An arrangement as defined in claim 10 wherein the means for analyzing includes means for generating power spectral densities. 12. An arrangement as defined in claim 11 wherein the means for analyzing further includes comparing means for comparing the generated power spectral densities at preselected frequencies to predetermined power spectral density values corresponding to the preselected frequencies. 13. A temperature control arrangement for a pipette, the arrangement comprising; a capillary having an end including a nozzle; a piezoelectric actuating element adjacent the capillary; actuating electrodes for applying electrical energy across the piezoelectric actuating element, a current source for passing an electrical current through one of the actuating electrodes; and a temperature sensor closely adjacent the capillary for sensing the temperature of the capillary. 14. An arrangement as defined in claim 13 wherein the temperature sensor includes a thermocouple. 15. An arrangement as defined in claim 13 wherein the temperature sensor is closely adjacent the nozzle. 16. An arrangement as defined in claim 13 further including means for controlling the current source responsive to the temperature sensor. 17. An arrangement as defined in claim 16 wherein the temperature sensor includes means for generating a voltage representative of the sensed temperature and wherein the means for controlling is responsive to a difference between the voltage generated by the temperature sensor and a set point reference voltage. 18. An arrangement as defined in claim 13 wherein the actuating electrodes include an inner electrode between the actuating element and the capillary and an outer electrode adjacent the actuating element on a side of the actuating element opposite the capillary, and wherein the current source is coupled to the inner electrode for passing the electrical current through the inner electrode. 19. A method of using a piezoelectric pipetting device including a capillary having a first end including a nozzle and a piezoelectric actuating element adjacent to the capillary; and an alternating current voltage source coupled across the piezoelectric actuating element and operable to generate and provide the alternating current voltage to the piezoelectric actuating element, the method including the steps of: (a) inserting the nozzle into a sample fluid; (b) providing the alternating current voltage to the piezoelectric actuating element; and (c) drawing sample fluid into the capillary. 20. The method of claim 19 wherein the inserting step is performed by an automatic robotic instrument coupled to the device. 21. The method of claim 19 including the further steps of: (d) withdrawing the nozzle from the sample fluid; (e) supplying an alternating current voltage to the piezoelectric actuating; and (f) dispensing the sample fluid from the nozzle. 22. The method of claim 21 wherein the withdrawing step is performed by an automatic robotic instrument coupled to the device. 