A simulated training method in which groups of users interactively control user controllable images to make idiosyncratic, simulated physical movements. Preferred embodiments include user controllable images executing simulated physical movements in competition, opposition, coordination and sport activities. Means are provided to evaluate relative effectiveness of movements between groups of users.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of instructing in simulated training, using a processing system, for at least two groups of users to interactively control at least two groups of user controllable images to perform personal, idiosyncratic, interactive, simulated physical activity movements displayed by said processing system, said method comprising the steps of: generating, storing, and maintaining, in a memory means of said processing system, at least two groups of user controllable images, wherein at least one group of user controllable images is controlled by one of said at least two groups of users to perform a sequence of said movements and at least another group of user controllable images controlled by another one of said at least two groups of users to perform a sequence of said movements; displaying each one of said groups of user controllable images to each respective one of said at least two groups of users; receiving inputs from each respective one of said at least two groups of users to control each respective one of said groups of user controllable images; providing each respective one of said at least two groups of users with input means to said processing system such that said each respective one of said groups of user controllable images perform said movements by inputs from said each respective one of said at least two groups of users without requiring said each respective one of said at least two groups of uses to perform the same or any related physical movements; recording and maintaining, in said memory means, a record of said each respective one of said groups of user controllable images movements such that said record is modified to represent said idiosyncratic movements as controlled by said input means; and retrieving outputs of said each respective one of said groups of user controllable images movements from said memory means and displaying said outputs by display means of said processing system. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of accepting inputs from said each respective one of said at least two groups of users to select characteristic parameters of said each respective one of said groups of user controllable images. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising wherein the step of accepting inputs from said each respective one of said at least two groups of users to select at least one of the speed, direction, posture, orientation, with respect to any axis, position, locomotion, maneuver and coordination of said each respective one of said groups of user controllable images relative to other of said each respective one of said groups of user controllable images. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein at least two users of said each respective one of said at least two groups of users control at least two of said each respective one of said groups of user controllable images to perform said movements in at least one of physical activities comprising competition, opposition, synchronization, coordination, sport, and combat. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of measuring said user controlled movements of said each respective one of said groups of user controllable images with respect to a pre-programmed model of effective movements of said each respective one of said group of user controllable images. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein at least two users of one of said at least two groups of users control at least two of said each respective one of said groups of user controllable images so that the movements of said at least two of said each respective one of said groups of user controllable images indicate achievement by said at least two users of said one of said at least two groups of users in controlling said at least two of said each respective one of said groups of user controllable images. 7. The method of claim 5 further comprising the step of evaluating the relative effectiveness of movements between said at least two users of one of said at least two groups of users and at least two users of another one of said at least two groups of users controlling said each respective one of said groups of user controllable images in simulated physical movements of said at least one of competition, opposition, synchronization, coordination, sport, and combat. 