An improved tool mount structure allows the infinite placement of a tool along a generally elongate cylindrical member at an infinite number of locations. The elongate cylindrical member is fixed at each axial end to a generally rigid moving member such as a robotic arm boom or transfer bar. The cylindrical member is fixed in a bracket at one axial end, and into a quick-release mount at an opposed axial end. The cylindrical member may be quickly released from the moving member such that the tool may be easily changed. At the same time, by fixing the cylindrical member at each axial end, a secure rigid connection is provided.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A work mounting structure comprising: an underlying moving member having forward and rear brackets for receiving mating brackets from a saddle mount structure, and a locking handle associated with said moving member; a saddle mount structure having a pair of saddle bracket portions for mating with said brackets on said moving member, and said saddle bracket portions being axially spaced and connected together, a pair of bars extending between said saddle bracket portions, said bars receiving tools mounted at any of an infinite number of locations along said bars, and said saddle bracket portions having a lip to interact with said handle; and said handle being moveable between locked and unlocked positions, and said handle moving said lip to pull said saddle bracket portions, and hence said saddle mount to a locked position as said handle moves from said unlocked to said locked position. 2. An arrangement as set forth in claim 1, wherein said handle includes a spring biased arm which assists in moving said saddle bracket portions on said saddle mount to said locked position. 3. A saddle mount for use in mounting tools on a moving member comprising: a pair of bracket portions spaced at axially ends of said saddle mount, said bracket portions facilitating the mounting of said saddle mount to an underlying moving member, at least one of said bracket portions having a lip for interacting with a locking handle on a moving member to receive said saddle mount; a pair of bars extending axially on opposed sides of said bracket portion, and said bars mounting tools along said bars at any of an infinite number of locations, and said bars being connected to said saddle mount at locations adjacent each of said bracket portions. 4. A saddle mount as set forth in claim 3, wherein said bars connect said bracket portions, and there being a space between said bracket portions laterally intermediate said bars. 