A tilt mechanism for periodically tilting a cassette configured to hold a plurality of wafers or workpieces such that the wafers or workpieces become gravity-loaded against a rear portion of the cassette. The tilt mechanism is mounted entirely above a worktable of a CMP or other processing machine and comprises a housing which houses a circular cam having a spiral groove formed therein. A tilt arm is pivotally mounted to the housing and extends vertically between a lower end which is adjacent the cam and an upper end which is fixed to a platform supporting a cassette holding a plurality of workpieces. A cam follower is attached to the lower end of the arm and projects into the groove. Rotary motion of the cam effects pivotal movement of the tilt arm which, in turn, effects tilting of the support platform and the cassette.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for sequentially unloading a plurality of silicon wafers housed within a cassette configured to hold said wafers, said cassette being secured to a tilt mechanism which is mounted entirely above a worktable of a chemical mechanical planarization machine, said method comprising the following steps: (a) verifying with a control system that said cassette is in a planar state relative to a robotic arm configured to retrieve said wafers from said cassette; (b) retrieving a wafer from said cassette with said robotic arm and moving said robotic arm away from said cassette to a central position; (c) signaling said control system that step(b) has been completed; (d) actuating said tilt mechanism to tilt said cassette back to a position wherein said wafers held by said cassette are gravity-loaded against a rear portion of said cassette; (e) transferring said retrieved wafer with said robotic arm to a subsequent processing station; (f) signaling said control system that step (e) has been completed; (g) actuating said tilt mechanism to move said cassette back to said planar state relative to said robotic arm; and (h) repeating steps (a)-(g) until all of said wafers have been unloaded from said cassette. 2. A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein in step (d) said cassette is tilted back approximately twenty-five degrees relative to said planar state. 3. A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein step (g) is performed at a rate sufficiently slow to prevent said wafers from acquiring a horizontal velocity and exiting or becoming mispositioned relative to said cassette. 4. A method as claimed in claim 3, wherein step (g) takes at least one second to complete. 5. A method as claimed in claim 4, wherein step (g) takes approximately two seconds to complete. 