A workpiece alignment and shifting system for moving circular workpieces from a first inspection station to a second machining station, comprises workpiece holding means for attachment to the face of a disc workpiece to move the latter from one position to another. Robotic means controls the position of the workpiece holding means and is adapted to move in a least two orthogonal directions, both of which are parallel to the plane of the disc when it occupies the first station. The disc is rotated in the inspection station and in the machining station and inspection means determines the position of the geometric center of the disc as it is rotated. Computing means calculates from data delivered by the inspection means the two shifts required along the orthogonal directions of movement of the robotic means, to move the geometric center of the disc to a second desired position whose coordinates are known. The computing means includes memory means for storing the said coordinates. The coordinates are those of the center of rotation of the workpiece holder or chuck in the said second station. The workpiece holding means is vacuum operated. A three axis robot is employed to pick and place disc-like wafers of semi-conductor material for edge grinding, and movement along two of the robot axes, X and Z, is used to control the centering of the wafer on a vacuum chuck in the second grinding station.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A machine for edge grinding circular workpieces, comprising workpiece holding means for attachment to the face of a workpiece to move the latter from one position to another, robotic means controlling the position of the workpiece holding means and adapted to move in at least two orthogonal directions, both of which are parallel to the plane of the workpiece when it occupies an optical inspection station, means for rotating the workpiece in the inspection station and in a machining station, inspection means for determining the position of the geometric centre of the workpiece as it is rotated in the first station, and computing means for calculating from data delivered by the inspection means any shifts required along the orthogonal directions of movement of the robotic means, to move the geometric centre of the workpiece to a second desired position whose coordinates are known, the optical inspection means comprising a CCD camera having its optical axis parallel to the axis of the workpiece and which forms an optical image of the edge of the workpiece of the CCD chip, and means for illuminating the edge region of the disc for viewing by the camera in silhouette, wherein the CCD array contains a large umber of addressable pixels in a rectangular array. 2. A system as claimed in claim 1, further comprising electric circuit means receptive of signals obtained by scanning the CCD array, adapted to convert the signal from each addressed pixel in the CCD array into a digital value according to whether a pixel is shaded by the image of the disc edge or not. 3. A system as claimed in claim 1, wherein for a fixed number of pixels, the degree of digitisation of each pixel signal value determines the accuracy of the inspection system. 4. A system as claimed in claim 1 further comprising means for storing each frame in succession, means is provided by which it is possible to compare pixel dependent signals from one frame to the next, further means is provided to determine from that comparison any change in the value of the pixel dependent signal from one frame to the next, thereby to produce a signal indicative of any shift in the position of the image of the edge brought about by movement of the edge of the disc in the field of view due to eccentric mounting of the disc for rotation. 5. A system as claimed in claim 4, wherein the edge of the disc appears as a transition between light and dark in the image presented to the CCD camera, and therefore the pixel dependent signal varies from one extreme value to its other extreme value, as between shading and no shading. 6. A system as claimed in claim 5, wherein the pixel signals are digitised on a scale from n=A (corresponding to a fully shaded (black) spot) to n=B (where Bcorresponds to no shading), digital analysis is applied to more accurately determine where the edge of the disc image lies in relation to the pixels, whereby if this happens to bisect a pixel the particular value of n, attributable to bisected pixel on the scale A.fwdarw.B, will indicate the percentage of the pixel which is covered by the disc image (and therefore shaded) and the percentage which is unshaded. 7. A system as claimed in claim 6, wherein the pixel resolution is such that an "edge" can be "seen" in the values of a number of adjoining pixels, means is provided whereby signals corresponding to pixels are interrogated in groups simultaneously, pulse selection means identifies single "rogue" values (attributable inter alia to noise etc.) and these are removed from the signal and means is provided for determining the true edge as being where a majority of the adjoining pixel signal values indicate it to be. 8. A system as claimed in claim 1, wherein as the disc is rotated, any misalignment between the geometric centre of the disc and its axis of rotation in the inspection station, will appear as a shift of the image of the disc on the CCD. 9. A system as claimed in claim 8, further comprising means for storing the value of the shift at a plurality of angularly spaced positions determined by the encoder, and means for computing therefrom the X Z coordinates (X.sub.1 Z.sub.1) of the geometric centre of the disc. 10. A system as claimed in claim 1, wherein a second camera is positioned so as to view the edge of the disc tangentially, with the optical axis of the camera in or parallel to the plane of the disc, to permit the profile of the edge of the disc to be inspected to an enlarged scale by displaying an enlarged image of the optical image presented to the camera on a CRT. 11. A system as claimed in claim 10, wherein the second camera displays a Telecentric lens which produces an in focus image to the same size of objects over range of distances from the lens. 12. A system as claimed in claim 11, comprising in combination a telecentric lens, a CCD camera means for digitising the video signal from the camera and signal processing means for producing a signal for display on a computer monitor. 13. A machine for edge grinding circular workpieces, comprising workpiece holding means for attachment to the face of a workpiece to move the latter from one position to another, robotic means controlling the position of the workpiece holding means and adapted to move in at least two orthogonal directions, both of which are parallel to the plane of the workpiece when it occupies an optical inspection station, means for rotating the workpiece in the inspection station and in a machining station, inspection means for determining the position of the geometric centre of the workpiece as it is rotated in the first station, and computing means for calculating from data delivered by the inspection means any shifts required along the orthogonal directions of movement of the robotic means, to move the geometric centre of the workpiece to a second desired position whose coordinates are known, the optical inspection means comprising a CCD camera having its optical axis parallel to the axis of the workpiece and which forms an optical image of the edge of the workpiece on the CCD chip, and means for illuminating the edge region of the disc for viewing by the camera in silhouette, further comprising electric circuit means receptive of signals obtained by scanning the CCD array, adapted to convert the signal from each addressed pixel in the CCD array into a digital value according to whether a pixel is shaded by the image of the disc edge or not. 14. A system as claimed in claim 13, wherein for a fixed number of pixels, the degree of digitisation of each pixel signal value determines the accuracy of the inspection system. 15. A system as claimed in claim 13 further comprising means for storing each frame in succession, means is provided by which it is possible to compare pixel dependent signals from one frame to the next, further means is provided to determine from that comparison any change in the value of the pixel dependent signal from one frame to the next, thereby to produce a signal indicative of any shift in the position of the image of the edge brought about movement of the edge of the disc in the field of view due to eccentric mounting of the disc for rotation. 16. A system as claimed in claim 13, wherein as the disc is rotated, any misalignment between the geometric centre of the disc and its axis of rotation in the inspection station, will appear as a shift of the image of the disc on the CCD. 17. A system as claimed in claim 13, wherein a second camera is positioned so as to view the edge of the disc tangentially, with the optical axis of the camera in or parallel to the plane of the disc, to permit the profile of the edge of the disc to be inspected to an enlarged scale by displaying an enlarged image for the optical image presented to the camera on a CRT. 18. A machine foe edge grinding circular workpiece, comprising workpiece holding means for attachment to the face of a workpiece to move the latter from one position to another, robotic means controlling the position of the workpiece holding means and adapted to move in at least two orthogonal directions, both of which are parallel to the plane of the workpiece when it occupies and optical inspection station, means for rotating the workpiece in the inspection station and in a machining station, inspection means for determining the position of the geometric centre of the workpiece as it is rotated in the first station, and computing means for calculating from data delivered by the inspection means any shifts required along the orthogonal directions of movement of the robotic means, to move the geometric centre of the workpiece to a second desired position whose coordinates are known, the optical inspection means comprising a CCD camera having its optical axis parallel to the axis of the workpiece and which forms an optical image of the edge of the workpiece on the CCD chip, and means for illuminating the edge region of the disc for viewing by the camera in silhouette, wherein for a fixed number of pixels, the degree of digitisation of each pixel signal value determines the accuracy of the inspection system. 19. A system as claimed in claim 18 further comprising means for storing each frame in succession, means is provided by which it is possible to compare pixel dependent signals from one frame to the next, further means is provided to determine from that comparison any change in the value of the pixel dependent signal from one frame to the next, thereby to produce a signal indicative of any shift in the position of the image of the edge brought about by movement of the edge of the disc in the field of view due to eccentric counting of the disc for rotation. 20. A system as claimed in claim 18, wherein as the disc is rotated, any misalignment between the geometric centre of the disc and its axis of rotation in the inspection station, will appear as a shift of the image of the disc on the CCD. 21. A system as claimed in claim 18, wherein a second camera is positioned so as to view the edge of the disc tangentially, with the optical axis of the camera in or parallel to the plane of the disc, to permit the profile of the edge of the disc to be inspected to an enlarged scale by displaying an enlarged image of the optical image presented to the camera on a CRT. 22. A machine for edge grinding circular workpieces, comprising workpieces holding means for attachment to the face of a workpiece to move the latter from one position to another, robotic means controlling the position of the workpiece holding means and adapted to move in at least two orthogonal directions, both of which are parallel to the plane of the workpiece when it occupies an optical inspection station, means for rotating the workpiece in the inspection station and in a machining station, inspection means for determining the position of the geometric centre of the workpiece as it is rotated in the first station, and computing means for calculating from data delivered by the inspection means any shifts required along the orthogonal directions of movement of the robotic means, to move the geometric centre of the workpiece to a second desired position whose coordinates are known, the optical inspection means comprising a CCD camera having its optical axis parallel to the axis of the workpiece and which forms and optical image of the edge of the workpiece on the CCD chip, and means for illuminating the edge region of the disc for viewing by the camera in silhouette, further comprising means for storing each frame in succession, means is provided by which it is possible to compare pixel dependent signals from one frame to the next, further means is provided to determine from that comparison any change in the value of the pixel dependent signal from one frame to the next, thereby to produce a signal indicative of any shift in the position of the image of the edge brought about by movement of the edge of the disc in the field of view due to eccentric mounting of the disc for rotation. 23. A system as claimed in claim 22, wherein as the disc is rotated, any misalignment between the geometric centre of the disc and its axis of rotation in the inspection station, will appear as a shift of the image of the disc on the CCD. 24. A system as claimed in claim 22, wherein a second camera is positioned so as to view the edge of the disc tangentially, with the optical axis of the camera in or parallel to the plane of the disc, to permit the profile of the edge of the disc to be inspected to an enlarged scale by displaying an enlarged image of the optical image presented to the camera on a CRT. 25. A machine for edge grinding circular workpieces, comprising workpiece holding means for attachment to the face of a workpiece to move the latter from one position to another, robotic means controlling the position of the workpiece holding means and adapted to move in at least two orthogonal directions, both of which are parallel to the plane of the workpiece when it occupies an optical inspection station, means for rotating the workpiece in the inspection station and in a machining station, inspection means for determining the position of the geometric centre of the workpiece as it is rotated in the first station, and computing means for calculating from data delivered by the inspection means any shifts required along the orthogonal directions of movement of the robotic means, to move the geometric centre of the workpiece to a second desired position whose coordinates are known, the optical inspection means comprising a CCD camera having its optical axis parallel to the axis of the workpiece and which forms and optical image of the edge of the workpiece on the CCD chip, and means for illuminating the edge region of the disc for viewing by the camera in silhouette, wherein as the disc is rotated, any misalignment between the geometric centre of the disc and its axis of rotation in the inspection station, will appear as a shift of the image of the disc on the CCD. 26. A system as claimed in claim 25, wherein a second camera is positioned so as to view the edge of the disc tangentially, with the optical axis of the camera in of parallel to the plane of the disc, to permit the profile of the edge of the disc to be inspected to an enlarged scale by displaying an enlarged image of the optical image presented to the camera on a CRT. 27. A machine for edge grinding circular workpieces, comprising workpiece holding means for attachment to the face of a workpiece to move the latter from one position to another, robotic means controlling the position of the workpiece holding means and adapted to move in at least two orthogonal directions, both of which are parallel to the plane of the workpiece when it occupies and optical inspection station, means for rotating the workpiece in the inspection station and in a machining station, inspection means for determining the position of the geometric centre of the workpiece as it is rotated in the first station, and computing means for calculation from data delivered by the inspection means any shifts required along the orthogonal directions of movement or the robotic means, to move the geometric centre of the workpiece to a second desired position whose coordinates are known, the optical inspection means comprising a CCD camera having its optical axis parallel to the axis of the workpiece and which forms and optical image of the edge of the workpiece on the CCD chip, and means for illuminating the edge region of the disc for viewing by the camera in silhouette, wherein a second camera is positioned so as to view the edge of the disc tangentially, with the optical axis of the camera in or parallel to the plane of the disc, to permit the profile of the edge of the disc to be inspected to and enlarged scale by displaying an enlarged image of the optical image presented to the camera in a CRT. 