An apparatus and a method for transporting wafers into a process chamber are disclosed. The wafer-transporting blade for transporting wafers consists of a generally elongated blade member that has a top surface for engaging and holding a wafer positioned thereon, wherein at least a portion of the top surface is provided with a surface roughness sufficiently great to frictionally engaging a wafer positioned thereon without slippage. The surface roughness may be provided by either a mechanical or a chemical method.
Claims The embodiment of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows: 1. An apparatus for transporting substrates comprising: a generally rectangular-shaped member having a recessed top surface for engaging and holding a substrate thereon, the recessed top surface being surrounded at two ends by two first raised peripheral portions and two second raised peripheral portions surround the first raised peripheral portions, the first raised peripheral portions being provided with a surface roughness sufficiently great to prevent a substrate held thereon from slipping off the surface when the substrate-transporting member is moved into a process chamber. 2. An apparatus for transporting wafers according to claim 1, wherein said apparatus is a robot blade for a wafer processing chamber. 3. An apparatus for transporting wafers according to claim 1, wherein said apparatus is a robot blade fabricated of quartz. 4. An apparatus for transporting wafers according to claim 1, wherein said apparatus is a quartz robot blade and said surface roughness is formed by a multiplicity of fused sand particles. 5. An apparatus for transporting wafers according to claim 1, wherein said surface roughness is formed of grooves that are at least 100 .mu.m apart. 6. An apparatus for transporting wafers according to claim 1, wherein said surface roughness is formed of grooves that are between 100 .mu.m and 1000 .mu.m apart. 7. An apparatus for transporting wafers according to claim 1, wherein said surface roughness is formed of grooves that are provided by mechanical abrasion means. 8. An apparatus for transporting wafers according to claim 1, wherein said surface roughness is formed of grooves that are provided by chemical etching means. 9. An apparatus for transporting wafers according to claim 1, wherein said apparatus is a robot blade fabricated of a ceramic or a metallic material. 10. A wafer-transporting blade for transporting wafers into a process chamber comprising: a generally elongated blade member having a top recessed surface for engaging and holding a wafer securely thereon, the recessed top surface being surrounded at two ends by two firsts raised peripheral portions and two second raised peripheral portions surrounding the first raised peripheral portions the first raised peripheral portions being provided with a surface roughness formed by a multiplicity of fused sand particles or by a multiplicity of linear grooves for frictionally engaging a wafer positioned thereon without slippage. 11. A wafer-transporting blade for transporting wafers into a process chamber according to claim 10, wherein said blade is a robot blade for a rapid thermal processing chamber. 12. A wafer-transporting blade for transporting wafers into a process chamber according to claim 10, wherein said generally elongated blade is a rectangular-shaped, member. 13. A wafer-transporting blade for transporting wafers into a process chamber according to claim 10, wherein said surface roughness is provided by fusing a multiplicity of sand particles to a blade made of quartz. 14. A wafer-transporting blade for transporting wafers into a process chamber according to claim 10, wherein said blade is fabricated of a ceramic material. 15. A wafer-transporting blade for transporting wafers into a process chamber according to claim 10, wherein said surface roughness being formed of grooves that are at least 0.1 mm apart. 16. A wafer-transporting blade for transporting wafers into a process chamber according to claim 10, wherein said surface roughness being formed by mechanical means. 17. A wafer-transporting blade for transporting wafers into a process chamber according to claim 10, wherein said surface roughness being formed by chemical means. 