A teleoperator system with telepresence is shown which includes right and left hand controllers (72R and 72L) for control of right and left manipulators (24R and 24) through use of a servomechanism that includes computer (42). Cameras (46R and 46L) view workspace (30) from different angles for production of stereoscopic signal outputs at lines (48R and 48L). In response to the camera outputs a 3-dimensional top-to-bottom inverted image (30I) is produced which, is reflected by mirror (66) toward the eyes of operator (18). A virtual image (30V) is produced adjacent control arms (76R and 76L) which is viewed by operator (18) looking in the direction of the control arms. By locating the workspace image (30V) adjacent the control arms (76R and 76L) the operator is provided with a sense that end effectors (40R and 40L) carried by manipulator arms (34R and 34L) and control arms (76R and 76L) are substantially integral. This sense of connection between the control arms (76R and 76L) and end effectors (40R and 40L) provide the operator with the sensation of directly controlling the and effectors by hand. By locating visual display (246) adjacent control arms (244R and 244L) image (240I) of the workspace is directly viewable by the operator. Use of the teleoperator system for surgical procedures also is disclosed.
Claims I claim: 1. A method for performing surgery on an anatomy of a person comprising: (a) providing a control assembly coupled to a surgical assembly comprising a surgical instrument including a forearm member having a longitudinal axis and a distal forearm end, a wrist member pivotally connected to the distal forearm end of the forearm member in a manner as to be capable of being pivoted about a first axis, and an end effector member movably coupled to the wrist member in a manner as to be capable of being moved about a second axis; (b) inserting the surgical instrument of the surgical assembly into an anatomy of a person until the end effector member reaches an internal surgical site within he anatomy of the person; (c) pivoting manually the control assembly to cause the forearm to rotate about the longitudinal axis, and to cause the wrist member to pivot within said anatomy about the first axis; (d) moving manually an end effector-controlling element of the control assembly to cause the end effector member to move about the second axis and perform a surgical procedure at the internal surgical site within the anatomy of the person. 2. The method of claim 1 additionally comprising axially moving manually a forearm control element of the control assembly to cause the forearm member to axially move correspondingly along said longitudinal axis of the forearm member. 3. The method of claim 1 additionally comprising rotatably moving manually a forearm control element of the control assembly to cause the forearm member to rotatably move correspondingly about said longitudinal axis of the forearm member. 4. The method of any claims 1-3 additionally comprising pivoting manually a forearm control element of the control assembly to cause the forearm member to pivot correspondingly about a point along side longitudinal axis of the forearm member. 5. The method of claim 1 additionally comprising inserting an endoscope into the anatomy of the person such that said endoscope is oriented toward the end effector member; and displaying an image of the end effector member for viewing by an eye of an operator. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein said control assembly comprises a computer and a control coordinate system; and said internal surgical site includes a surgical coordinate system, said method additionally comprising remapping, with said computer, movements of the end effector-controlling element in the control coordinate system to movements of the end effector member in the surgical coordinate system such that the image of the end effector member displayed to the eye of the operator and the end effector-controlling element being manually moved by the operator appear to the operator to define an integral surgical instrument. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein the image of the end effector member appears to the eye of the operator to extend distally from the end effector-controlling element to a virtual end effector position within the control coordinate system and an angle defined between a position of the end effector member and a field of view of the endoscope within the surgical coordinate system remains substantially equal to an angle defined between the eye of the operator and the virtual end effector position within the control coordinate system. 8. The method of claim 6 wherein the end effector member defines an angular orientation in the surgical coordinate system, and the end effector-controlling element defines an angular orientation in the control coordinate system, and wherein the control assembly maintains the angular orientation of the end effector member relative to the endoscope at a same angular orientation as the angular orientation of the end effector-controlling element relative to the eye of the operator when the operator manually moves the end effector-controlling element. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein said displaying comprises magnifying an image of the internal surgical site, said computer scaling movements of the end effector-controlling element by a scaling factor. 10. The method of claim 8 wherein said surgical assembly includes a tactile feedback member supported by said end effector member. 11. The method of claim 10 additionally comprising reproducing tactile sensation on hands of the operator at the control assembly. 12. The method of claim 6 wherein said displaying comprises magnifying an image of the internal surgical site, said computer scaling movements of the end effector-controlling element by a scaling factor. 13. The method of claim 5 wherein a field of view of the endoscope is at a first angle relative to vertical, and wherein a field of view of the eye of the operator is at a second angle relative to vertical which is different than the first angle. 14. The method of claim 5 additionally comprising maintaining gas insufflation pressure within the internal surgical site. 15. The method of claim 5 wherein the end effector member comprises a structure selected from the group consisting of reactors, electrosurgical cutters, electrosurgical coagulators, forceps, needle holders, scissors, blades, and irrigators. 16. The method of claim 1 wherein said surgical assembly includes a tactile feedback member supported by said end effector member. 17. The method of claim 16 additionally comprising reproducing tactile sensation on hands of an operator at the control assembly. 18. A minimally invasive surgical method comprising: (a) providing a surgical instrument comprising a forearm member rotatable about a longitudinal axis, a wrist member pivotally connected to the forearm member, and a surgical end effector member moveably coupled to the wrist member; (b) inserting the surgical instrument into an anatomy of a person until the surgical end effector member reaches an internal surgical site within the anatomy of the person; (c) displaying an image of the surgical end effector at the internal surgical site for viewing by an eye of an operator at a control station; and (d) moving manually by the operator a surgical control handle of the control station to cause the surgical end effector to move and perform a surgical procedure at the internal surgical site within the anatomy of the person, wherein said wrist member is pivotally connected to the forearm member in a manner as to be capable of being pivoted about a first axis within said anatomy, and said surgical end effector member is moveably coupled to the wrist member in a manner as to be capable of being moved about a second axis within said anatomy, wherein said end effector moves about said longitudinal axis and said first and second axes relative to the surgical site as the surgical control handle of the control station is being manually moved by the operator. 19. The minimally invasive surgical method of claim 18 additionally comprising pivoting manually by the operator a wrist-pivoting handle of the control station to cause the wrist member to pivot on the forearm member about said first axis. 20. The minimally invasive surgical method of claim 18 wherein said control station comprises a computer and a station coordinate system, and said internal surgical site includes a surgical coordinate system said method additionally comprising remapping, with said computer, movements of the surgical control handle in the station coordinate system to movements of the surgical end effector member in the surgical coordinate system such that the image of the surgical end effector member displayed to the eye of the operator and the surgical control handle being moved by the operator appear to the operator to define an integral surgical instrument. 21. The minimally invasive surgical method of claim 20 additionally comprising axially moving manually by the operator a forearm control handle of the control station to cause the forearm member to axially move correspondingly along said longitudinal axis of the forearm member. 22. The minimally invasive surgical method of claim 20 additionally comprising rotatably moving manually by the operator a forearm control handle of the control station to cause the forearm member to rotatably move correspondingly about said longitudinal axis of the forearm member. 23. The minimally invasive surgical method of claim 20 additionally comprising pivoting manually by the operator a forearm control handle of the control station to cause the forearm member to pivot correspondingly about a point along said longitudinal axis of the forearm member. 24. The minimally invasive surgical method of claim 23 wherein the surgical end effector member comprises a structure selected from the group consisting of retractors, electrosurgical cutters, electrosurgical coagulators, forceps, needle holders, scissors, blades, and irrigators. 25. The method of claim 23 wherein said surgical instrument includes a tactile feedback member supported by said end effector member. 26. The minimally invasive surgical method of claim 25 additionally comprising reproducing tactile sensation on hands of the operator at the control station. 27. The minimally invasive surgical method of claim 20 wherein the surgical end effector member comprises a structure selected from the group consisting of retractors, electrosurgical cutters, electrosurgical coagulators, forceps, needle holders, scissors, blades, and irrigators. 28. The minimally invasive surgical method of claim 18 additionally comprising axially moving manually by the operator a forearm control handle of the control station to cause the forearm member to axially move correspondingly along said longitudinal axis of the forearm member. 29. The minimally invasive surgical of claim 18 additionally comprising rotatably moving manually by the operator a forearm control handle of the control station to cause the forearm member to rotatably move correspondingly about said longitudinal axis of the forearm member. 30. The minimally invasive surgical method of claim 18 additionally comprising pivoting manually by the operator a forearm control handle of the control station to cause the forearm member to pivot correspondingly about a point along a longitudinal axis of the forearm member. 31. The minimally invasive surgical method of claim 18 wherein the surgical end effector member comprises a structure selected from the group consisting of retractors, electrosurgical cutters, electrosurgical coagulators, forceps, needle holders, scissors, blades, and irrigators. 32. The minimally invasive surgical method of claim 18 wherein said surgical instrument includes a tactile feedback member supported by said end effector member. 33. The minimally invasive surgical method of claim 32 additionally comprising reproducing tactile sensation on hands of the operator at the control station. 34. A method of performing surgery within a body of a patient comprising: (a) providing a surgical instrument assembly comprising a moveable end effector and an elongate arm member having a proximal portion, an arm distal end, and a longitudinal axis between said proximal portion and said distal end, said proximal portion adapted to couple to a control assembly, said end effector coupled to the arm distal end in such a manner as to provide said end effector with at least three degrees of freedom of movement, said three degrees of freedom of movement including rotation of said end effector about said longitudinal axis relative to the surgical site, and rotation of said end effector about at least two other axes of rotation relative to the surgical site; (b) inserting at least a distal portion said surgical instrument assembly into said body through an aperture in a body wall until the end effector member reaches an internal surgical site, said at least two other distal axes of rotation within the patient's body distal of the body wall; (c) manipulating the proximal portion of said elongate arm member with said control assembly so as to cause the elongate arm to pivot about said aperture in said body wall in at least an additional two degrees of proximal freedom of movement; and (d) causing the end effector to rotate about one of more of said longitudinal and at least two other distal axes relative to the surgical site to manipulate tissue at the surgical site. 35. The method of claim 34, wherein the end effector is coupled to the arm distal end via a wrist mechanism, said end effector coupled to said wrist mechanism about a first of said two other axes of rotation, said wrist mechanism coupled to said arm distal end about a second of said two other distal axes of rotation. 36. The method of claim 35, wherein the wrist mechanism comprises proximal and distal ends, wherein the wrist proximal end is coupled to the distal forearm end at a first joint, said first joint embodying said first distal axis of rotation, and wherein the wrist distal end is coupled to the end effector member at a second joint, said second joint embodying said second distal axis of rotation. 37. The method of claim 34 additionally comprising, before causing said end effector member to manipulate tissue, inserting an image detector into the body such that said image detector is oriented toward the end effector member; detecting an image of the end effector and the surgical site; and displaying an image thereof for viewing by a remote operator. 38. The method of claim 37, wherein the image detector comprises an endoscope. 39. The method of claim 37, wherein said image is displayed in such a manner that the operator is able to perceive the end effector as being integral with a manually moveable handle that the operator can use to control movement of the surgical instrument assembly. 40. The method of claim 34 or 39, further comprising reproducing tactile sensations on the hand of the operator at the control assembly, said sensations corresponding to forces experienced by the end effector during manipulation of said tissue within the body. 41. An endoscopic surgical system comprising a control section and an insertion section, wherein: the insertion section is insertable into a patient through an aperture in a body wall to a location adjacent a surgical worksite in the patient, the insertion section comprising an elongate forearm link having proximal and distal ends and a longitudinal axis between said ends, and an end effector, said end effector coupled to the forearm link distal end in such a manner as to provide said end effector with rotational freedom of movement within said patient about at least a first and second distal axes of rotation, said forearm link proximal end coupled to said control section; and said control section comprising a remote control station having a manual controller, and a plurality of control motors and linkages, such that an operator is able to manually move the controller to operate the insertion section in such a manner as at least to rotate said forearm link about said longitudinal axis, to pivot said forearm link about said aperture in two degrees of freedom of movement, to move said end effector about said first and second distal axes of rotation, said first and second distal axes of rotation to be within said patient's body distal of said body wall during movement and to manipulate tissue at the surgical site with said end effector. 42. The system of claim 41, further comprising an endoscope and an image display, said operator being able to perceive on said image display an image detected by the endoscope at the surgical site. 43. The system of claim 41, wherein said end effector comprises a surgical instrument. 44. The system of claim 43, wherein said surgical instrument comprises a structure selected from the group consisting of retractors, electrosurgical cutters, electrosurgical coagulators, forceps, needle holders, scissors, blades, and irrigators. 45. The system of claim 41, wherein the end effector is coupled to the arm distal end via a wrist mechanism, said end effector coupled to said wrist mechanism about said first distal axis of rotation, said wrist mechanism coupled to said arm distal end about said second distal axis of rotation. 46. The system 41, wherein the operator is also able to manually move the controller to translate said forearm link along said longitudinal axis. 47. An endoscopic surgical system comprising a control section and an insertion section, wherein: the insertion section is insertable into a patient through an aperture in a body wall to location adjacent a surgical worksite in the patient, the insertion section comprising an elongate forearm link having proximal and distal ends and a longitudinal axis between said ends, and an end effector, said end effector coupled to the forearm link distal end in such a manner as to provide said end effector with rotational freedom of movement within said patient about at least a first and second substantially perpendicular distal axes of rotation, said forearm link proximal end coupled to said control section; and said control section comprising a remote control station having a manual controller, an articulate robotic arm having a plurality of joints, a plurality of motors, a plurality of drive members coupling said motors to said articulate arm joints and to said insertion section, said manual controller coupled to said articulate arm and said motors such that an operator can manually move said controller to remotely operate said insertion section at least to rotate said forearm link about said longitudinal axis, to pivot said forearm link about said aperture in two degrees of freedom of movement, to move said end effector about said first and second distal axes of rotation, said first and second distal axes of rotation to be within said patient's body distal of said body wall during movement and to manipulate tissue at the surgical site with said end effector. 