A magnetic carrier includes a housing having an interior ledge. First and second levers are pivotally mounted within the housing such that the ledge limits the angular position of the levers with respect to the housing. First and second permanent magnets are connected with the respective first and second levers for attracting a workpiece. A pneumatic piston actuator is provided on the housing for pivoting the levers with respect to the housing to selectively pivot the magnets into and out of magnetic engagement with the workpiece.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A magnetic pick-up device for extracting magnetically permeable work pieces from a stamping die, comprising: an elongated housing having a central axis; an air-operated cylinder means located on said housing, said cylinder means having a movement axis that is coincident with the housing central axis; said air-operated cylinder means comprising a cylindrical chamber means, a piston slidably disposed within said chamber means for movement along said movement axis, and a piston rod located on said movement axis; said piston rod extending from said piston out of said cylindrical chamber means into said housing; said piston subdividing said cylindrical chamber means into a first air chamber proximate to said housing and a second air chamber remote from said housing; said cylindrical chamber means having a diameter that is appreciably greater than the axial dimension of said chamber means; two magnet holders located within said housing in symmetrical relation to the housing central axis; a transverse pivot means pivotably supporting each said magnet holder for swinging motion around an axis that is transverse to the housing central axis; said magnet holders having adjacent ends thereof pivotably connected to said piston rod, whereby movement of the piston rod produces simultaneous swinging motions of the magnet holders; a permanent magnet carried by each magnet holder; each said magnet having a flat pick-up surface adapted to exert a magnetic lifting force on a work piece, whereby the work piece can be removed from a stamping die; said magnet holders being swingable between operating positions wherein the magnet pick-up surfaces are aligned in a plane transverse to the housing central axis, and retracted positions wherein the magnet pick-up surfaces are angled away from the housing central axis; each magnet pick-up surface being angled at a relatively small acute angle to said transverse plane during initial movement of the respective magnet from its operating position. 2. The magnetic pick-up device of claim 1, wherein each said pivot means is located relatively close to the piston rod movement axis. 3. The Magnetic pick-up device of claim 1, wherein each said pivot means is located relatively close to the piston rod movement axis, so each said pivot means is between the piston rod movement axis and the respective magnet. 4. The magnetic pick-up device of claim 1, wherein each said pivot means comprises a pin-slot connection that includes a pin mounted in the housing and a slot formed in the associated magnet holder. 5. The magnet pick-up device of claim 1, and further comprising ledge means located within said housing for limiting the movement of each magnet holder when the magnets reach the operating positions, whereby the magnet pick-up surfaces are precisely aligned in a common plane. 6. The magnetic pick-up device of claim 1, wherein said air-operated cylinder means comprises two end plates extending normal to the cylinder means movement axis; and an air hose connection passage formed in each said end plate for transferring pressurized air between the respective air chamber and an associated air hose; each said air passage extending essentially parallel to the plane of the respective end plate, whereby the associated air hose extends away from the air cylinder means in a plane normal to the air cylinder means movement axis. 