A universal machine translator of arbitrary languages enables the semantic, or meaningful, translation of arbitrary languages with zero loss of meaning of the source language in the target language translation, which loss is typical in prior art human and machine translations. The universal machine translator embodies universal transformations itself and comprises the means for identifying high-level grammatical constructions of a source language word stream, constructing a grammatical world model of the syntax of the source language high-level word stream, decomposing source and target languages into universal moments of meaning, or epistemic instances, translating the epistemic moments of source and target languages with substantially no loss in meaning, constructing a grammatical world model of the syntax of the target language high-level word stream, optionally adjusting the target language syntax to comply with a preferred target language grammar, and generating the translated target language word stream. The universal machine translator also comprises the means to embody arbitrary sensory/motor receptions and transmissions of arbitrary word streams, which allows universally translated communications to occur among human beings and machines.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for performing universal translations of arbitrary languages, in a computational system, which method comprises: converting a semantically arranged syntactical source language word stream into grammatical forms; parsing the converted word stream into epistemic semantic moments of the source language; mapping the epistemic moments of the source language to semantically equivalent epistemic moments of a target language; and constructing a syntactical target language word stream from the epistemic moments of the target language; wherein each of the epistemic moments consists of a triplet further consisting of a pair of objects of transformation in the source language's or the target language's word stream, and a transformer of the pair of objects. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the source language and the target language are natural human languages. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the source language and the target language are source code or object code computer languages. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein source language and the target language are arbitrary mathematical languages, scientific languages, logical languages, or engineering languages. 5. The method of claim 1, comprising providing the translations in at least one of wireless and wireline telephone systems and networks, multimedia communications systems, modems, facsimile machines, computer systems and networks, pagers, radio and television systems, radar, sonar, infared and optical communications systems, photocopiers, hand-held, lap-top, and body-worn communications devices, and machine communications devices for machine control. 6. A computer readable medium having stored thereon sequences of instructions for performing universal translations of arbitrary languages, in a computational system, said sequences of instructions including instructions for performing the steps of converting a semantically arranged syntactical source language word stream into grammatical forms; parsing the converted word stream into epistemic semantic moments of the source language; mapping the epistemic moments of the source language to semantically equivalent epistemic moments of a target language; and constructing a syntactical target language word stream from the epistemic moments of the target language; wherein each of the epistemic moments consists of a triplet further consisting of a pair of objects of transformation in the source language's or the target language's word stream, and a transformer of the pair of objects. 7. The computer readable medium of claim 6, wherein the source language and the target language are natural human languages. 8. The computer readable medium of claim 6, wherein the source language and the target language are source code or object code computer languages. 9. The computer readable medium of claim 6, wherein source language and the target language are arbitrary mathematical languages, scientific languages, logical languages, or engineering languages. 10. The computer readable medium of claim 6, wherein the translations are performed at least one of in wireless and wireline telephone systems and networks, multimedia communications systems, modems, facsimile machines, computer systems and networks, pagers, radio and television systems, radar, sonar, infared and optical communications systems, photocopiers, hand-held, lap-top, and body-worn communications devices, and machine communications devices for machine control. 