An apparatus for transferring wafers by a robot blade and a method for using the apparatus are disclosed. In the apparatus, a robot blade that is equipped with distance sensors mounted in a bottom surface of the blade is provided which senses the distance between the bottom surface of the robot blade and an adjacent surface below the robot blade such that any possible scratching of the adjacent surface is eliminated. The adjacent surface below the robot blade may be a wafer surface in a wafer cassette, or a wafer pedestal surface in a process machine. The distance sensors are mounted in recesses in the bottom surface of the blade which may be suitably capacitance sensors, ultrasonic sensors or optical sensors. The distance sensed by the distance sensors is analyzed by a controller and compared to a predetermined value of a minimum allowable distance such that any danger of scratching the adjacent surface is eliminated.
Claims The embodiment of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows: 1. A robot blade for transferring wafers comprising: a blade member of generally elongated shape adapted for carrying a wafer on a top surface, said blade member having at least two extended leg portions and a total length that is larger than a diameter of the wafer it carries, at least one recess provided in a bottom surface juxtaposed to a tip of said at least two extended leg portions, and at least one distance sensor mounted in said at least one recess for sensing a distance between said bottom surface of said blade member and an adjacent surface below said bottom surface. 2. A robot blade for transferring wafers according to claim 1, wherein said distance sensor is a capacitance sensor. 3. A robot blade for transferring wafers according to claim 1, wherein said distance sensor is selected from the group consisting of a capacitance sensor, an ultrasonic sensor and an optical sensor. 4. A robot blade for transferring wafers according to claim 1 further comprising at least one object sensor positioned in said top surface of the blade for sensing the presence or absence of an object being carried by said blade. 5. A robot blade for transferring wafers according to claim 1 further comprising a blade member of generally elongated shape equipped with two extended leg portions each provided with a capacitance sensor mounted in a recess in the bottom surface of the leg portions. 6. A robot blade for transferring wafers according to claim 1, wherein said robot blade is mounted on a robot arm. 7. A method for transferring wafers comprising the steps of: providing a wafer blade mounted on a robot arm, said wafer blade having at least two extended leg portions for holding a wafer thereon, providing at least one distance sensor mounted in a bottom surface of said at least two extended leg portions such that a top surface of said at least one distance sensor is flush with said bottom surface of said at least two extended leg portions, and picking up a wafer while sensing a distance between said bottom surfaces of said at least two extended leg portions and an adjacent surface below said bottom surfaces. 8. A method for transferring wafers according to claim 7 further comprising the step of stopping a motion of said wafer blade when said distance sensed is less than a pre-set minimum value. 9. A method for transferring wafers according to claim 7 further comprising the step of mounting at least one distance sensor selected from the group consisting of a capacitance sensor, an ultrasonic sensor and an optical sensor. 10. A method for transferring wafers according to claim 7 further comprising the step of mounting a capacitance sensor in the bottom surface of each of said at least two extended leg portions. 11. A method for transferring wafers according to claim 7 further comprising the step of picking up a wafer from a wafer cassette or placing a wafer onto a wafer pedestal in a process machine. 12. A method for transferring wafers according to claim 7 further comprising the step of outputting said distance sensed by said distance sensor into a controller for comparing to a pre-stored value and determining an acceptable/unacceptable transfer condition. 13. An apparatus for transferring wafers by robot comprising: a robot blade of generally elongated shape adapted for carrying a wafer on a top surface, said robot blade having at least two extended leg portions and a total length that is larger than a diameter of the wafer it carries, at least one recess provided in a bottom surface and juxtaposed to a tip of said at least two extended leg portions, at least one distance sensor mounted in said at least one recess for sensing a distance between said bottom surface of said blade and an adjacent surface below said bottom surface, at least one object sensor positioned in said top surface of the robot blade for sensing the presence/absence of said wafer, and a controller for stopping a motion of said robot blade when said distance sensed is less than a pre-set minimum value. 14. An apparatus for transferring wafers by robot according to claim 13, wherein said at least one distance sensor comprises two distance sensors with one mounted in each of two extended leg portions. 15. An apparatus for transferring wafers by robot according to claim 13, wherein said at least one distance sensor is selected from the group consisting of a capacitance sensor, an ultrasonic sensor and an optical sensor. 16. An apparatus for transferring wafers by robot according to claim 13, wherein said robot blade is controlled by a robot arm. 