Apparatus for inspecting the surfaces of inaccessible objects such as the components of a nuclear power plant steam generator includes: an articulated inspection wand having a proximal end and a distal end movable into position adjacent the surface to be inspected, a laser light source located remotely from the distal end, first and second position sensing detectors located remotely from the distal end of the wand, first and second extending imaging light guides extending from the laser light source, and the position sensing detectors to the distal end of the wand.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for inspecting the surfaces of inaccessible objects comprising: an articulated inspection wand having a proximal end and a distal end movable into position adjacent a surface to be inspected; a laser light source located at the proximal end of the inspection wand; first and second position sensing detectors located at the proximal end of the wand; a first extended imaging light guide extending from the laser light source to the distal end of the wand; a second extended imaging light guide extending from the first position sensing detector to the distal end of the wand; a third extended imaging light guide extending from the second position sensing detector to the distal end of the wand. 2. The apparatus for inspecting the surfaces of inaccessible objects of claim 1 comprising: a first optical lens located at the end of the first extended imaging light guide disposed at the distal end of the wand; and second and third optical lenses located at the ends of the second and third extended imaging light guides disposed at the distal end of the wand. 3. The apparatus for inspecting the surfaces of inaccessible objects of claim 1 comprising: fourth and fifth lenses disposed between a proximal end of each of the second and third extended imaging light guides and the first and second position sensing detectors. 4. The apparatus for inspecting the surfaces of inaccessible devices of claim 1 comprising a 2-Dimensional scanner disposed between the laser light source and the proximal end of the first extended imaging light guide. 5. The apparatus for inspecting the surfaces of inaccessible objects of claim 1 comprising an image capturing device coupled to the first extended imaging light guide. 6. The apparatus for inspecting the surfaces of inaccessible objects of claim 5 comprising a first beam splitter disposed between the image capturing device, the laser light source, and the proximal end of the first extended imaging light guide. 7. The apparatus for inspecting the surfaces of inaccessible objects of claim 6 comprising second and third beam splitters and first and second illuminating light sources disposed adjacent the proximal ends of the second and third extended imaging light guides respectively. 8. The apparatus for inspecting the surfaces of inaccessible objects of claim 1 comprising an image processing device or circuit connected to the first and second 2-Dimensional position sensing detectors. 9. The apparatus for inspecting the surfaces of inaccessible objects of claim 7 comprising fourth and fifth lenses disposed between the first and second illumination light sources and the second and third optical beam splitters respectively. 10. A method of making surface contour measurements in inaccessible areas comprising: providing an inspection wand movable into proximity with the inaccessible areas; providing a laser illumination source remote from the inaccessible area; providing a 3-Dimensional surface detector remote from the inaccessible area; coupling a proximal end of a first extended imaging light guide to the laser illumination source; coupling a proximal end of a second extended imaging light guide to the 3-Dimensional surface detector; positioning a distal end of each of the first and second extended imaging light guides at the distal end of the inspection wand; scanning the laser illumination source across the surface to be measured; and detecting light scattered from the surface to be measured with the 3-Dimensional surface detector. 11. The method of making surface contour measurements in inaccessible areas of claim 10 comprising: providing an image capturing device remote from the inaccessible area; coupling the image capturing device to a proximal end of a third extended imaging light guide; positioning a distal end of the third extended imaging light guide adjacent the distal end of the inspection wand. 12. The method for making surface contour measurements in inaccessible areas of claim 11 comprising: coupling an illumination light source to the proximal end of one of the first and second extended imaging light guides. 13. Apparatus for inspecting the surfaces of inaccessible objects comprising: an articulated inspection wand having a proximal end and a distal end movable into position adjacent a surface to be inspected; a laser light source located remotely from the distal end of the inspection wand; first and second position sensing detectors located remotely from the distal end of the wand; a first extended imaging light guide extending from the laser light source to the distal end of the wand; a second extended imaging light guide extending from the first position sensing detector to the distal end of the wand; a third extended imaging light guide extending from the second position sensing detector to the distal end of the wand. 