The present invention relates to a vacuum system for reliably holding wafers exposed to effluents in a wafer chuck. A vacuum pump generates a vacuum communicated to a wafer chuck through a tank. The tank has a baffle for converting vapor effluent to liquid effluent from the air sucked into the vacuum system. The tank stores the liquid effluent to prevent the effluent from fouling the vacuum pump and other components. A pressure transducer is connected to the tank to detect a loss in vacuum that may indicate a lost wafer condition. A trap is placed between the tank and the vacuum pump to detect if excessive effluents have escaped from the tank and to signal that corrective action may need to be taken.
Claims We claim: 1. A wafer holding system for holding an at least partially effluent covered wafer, the system comprising: (a) a vacuum pump for generating the vacuum in a vacuum system; (b) a tank in fluid communication with a vacuum pump to receive effluent from the vacuum system; (c) a wafer chuck in fluid communication with the vacuum system, the chuck adapted for holding the wafer to the wafer chuck by application of vacuum suction to a face of the wafer; and (d) a baffle placed inside the tank in a flow path of fluids drawn from the wafer chuck to separate any liquid effluent from the vapors in the fluids. 2. A wafer holding system as in claim 1, further comprising an effluent drain operably connected to the tank for periodically draining trapped effluent. 3. A wafer holding system as in claim 2, further comprising a pressure transducer operably coupled to the tank for detecting a lost vacuum condition due to the wafer disengaging from the wafer chuck. 4. A wafer holding system as in claim 3, further comprising a system computer to receive an error signal when the pressure transducer detects the wafer disengaging from the wafer chuck. 5. A wafer holding system as in claim 2, further comprising a trap located in the vacuum system in a path of fluid flowing between the tank and the vacuum pump, the trap comprising means for releasing the tank from vacuum conditions if a predetermined amount of effluent is contained in the trap. 6. A wafer holding system as in claim 5, further comprising a system computer to receive an error signal and take corrective action when the pressure transducer detects excessive effluent in the vacuum system. 7. A wafer holding system as in claim 2, wherein the vacuum, pump is a venturi vacuum pump. 