A reticle adapter that is capable of supporting a reticle in a conventional reactive ion etch chamber that is designed for etching circular silicon wafers. The adapter has a lower portion that is milled to cover the upper portion of a pedestal within a reactive ion etch chamber. A top portion of the adapter has an opening that is sized and shaped to hold a reticle.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for supporting a photolithography reticle in a semiconductor wafer processing system comprising: an adapter having first portion on a first side that matches the size and shape of a pedestal and a second portion on a second side that matches the size and shape of the photolithography reticle. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said first portion defines a first opening. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the first opening is adapted to rest upon a pedestal of a reactive ion etch (RIE) chamber. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said second portion defines a second opening. 5. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein the second opening is adapted for supporting a reticle during photomask etching processes. 6. The apparatus of claim 3 further comprising a plurality of reticle support members located within the second opening. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein the second opening is substantially square having four corners and the reticle support members are located in each corner. 8. The apparatus of claim 3 further comprising a reticle retainer located within the second opening. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein said reticle retainer comprises: at least one plate, having a longitudinal axis parallel with an edge of said second opening, where said at least one plate extends from said peripheral edge of said second opening into said second opening. 10. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein said reticle retainer further comprises: at least one resilient member for biasing the at least one plate into the second opening. 11. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein said reticle retainer comprises: four plates, where each plate has a longitudinal axis aligned with an edge of the second opening; at least one spring for each plate, disposed between each plate and an edge of said second opening to bias each of said four plates into said second opening. 12. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein said second opening is circumscribed by an O-ring. 