A liquid coating apparatus that is adapted for dispensing two or more different liquids and a method for using such apparatus are disclosed. In the apparatus, when two different liquids are dispensed in the same coating apparatus, two separate drain cups are utilized in which an upper drain cup is constructed in a toroidal shape and formed in two symmetrical halves such that they may be withdrawn from an operating position outwardly to allow a wafer platform and a liquid spray nozzle to be lowered into a lower drain cup for dispensing a second liquid material. The lower drain cup can be mounted concentrically with the upper drain cup. The present invention novel apparatus allows at least two different liquids to be processed in the same coating apparatus such that chemical reactions between the different liquids and the resulting particle formation and contamination problems can be avoided.
Claims The embodiment of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows: 1. A liquid coating apparatus adapted for dispensing two different liquids comprising: a liquid dispensing nozzle for dispensing a first and a second liquid, a shaft connected to a substrate platform for upward, downward and rotational movement of said platform, an upper drain cup in a toroidal shape formed in two halves intimately engaging each other along a center line for draining said first liquid, each of said two halves of the toroidal shaped upper drain cup is equipped with a drain pipe and supported by a robot arm for inward and outward movement for allowing said substrate platform to be lowered from an upper position to a lower position when said two halves are moved outwardly by said robot arms, and a lower drain cup in a toroidal shape mounted substantially concentrically with and below said upper drain cup for draining said second liquid. 2. A liquid coating apparatus adapted for dispensing two different liquids according to claim 1, wherein said apparatus is a spin coating machine for dispensing two different photoresist compositions. 3. A liquid coating apparatus adapted for dispensing two different liquids according to claim 1, wherein said platform and said shaft are integrally formed. 4. A liquid coating apparatus adapted for dispensing two different liquids according to claim 1, wherein said lower drain cup being equipped with a drain pipe. 5. A liquid coating apparatus adapted for dispensing two different liquids according to claim 1, wherein said platform supports said substrate by a vacuum force. 6. A liquid coating apparatus adapted for dispensing two different liquids according to claim 1, wherein said first and second liquid chemically reacts when mixed. 7. A liquid coating apparatus adapted for dispensing two different liquids according to claim 1, wherein said liquid dispensing nozzle being equipped with means for moving downwardly onto said substrate platform when said platform is moved into said lower position. 8. A liquid coating apparatus adapted for dispensing two different liquids according to claim 1, wherein said shaft being connected to a motor for said upward, downward and rotational motions. 9. A liquid coating apparatus adapted for dispensing two different liquids according to claim 1 further comprising a process controller for controlling motions of said liquid dispensing nozzle, said substrate platform and said upper drain cup. 10. A spin coating apparatus for sequentially dispensing two different liquids on a wafer comprising: a liquid dispensing nozzle adapted for dispensing a first and a second liquid, a wafer chuck for holding a wafer thereon and for moving upwardly and downwardly into and out of an upper drain cup, an upper drain cup in a toroidal shape formed in two halves removably joined together along a center line for collecting said first liquid, said two halves of said upper drain cup each being equipped with a drain pipe for draining said first liquid collected, electromechanical means for moving said two halves of the upper drain cup inwardly toward said wafer chuck or outwardly away from said wafer chuck to allow said upward and downward motions of the wafer chuck, and a lower drain cup in a toroidal shape mounted substantially concentrically with and below said upper drain cup for collecting said second liquid. 11. A spin coating apparatus for sequentially dispensing two different liquids on a wafer according to claim 10, wherein said lower drain cup being equipped with a drain pipe for draining said second liquid collected. 12. A spin coating apparatus for sequentially dispensing two different liquids on a wafer according to claim 10, wherein said wafer chuck being a vacuum chuck. 13. A spin coating apparatus for sequentially dispensing two different liquids on a wafer according to claim 10, wherein said liquid dispensing nozzle being equipped with means for moving downwardly into said lower drain cup. 14. A spin coating apparatus for sequentially dispensing two different liquids on a wafer according to claim 10, wherein said wafer chuck further comprises motor means for rotating the chuck during dispensing of said first and second liquid. 15. A spin coating apparatus for sequentially dispensing two different liquids on a wafer according to claim 10 further comprising a process controller for controlling motions of said liquid dispensing nozzle, said wafer chuck and said upper drain cup. 