A device for detecting chemiluminescence from a sample. The device may include a stage for supporting a sample and one or more of the following elements: (1) an optics head, (2) an optical relay structure for transmitting chemiluminescence from the sample to a detector, (3) a drive mechanism, (4) a sensor for detecting proximity of the optical relay structure to the sample, (5) a mask structure for selecting an effective diameter of the optical relay structure, and (6) a baffle for blocking extraneous light from entering the optical relay structure.
Claims We claim: 1. A device for detecting light from a sample, the device comprising: a stage for supporting a sample at an examination site; an optics bead positioned above or below the examination site; a first drive mechanism that adjusts the distance between the optics head and the examination site; a confocal relay structure connected to the optics head for transmitting luminescence from the examination site to a first detector; and a nonconfocal optical relay structure connected to the optics head and dedicated to transmitting chemiluminescence from the examination site to a second detector. 2. The device of claim 1, further comprising a second drive mechanism, wherein the first drive mechanism moves the optics head along a Z axis perpendicular to the stage, and the second drive mechanism moves the stage along X and Y axes perpendicular to the Z axis. 3. The device of claim 1, wherein the second detector is a photomultiplier tube or a charge-coupled device. 4. The device of claim 1, wherein the confocal optical relay structure is capable of transmitting luminescence substantially exclusively from a sensed volume within the sample, and the nonconfocal optic relay structure is capable of transmitting chemiluminescence from substantially the entire sample. 5. The device of claim 1, the sample being held in a sample holder, further comprising a mask structure positioned adjacent an end of the second optical relay structure, so that an effective diameter for the optical relay structure can be selected to complement a particular dimension of the sample holder. 6. The device of claim 1, the sample being held in a sample holder, further comprising a baffle surrounding an end of the second optical relay structure that blocks extraneous light from outside the sample holder from entering the second optical relay structure. 7. The device of claim 1, the stage being configured to hold a sample holder having an array of sample positions, further comprising a third optical relay structure connected to the optics head and dedicated to transmitting chemiluminescence to a third detector, wherein the second and third optical relay structures are disposed so that each optical relay structure transmits light to the associated detector from a different set of sample positions, so that light can be detected more quickly from the entire sample holder. 8. The device of claim 1 further comprising a sensor, positioned near an end of the nonconfocal optical relay structure, that detects proximity of the end of the nonconfocal optical relay structure relative to a sample holder at the examination site. 9. The device of claim 8, wherein the drive mechanism and the sensor are programmed to work cooperatively to sense a height of a sample well, and then to locate the end of the nonconfocal optical relay structure so that it is spaced a distance C from the sample welt, G being just high enough so that another sample well can be moved smoothly into align with the end of the nonconfocal optical relay structure without altering G. 10. The device of claim 8, wherein the sensor is a mechanical witch, or an optical switch, or an acoustical switch, or a linear voltage displacement transducer probe. 