Robot arm (16) end effectors (10, 110) of this invention rapidly and cleanly transfer between a wafer cassette (14) and a processing station semiconductor wafers (12) having diameters greater than 150 mm. The end effectors include proximal and distal rest pads (24, 26, 124,126) having pad and backstop portions (32, 34, 132, 134) that support and grip the wafer within an annular exclusion zone (30) that extends inward from a peripheral edge (30) of the wafer. An active contact point (50, 150) is movable by a vacuum actuated piston (52, 152) between a retracted wafer-loading position and an extended position that urges the wafer against the distal rest pads to grip the wafer within the exclusion zone. The end effector further includes fiber optic light transmission sensors (90, 102, 202) for locating the wafer periphery and bottom surface (100, 200). The sensors provide robot arm extension and elevation positioning data supporting methods of rapidly and accurately placing and retrieving a wafer from among a stack of closely spaced apart wafers stored in the wafer cassette. The methods effectively prevent accidental contact between the end effector and the wafers while effecting clean, but secure, gripping of the wafer at its edge or within its exclusion zone.
Claims We claim: 1. A robotic arm end effector apparatus for gripping a specimen by its peripheral edge, comprising: a body having a proximal end attached to the robotic arm and an opposed distal end; at least one distal rest pad attached to the distal end of the body and having a pad portion for supporting the peripheral edge of the specimen and a backstop portion that forms with the pad portion an included angle for gripping the peripheral edge of the specimen; at least one proximal rest pad coupled to the proximal end of the body for supporting the peripheral edge of the specimen; and a proximal end active contact point movable between a retracted specimen-loading position and an extended specimen-gripping position in which the peripheral edge of the specimen is urged into the included angle formed in the distal rest pad. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 in which the proximal end active contact point is formed as part of the proximal rest pad. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 in which the active contact point is operably connected to a vacuum-actuated piston mounted for reciprocation within a bore associated with the proximal end of the body. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 in which the distal rest pad has a generally arcuate shape that conforms to an angular range of the periphery of the specimen. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising two distal rest pads. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 in which the backstop portion is inclined at a backstop angle of less than about 5 degrees with respect to a line perpendicular to a plane passing through the specimen. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 in which the pad portion is inclined at a rest pad angle of less than about 5 degrees with respect to a plane passing through the specimen to limit a contact area within an exclusion zone of the specimen. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 in which the robotic arm moves the end effector in an X direction and the end effector further includes at least one edge sensor for determining an X direction position of the end effector relative to the peripheral edge of the specimen. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 in which the edge sensor includes a fiber optic light emitter closely spaced apart from a fiber optic light receiver to form therebetween a light path extending across a plane of the specimen for detecting the peripheral edge of the specimen. 10. The apparatus of claim 1 in which the robotic arm moves the end effector in a Z direction and the end effector further includes an elevation sensor for determining a Z direction position of the end effector relative to a major surface of the specimen. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 in which the elevation sensor includes a fiber optic light emitter spaced apart from a fiber optic light receiver to form therebetween a light path extending substantially parallel to a plane of the specimen for detecting the major surface of the specimen. 12. A robotic arm end effector apparatus movable in at least X and Z directions for transferring a semiconductor wafer from a wafer cassette, comprising: a body having a proximal end attached to the robotic arm and an opposed distal end; an active contact point movable between a retracted wafer-releasing position and an extended wafer-gripping position; and at least one edge sensor coupled to the body for determining an X direction position of the end effector relative to a peripheral edge of the wafer. 13. The apparatus of claim 12 in which the edge sensor includes a fiber optic light emitter closely spaced apart from a fiber optic light receiver to form therebetween a light path extending across a plane of the wafer for detecting the peripheral edge of the wafer. 14. The apparatus of claim 12 further including an elevation sensor coupled to the body for determining a Z direction position of the end effector relative to a major surface of the wafer. 15. The apparatus of claim 14 in which the elevation sensor includes a fiber optic light emitter spaced apart from a fiber optic light receiver to form therebetween a light path extending substantially parallel to a plane of the wafer for detecting the major surface of the wafer. 16. A method for retrieving from a wafer cassette a semiconductor wafer having a periphery, comprising: providing a robotic arm with an end effector having a proximal end and an opposed distal end, the end effector movable in X and Z directions and further including at least one distal rest pad having a pad portion for supporting the edge of the wafer and a backstop portion that forms with the pad portion an included angle for gripping the edge of the wafer, and a proximal end active contact point movable between a retracted and extended positions; retracting the active contact point; moving the end effector an X direction distance into the cassette; elevating the end effector in the Z direction to contact the edge of the wafer on the pad portion of the landing pad; extending the active contact point to urge the edge of the wafer into the included angle between the pad and backstop portions of the distal rest pad, thereby gripping the wafer; and retrieving the wafer in the X direction from the cassette. 17. The method of claim 16 further including: coupling at least one edge sensor to the end effector for determining an X position of the end effector relative to the edge of the wafer; and coupling an elevation sensor to the end effector for determining a Z position of the end effector relative to a major surface of the wafer. 18. The method of claim 17 further including: inserting the end effector in the X direction into the cassette until at least one edge sensor detects the edge of the wafer; recording the X position of the end effector; and computing the X distance required to move the end effector into the cassette to retrieve the wafer. 19. The method of claim 17 further including: moving the end effector in the Z direction until the elevation sensor detects a major surface of the wafer; recording the Z direction position of the end effector; and computing a Z direction position required for the end effector and distal rest pad to clear the major surface of the wafer. 