A data processing device is used with peripheral devices having addressees and differing communication response periods. The data processing device includes a digital processor adapted for selecting different ones of the peripheral devices by asserting addresses of each selected peripheral device. Addressable programmable registers hold wait state values representative of distinct numbers of wait states corresponding to different address ranges. Circuitry responsive to an asserted address to the peripheral devices asserted by the digital processor generates the number of wait states represented by the value held in one of the addressable programmable registers corresponding to the one of the address ranges in which the asserted address occurs, thereby accommodating the differing communication response periods of the peripheral devices.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system comprising: A. a microprocessor device having data pins carrying data signals, address pins carrying address signals, and control outputs carrying control signals, the microprocessor device being capable of receiving data signals at the data pins a certain period of time after sending address and control signals and being capable of performing a desired number of wait states after sending address and control signals, the microprocessor device including at least two wait state registers, each wait state register containing a number defining a number of wait states, each wait state register being connected to the data signals to receive data signals representing a number defining a number of wait states, and each wait state register being coupled to the address signals; B. at least two external devices external of the microprocessor device, each external device having data pins, address pins and a control input connected to the control outputs of the microprocessor device, each external device producing data at the data pins after receiving address signals in a separate segment of the external memory space; C. an external data bus connecting together the respective data pins of the microprocessor device and the external devices; and D. an external address bus connecting together the respective address pins of the microprocessor device and the external devices. 2. The system of claim 1 in which one of the external devices is a memory device. 3. The system of claim 1 in which one of the external devices is a peripheral device. 4. The system of claim 1 in which the wait state registers each contain a binary number of from zero to fifteen. 5. The system of claim 1 in which the wait state registers each contain a number having at least four binary bits. 6. The system of claim 1 in which one of the external device provides data to the microprocessor device slower than the certain period of time. 7. The system of claim 1 in which one of the external device provides data to the microprocessor device slower than the certain period of time and each external device provides data to the microprocessor in a period of time different from the other external device. 