An apparatus for additively de-marking a packaged integrated circuit die bearing engraved marking indicia on an exterior surface thereof. The marked surface of a packaged die presented by a handling device is covered by an applicator with an overlayer of material to fill the engraved markings and provide a surface suitable for re-marking. The covering material may be applied in a flowable state by applicator contact or by non-contact dispensing, or may be applied by the applicator as a preformed segment. A pre-treatment device may be employed to treat the package exterior surface to be covered to enhance bonding of the covering material thereto. Bonding of the covering material to the package surface, or solidification of the covering material, may be enhanced by use of a post-application curing station.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for de-marking IC packages, comprising: an applicator configured for applying a selected quantity of covering material to a single exterior surface of at least one discrete IC package to obscure marking indicia on the single exterior surface of the at least one discrete IC package without application of covering material to other portions of the at least one discrete IC package; a supply of the covering material associated with the applicator; and a handling device configured for transporting the at least one discrete IC package into a target location proximate the applicator, for presenting the single exterior surface of the at least one discrete IC package bearing the marking indicia for application of the covering material thereto, and for thereafter transporting the at least one discrete IC package away from the target location. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the applicator comprises a contact applicator. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the covering material is in a fluid state and the contact applicator is selected from the group comprising a roller, a stamp, a sponge, and a brush. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the covering material is in a flowable state when leaving the applicator, and the applicator comprises a nozzle. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, further comprising a mask interposable between the nozzle and the handling device, the mask having an aperture defined therein. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a curing apparatus for stabilizing the covering material as applied to a permanent state bonded to the single exterior surface including the marking indicia. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the curing apparatus is selected from the group consisting of a heat source and a light source. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the supply of the covering material comprises a tape of material. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the supply of the covering material comprises preformed segments of covering material. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the preformed segments are disposed on a carrier tape. 11. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the preformed segments comprise powdered coating material and a binder therefor. 12. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the covering material is in a flowable state when leaving the applicator, and further comprising a device configured for forming a dam structure secured to at least a portion of the single exterior surface bearing the marking indicia to contain the covering material thereon. 13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the dam structure forming device is adapted to apply a dam structure to the at least one discrete IC package in the form of a preformed dam element. 14. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the dam structure forming device is adapted to form a dam element in place on the at least one discrete IC package. 15. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the covering material is in a flowable state, and further comprising a device for metering flow of the covering material from the applicator. 16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the applicator comprises a nozzle. 17. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the handling device includes a device selected from the group consisting of a robot arm, a track, a turntable and a conveyor. 18. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a pre-treatment device for enhancing bonding of the covering material to the single exterior surface. 19. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the pre-treatment device is a laser or a flame-sprayer. 20. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the handling device is further configured for transporting the at least one discrete IC package from the target location to another location proximate the curing apparatus. 21. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the handling device is further configured for transporting the at least one discrete IC package from an initial location proximate the dam structure forming device to the target location. 22. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the handling device is further configured for transporting the at least one discrete IC package from an initial location proximate the pre-treatment device to the target location. 23. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the applicator is configured for applying a selected quantity of covering material to the single exterior surface of the at least one discrete IC package to obscure the marking indicia on the single exterior surface of the at least one discrete IC package and to provide a thickness of the covering material on the single exterior surface of the at least one discrete IC package sufficient to withstand re-marking. 