A method, apparatus and controller for machining non-circular work pieces. The apparatus, method and controller are preferably used in combination with rotating, equipment, such as a turning center having an x-y table capable of gross movements. The apparatus includes at least one position sensor for deriving an angular position signal of the work piece, a preferably longitudinally-disposed, flexible tool holder attached to a rigid tool block which holds the machine tool, a preferably solid state vibration actuator imparting active vibrational forces to the end of the tool holder, thus vibrating the machine tool at high frequency to impart the desired ovality to the work piece, and a control system for generating the output signal to the vibration actuator. Preferably, the control system includes manually adjusted magnitude and phase thereby providing a non-circular work piece profile with the desired ovality and positioning thereof. The controller includes a wave form generator which provides an input signal which is phase locked to the work piece rotation regardless of small cutting speed changes.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for machining of a non-circular profile on a work piece, the work piece being positioned in the apparatus and having an axis of rotation, said apparatus comprising: (a) a first position sensor and a second position sensor for deriving position signals correlated with a rotational position of the work piece in the apparatus; (b) a vibrating tool assembly further comprising; (i) a rigid tool block, (ii) a tool holder including first and second ends defining a longitudinal axis, said tool holder mounted to said block at said first end and adapted to receive a machine tool at said second end, said tool holder including an integral spring member for providing relative ease of movement at said second end of said tool holder in a transverse direction, said longitudinal axis of said tool holder being disposed substantially parallel to said axis of rotation, and (iii) an actuator arranged to impart vibrational motions to said tool holder along said transverse direction, (c) a control system for receiving said position signals and generating an output signal to said actuator, said control system including; (i) means for adjusting a magnitude and phase of said position signals and producing a magnitude and phase adjusted output signal, and (ii) an amplifier for amplifying said magnitude and phase adjusted signal; and wherein said means for adjusting adjusts the magnitude and phase of said position signals to produce a magnitude and phase adjusted output signal that provides a non-circular profile on the work piece, the non-circular profile having minimum and maximum dimensions in desired positions relative to the rotational position of the work piece and a desired amount of ovality. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said means for adjusting comprises means for a user to manually adjust said magnitude and phase. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising means for generating, a two per revolution square wave based upon said position signals. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising means for generating a two per revolution sinusoidal input which is phase locked to said position signals. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 further wherein said means for generating said sinusoidal input further comprises a plurality of band pass filters. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 further wherein said plurality of band pass filters are adjustable. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 further including feedback means for adjusting said plurality of band pass filters. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 further wherein said feedback means adjusts a clock frequency provided to a plurality of switched capacitor filters. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said control system further comprises a plurality of switched capacitor band pass filters. 10. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said control system further comprises: i) a signal conditioner for generating a square wave form from said position signals, and ii) means for producing a two per revolution sinusoidal input signal from said square wave form which is phase locked to said square wave form. 11. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said spring member includes a tranverse stiffness in the range between about 5,000 lbf./in and 9,000 lbf./in. 12. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said tool holder includes a dog bone-shaped cutout portion which minimizes rotation of said machine tool. 13. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said actuator is transversely disposed between said second end of said tool holder and an end of a bracket assembly secured to a back side of said tool block. 14. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein said actuator includes a transverse stiffness of at least about 100,000 lb./in. 15. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said first and second position sensors are located on an end of a shaft. 16. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said first sensor and said second sensor are mounted adjacent to an end of a shaft rigidly interconnected to said work piece. 17. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said actuator is solid state. 18. The apparatus of claim 17 wherein said solid state actuator is one selected from a group consisting of a piezoelectric or magnetostrictive actuator. 19. The apparatus of claim 1 further including a vertical stiffener spring mounted between said second end of said tool holder and said tool block. 20. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said vibrating tool assembly includes said tool block having an upright portion and a platform formed thereon, said tool holder being bolted to said platform at one end thereof, said actuator being mounted to a bracket assembly secured to a backside of said tool block on one end and threadedly connected to said tool holder on another, said actuator being received through a hole formed in said upright portion. 21. The apparatus of claim 20 further comprising a vertical stiffener spring including a relatively low transverse stiffness mounted between said tool block and said second end of said tool holder. 22. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein control system further comprises a wave form generator for generating a 2 per rev sinusoidal wave form wherein said wave form generator includes means for maintaining a constant phase relationship between a square wave form derived from said at least one position signal and said 2 per rev sinusoidal wave form when an operating frequency changes. 23. An apparatus for machining of a non-circular profile on a work piece, the work piece having an axis of rotation, said apparatus comprising: (a) a plurality of position sensors for deriving a plurality of position signals correlated with a rotational position of said work piece, (b) a vibrating tool assembly further comprising; (i) a rigid tool block, (ii) a tool holder including, first and second ends defining a longitudinal axis, said longitudinal axis being substantially aligned with said axis of rotation, said tool holder mounted to said block at said first end and adapted to receive a machine tool at said second end, said tool holder including an integral spring member for providing relative ease of movement at said second end of said tool holder in a transverse direction generally orthogonal to said longitudinal axis, (iii) means for restraining relative movement between said tool holder and said tool block in a direction perpendicular to both said transverse direction and said longitudinal axis, and (iv) a solid state actuator arranged to impart vibrational motion to said tool holder at said second end, (c) a control system including; i) a signal conditioner for generating a square wave from said plurality of position signals, ii) means for producing a 2 per rev sinusoidal signal which is phase locked to said square wave signal, iii) means for adjusting a magnitude and phase of said 2 per rev sinusoidal signal and producing a magnitude and phase adjusted output signal, and iv) an amplifier for amplifying said adjusted output signal, whereby a non-circular profile is machined on the work piece with minimum and maximum dimensions precisely located in desired positions and where a desired amount of ovality is achieved. 24. A method for machining a non-circular profile on a work piece comprising the steps of: (a) positioning the work piece within a rotating chuck of a machine in a predetermined orientation, said work piece including an axis of rotation; (b) providing a plurality of sensors for deriving a plurality of signal representative of a rotational position of the work piece; (c) providing a tool block moveably mounted to the machine; (d) mounting a tool holder to said tool block such that a longitudinal axis of said holder is substantially parallel with said axis of rotation, said tool holder including a spring member allowing ease of movement of an end portion of said tool holder in a transverse direction; (e) connecting an actuator to said portion of said tool holder; (f) providing a control system; (g) processing said plurality of input signals within said control system to produce a magnitude and phase adjusted output signal selected to provide a non-circular profile on the work piece, the magnitude being selected to provide the non-circular profile a desired amount of ovality and the phase being selected to provide the non-circular profile a maximum and minimum dimension in desired positions relative to the rotational position of the work piece; and (h) providing said adjusted output signal to said actuator to produce forces between the tool block and tool holder to machine the non-circular profile on the work piece responsive to said output signal. 25. The method of claim 24 wherein said control system further comprises means for manually adjusting of a magnitude and phase of said a plurality of input signals. 26. An apparatus, comprising: (a) a sensor producing a signal correlated with a member's motion, (b) a vibrating assembly including; (i) a base, (ii) a object mounted relative to said base, and (iii) an actuator interconnected between said base and said object, (c) a control system including: (i) means for generating a square wave based upon said signal, (ii) a waveform generator for producing a sinusoidal input which is phase locked to said square wave, said generator further comprising a plurality of center adjustable band pass filters, said generator further including feedback means for adjusting a band of each said filter, iii) means for adjusting a magnitude and phase of said sinusoidal input and producing a magnitude and phase adjusted output signal, and iv) an amplifier for amplifying said magnitude and phase adjusted output signal and producing an amplified output signal whereby said amplified output signal is provided to said actuator to vibrate said object. 27. An apparatus for machining of a non-circular profile on a work piece, the work piece having an axis of rotation, said apparatus comprising: (a) a position sensor that derives a position signal correlated with a rotational position of the work piece; (b) a vibrating tool assembly, the vibrating tool assembly comprising; (i) a rigid tool block, (ii) a tool holder including first and second ends defining a longitudinal axis, said tool holder mounted to said block at said first end and adapted to receive a machine tool at said second end, said tool holder including an integral spring member that allows movement of said second end of said tool holder in a transverse direction, said longitudinal axis of said tool holder being disposed substantially parallel to said axis of rotation, and (iii) an actuator positioned to impart vibrational motions to said second end of said tool holder along said transverse direction; and (c) a control system responsive to the position signal that generates an output signal connected to said actuator, said control system including, i) a signal conditioner circuit that generates a square wave responsive to the position signal, ii) a sinusoidal signal generation circuit responsive to the square wave that produces a two per revolution sinusoidal input signal, the two per revolution sinusoidal input signal being phase locked to said square wave, iii) a magnitude and phase adjusting circuit responsive to the two per revolution sinusoidal input signal that produces a magnitude and phase adjusted output signal, and iv) an amplifier circuit that amplifies said magnitude and phase adjusted output signal. 28. An apparatus for machining of a non-circular profile on a work piece, the work piece having an axis of rotation, said apparatus comprising: (a) a position sensor that derives a position signal correlated with a rotational position of the work piece; (b) a vibrating tool assembly, the vibrating tool assembly comprising; (i) a rigid tool block, (ii) a tool holder including first and second ends defining a longitudinal axis, said tool holder mounted to said block at said first end and adapted to receive a machine tool at said second end, said tool holder including an integral spring member that allows movement of said second end of said tool holder in a transverse direction, said longitudinal axis of said tool holder being disposed substantially parallel to said axis of rotation, said integral spring member having a transverse stiffness in the range of between about 5,000 lbf./in and about 9,000 lbf./in, and (iii) an actuator positioned to impart vibrational motions to said second end of said tool holder along said transverse direction; and (c) a control system responsive to the position signal that generates an output signal connected to said actuator, said control system including, i) a magnitude and phase adjusting circuit responsive to the position signal that produces a magnitude and phase adjusted output signal, and ii) an amplifier circuit that amplifies said magnitude and phase adjusted output signal. 29. An apparatus for machining of a non-circular profile on a work piece, the work piece having an axis of rotation, said apparatus comprising: (a) a plurality of position sensors that derive position signals correlated with a rotational position of the work piece; (b) a vibrating tool assembly, the vibrating tool assembly comprising; (i) a rigid tool block, (ii) a tool holder including first and second ends defining a longitudinal axis, said tool holder mounted to said block at said first end and adapted to receive a machine tool at said second end, said tool holder including an integral spring member that allows movement of said second end of said tool holder in a transverse direction, said longitudinal axis of said tool holder being disposed substantially parallel to said axis of rotation, and (iii) an actuator positioned to impart vibrational motions to said second end of said tool holder along said transverse direction; and (c) a control system responsive to the position signals that generates an output signal connected to said actuator, said control system including, i) a magnitude and phase adjusting circuit responsive to the position signals that produces a magnitude and phase adjusted output signal, and ii) an amplifier circuit that amplifies said magnitude and phase adjusted output signal. 30. An apparatus for machining of a non-circular profile on a work piece, the work piece having an axis of rotation, said apparatus comprising: (a) a position sensor that derives a position signal correlated with a rotational position of the work piece; (b) a vibrating tool assembly, the vibrating tool assembly comprising; (i) a rigid tool block, (ii) a tool holder including first and second ends defining a longitudinal axis, said tool holder mounted to said block at said first end and adapted to receive a machine tool at said second end, said tool holder including an integral spring member that allows movement of said second end of said tool holder in a transverse direction, said longitudinal axis of said tool holder being disposed substantially parallel to said axis of rotation, and (iii) an actuator positioned to impart vibrational motions to said second end of said tool holder along said transverse direction; (c) a vertical stiffener spring mounted between said second end of said tool holder and said tool block; and (d) a control system responsive to the position signal that generates an output signal connected to said actuator, said control system including, i) a magnitude and phase adjusting circuit responsive to the position signal that produces a magnitude and phase adjusted output signal, and ii) an amplifier circuit that amplifies said magnitude and phase adjusted output signal. 