An apparatus and method for loading products into a pneumatic tube carrier. The apparatus having a support with a linear truster mounted thereto. A rotary actuator is mounted at the lower end of the linear thruster for rotating action. A connecting arm is mounted on the lower end of the rotary actuator having a dual rod cylinder mounted thereon. A gripper is mounted at the end of the dual rod cylinder for gripping products. A logic controller is used for controlling and monitoring the loading of the products into the carrier.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for loading products into a pneumatic tube carrier, said apparatus comprising: support means; a linear thruster mounted to said support means; a rotary actuator mounted to the lower end of said linear thruster; a connecting arm mounted to the lower end of said rotary actuator; a dual rod cylinder mounted to said connecting arm; gripping means mounted to said dual rod cylinder; and a logic controller for controlling and monitoring the loading of said products into said carrier; wherein said linear thruster controls said rotary actuator; wherein said rotary actuator controls said connecting arm; wherein said connecting arm connects said dual rod cylinder to said rotary actuator; and wherein said dual rod cylinder controls said gripping means. 2. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said gripping means further comprise sensors which indicate the presence or absence of said products. 3. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said apparatus further comprises an identification means for identifying the intended destination of said carriers. 4. An apparatus according to claim 2, wherein said identification means comprises barcode scanning. 5. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said apparatus further comprises an inspecting means for automatically verifying the contents of said carriers. 6. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said linear thruster provides vertical movement of said apparatus. 7. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said rotary actuator provides rotational movement of said apparatus to at least 180 degrees. 8. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said gripping means further comprise at least one pair of teeth. 9. An apparatus for automatically retrieving and loading products into a pneumatic tube carrier for delivery through a pneumatic tube transport system, said apparatus comprising: support means mounted to a base; a linear thruster; a rotary actuator; a dual rod cylinder; a connecting arm; gripping means for retrieving said product; and a logic controller for controlling and monitoring said apparatus; wherein said linear thruster is mounted to said support means and controls the vertical movement of said rotary actuator; wherein said rotary actuator is mounted to the lower end of said linear thruster and controls the rotational movement of said connecting arm; wherein said connecting arm is mounted to the lower end of said rotary actuator and connects said dual rod cylinder to said rotary actuator; and wherein said dual rod cylinder is mounted to said connecting arm and controls the lateral movement of said gripping means. 10. An apparatus according to claim 9, wherein said gripping means further comprise sensors which indicate the presence or absence of said products. 11. An apparatus according to claim 9, wherein said apparatus further comprises an identification means for identifying the intended destination of said carriers. 12. An apparatus according to claim 11, wherein said identification means comprises barcode scanning. 13. An apparatus according to claim 9, wherein said apparatus further comprises an inspecting means for automatically verifying the contents of said carriers. 14. An apparatus according to claim 9, wherein said linear thruster provides vertical movement of said apparatus. 15. An apparatus according to claim 9, wherein said rotary actuator provides rotational movement of said apparatus to at least 180 degrees. 16. An apparatus according to claim 9, wherein said gripping means further comprise at least one pair of teeth. 17. An apparatus according to claim 9, wherein said carrier is generally cylindrical and disposed about a longitudinal axis and comprise a hinge means such that said carrier is side opening. 18. A method for automatically retrieving products from a pick-up point and automatically loading said products into a pneumatic tube carrier for delivery to any of a plurality of destinations by means of a pneumatic tube transport system, said method comprising the steps of: positioning a gripping means at a product distributor; retrieving said product; moving said gripping means to said carrier; and loading said product into said carrier; wherein said gripping means is supported and controlled by a dual rod cylinder which is supported and controlled by a connecting arm which is controlled by and supported at lower end of a rotary actuator which is controlled by and supported at a lower end of a linear thruster which is mounted to a support means; and wherein said positioning, retrieving, moving and loading are controlled by a logic controller. 19. A method according to claim 18, wherein said gripping means comprises movable teeth having sensors thereon for detecting the presence or absence of said product. 20. A method according to claim 18, wherein said method further comprises the step of: identifying the intended destination of said product by means comprising barcode scanning. 