This invention provides receptor peptides that have a high affinity for STAT4 and STAT6 polypeptides. Also provided are assays that are useful for identifying compounds that modulate the interaction between STAT4 and STAT6 polypeptides and their respective cellular promoters. The assays are amenable to high throughput screening.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of screening for modulators of STAT6 binding to a STAT6 receptor, the method comprising: incubating a reaction mixture comprising a STAT6 polypeptide, a potential binding modulator, and a receptor peptide which comprises an amino acid sequence YX.sub.1 X.sub.2 X.sub.3 (SEQ ID NO:61), wherein the tyrosine is phosphorylated and: X.sub.1 is selected from the group consisting of K, V, R, I, M, and a first nonnatural amino acid; X.sub.2 is selected from the group consisting of P, A and S; and X.sub.3 is selected from the group consisting of W, Y, F, H, L and an aromatic second nonnatural amino acid; with the proviso that the peptide does not include the amino acid sequence YKPF (SEQ ID NO:2) or YKAF; and determining whether the binding of the STAT6 polypeptide to the receptor peptide is increased or decreased in comparison to an assay which lacks the potential binding modulator. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the receptor peptide comprises an amino acid sequence YX.sub.1 X.sub.2 X.sub.3 X.sub.4 (SEQ ID NO:62), wherein X.sub.4 is selected from the group consisting of D and G. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein X.sub.1 is a nonnatural amino acid selected from the group consisting of tert-butyl glycine, norvaline, cyclohexylalanine, and allothreonine. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein X.sub.3 is an aromatic nonnatural amino acid selected from the group consisting of p-iodophenylalanine, 1-napthylalanine, benzothiophenylalanine, 3-iodotyrosine, p-chlorophenylalanine, m-trifluoromethylphenylalanine, and o-chlorophenylalanine. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the receptor peptide comprises an amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of EGYVPWQDLI (SEQ ID NO:17), EGYKPZ.sub.1 QDLI (SEQ ID NO:39), and EGYZ.sub.2 PQWDLI (SEQ ID NO:32), wherein: Z.sub.1 is an aromatic nonnatural amino acid selected from the group consisting of p-iodophenylalanine, 1-napthylalanine, benzothiophenylalanine, 3-iodotyrosine, p-chlorophenylalanine, m-trifluoromethylphenylalanine, and o-chlorophenylalanine; and Z.sub.2 is a nonnatural amino acid is selected from the group consisting of tert-butyl glycine, norvaline, cyclohexylalanine, and allothreonine. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the receptor peptide is immobilized on a solid support. 7. A The method of claim 6, wherein the binding of the STAT6 polypeptide to the receptor peptide is detected by contacting the STAT6 polypeptide with a detection moiety which binds to the STAT6 polypeptide and comprises a detectable label. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the STAT6 polypeptide is preincubated with the detection moiety prior to incubating the receptor peptide with the STAT6 polypeptide. 9. The method of claim 6, wherein the binding of the STAT6 polypeptide to the receptor peptide is detected by contacting the STAT6 polypeptide with a primary antibody which binds to the STAT6 polypeptide, and contacting the primary antibody with a detection moiety which binds to the primary antibody and comprises a detectable label. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the primary antibody is preincubated with the detection moiety prior to incubating the primary antibody with the STAT6 polypeptide. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the STAT6 polypeptide is immobilized on a solid support. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the STAT6 polypeptide is immobilized by noncovalent interaction with the solid support. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the STAT6 polypeptide comprises a polyhistidine sequence and the solid support comprises Ni.sup.2+. 14. The method of claim 12, wherein the solid support comprises a hydrophobic surface and the STAT6 polypeptide is immobilized by hydrophobic interaction. 15. The method of claim 11, wherein the STAT6 polypeptide is immobilized by covalent attachment to the solid support. 16. The method of claim 11, wherein the receptor peptide is detected by contacting the receptor peptide with a detection moiety which binds to the receptor peptide and comprises a detectable label. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the receptor peptide is preincubated with the detection moiety prior to incubating the receptor peptide with the STAT6 polypeptide. 18. The method of claim 16, wherein the receptor peptide comprises a tag to which the detection moiety binds. 19. The method of claim 16, wherein the detection moiety comprises an antibody which binds to the receptor peptide. 20. The method of claim 16, wherein the detection moiety binds indirectly to the receptor peptide. 21. The method of claim 20, wherein the receptor peptide is contacted with a primary antibody which binds to the receptor peptide, and the primary antibody is contacted with a secondary antibody which comprises the detection moiety. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein the primary antibody is preincubated with the detection moiety prior to contacting the primary antibody with the receptor peptide. 