A method for chemically bonding semiconductor wafers and other materials to one another without exposing wafers to wet environments, and a bonding chamber for in situ plasma bonding are disclosed. The in situ plasma bonding chamber allows plasma activation and bonding to occur without disruption of the vacuum level. This precludes rinsing of the surfaces after placement in the chamber, but allows for variations in ultimate pressure, plasma gas species, and backfill gases. The resulting bonded materials are free from macroscopic and microscopic voids. The initial bond is much stronger than conventional bonding techniques, thereby allowing for rougher materials to be bonded to one another. These bonded materials can be used for bond and etchback silicon on insulator, high voltage and current devices, radiation resistant devices, micromachined sensors and actuators, and hybrid semiconductor applications. This technique is not limited to semiconductors. Any material with sufficiently smooth surfaces that can withstand the vacuum and plasma environments may be bonded in this fashion.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for in situ plasma bonding of wafers for silicon dioxide, silicon, silicon nitride or other materials where an insulating interface is desired, comprising the steps of: (i) cleaning the wafers, (ii) rinsing and drying the cleaned wafers, (iii) placing the wafers into a plasma chamber equipped with a bonding apparatus, (iv) exposing the wafers to a plasma which reduces the surface species of the candidate material, and (v) without breaking vacuum, placing the wafer surfaces together and into contact. 2. A method as recited in claim 1, wherein said plasma is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, oxygen, argon with hydrogen, NH.sub.4, and H/He. 3. A method for in situ plasma bonding of wafers for silicon dioxide, silicon, silicon nitride or other materials where an insulating interface is desired, comprising the steps of: (i) cleaning the wafers, (ii) rinsing and drying the cleaned wafers, (iii) placing the wafers into a plasma chamber equipped with a bonding apparatus, (iv) exposing the wafers to an oxygen plasma and reducing the surface species of the candidate material, and (v) without breaking vacuum, placing the wafer surfaces together and into contact. 4. A method for in situ plasma bonding of wafers for silicon dioxide, silicon, silicon nitride or other materials where an insulating interface is desired, comprising the steps of: (i) RCA cleaning the wafers omitting the HF dip for oxide surfaces; (ii) rinsing and drying the cleaned wafers, (iii) placing the wafers into a plasma chamber equipped with a bonding apparatus, (iv) exposing the wafers to 100 Watt RF oxygen plasma for at least 5 seconds, and (v) without breaking vacuum, placing the wafer surfaces together and into contact. 5. A method for in situ plasma bonding of wafers for silicon, gallium arsenide, indium phosphide, or other materials where a direct contact without an interface is desired, (i) for silicon, cleaning the wafers, (ii) optionally rinsing and drying the cleaned wafers, (iii) placing the wafers into a plasma chamber equipped with a bonding apparatus, (iv) exposing the wafers to a plasma which reduces the surface species of the candidate material, and (v) without breaking vacuum, placing the wafer surfaces together and into contact. 6. A method as recited in claim 5, wherein said plasma is selected form the group consisting of hydrogen, oxygen, argon with hydrogen, NH.sub.4, and H/He. 7. A method for in situ plasma bonding of wafers for silicon, gallium arsenide, indium phosphide, or other materials where a direct contact without an interface is desired, comprising the steps of: (i) for silicon, cleaning the wafers, (ii) optionally rinsing and drying the cleaned wafers, (iv) placing the wafers into a plasma chamber equipped with a bonding apparatus, (iv) exposing the wafers to a plasma selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, argon with hydrogen, NH.sub.4, and H/HE, and (v) without breaking vacuum, placing the wafer surfaces together and into contact. 8. A method for in situ plasma bonding of wafers for silicon, gallium arsenide, indium phosphide, or other materials where a direct contact without an interface is desired, (i) for silicon, RCA cleaning the wafers utilizing a HF dip or using another conventional state of the art cleaning method, (ii) optionally rinsing and drying the wafers, (iii) placing the wafers into a plasma chamber equipped with a bonding apparatus, (iv) exposing the wafers to 100 Watt RF plasma for at least 5 seconds, said plasma selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, argon with hydrogen, NH.sub.4, and H/He, and (v) without breaking vacuum, placing the wafer surfaces together and into contact. 