An input control device with force sensors is configured to sense hand movements of a surgeon performing a robot-assisted microsurgery. The sensed hand movements actuate a mechanically decoupled robot manipulator. A microsurgical manipulator, attached to the robot manipulator, is activated to move small objects and perform microsurgical tasks. A force-feedback element coupled to the robot manipulator and the input control device provides the input control device with an amplified sense of touch in the microsurgical manipulator.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot-assisted microsurgery system comprising: (a) an input control device having force sensors and a handle, where the force sensors are configured to sense hand movements of an operator holding the handle; (b) at least one robot manipulator coupled to the input control device, the at least one robot manipulator including: (1) a plurality of joints with mechanically decoupled axes for transferring input commands from the input control device, through one joint in order to actuate another joint, without affecting the motion of any other joints; and (2) an end effector having at least one microsurgical manipulator configured to manipulate objects to perform microsurgical tasks; (c) a force-feedback element coupled to at least one robot manipulator and the input control device, the force-feedback element configured to provide the input control device with an exaggerated sense of touch in the microsurgical manipulator. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the input control device handle has an activation switch to enable or disable control of the at least one robot manipulator. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the input control device handle has activation switches to allow movement of the microsurgical manipulator on the at least one robot manipulator. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the exaggerated sense of touch is generated by amplifying forces sensed by the microsurgical manipulator. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the input control device has a robot arm with a plurality of joints that are mechanically decoupled for transferring hand motion through one joint in order to actuate another joint, without affecting the motion of any other joints. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein the input control device handle has activation switches to enable or disable control of the at least one robot manipulator and to allow movement of the microsurgical manipulator on the at least one robot manipulator. 7. The system of claim 6, wherein the activation switches are configured in a voltage divider network, such that an output of the voltage divider network is converted into a digital form and decoded into a discrete form for wider range of operation. 8. A robot-assisted microsurgery system comprising: (a) at least one robot manipulator with a plurality of joints that are mechanically decoupled for transferring input commands through one joint in order to actuate another joint, without affecting the motion of any other joints, and at least one microsurgical manipulator coupled to the plurality of joints and configured to manipulate objects to perform microsurgical tasks; (a) an input control device coupled to at least one robot manipulator, the input control device including: (1) a handle with activation switches to enable or disable at least one robot manipulator and to allow movement of the microsurgical manipulator on the at least one robot manipulator; and (2) force sensors configured to sense hand movements of an operator holding the handle; (c) a force-feedback element coupled to at least one robot manipulator and the input control device, the force-feedback element configured to provide the input control device with an exaggerated sense of touch in the microsurgical manipulator. 9. The system of claim 8, wherein the exaggerated sense of touch is generated by amplifying forces sensed by the microsurgical manipulator. 10. The system of claim 8, wherein the input control device has a robot arm with a plurality of joints that are mechanically decoupled for transferring hand motion through one joint in order to actuate another joint, without affecting the motion of any other joints. 11. The system of claim 8, wherein the activation switches are configured in a voltage divider network, such that an output of the voltage divider network is converted into a digital form and decoded into a discrete form for wider range of operation. 12. A method of performing a robot-assisted microsurgery comprising: (a) inputting operator hand movement to force sensors using an input control device handle; (b) actuating a plurality of joints, where the actuation corresponds to the operator hand movement detected by the force sensors; (c) activating at least one microsurgical manipulator to perform microsurgical tasks; and (d) providing an amplified feedback of the force felt by the at least one microsurgical manipulator to the input control device handle. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the input control device handle has an activation switch to enable or disable actuation of the plurality of joints. 14. The method of claim 12, wherein the input control device handle has activation switches to allow movement of the at least one microsurgical manipulator. 15. The method of claim 12, wherein the input control device handle has activation switches to enable or disable actuation of the plurality of joints and to allow movement of the at least one microsurgical manipulator. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the activation switches are configured in a voltage divider network, such that an output of the voltage divider network is converted into a digital form and decoded into a discrete form for wider range of operation. 17. A virtual reality system comprising: (a) a microprocessor-controlled system for generating a virtual reality environment; (b) a plurality of input control devices configured to sense operator body movements, each device having a plurality of joints that are mechanically decoupled for transferring input commands through one joint in order to actuate another joint, without affecting the motion of any other joints, where the operator body movements are translated into corresponding movements in the virtual reality environment; and (c) a plurality of force-feedback elements, each force-feedback element coupled to one of the plurality of input control devices, the plurality of force-feedback elements configured to provide the input control devices with feedback of the senses created in the virtual reality environment. 18. The system of claim 17, wherein the plurality of input control devices have activation switches to enable or disable control of objects in the virtual reality environment. 19. A virtual augmentation system to a real-environment configuration, the system comprising: (a) a microprocessor-controlled system for generating a virtual reality environment; (b) a plurality of input control devices configured to sense operator body movements, each device having a plurality of joints that are mechanically decoupled for transferring input commands through one joint in order to actuate another joint, without affecting the motion of any other joints, where the operator body movements are translated into corresponding movements in a real environment with certain limitations placed on the movement by a virtual reality environment; and (c) a plurality of force-feedback elements, each force-feedback element coupled to one of the plurality of input control devices and configured to provide the input control device with feedback of the senses created in the virtual reality environment to limit movements in the real environment. 20. The system of claim 19, wherein the plurality of input control devices have activation switches to enable or disable control of objects in the virtual reality and real environments. 21. A microsurgical training system comprising: (a) a master input control device configured to sense operator body movements, and having a plurality of joints that are mechanically decoupled for transferring input commands through one joint in order to actuate another joint, without affecting the motion of any other joints; (b) at least one force-feedback element coupled to the master input control device; and (c) at least one slave device coupled to the at least one force-feedback element, the force-feedback element configured to receive the operator body movements from the master input control device, such that the operator body movements of the master input control device are replicated in the at least one slave device. 22. The system of claim 21, further comprising: a data collection and storage device coupled to the master input control device to collect and store the operator body movements for subsequent replay. 