An apparatus for providing a tactile stimulus to a part of the body of a physical operator when a virtual operator, created by movements of the physical operator, encounters a virtual object defined by a computer. A signaling unit communicates with the computer and emits a signal when the virtual operator encounters a virtual object. A stimulus unit responsive to the signaling unit is disposed in close proximity to a part of the body of the physical operator for providing a tactile stimulus when the virtual operator encounters a virtual object. The stimulus unit may comprise a segment of memory metal which undergoes a martensitic transformation to a different form or a solenoid having a member which moves in response to a signal emitted by the signaling unit. A vibrating member, such as a piezoceramic bender may be used instead of or in addition to the solenoid or memory metal.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus for providing a stimulus to a human operator, the apparatus for use in a virtual reality system in which a part of the body of the human operator is depicted as a virtual body part in a visual display, the apparatus comprising: a signaling unit configured to provide an indication in response to the virtual body part contacting a virtual object; and a solenoid for providing a stimulus to the human operator in response to the indication from the signaling unit. 2. The apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein the solenoid provides a tactile stimulus to the part of the body of the human operator which is depicted by the virtual body part. 3. The apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein the solenoid is disposed in close proximity to a part of the body of the human operator; and wherein the solenoid is coupled to a signal generator, wherein the signal generator is operable to produce, depending upon the indication from the signaling unit, a signal that causes the solenoid to move, whereby a movement of the solenoid imparts a tactile stimulus to the human operator. 4. The apparatus as recited in claim 3, wherein the signal generator comprises a transistor coupled to selectively control a flow of current through the solenoid depending upon the indication from the signaling unit, and wherein the signal generator provides a periodic signal to the transistor when the virtual operator contacts the virtual object. 5. The apparatus as recited in claim 3, wherein the solenoid is positioned on a fabric to be placed in close proximity to a part of the body of the human operator. 6. The apparatus as recited in claim 5, wherein the solenoid is positioned on the fabric such that the solenoid encircles a part of the body of the human operator when the fabric is worn by the human operator. 7. The apparatus as recited in claim 6, the part of the body encircled by the solenoid is a finger. 8. The apparatus as recited in claim 1, further comprising a glove to be worn by the human operator, wherein the solenoid is attached to the glove. 9. The apparatus as recited in claim 1, further comprising a glove to be worn by the human operator, wherein the glove includes an inner layer and an outer layer, and wherein at least a portion of the solenoid is disposed between the inner layer and the outer layer of the glove. 10. The apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein the solenoid includes a coil and a plurality of magnets, wherein the plurality of magnets vibrate to provide a tactile stimulus to the human operator in response to the indication from the signaling unit. 11. The apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein the solenoid includes a plunger, and wherein the plunger projects against the human operator to provide a tactile stimulus to the human operator in response to the indication from the signaling unit. 12. An apparatus for interacting with a virtual object represented within a display, the apparatus comprising: a glove adapted to be worn on a part of a user's body; a processing system configured to generate a virtual representation of the part of the user's body on the display; a signaling unit configured to provide an indication in response to the virtual representation of the part of the user's body contacting the virtual object within the display; and a solenoid configured to provide a tactile stimulus to the user depending upon the indication from the signaling unit. 13. The apparatus as recited in claim 12, further comprising a position sensor for detecting a position of the glove. 14. The apparatus as recited in claim 13, wherein the position sensor includes a transmitter and a receiver, wherein the transmitter conveys a wireless transmission to the receiver, and wherein the position sensor is configured to determine the position of the glove depending upon the wireless transmission. 15. The apparatus as recited in claim 14, wherein the transmitter is an ultrasonic transmitter. 16. The apparatus as recited in claim 12, wherein the solenoid is disposed in close proximity to a part of the body of the human operator; and wherein the solenoid is coupled to a signal generator, wherein the signal generator is operable to produce, depending upon the indication from the signaling unit, a signal to cause the solenoid to move, whereby a movement of the solenoid imparts a tactile stimulus to the human operator. 17. The apparatus as recited in claim 12, wherein the glove includes an inner layer and an outer layer, and wherein at least a portion of the solenoid is disposed between the inner layer and the outer layer of the glove. 18. An apparatus for interacting with a virtual object represented within a display, the apparatus comprising: a processing system configured to generate a virtual representation of a part of a user's body on the display; a signaling unit configured to provide an indication in response to the virtual representation of the part of the user's body contacting the virtual object within the display; and a solenoid configured to provide a stimulus to the user depending upon the indication from the signaling unit. 19. An apparatus for use with a virtual reality system, the apparatus comprising: a glove adapted to be worn on a part of a user's body; and a solenoid attached to the glove, wherein the solenoid is configured to provide a tactile stimulus to the user depending upon a signal from the virtual reality system. 20. The apparatus as recited in claim 19, further comprising a flex sensor attached to the glove, wherein the flex sensor Aerates a signal indicative of a flexing of the part of the user's body. 21. A method for providing a stimulus to a part of a body of a human operator using a virtual reality system in which the part of the body of the human operator is depicted as a virtual body part in a visual display, the method comprising: producing an indication in response to the virtual body part contacting a virtual object; and activating a solenoid in response to the indication to provide a tactile stimulus to the human operator. 22. The method as recited in claim 21, wherein the tactile stimulus is provided to the part of the body of the human operator which is depicted by the virtual body part. 23. The method as recited in claim 21, further comprising the human operator wearing a glove including the solenoid which provides the tactile stimulus. 24. A method for providing a tactile stimulus to a part of a body of a human operator using a virtual reality system in which a virtual operator controlled by the human operator manipulates virtual objects, the method comprising: disposing a solenoid in close proximity to a part of the body of the human operator; producing a signal when the virtual operator contacts the virtual object; and applying a current in response to the signal sufficient to cause the solenoid to move, whereby a movement of the solenoid imparts a tactile stimulus to the human operator. 