This invention provides methods by which biologically derived DNA sequences in a mixed sample or in an arrayed single sequence clone can be determined and classified without sequencing. The methods make use of information on the presence of carefully chosen target subsequences, typically of length from 4 to 8 base pairs, and preferably the length between target subsequences in a sample DNA sequence together with DNA sequence databases containing lists of sequences likely to be present in the sample to determine a sample sequence. The preferred method uses restriction endonucleases to recognize target subsequences and cut the sample sequence. Then carefully chosen recognition moieties are ligated to the cut fragments, the fragments amplified, and the experimental observation made. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is the preferred method of amplification. Another embodiment of the invention uses information on the presence or absence of carefully chosen target subsequences in a single sequence clone together with DNA sequence databases to determine the clone sequence. Computer implemented methods are provided to analyze the experimental results and to determine the sample sequences in question and to carefully choose target subsequences in order that experiments yield a maximum amount of information.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for identifying, classifying, or quantifying one or more proteins in a sample comprising a plurality of amino acids having different amino acid sequences, said method comprising: (a) probing said sample with one or more recognition means, each recognition means recognizing a different target amino acid subsequence or a different set of target amino acid subsequences; (b) generating one or more output signals from said sample probed by said recognition means, each output signal being produced from a protein in said sample by recognition of one or more target amino acid subsequences in said protein by said recognition means and comprising a representation of (i) the length between occurrences of target amino acid subsequences in said protein, and (ii) the identities of said target amino acid subsequences in said protein or the identities of said sets of target amino acid subsequences among which are included the target amino acid subsequences in said protein; and (c) searching an amino acid sequence database to determine sequences that are predicted to produce or the absence of any sequences that are predicted to produce said one or more output signals produced by said protein, said database comprising a plurality of known amino acid sequences of proteins that may be present in the sample, a sequence from said database being predicted to produce said one or more output signals when the sequence from said database has both (i) the same length between occurrences of target amino acid subsequences as is represented by said one or more output signals, and (ii) the same target amino acid subsequences as are represented by said one or more output signals, or target amino acid subsequences that are members of the same sets of target amino acid subsequences represented by said one or more output signals, whereby said one or more proteins in said sample are identified, classified, or quantified. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein each recognition means recognizes one target amino acid subsequence, and wherein a sequence from said database is predicted to produce a particular output signal when the sequence from said database has both the same length between occurrences of target amino acid subsequences as is represented by the output signal and the same target amino acid subsequences as represented by the particular output signal. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein each recognition means recognizes a set of target amino acid subsequences, and wherein a sequence from said database is predicted to produce a particular output signal when the sequence from said database has both the same length between occurrences of target amino acid subsequences as is represented by the particular output signal, and the target amino acid subsequences are members of the sets of target amino acid subsequences represented by the particular output signal. 4. The method of claim 1 further comprising dividing said sample of proteins into a plurality of portions and performing the steps of claim 1 individually on a plurality of said portions, wherein a different one or more recognition means are used with each portion. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the quantitative abundances of proteins in said sample are determined from the quantitative levels of the output signals produced by said proteins. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein the protein is prepared from a plant, a single celled animal, a multicellular animal, a bacterium, a virus, a fungus, or a yeast. 7. The method of claim 5 wherein the recognition means are one or more protein cleaving agents whose recognition sites are said target amino acid subsequences, and wherein the step of probing further comprises cleaving the sample into fragments with said one or more protein cleaving agents. 8. The method of claim 7 further comprising: (a) identifying a fragment of a protein in the sample which generates said one or more output signals; and (b) recovering said fragment. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein the output signals generated by said recovered fragment are not predicted to be produced by a sequence in said amino acid sequence database. 10. The method of claim 7 wherein the step of generating further comprises separating protein fragments by length. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein the step of generating further comprises detecting said separated protein fragments. 12. The method of claim 11 wherein the abundance of a protein comprising a particular amino acid sequence in the sample is determined from the level of the one or more output signals produced by said protein that are predicted to be produced by said particular amino acid sequence. 13. The method of claim 11 wherein said representation of the length between occurrences of target amino acid subsequences is the length of fragments determined by said separating and detecting steps. 14. The method of claim 11 wherein said separating is carried out by use of liquid chromatography or mass spectrometry. 15. The method of claim 11 wherein said separating is carried out by use of electrophoresis. 16. The method of claim 15 wherein said electrophoresis is carried out in a gel arranged in a slab or arranged in a capillary using a denaturing or non-denaturing medium. 17. The method of claim 1 wherein a predetermined one or more amino acid sequences in said database are of interest, and wherein the target amino acid subsequences are such that said sequences of interest are predicted to produce at least one output signal that is not predicted to be produced by other amino acid sequences in said database. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein the amino acid sequences of interest are a majority of the sequences in said database. 19. The method of claim 1 wherein the target amino acid subsequences are such that amino acid sequences in said database comprise on average a sufficient number of occurrences of target amino acid subsequences in order to on average be predicted to produce an output signal that is not predicted to be produced by any other amino acid sequence in said database. 20. The method of claim 1 wherein the target amino acid subsequences are selected according to the further steps comprising: (a) predicting a pattern of signals that can be produced and the sequences predicted to produce each such signal by simulating the steps of probing and generating using sequences in said database of amino acid sequences; (b) ascertaining an amount of information in said determined pattern of signals, said amount being indicated by the numerical value of an information measure, said information measure being computed from said determined pattern of signals and the sequences predicted to generate each such signal in said pattern; and (c) choosing the target amino acid subsequences in order to predict a new pattern that maximizes said amount of information indicated by the information measure. 21. The method of claim 20 wherein said choosing step selects target subsequences which comprise the recognition sites of the one or more protein cleaving agents. 22. The method of claim 20 wherein said choosing step selects target amino acid subsequences which comprise recognition sites of one or more protein cleaving agents and one or more additional amino acids, said additional amino acids contiguous with said recognition sites. 23. The method of claim 20 wherein a predetermined one or more of the amino acid sequences present in said database of amino acid sequences are of interest, and the information measure is the number of said sequences of interest which are predicted to produce at least one output signal that is not predicted to be produced by any other amino acid sequence present in said database. 24. The method of claim 23 wherein said amino acid sequences of interest are a majority of the amino acid sequences present in said database. 25. The method of claim 20 wherein said choosing step is by a method comprising searching all combinations of target amino acid subsequences of length less than approximately 10. 26. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of searching comprises: (a) predicting a pattern of signals that can be produced and the sequences predicted to produce each such signal by simulating the steps of probing and generating using sequences in said database of amino acid sequences; and (b) determining the one or more amino acid sequences in said database that are predicted to produce said one or more output signals by finding in said pattern those signals that comprise a representation of (i) the same lengths between occurrences of target amino acid subsequences as is represented by the output signals, and (ii) the same target amino acid subsequences as are represented by the output signals, or target amino acid subsequences that are members of the same sets of target amino acid subsequences represented by the output signals. 27. The method of claim 26 wherein the step of predicting comprises: (a) searching for occurrences of said target amino acid subsequences or sets of target amino acid subsequences in amino acid sequences in said database of amino acid sequences; (b) determining the lengths between occurrences of said target amino acid subsequences or sets of target amino acid subsequences in the amino acid sequences of said database; and (c) storing in said pattern of signals predicted to be produced from the sequences of said database information representing that said amino acid sequences can produce output signals comprising a representation of the identities of said target amino acid subsequences and of said lengths between occurrences of said target amino acid subsequences. 28. A method for identifying or classifying a protein in a sample comprising a plurality of proteins having different amino acid sequences, said method comprising: (a) probing said protein with a plurality of recognition means, each recognition means recognizing a target amino acid subsequence or a set of target amino acid subsequences, in order to produce an output set of signals, each signal of said output set representing whether said target amino acid subsequence or one of said set of target amino acid subsequences is present in said protein; and (b) searching a amino acid sequence database, said database comprising a plurality of known amino acid sequences of proteins that may be present in the sample, for sequences predicted to produce said output set of signals, a sequence from said database being predicted to produce an output set of signals when the sequence from said database (i) comprises the same target amino acid subsequences represented as present, or comprises target amino acid subsequences that are members of the sets of target amino acid subsequences represented as present by the output set of signals, and (ii) does not comprise the target amino acid subsequences not represented as present or that are members of the sets of target amino acid subsequences not represented as present by the output set of signals, whereby the protein is identified or classified. 29. The method of claim 28 wherein the set of signals are represented by a hash code which is a binary number. 30. The method of claim 28 wherein the step of probing produces an output set of signals further representing the numbers of occurrences of said target amino acid subsequences or of members of said sets of target amino acid subsequences in said protein. 31. The method of claim 31 wherein an amino acid sequence from said database is predicted to produce said output set of signals when the sequence from said database (i) comprises the same target amino acid subsequences with the same number of occurrences in said sequence, or comprises target amino acid subsequences that are members of the same sets of target amino acid subsequences with the same number of occurrences in said sequence, represented as present by said output set of signals, and (ii) does not comprise the target amino acid subsequences not represented as present or that are members of the sets of target amino acid subsequences not represented as present by said output set of signals. 32. The method of claim 32 wherein the target amino acid subsequences are selected according to the further steps comprising: (a) predicting a pattern of sets of signals that can be produced and the sequences predicted to produce each set of signals in said pattern by simulating the step of probing using sequences in said database of amino acid sequences; (b) ascertaining an amount of information in said determined pattern of sets of signals, said amount being indicated by the value of an information measure, said information measure being computed from said determined pattern of sets of signals and the sequences predicted to produce each such set of signals in said pattern; and (c) choosing the target amino acid subsequences in order to predict a new pattern that maximizes said amount of information indicated by the information measure. 33. The method of claim 31 wherein the step of searching comprises: (a) predicting a pattern of sets of one or more signals that can be produced and the sequences capable of generating each set of signals in said pattern by simulating the step of probing using sequences in said database of amino acid sequences; and (b) determining one or more amino acid sequences that are predicted to produce said output set of signals by finding in said pattern those sets of signals that comprise a representation of the presence of the same target amino acid subsequences as are represented as present or target amino acid subsequences that are members of the sets of target amino acid subsequences represented as present by the output set of signals and (ii) does not represent as present the target amino acid subsequences not represented as present or that are members of the sets of target amino acid subsequences not represented as present by the output set of signals. 34. The method of claim 33 wherein the information measure is the number of sets of signals in the pattern which are predicted to be produced by one or more sequences in said database. 35. The method of claim 33 wherein the information measure is the number of sets of signals in the pattern which are predicted to be produced by only one sequence in said database. 36. The method of claim 33 wherein said choosing step is by a method comprising searching all combinations of target amino acid subsequences of length less than approximately 10. 37. The method of claim 33 or 32 wherein the step of predicting by simulating the probing further comprises: (a) searching for said target amino acid subsequences or sequences in said sets of target amino acid subsequences in amino acid sequences in said database of amino acid sequences; and (b) storing in said pattern of sets of signals predicted to be produced from said sequences in said database information representing that said amino acid sequences can produce sets of signals comprising a representation of the identities of said target amino acid subsequences or said sets of target amino acid subsequences found in said searching step. 38. The method of claim 37 where the step of searching is carried out by a string search. 39. The method of claim 37 wherein the step of searching comprises counting the number of occurrences of said target subsequences in each amino acid sequence. 