An apparatus and method are provided for integrating an intelligent manufacturing system with an expert sheet metal planning and bending system. The intelligent manufacturing system manages and distributes part design and manufacturing information throughout the locations of a production facility. The expert planning system includes a plurality of expert modules for proposing a bending plan, including bend sequence and tooling selections, and robot motion planning and repositioning. Through the various features and aspects of the present invention, an operator can selectively modify and adapt these integrated systems for particular bend applications, including robot-based and human assisted bending operations.
Claims What is claimed: 1. An integrated system for developing a bending plan for a sheet metal part to be produced, said system comprising: an intelligent manufacturing system which creates a bend model of said sheet metal part; an expert planning system which develops and proposes bending plan information related to a bending plan for producing said sheet metal part based on said bend model; and an interface module which generates and transfers messages from said intelligent manufacturing system to said expert planning system, said expert planning system developing said bending plan information based on said messages. 2. A system according to claim 1, wherein said messages are generated by said interface module based on a Feature Exchange Language (FEL), said FEL messages being transferred by said interface module to initialize said expert planning system and to transfer setup information. 3. A system according to claim 1, wherein said expert planning system comprises a plurality of expert modules, and said interface module comprises a conveying system to convey, to said expert planning system, a set of said plurality of expert modules that are selected. 4. A system according to claim 3, wherein said conveying system conveys said set of said plurality of expert modules that are selected based on a Feature Exchange Language (FEL) command. 5. A system according to claim 4, wherein said FEL command comprises a TYPE EXPERTS command indicating said set of said plurality of expert modules that are selected. 6. A system according to claim 1, further comprising a constraint system which selectively constrains said bending plan information developed by said expert planning system based on a defined constraint. 7. A system according to claim 6, further comprising an indicating module that communicates a constraint phrase, that conveys said defined constraint, based on a Feature Exchange Language (FEL) command. 8. A system according to claim 7, wherein said FEL command comprises a TYPE OPTIONS command and a CONSTRAINTS command to indicate said constraint phrase. 9. A system according to claim 1, wherein said intelligent manufacturing system and said expert planning system comprise computer-based applications, said interface module comprising sockets which transfer messages and information between said applications of said intelligent manufacturing system and said expert planning system. 10. A system according to claim 1, said expert planning system comprising a transfer system to transfer said bending plan information to said interface module, said bending plan information being transferred based on Feature Exchange Language (FEL) messages, said interface module comprising a system that detects said bending plan information from said expert planning system based on said FEL messages and transfers said bending plan information to said intelligent manufacturing system. 11. A computer program embodied on a computer readable program for use in an integrated sheet metal manufacturing and production system, comprising: a bend modeling system that develops a bend model of a sheet metal part to be produced; an expert planning system that develops bending plan information related to a bending plan for producing said sheet metal part based on said bend model, said expert planning system including a plurality of expert modules; and a selector that selects a set of said plurality of expert modules in order to adapt said expert planning system for different bending applications, said expert planning system developing said bending plan information based on said set of plurality of expert modules that are selected. 12. A computer program according to claim 11, wherein said selector for selecting said set of said plurality of expert modules comprises an indicator that indicates to said expert planning system said set of said plurality of expert modules that are selected. 13. A computer program according to claim 12, wherein said indictor said set of said plurality of expert modules that are selected based on Feature Exchange Language (FEL) commands. 14. A computer program according to claim 13, wherein said FEL commands comprise a TYPE EXPERTS command to indicate said set of said plurality of expert modules that are selected. 15. A computer program according to claim 11, wherein said different bending applications comprise robot-assisted bending operations and manual, operator-assisted bending operations. 16. A computer program according to claim 11, said plurality of expert modules comprising a planning expert module, said planning expert module proposing and developing a bend sequence based on said bend model. 17. A computer program according to claim 16, said plurality of expert modules further comprising a tooling expert module, a holding expert module and a motion expert module. 18. A computer program according to claim 17, said planning expert module comprising a selecting system that selectively queries said tooling expert module, said holding expert module or said motion expert module to obtain expert information and to develop said bend sequence. 19. A computer program according to claim 18, wherein said tooling expert module provides tooling information to said planning expert module, said tooling information including a tool type needed for performing a bend operation in said bend sequence. 20. A computer program according to claim 18, wherein said holding expert module provides holding information to said planning expert module, said holding information including a location where a robot can grasp said sheet metal part during a bend operation in said bend sequence. 21. A computer program according to claim 18, wherein said motion expert module generates and provides motion plan information to said planning expert module, said motion plan information including a robot motion path for handling said sheet metal part to perform bending operations in said bend sequence. 22. A computer program according to claim 18, said planning expert module further comprising a generator that generates said bending plan information based on said bend sequence and said expert information obtained from said expert modules that are selected. 23. A computer program according to claim 11, further comprising a constrainor that selectively constrains said bending plan information developed by said expert planning system based on a defined constraint. 24. A computer program according to claim 23, said constrainer comprising a constraint manager for developing a constraint phrase in accordance with said defined constraint, and a conveyor that conveys said constraint phrase to said expert planning means, said expert planning system including a developer that develops said bending plan information based on said constraint phrase. 25. A computer program according to claim 24, wherein said defined constraint comprises a bend sequence constraint, said constraint manager developing said constraint phrase based on said bend sequence constraint. 26. A computer program according to claim 11, wherein said bending plan information developed by said expert planning system comprises a bend sequence for performing bending operations and producing said sheet metal part. 27. A computer program according to claim 26, further comprising an indicator that indicates said bend sequence developed by said expert planning system and a modifier that selectively modifies said bend sequence. 28. A computer program embodied on a computer readable medium for developing a bending plan for producing a sheet metal part in accordance with one of a plurality of bending applications, said bending applications including a robot-assisted bending application and a manual, operator-assisted bending application, the computer program comprising: creating a bend model of said sheet metal part to be produced, said bend model comprising bend model data; selecting a set of a plurality of expert modules in accordance with one of said plurality of bending applications; developing a proposed bending plan based on said set of said plurality of expert modules that are selected; causing said proposed bending plan to be displayed; and storing said proposed bending plan as a final bending plan under a predetermined condition. 29. A computer program according to claim 28, wherein said proposed bending plan is stored as the final bending plan after said proposed bending plan has been reviewed and confirmed by an operator. 30. A computer program according to claim 28, the computer program comprising deleting said proposed bending plan when said proposed bending plan is not confirmed by an operator, entering a constraint to selectively constrain said set of said expert modules that are selected, and developing another proposed bending plan with said set of said expert modules in accordance with said constraint. 31. A computer program according to claim 28, wherein said plurality of expert modules are selected based on a Feature Exchange Language (FEL) command. 32. A computer program according to claim 31, wherein said FEL command comprises a TYPE EXPERTS command to indicate said set of said expert modules that are selected. 33. A computer program according to claim 28, said plurality of expert modules comprising a planning expert module, said proposed bending plan being developed by proposing and developing a bend sequence with said planning expert module based on said bend model data. 34. A computer program according to claim 33, said plurality of expert modules further comprising a tooling expert module, a holding expert module and a motion expert module, the computer program further comprising selectively querying said tooling expert module, said holding expert module or said motion expert module with said planning expert module to obtain expert information and to develop said bend sequence. 35. A computer program embodied on a computer readable medium for use in an integrated sheet metal manufacturing and production system, comprising: a bend modeling system that develops a bend model of a sheet metal part to be produced; an expert planning system that develops a bending plan for producing said sheet metal part based on said bend model; and a constraint that selectively constrains said bending plan developed by said expert planning system based on a defined constraint, said constraint including a constraint manager which develops a constraint phrase in accordance with said defined constraint, wherein said expert planning system develops said bending plan in accordance with said constraint phrase. 36. A computer program according to claim 35, wherein said defined constraint comprises a bend sequence constraint, said constraint manager developing said constraint phrase based on said bend sequence constraint. 37. A computer program according to claim 36, wherein said constraint manager comprises a developer that develops an initial constraint phrase based on said bend sequence, a detector that detects co-linear bends in said sheet metal part, and a modifier that modifies said initial constraint phrase based on the detection of said co-linear bends. 38. A computer program according to claim 37, said constraint manager further comprising a Z-bend detector that detects Z-bends in said sheet metal part, and a Z-bend modifier that modifies said initial constraint phrase based on the detection of said Z-bends. 39. A computer program according to claim 38, wherein Z-bend modifier modifies said initial constraint phrase based on said Z-bend detector detecting Z-bends in accordance with the following: Z<N.times.T, wherein "Z" is the height of the Z-bend, "T" is the thickness of said sheet metal part, and "N" is a predetermined coefficient. 40. A computer program according to claim 35, wherein said defined constraint comprises a tool selection constraint, said constraint manager developing said constraint phrase based on said tool selection constraint. 41. A computer program according to claim 35, further comprising an entry system that enters a bend sequence, said constraint manager developing said constraint phrase based on said bend sequence entered by the entry system. 42. A computer program according to claim 35, wherein said defined constraint comprises a partial bend sequence constraint, said constraint manager developing said constraint phrase based on said partial bend sequence constraint. 43. A computer program according to claim 35, further comprising an entry system that enters a bend sequence, said constraint manager developing said constraint phrase based on said bend sequence entered by the entry system, the entry system comprising a sequence table that includes an identification number for each bend in said sheet metal part and an associated bend sequence number in accordance with said bend sequence, said identification number for each bend being associated with a first set of bend identification numbers. 44. A computer program according to claim 43, further comprising a matching system that matches the first set of bend identification numbers with a second set of bend identification number based on a matching identification table, and a determiner that determines identification numbers for each bend in accordance with said second set of bend identification numbers and a translated bend sequence number based on said sequence table and said matching identification table. 45. A computer program according to claim 35, wherein said defined constraint comprises a plurality of constraint expressions, said constraint manager comprising a conflict detector that detects conflicts between said constraint expressions based on a presence of common operating constraints within a pair of said constraint expressions. 46. A computer program embodied on a computer readable medium for developing constraint phrases based on defined constraints, comprising: creating a bend model of a sheet metal part to be produced; defining a constraint, said defining comprising developing a constraint phrase in accordance with said defined constraint; and developing a bending plan for producing said sheet metal part, said bending plan being developed based on said bend model of said sheet metal part and said constraint phrase. 47. A computer program according to claim 46, further comprising developing said constraint phrase based on said bend sequence constraint, wherein the defined constraint comprises a bend sequence constraint. 48. A computer program according to claim 46, further comprising developing said constraint phrase based on said tool selection constraint, wherein the defined constraint comprises a tool selection constraint. 49. A computer program according to claim 46, further comprising creating a bend sequence, said constraint manager developing said constraint phrase based on said bend sequence that is created. 50. A computer program according to claim 46, wherein said constraint phrase is developed by developing an initial constraint phrase based on said bend sequence, detecting co-linear bends in said sheet metal part, and modifying said initial constraint phrase based on the detection of said co-linear bends. 51. A computer program according to claim 50, further comprising detecting Z-bends in said sheet metal part, and modifying said initial constraint phrase based on the detection of said Z-bends. 52. A computer program according to claim 46, further comprising detecting conflicts between said constraint expressions based on a presence of common operating constraints within a pair of said constraint expressions, the defined constraint comprising a plurality of constraint expressions. 53. A computer program embodied on a computer readable medium for use in an integrated sheet metal manufacturing and production system, comprising: a bend modeling system that creates a bend model of said sheet metal part; an expert planning system that develops bending plan information related to a bending plan for producing said sheet metal part based on said bend model; and an interface module that generates and transfers messages from said bend modeling system to said expert planning system, said expert planning system developing said bending plan information based on said messages, wherein said messages are generated by said interface module based on a Feature Exchange Language (FEL), said FEL messages being transferred by said interface module to initialize said expert planning system and to transfer setup information. 54. A computer program according to claim 53, said expert planning system comprises a plurality of expert modules, said bend modeling system further comprising a selector that selects a set of said plurality of expert modules in order to adapt said expert planning system for different bending applications, wherein said bending plan information is developed by said set of said plurality of expert modules that are selected. 55. A computer program according to claim 54, wherein said interface module comprises a conveyor that conveys, to said expert planning system, said set of said plurality of expert modules that are selected. 56. A computer program according to claim 55, wherein said conveyor conveys said set of said plurality of expert modules that are selected based on a Feature Exchange Language (FEL) command. 57. A computer program according to claim 56, wherein said FEL command comprises a TYPE EXPERTS command indicating said set of said plurality of expert modules that are selected. 58. A computer program embodied on a computer readable medium for use in an integrated sheet metal manufacturing and production system, said executable instructions of said computer program comprising: a bend modeling system that creates a bend model of said sheet metal part; an expert planning system that develops bending plan information related to a bending plan for producing said sheet metal part based on said bend model; an interface module that generates and transfers messages from said bend modeling system to said expert planning system; and a constraint manager which develops a constraint phrase in accordance with a defined constraint, said interface module comprising an indicating module which indicates said constraint phrase to said expert planning system, said expert planning system developing said bending plan information based on said constraint phrase. 59. A computer program according to claim 58, wherein said indicating module communicates said constraint phrase based on a Feature Exchange Language (FEL) command. 60. A computer program according to claim 59, wherein said FEL command comprises a TYPE OPTIONS command and a CONSTRAINTS command to indicate said constraint phrase. 61. A computer program according to claim 58, said interface module means comprising sockets which transfer messages and information between said bend modeling system and said expert planning system. 62. A computer program according to claim 61, said expert planning system comprising a transferring system that transfers the bending plan information to said interface module, said bending plan information being transferred based on Feature Exchange Language (FEL) messages, said interface module comprising a detector that detects the bending plan information from said expert planning system based on said FEL messages and a second transferring system that transfers the bending plan information to said bend modeling system. 63. A computer program embodied on a computer readable medium for use in an integrated sheet metal manufacturing and production system, comprising: a bend modeling system for creating a bend model of a sheet metal part to be produced, said bend model comprising bend model data; an expert planning system that develops, based on said bend model data, bending plan information for producing said sheet metal part; and an activating system that selectively activates said expert planning system for different bending applications, so that an operator may independently develop a bending plan based on said bend model or selectively activate said expert planning system to develop said bending plan information. 64. A computer program according to claim 63, said expert planning system comprising a plurality of expert modules, said computer program further comprising a selector that selects a set of said plurality of expert modules, wherein said bending plan information is developed by said set of said plurality of expert modules that are selected. 65. A computer program according to claim 64, wherein said set of said plurality of expert modules comprises all of said expert modules, said bending plan information being developed by all of said expert modules. 66. A computer program according to claim 64, wherein said set of said plurality of expert modules comprises at least one of said expert modules, said bending plan information being developed by said at least one of said expert modules. 67. A computer program according to claim 64, wherein said bending plan information comprises one or more items from the group including: a bend sequence, tool selection, tool stage layout, robot motion paths, repositioning and backgauge settings. 68. A computer program according to claim 63, said computer program further comprising a constraint that selectively constrains said bending plan information developed by said expert planning system based on a defined constraint. 69. A computer program according to claim 68, said constraint comprising a constraint manager for developing a constraint phrase in accordance with said defined constraint, said computer program further comprising an indicator that indicates the constraint phrase to said expert planning system, said expert planning system developing said bending plan information based on said constraint phrase. 70. A computer program according to claim 69, said computer program further comprising an entry system that enters a bend sequence, said constraint manager developing said constraint phrase based on said bend sequence entered by the entry system. 71. A computer program according to claim 69, wherein said defined constraint comprises a tool selection constraint, said constraint manager developing said constraint phrase based on said tool selection constraint. 72. A computer program according to claim 63, said plurality of expert modules comprising a planning expert module, said planning expert module proposing and developing a bend sequence based on said bend model. 73. A computer program according to claim 72, said plurality of expert modules further comprising a tooling expert module, a holding expert module and a motion expert module. 74. A computer program according to claim 73, said planning expert module comprising a querying system that selectively queries said tooling expert module, said holding expert module or said motion expert module to obtain expert information and to develop said bend sequence. 