A method of preparing a vehicle panel assembly for attaching the panel to a vehicle is disclosed which provides a "ready-to-install" panel assembly. The panel assembly includes first and second spaced sides, with the bead of heat activated adhesive provided on the second side of the panel. The panel and bead are heated preferably by applying shortwave and longwave infrared radiation, with the shortwave infrared radiation being applied to an adhesive free side of the panel to heat the panel and, thereby, indirectly heat the bead of the heat activated adhesive. The longwave infrared radiation is applied to the adhesive side of the panel to directly heat the bead and thereby activate the adhesive. The ready-to-install adhesive may be applied on or adjacent to a gasket, such as a polyvinyl chloride (PVC) molding, a urethane molding, or the like. Optionally, either during or after heating, the substrate is cooled in order to ease handling of the panel assembly after the bead of adhesive is activate and ready for installation.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of preparing a vehicle panel assembly for attaching the panel assembly to a vehicle, the vehicle panel assembly having a substrate and a bead of ready-to-install heat activated adhesive, the substrate having first and second sides and a peripheral portion, the bead being applied to the second side of the substrate and including a central core portion, an outer skin portion, and an interface portion on the second side of the substrate, said method comprising the steps of: heating the first side of the substrate whereby the substrate heats the interface portion of the bead to heat the central core portion of the bead; heating the outer skin portion of the bead thereby heating the central core portion of the bead and activating the ready-to-install heat activated adhesive; and cooling the substrate after heating to permit manual handling of the panel assembly after the adhesive is heat activated. 2. The method of preparing a vehicle panel assembly according to claim 1, wherein cooling includes directing a gaseous stream to the peripheral portion of the substrate to cool the substrate to permit handling of the vehicle panel assembly. 3. The method of preparing a vehicle panel assembly according to claim 2, wherein directing includes blowing one of air and an inert gas onto the peripheral portion of the substrate to thereby cool the substrate. 4. The method of preparing a vehicle panel assembly according to claim 3, wherein blowing includes blowing said one of air and an inert gas onto the peripheral portion at an angle in a range of approximately 0.degree. to 85.degree. from a central axis of the bead. 5. The method of preparing a vehicle panel assembly according to claim 2, wherein directing a gaseous stream includes localizing the gaseous stream on a peripheral portion of the substrate to cool the substrate. 6. The method of preparing a vehicle panel assembly according to claim 5, wherein localizing includes blowing the gaseous stream on the peripheral portion with a knife edge blower. 7. The method of preparing a vehicle panel assembly according to claim 1, further comprising balancing the heating and the cooling to ensure that the central core portion at least reaches its heat activation temperature while cooling the substrate below 250.degree. F. within a period of less than fifteen minutes after heating. 8. The method of preparing a vehicle panel assembly according to claim 7, wherein balancing includes heating the central core portion of the bead to at least a heat activated temperature in a range of 5 seconds to 10 minutes and cooling the substrate temperature below 120.degree. F. within a period of about two minutes after heating. 9. The method of preparing a vehicle panel assembly according to claim 1, further comprising balancing the heat on the first side and the heat on the second side to heat the central core portion to at least a heat activation temperature in a range of about 50.degree. C. to 160.degree. C. while maintaining an outer skin surface temperature at least no more than about 40.degree. C. greater than the central core portion temperature and cooling the substrate temperature below 120.degree. F. within a period of less than fifteen minutes after heating. 10. The method of preparing a vehicle panel assembly according to claim 1, wherein heating the first side of the substrate includes heating with shortwave infrared radiation. 11. The method of preparing a vehicle panel assembly according to claim 1, wherein heating the outer skin portion includes heating with longwave infrared radiation. 12. The method of preparing a vehicle panel assembly according to claim 11, wherein heating with longwave infrared radiation includes heating with a thermal mass temperature in a range of about 450.degree. F. to 900.degree. F. 13. The method of preparing a vehicle panel assembly according to claim 12, wherein said heating with longwave infrared radiation includes heating with a thermal mass temperature in a range of about 500.degree. F. to 750.degree. F. 14. The method of preparing a vehicle panel assembly according to claim 11, wherein cooling includes initiating the cooling after the adhesive has reached a heat activation temperature. 15. The method of preparing a vehicle panel assembly according to claim 14, wherein cooling includes directing air to the peripheral portion of the substrate. 16. The method of preparing a vehicle panel assembly according to claim 15, wherein directing includes blowing air onto the peripheral portion of the substrate. 17. The method of preparing a vehicle panel assembly according to claim 16, wherein blowing air includes localizing the air on the peripheral portion of the substrate. 18. The method of preparing a vehicle panel assembly according to claim 15, wherein heating the first side of the substrate includes heating with shortwave infrared radiation. 19. The method of preparing a vehicle panel assembly according to claim 18, wherein heating with shortwave infrared radiation includes heating with shortwave radiation having a peak emission of less than about 2.5 microns. 20. The method of preparing a vehicle panel assembly according to claim 18, further comprising directing the shortwave infrared radiation onto a portion of the substrate on the first side of the substrate aligned with the bead. 21. The method of preparing a vehicle panel assembly according to claim 15, wherein heating the outer skin of portion of the bead includes localizing the heating on the outer skin portion of the bead. 22. The method of preparing a vehicle panel assembly according to claim 21, wherein heating with longwave infrared radiation includes heating with a thermal mass in a range of about 450.degree. F. to 900.degree. F. 23. The method of preparing a vehicle panel assembly according to claim 14, further comprising balancing the cooling and the heating whereby the bead is heated to its heat activation temperature and the substrate of the vehicle panel is cooled to a temperature below 250.degree. F. within a period of less than fifteen minutes after the core portion reaches the heat activation temperature. 24. The method of preparing a vehicle panel assembly according to claim 1, further including initiating the cooling within a range of about 0 to 5 minutes after heating. 25. The method of preparing a vehicle panel assembly according to claim 1, wherein heating the first side of the substrate and heating the outer skin portion of the bead are substantially simultaneous. 26. The method of preparing a vehicle panel assembly according to claim 1, wherein one of heating the first side of the substrate and heating the outer skin portion of the bead is initiated after the other of the heating the first side of the panel and heating the outer skin of the bead. 27. The method of preparing a vehicle panel assembly according to claim 1, wherein heating the outer skin portion includes localizing heat on the bead of ready-to-install heat activated adhesive. 28. The method of preparing a vehicle panel assembly according to claim 27, whereby localizing includes providing a heat localizer having reflective sides, said reflective sides directing the heat on the bead. 29. The method of preparing a vehicle panel assembly according to claim 1, wherein heating the first side includes heating a portion of the first side of the substrate aligned with the bead. 30. The method of preparing a vehicle panel assembly according to claim 1, wherein the substrate includes a gasket, and heating the first side includes heating a portion of the first side of the substrate offset from the bead, the portion being adjacent the gasket. 31. The method of preparing a vehicle panel assembly for attaching the vehicle panel assembly to a vehicle, the vehicle panel assembly having a substrate and a bead of the heat activated adhesive, the substrate having first and second sides and a peripheral portion, the peripheral portion including a gasket formed thereon, the gasket extending over at least a portion of the second side of the substrate, and the bead of ready-to-install heat activated adhesive being applied to the gasket, the bead including an interface portion on the gasket, a central core portion, and an outer skin portion, said method comprising the steps of: heating the first side of the substrate adjacent the gasket whereby the substrate heats the gasket to heat the interface portion of the bead; and heating the outer skin portion of the bead to thereby heat the central core portion of the bead and activate the ready-to-install heat activated adhesive. 32. The method of preparing a vehicle panel assembly according to claim 31, further comprising cooling the substrate after heating the first side of the substrate and heating the outer skin portion of the bead. 33. The method of preparing a vehicle panel assembly according to claim 32, wherein cooling includes cooling the substrate after the ready-to-install heat activated adhesive is activated. 34. The method of preparing a vehicle panel assembly according to claim 32, wherein cooling includes cooling the substrate within a range of about 0 to 5 minutes after heating the first side of the substrate and heating the outer skin portion of the bead. 35. The method of preparing a vehicle panel assembly according to claim 32, wherein cooling includes directing air onto the substrate to cool the substrate. 36. The method of preparing a vehicle panel assembly according to claim 35, wherein directing air includes directing air onto the peripheral portion of the substrate. 37. The method of preparing a vehicle panel assembly according to claim 36, wherein directing air onto the peripheral portion includes directing air onto the peripheral portion at an angle in a range of approximately 0.degree. to 85.degree. from a central axis of the bead. 38. The method of preparing a vehicle panel assembly according to claim 32, wherein cooling includes blowing air with one of an air knife air blower assembly and a turbo fan. 39. The method of preparing a vehicle panel assembly according to claim 32, wherein cooling includes cooling the substrate to a temperature of 120.degree. F. or less within a period of two minutes or less after heating. 40. The method of preparing a vehicle panel assembly according to claim 31, wherein heating the first side of the substrate includes directing the heat onto a portion being offset from the bead of adhesive. 41. The method of preparing a vehicle panel assembly according to claim 40, wherein heating the outer skin portion of the bead includes localizing the heat on the bead to protect the gasket from the heat. 42. The method of preparing a vehicle panel assembly according to claim 31, wherein heating at least a portion of the first side includes heating with shortwave infrared radiation. 43. The method of preparing a vehicle panel assembly according to claim 42, wherein heating the outer skin portion includes heating with longwave infrared radiation. 44. A method of preparing a vehicle panel assembly for attaching to a vehicle, the vehicle panel assembly having a substrate and a bead of ready-to-install heat activated adhesive, the substrate including first and second sides and a peripheral portion, and the bead being provided on the second side of the substrate and including a central core portion, an outer skin portion and an interface portion on the second side of the substrate, said method comprising the steps of: heating the substrate with a shortwave radiation source thereby heating the bead with the substrate through the interface portion of the bead; heating the bead with a source of longwave infrared radiation whereby the core of the bead at least reaches an activation temperature; and cooling the substrate after heating the bead thereby permitting handling of the vehicle panel assembly after the bead of adhesive is activated. 45. The method of preparing a vehicle panel assembly according to claim 44, further comprising balancing the heating and the cooling such that the core of the bead of adhesive reaches its activation temperature and the substrate is cooled to a temperature of 120.degree. F. or less within a period of five minutes or less after heating. 46. The method of preparing a vehicle panel assembly according to claim 45, wherein heating the substrate includes localizing the heat from the shortwave infrared radiation source onto a portion of the first side of the substrate. 47. The method of preparing a vehicle panel assembly according to claim 44, wherein heating the bead includes localizing the heat from the longwave infrared radiation source onto the outer skin portion of the bead. 48. The method of preparing a vehicle panel assembly according to claim 44, wherein cooling includes blowing a gaseous stream onto the peripheral portion of the substrate. 49. The method of preparing a vehicle panel assembly according to claim 44, further comprising initiating the cooling within five minutes or less after heating. 50. The method of preparing a vehicle panel assembly according to claim 44, further comprising initiating the cooling within five minutes or less of the core portion of the bead reaching its activation temperature. 51. The method of preparing a vehicle panel assembly according to claim 46, wherein localizing includes localizing the heat on a portion of the first side of the substrate which is generally aligned with the bead. 52. The method of preparing a vehicle panel assembly according to claim 44, wherein heating the substrate includes positioning at least one heating lamp spaced from the first side of the substrate over the portion of the substrate and aligning the lamp with a central axis of the bead. 53. The method of preparing a vehicle panel assembly according to claim 52, wherein positioning includes spacing the lamp at a distance of less than twenty-four inches from the first side of the substrate. 54. The method of preparing a vehicle panel assembly according to claim 44, wherein heating the bead includes positioning the source of longwave radiation spaced from the second side of the substrate. 55. The method of preparing a vehicle panel assembly according to claim 54, wherein positioning includes spacing the source of longwave infrared radiation less than about twenty-four inches from the second side of the substrate. 56. The method of preparing a vehicle panel assembly according to claim 44, wherein said heating the substrate and heating the bead is substantially simultaneous. 