The present method and apparatus use image processing to determine information about the position of a designated object. The invention is particularly useful in applications where the object is difficult to view or locate. In particular, the invention is used in endoscopic surgery to determine positional information about an anatomical feature within a patient's body. The positional information is then used to position or reposition an instrument (surgical instrument) in relation to the designated object (anatomical feature). The invention comprises an instrument which is placed in relation to the designated object and which is capable of sending information about the object to a computer. Image processing methods are used to generated images of the object and determine positional information about it. This information can be used as input to robotic devices or can be rendered, in various ways (video graphics, speech synthesis), to a human user. Various input apparatus are attached to the transmitting or other used instruments to provide control inputs to the computer.
Claims We claim: 1. A surgical robotic system for use in minimally invasive surgery, the minimally invasive surgery performed at an internal surgical site of a patient body, the surgical robotic system comprising: a surgical instrument having a proximal end and a distal end, the instrument extendible distally through an incision to the internal surgical site; a robot supporting the proximal end of the instrument, the robot moving the instrument in response to motor signals; a voice recognition system for inputting spoken instructions; and a computer coupling the voice recognition system to the robot, the computer generating the motor signals in response to the spoken instructions to move the distal end of the surgical instrument at the internal surgical site by pivoting the instrument about the incision. 2. The surgical robotic system of claim 1, wherein the surgical instrument comprises an endoscope, and further comprising a monitor coupled to the endoscope for displaying an image of the internal surgical site. 3. The surgical robotic system of claim 2, wherein the distal end of the surgical instrument comprises a camera tip defining a camera coordinate frame, and wherein the computer calculates transformations between the camera coordinate frame and coordinate frames of the robot. 4. The surgical robotic system of claim 3, wherein the computer generates the motor signals using the transformations so that the camera tip moves in the internal surgical site to effect an instructed change in the image shown in the display. 5. The surgical robotic system of claim 3, wherein the camera tip defines a tip angle, and wherein the computer generates the motor signals using the transformations so that the camera tip moves in the internal surgical site to effect a change in zoom of the image shown in the display in response to a change in zoom instruction. 6. The surgical robotic system of claim 1, wherein the first surgical instrument is any of the following: a surgical tool; a forceps; a device positioned within the patient's body for transmitting an image outside of the patient's body; a laparoscope; and a medical telescope. 7. A minimally invasive surgical robotic method comprising: inserting a distal end of a surgical instrument through an incision to an internal surgical site; manipulating a proximal end of the instrument with a robot in response to motor signals; inputting spoken instructions into a voice recognition system; generating the motor signals in response to the spoken instructions with a computer; and moving the distal end of the surgical instrument at the internal surgical site by pivoting the instrument about the incision with the robot in response to the motor signals. 8. The surgical robotic method of claim 7, further comprising displaying an image of the internal surgical site on a monitor. 9. The surgical robotic method of claim 8, wherein the surgical instrument comprises an endoscope, and further comprising inputting a change of image instruction and moving the endoscope with the robot so as to effect the instructed image change. 10. The surgical robotic method of claim 9, wherein the instructed image change comprises a change in zoom. 11. The surgical robotic method of claim 10, wherein the endoscope has a camera tip disposed at an angle relative to a shaft of the camera. 12. The surgical robotic method of claim 7, wherein the distal end of the surgical instrument defines a distal coordinate reference frame, and further comprising calculating transformations between the distal coordinate frame and a coordinate frame of the robot with the computer and using the transformation to generate the motor signals. 13. A system for positioning a surgical instrument relative to a patient's body, comprising: a robotic manipulator having at least one controlled degree of freedom; a controller controlling the robotic manipulator; an instrument holder attaching a first surgical instrument to the robotic manipulator so that the first surgical instrument can pivot about an aperture into the patient body; and a voice recognition system coupled to the controller, the voice recognition system permitting a surgeon to verbally command motions of the robotic manipulator, the instrument pivoting about the aperture in response to the commands. 14. A system for positioning a surgical instrument relative to a patient's body, as in claim 13, wherein the voice recognition system further permits the surgeon to select commands or operating modes from menus. 15. A system for positioning a surgical instrument relative to a patient's body, as in claim 13, further comprising a speech synthesis system to provide the surgeon with voice messages containing information about the operation of the system. 16. A system for positioning a surgical instrument relative to a patient's body, as in claim 15, wherein the first surgical instrument is a surgical camera and the speech synthesis system provides a message to the surgeon stating information about the movement of the surgical camera. 17. A system for positioning a surgical instrument relative to a patient's body, as in claim 15, wherein the first surgical instrument is a surgical camera and the speech synthesis system provides a message to the surgeon stating information about the movement of the surgical camera effect a zoom operation of the surgical camera. 18. A surgical robotic system for use in minimally invasive surgery performed at an internal surgical site of a patient body, the system comprising: a surgical instrument having a proximal portion and a distal end, said instrument extendable distally through an aperture in a body wall to the internal surgical site; a robotic arm supporting the proximal portion of the instrument, the robotic arm moving the instrument in response to motor signals; a voice recognition system for inputting spoken instructions; and a computer operatively coupling the voice recognition system to the robotic arm, the computer generating the motor signals in response to the spoken instructions to move the distal end of the surgical instrument at the internal surgical site while the surgical instrument pivots about the aperture. 19. The surgical robotic system of claim 18, wherein the surgical instrument comprises an endoscope, said system further comprising a display operatively coupled to said endoscope for allowing a surgeon to view an image of the internal surgical site. 20. The surgical robotic system of claim 19, wherein the computer generates said motor signals so that the endoscope distal end moves at the internal surgical site to effect an instructed change in the image shown in the display. 21. The surgical robotic system of claim 19, wherein the computer generates said motor signals so that the endoscope distal end moves at the internal surgical site to effects an instructed change in zoom of the image shown in the display in response to a change in zoom instruction. 22. The surgical robotic system of any of claims 18-21, wherein the voice recognition system comprises a microphone for detecting spoken instructions and a speaker for providing audible messages to a surgeon regarding operation of the system. 23. The system of claim 22, wherein said audible messages comprise audible feedback indicating successful receipt of said spoken instructions. 24. The system of claim 22, wherein said audible messages comprise synthesized voice messages. 25. The system of claim 22, wherein said audible messages comprise audible feedback indicating undesired movement of the distal end of the surgical instrument. 26. A minimally invasive surgical robotic method comprising: inserting a distal end of a surgical instrument through an aperture in a body wall of a patient to an internal surgical site; manipulating a proximal portion of said instrument with a robotic arm in response to motor signals; inputting spoken instructions into a voice recognition system; generating, with a computer, said motor signals in response to said spoken instructions; and moving the robotic arm in response to the motor signals so as to move the distal end of the surgical instrument at the internal surgical site. 27. The method of claim 26, wherein said surgical instrument comprises an endoscope, the method further comprising displaying an image of the internal surgical site for perception by a surgeon. 28. The method of claim 27, further comprising inputting a change of image instruction and moving the endoscope with the robotic arm so as to effect the instructed image change. 29. The method of claim 28, wherein the instructed image change comprises a change in zoom. 30. The method of any of claims 26-29, further comprising providing audible messages containing information about the robotic surgery. 31. The method of claim 30, wherein said audible messages comprise audible feedback indicating successful receipt of said spoken instructions. 32. The method of claim 30, wherein said audible messages comprise synthesized voice messages. 33. The method of claim 30, wherein said audible messages comprise audible feedback indicating undesired movement of the distal end of the surgical instrument. 34. A system for positioning an endoscopic surgical instrument relative to a surgical site within a patient's body, comprising: a robotic manipulator having at least one controlled degree of freedom; a controller that is adapted to be capable of controlling the robotic manipulator; an instrument holder for coupling said surgical instrument to said robotic manipulator; and a voice recognition command input system operatively coupled to the controller, the voice recognition system permitting a surgeon to specify desired motion of the surgical instrument to the controller, such that the robotic manipulator moves said instrument to a position relative to the patient's body, as specified by the surgeon using the command input system, by pivoting the instrument about an aperture into the patient's body. 35. A surgical robotic system for use in minimally invasive surgery performed at an internal surgical site of a patient body, the system comprising: a surgical instrument having a proximal portion and a distal end, said instrument extendable distally through an aperture in a body wall to the internal surgical site; a robotic arm supporting the proximal portion of the instrument, the robotic arm moving the instrument in response to motor signals; a computer operatively coupling the robotic arm to a surgeon input device, the computer generating the motor signals in response to a surgeon's input to move the distal end of the surgical instrument at the internal surgical site within the patient body; and a voice synthesis system for providing audible information to a surgeon regarding operation of the system during the surgery. 36. The surgical robotic system of claim 35, wherein the surgical instrument comprises an endoscope, said system further comprising a display operatively coupled to said endoscope for allowing a surgeon to view an image of the internal surgical site. 37. The surgical robotic system of claim 36, wherein the computer generates said motor signals so that the endoscope distal end moves at the internal surgical site to effect an instructed change in zoom of the image shown in the display in response to a change in zoom instruction. 38. The surgical robotic system of any of claims 35-37, wherein the input device comprises a voice recognition system comprising a microphone for detecting spoken input instructions. 39. The surgical robotic system of claim 36, wherein the computer generates said motor signals so that the endoscope distal end moves at the internal surgical site to effect an instructed change in the image shown in the display. 40. The system of claim 35, wherein said audible information comprises information concerning the degree of movement of the distal end of said instrument in response to the surgeon's most recent input command. 41. The system of claim 35, wherein said audible information comprises information concerning a location of the distal end of said instrument with respect to an anatomical feature of interest. 42. The system of claim 35, wherein said audible information comprises information indicating undesired movement of the distal end of the surgical instrument. 43. An apparatus for moving a surgical instrument, comprising: a robotic arm assembly coupled to said surgical instrument; an input device that receives an input voice command and communicates a corresponding signal to a computer, said input voice command indicating a desired movement of said instrument, said computer providing a movement command, corresponding to said signals to move said assembly so that said surgical instrument is moved according to said desired movement by pivoting the surgical instrument at an aperture. 44. An apparatus for moving a surgical instrument, as in claim 43, wherein a voice recognition system further permits the surgeon to select commands or operating modes from menus. 45. An apparatus for moving a surgical instrument as in claim 43, wherein a speech synthesis system provides the surgeon with voice messages containing information about the operation of the system. 46. An apparatus for moving a surgical instrument, as in claim 43, wherein the surgical instrument is a surgical camera and a speech synthesis system provides a message to the surgeon stating information about the movement of the surgical camera. 47. An apparatus for moving a surgical instrument, as in claim 45, wherein the surgical instrument is a surgical camera and a speech synthesis system provides a message to the surgeon stating information about the movement of the surgical camera to effect a zoom operation of the surgical camera. 48. An apparatus for moving a surgical instrument as in claim 43, wherein the surgical instrument comprises any one of the following: a surgical tool; a forceps; a device positioned within the patient's body for transmitting an image outside of the patient's body; a laparoscope; and a medical telescope. 49. The system of claim 43, wherein said computer, after receiving said signal, compares said signal with at least one predetermined command signal and verifies that said input voice command is acceptable. 50. The system of claim 43, further comprising an audio device for providing a user with a message confirming receipt of the input voice command. 