A system and method of adaptively engaging cartridges stored in an automated cartridge library are provided. Upon receiving a request to extend a reach mechanism of a robot arm to engage a cartridge stored in a selected cell, a library controller initiates a move profile to extend the reach mechanism from a starting position toward the cartridge. The move profile comprises a set of commanded positions and corresponding commanded velocities. A motor controller in communication with the library controller compares a sensed position of the reach mechanism, provided by a position feedback sensor associated with a reach motor, with the commanded position to determine a position error. The motor controller maintains the move profile until the position error exceeds an error threshold, indicating engagement of the cartridge by the reach mechanism. The move profile is then terminated to obtain a final position of the reach mechanism, where the final position reflects a specific depth of the selected cell from the robot arm.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for adaptively engaging cartridges stored in an automated cartridge library, the method comprising: receiving a request to extend a reach mechanism of a robot arm to engage a cartridge stored in a selected cell; initiating a move profile to extend the reach mechanism from a starting position toward the cartridge, the move profile comprising a set of commanded positions and corresponding commanded velocities; comparing a sensed position of the reach mechanism with the commanded position to determine a position error; maintaining the move profile until the position error exceeds an error threshold; and terminating the move profile to obtain a final position of the reach mechanism, wherein the final position reflects a specific depth of the selected cell from the robot arm. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising verifying the request. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising aligning the robot arm with the selected cell. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein initiating the move profile includes determining if calibrated depth information is available for the selected cell. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein determining if calibrated depth information is available includes accessing a database containing cell depth information. 6. The method of claim 4, wherein initiating the move profile includes initiating a nominal move profile if it is determined that appropriate calibrated depth information is not available for the selected cell. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein initiating the nominal move profile includes selecting a nominal move profile from a plurality of profiles based on the properties of the cartridge to be engaged. 8. The method of claim 4, wherein initiating the move profile includes initiating a calibrated move profile if it is determined that appropriate calibrated depth information is available for the selected cell. 9. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining when the commanded velocity is equal to a predetermined stall velocity. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein maintaining the move profile includes maintaining a predetermined stall velocity until the position error exceeds an error threshold. 11. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining if the final position is within a predetermined tolerance range. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the step of determining includes saving the final position in a database if it is determined that the final position is within the predetermined tolerance range. 13. The method of claim 11, wherein the step of determining includes reporting an error condition if it is determined that the final position is not within the predetermined tolerance range. 14. An automated cartridge library, comprising: a housing; a plurality of storage cells located within the housing, each cell formed to hold a data cartridge; a robot arm actuable within the housing, the robot arm having a reach mechanism for extending toward a selected cell; a motor associated with the reach mechanism and operable to extend the reach mechanism toward the selected cell, the motor having a position feedback sensor for determining a sensed position of the reach mechanism; a library controller for receiving a request to extend the reach mechanism to engage a cartridge stored in the selected cell and for initiating a move profile to extend the reach mechanism from a starting position toward the cartridge, wherein the move profile comprises a set of commanded positions and corresponding commanded velocities; and a motor controller in communication with the library controller for comparing the sensed position of the reach mechanism with the commanded position to determine a position error, maintaining the move profile until the position error exceeds an error threshold, and terminating the move profile to obtain a final position of the reach mechanism, wherein the final position reflects a specific depth of the selected cell from the robot arm. 15. The automated cartridge library of claim 14, wherein the library controller is operable to verify the request. 16. The automated cartridge library of claim 14, wherein the library controller is operable to determine if calibrated depth information is available for the selected cell. 17. The system of claim 14, wherein the library controller further comprises a database for storing cell depth information. 18. The system of claim 14, wherein the position feedback sensor comprises a position encoder. 19. The system of claim 14, wherein the motor controller is operable to determine when the commanded velocity is equal to a predetermined stall velocity. 20. The system of claim 14, wherein the library controller is operable to determine if the final position is within a predetermined tolerance range. 