The present invention relates generally to an improved laser welded work piece, such as an automotive body panel, and a system and method for the manufacture thereof. The invention is also directed to an improved system for manufacturing the welded work piece including an improved laser welder and a laser weld inspection device and system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of inspecting a laser weld between metal sheets of dissimilar thickness, the method comprising: capturing a two dimensional image of a laser weld bead; measuring at least one characteristic of the laser weld bead image; and comparing the value of the at least one characteristic of the laser weld bead image with a reference value to determine the quality of the laser weld. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the at least one characteristic of the laser weld bead is selected from the group consisting of bead width, top mismatch, top concavity, top convexity, root width, bottom mismatch, bottom concavity, and bottom convexity. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the capturing of the image is accomplished by a CCD camera. 4. The method of claim 1 further comprising: generating a signal based upon the quality of the laser weld; and outputting the signal to identify the quality of the welded work piece. 5. The method of claim 4 additionally comprising the steps of: removing the welded work piece from the laser welder; and depositing the work piece in a selected location based upon the quality of the laser weld. 6. A method of inspecting a laser weld, the method comprising: capturing a profile image of a laser weld bead; measuring at least one characteristic of the laser weld bead image; and comparing the measured value of the at least one characteristic of the laser weld bead image to a reference value to determine the quality of the laser weld. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein the at least one characteristic of the laser weld bead image is selected from the group consisting of bead width, top mismatch, top concavity, top convexity, root width, bottom mismatch, bottom concavity, and bottom convexity. 8. The method of claim 6 wherein the capturing of the image is accomplished by a CCD camera. 9. The method of claim 6 further comprising: generating a signal based upon the quality of the laser weld; and outputting the signal to identify the quality of the welded work piece. 10. The method of claim 9 further comprising: removing the welded work piece from the laser welder; and depositing the work piece in a selected location based upon the quality of the laser weld. 