An integral machine for polishing, cleaning, rinsing and drying workpieces such as semiconductor wafers. A load/unload station has a plurality of platforms for receiving cassettes of wafers to be processed. A dry end-effector of a robot retrieves wafers from the cassettes and transfers them to an index table. A transfer apparatus having wafer carrier elements picks up wafers from the index table, moves the wafers to a polishing table for polishing, and returns the wafers to the index table for further processing. A flipper moves the polished wafers to a cleaning station. The cleaning station includes scrub stations, a rinsing station and a spin dryer station, and a connective system of water tracks. A wet end-effector of the robot transfers rinsed wafers to the spin dryer station. The dry end-effector of the robot moves dried wafers from the spin dryer station back to the cassette of origination.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An integral machine for polishing, cleaning, rinsing and drying workpieces comprising: a load/unload station having a plurality of platforms for receiving cassettes of workpieces to be polished, cleaned, rinsed and dried; first transfer means for retrieving said workpieces from said cassettes; an index station for receiving unpolished workpieces from said first transfer means and for holding polished workpieces prior to further processing; a polishing station for polishing unpolished workpieces; second transfer means for transferring unpolished workpieces from said index station to said polishing station, and for transferring polished workpieces to said index station; a cleaning station for cleaning, rinsing and drying polished workpieces; third transfer means for transferring polished workpieces from said index station to said cleaning station; fourth transfer means for transferring cleaned, rinsed and dried workpieces from said cleaning station back to said cassettes; and a mapping system for monitoring location and position of each workpiece within the cassettes. 2. A machine as claimed in claim 1, wherein said first and fourth transfer means are incorporated into one robot. 3. A machine as claimed in claim 2, wherein said first transfer means comprises a dry end-effector. 4. A machine as claimed in claim 2, wherein said robot is a six-axis robot having dry wafer gripping means for handling dry workpieces and wet wafer gripping means for handling wet workpieces. 5. A machine as claimed in claim 4, wherein said dry wafer gripping means comprises a dry end-effector and said wet wafer gripping means comprises a wet end-effector. 6. A machine as claimed in claim 5, wherein said wet and dry end-effectors include vacuum holes for applying vacuum pressure to said workpieces and holding said workpieces on said end-effectors. 7. A machine as claimed in claim 5, wherein said end-effectors are coated with a static dissipative material to resist accumulation of electrostatic discharge. 8. A machine as claimed in claim 1, wherein said index station comprises a rotatable index table having a plurality of load cups for holding said unpolished workpieces alternating with a plurality of unload cups for holding said polished workpieces. 9. A machine as claimed in claim 8, wherein said second transfer means comprises a movable apparatus having carrier elements which retrieve said unpolished workpieces from said load cups; press said unpolished workpieces against a polishing pad in said polishing station; and return said polished workpieces to said load cups. 10. A machine as claimed in claim 9, wherein said third transfer means comprises a flipper which moves said polished workpieces from said unload cups of said index table to said cleaning station. 11. A machine as claimed in claim 1, wherein said cleaning station comprises a plurality of scrub stations, a rinsing station and a drying station. 12. A machine as claimed in claim 7, wherein said workpieces are moved between said scrub stations and said rinsing station along a plurality of water tracks. 13. A machine as claimed in claim 12, wherein said first and fourth transfer means are incorporated into a dry end-effector of a robot, and said workpieces are moved from said rinsing station to said drying station by a wet end-effector of said robot. 14. A machine as claimed in claim 12, wherein said water tracks comprise a plurality of fluid jets configured to eject fluid to urge said workpieces in a forward direction along said water tracks. 15. A machine as claimed in claim 14, wherein said forward jets are oriented to eject said fluid at an angle with respect to said water track in a range of twenty to seventy degrees. 16. A machine as claimed in claim 14, and further comprising fluid manifolds beneath said water tracks which supply said fluid to said jets. 17. A machine as claimed in claim 14, wherein said water tracks further comprise reverse jets operable to discharge fluid in a reverse direction to prevent said workpieces from moving in a forward direction along said water tracks. 18. A machine as claimed in claim 17, wherein said water tracks further comprise at least one vertically movable staging pin vertically movable to a raised position to assist said reverse jets in preventing said workpieces from moving in a forward direction and movable to a lowered position to allow said workpieces to move in a forward direction along said water tracks. 19. A machine as claimed in claim 14, wherein said water tracks further comprise at least one vertically movable staging pin vertically movable to a raised position to retain said workpieces in said water tracks and movable to a lowered position to permit said workpieces to pass into said stations. 20. A machine as claimed in claim 12, wherein said water tracks comprise detection sensors for counting workpieces and for detecting trapped or broken workpieces. 21. A machine as claimed in 12, wherein each of said scrub stations comprises a scrubber box enclosing a plurality of roller pairs. 22. A machine as claimed in claim 21, wherein said roller pairs comprise alternating drive roller pairs and scrubbing roller pairs, said drive roller pairs comprising top and bottom rollers which are driven at a first drive speed S1, and said scrubbing roller pairs comprising bottom rollers which are driven at a second drive speed S2 and top rollers which are driven at a third drive speed S3. 23. A machine as claimed in claim 22, wherein each of said scrubber boxes further comprises an exit rinse nozzle positioned proximate a location where said workpieces exit said scrubber box for rinsing workpieces exiting said scrubber box. 24. A machine as claimed in claim 21, wherein said scrubber boxes comprise quick release fastener assemblies for securably but releasably engaging said scrubber boxes to said machine. 25. A machine as claimed in claim 21, wherein said scrubber boxes comprise a bottom panel having a fluid outlet through which fluid may flow out of said scrubber boxes. 26. A machine as claimed in claim 21, wherein each of said scrubber boxes comprises a top panel having at least one fluid inlet port and a manifold configured to deliver fluid to particular roller pairs within said scrubber box. 27. A machine as claimed in claim 26, wherein said top panel comprises a first fluid inlet port communicating with a first manifold to distribute a first fluid proximate a first group of roller pairs; a second fluid inlet port communicating with a second manifold to distribute a second fluid proximate a second group of roller pairs; and a third fluid inlet port to distribute a third fluid proximate a third group of roller pairs. 28. A machine as claimed in claim 27, wherein each said manifold includes a plurality of extending distribution channels which are distinct from other channels associated with other manifolds. 29. A machine as claimed in claim 28, wherein said top panel is a one-piece, substantially seamless component which permits pressurization of said manifolds without leakage of said fluids from said manifolds. 30. A machine as claimed in claim 12, wherein said cleaning station further comprises a hydrofluoric acid station. 31. A machine as claimed in claim 12, wherein said rinsing station comprises a rinse ring for holding workpieces and at least one fluid nozzle for discharging fluid onto said workpieces. 32. A machine as claimed in claim 31, wherein said rinse ring includes guides and centering pins positioned around a periphery of said ring to properly position a workpiece entering said rinse station from a water track, said ring being tilted downwardly at an angle of approximately ten to fifty degrees to facilitate laminar flow of said fluid over said workpiece. 33. A machine as claimed in claim 32, wherein said rinsing station includes a first nozzle that discharges said fluid onto an upper surface of said workpiece, and a second nozzle that discharges said fluid onto a lower surface of said workpiece. 34. A machine as claimed in claim 12, wherein said drying station comprises a spin dryer having a workpiece platform and gripping means mounted around said platform to hold said workpieces securely thereon as said platform is spun at high velocities. 35. A machine as claimed in claim 34, wherein said gripping means comprise a plurality of gripping fingers pivotally mounted around an outside periphery of said platform. 36. A machine as claimed in claim 35, wherein said gripping fingers include head portions extending above said platform which engage said workpieces, and spring loaded shank portions extending below said platform which bias said head portions radially inwardly to maintain said gripping fingers in a gripping position. 37. A machine as claimed in claim 36, and further comprising a vertically movable actuator assembly which engages said shank portions and biases said shank portions radially inwardly and said head portions radially outwardly to effect release of said workpieces. 38. A machine as claimed in claim 37, and further comprising a protective shroud surrounding said platform to isolate fluid and particulates removed from said workpieces. 39. A machine as claimed in claim 12, and further comprising a fluid flow control system for accurately dispensing fluids to various fluid sights in said machine, including a fluid source for holding a supply of a desired processing fluid, a flow meter for measuring rate of fluid flow, a pump for controlling fluid flow, a pump controller for providing a pump control signal to said pump, and a processor for receiving signals from said flow meter indicative of said rate of flow and directing said pump controller to adjust said pump control signal as necessary to maintaining said flow rate within a predetermined range. 40. A machine as claimed in claim 1, wherein said workpieces comprise semiconductor wafers. 41. A machine as claimed in claim 1, wherein said load/unload station comprises three platforms. 42. A machine as claimed in claim 1, wherein said platforms include tilted bases for supporting said cassettes, said tilted bases ensuring that said workpieces slide to the back of said cassettes. 43. A machine as claimed in claim 42, wherein said bases have an angle of tilt in a range of 5-18 degrees. 44. A machine as claimed in claim 43, wherein said angle of tilt is adjusted through use of a mechanism selected from the group consisting of an elevator assembly, a servo assembly, a stepper motor and a torque motor assembly. 45. A machine as claimed in claim 1, wherein each said platform includes an inner platform door located on an inner side of said platform to isolate said load/unload station from an outside environment, and an outer platform door located on an outer side of said load/unload station to permit loading of said cassette onto said platform. 46. A machine as claimed in claim 45, wherein said inner door is configured to close before said outer door may open. 47. A machine as claimed in claim 46, wherein said outer door includes a controlled locking mechanism to prevent opening of said outer door until said inner door is closed. 48. A machine as claimed in claim 45, wherein said platforms further comprise sensors for monitoring said cassettes. 49. A machine as claimed in claim 48, wherein said sensors comprise cassette position sensors for monitoring whether said cassettes are properly positioned on said platforms, and outer door sensors for determining whether said outer door is open or closed. 50. A machine as claimed in claim 45, and further comprising HEPA filters mounted above said machine to provide positive laminar air flow to keep airborne particles out of said platforms when said outer platform door is opened. 51. A machine as claimed in claim 1, wherein said platforms are configured to accommodate a plurality of cassette configurations. 52. A machine as claimed in claim 51, wherein said cassette configurations are selected from the group consisting of six inch wafer cassettes, eight inch wafer cassettes, 300 millimeter wafer cassettes, and Standard Machine Interface wafer pods. 53. A machine as claimed in claim 1, wherein said platforms include ionizers to minimize accumulation of static charge. 54. A machine as claimed in claim 1, and further comprising a mapping system for obtaining vision data corresponding to locations and positions of said workpieces within said cassettes. 55. A machine as claimed in claim 54, wherein said mapping system comprises an optical scanning device for generating said vision data. 56. A machine as claimed in claim 55, wherein said optical scanning device is a video camera. 57. A machine as claimed in claim 55, and further comprising a back lighting system to improve effectiveness of said mapping system. 58. A machine as claimed in claim 55, wherein said mapping system further comprises a processor configured to receive said vision data from said optical scanning device and to convert said vision data into workpiece location data. 59. A machine as claimed in claim 58, wherein said workpiece location data comprises thirty-two bits, thirty of said bits defining cassette and slot information for each said workpiece, one of said bits defining a first error bit for signifying that a workpiece is cross-slotted between two cassette slots, and one of said bits defining a second error bit for signifying that a cassette slot contains multiple workpieces. 60. A machine as claimed in claim 1, and further comprising a touch screen display which provides a graphical representation of various operational features of said machine and allows an operator to monitor and operate said machine. 61. An automated multi-function semiconductor wafer processing machine comprising: (1) a load/unload station for wafer cassettes, the station comprising platforms, each platform configured to receive a cassette containing wafers and support the cassette in a tilted orientation to allow an end-effector of a robot access to the wafers and reduce risk of wafers sliding out of the cassettes; (2) a robot comprising an end-effector for handling wet wafers and a separate end-effector for handling dry wafers; (3) an index station for receiving (a) unpolished wafers from wafer cassettes on the platforms of the load/unload station, and (b) polished wafers from a polishing station; (4) a polishing station for polishing wafers, wafers transported to the polishing station from the index station; and (5) a cleaning station receiving polished wafers transported from the index station; wherein each of the load/unload and index stations are within reach of the end-effectors of the robot to facilitate robotic transport of wafers to and from the stations. 62. An integral machine having a first station for loading and unloading workpieces to and from workpiece holders; a second station for polishing said workpieces; a third station for cleaning, rinsing and drying said workpieces; and transfer means for transferring said workpieces between said first, second and third stations, wherein said transfer means is a robot having a plurality of wafer gripping devices for handling said workpieces and a plurality of axes of movement. 63. A machine as claimed in claim 62, wherein said robot has six axes. 64. A machine as claimed in claim 62, wherein said wafer gripping devices comprise a dry end-effector for handling dry workpieces and a wet end-effector for handling wet workpieces. 65. A machine as claimed in claim 64, wherein said end-effectors include a plurality of vacuum holes for applying vacuum pressure to said workpieces to secure said workpieces on said end-effectors while said robot moves about said plurality of axes. 66. A machine as claimed in claim 65, wherein said end-effectors are coated with a static-dissipative material for resistance against electrostatic discharge. 67. A machine as claimed in claim 65, wherein said end-effectors are manufactured from a static-dissipative material for resistance against electrostatic discharge. 68. An integral machine having a first station for loading and unloading workpieces to and from workpiece holders; a second station for polishing said workpieces; a third station for cleaning, rinsing and drying said workpieces, wherein said third station includes a U-shaped wafer path for moving said wafers between cleaning and rinsing operations, and transfer means for transferring said workpieces between said first, second and third stations. 