A dispensing apparatus is disclosed which includes a support assembly for defining at least one dispensing location. A storage container is secured to the support assembly for holding a plurality of stackable objects. These stackable objects may include shims, washers, gaskets and seals. An escapement is operably associated with the support assembly. The escapement is operable for moving between a first position and a second position for transporting at least one of the stackable objects from the storage container to an external access location. The escapement may also be designed to be easily operated by a robot or robot actuated apparatus.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for dispensing a plurality of stackable objects in a robot based manufacturing station comprising the steps of: providing a robot having a gripping apparatus; providing a dispensing apparatus having at least one storage container for containing a plurality of stackable objects, and an escapement associated with each storage container for dispensing the stackable objects from the associated storage container, the escapement including a recess for holding one of the stackable objects, the recess having a depth which is approximately equal to the thickness of the stackable object; removing a stackable object from an exposed portion of the escapement with the gripping apparatus of the robot and placing the stackable object on a workpiece, thereby producing an empty escapement; moving the empty escapement from a first position to a second position for engaging a stackable object within the associated storage container; and moving the escapement from the second position to the first position for transporting the stackable object to a dispensing location. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the escapement includes a recess sized for encircling at least one of the stackable objects. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the stackable object is an annular shim. 4. The method of claim 3 further comprising the step of measuring the thickness of the shim prior to placing the shim on the workpiece. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the storage container includes means for determining an approximate quantity of the stackable objects contained in the storage container. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein the means for determining an approximate quantity of the stackable objects is a cutout portion formed in the cylindrical storage container for viewing the stackable objects contained within the storage container. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein the storage container is cylindrical. 8. A method for dispensing a plurality of stackable shims in a robot based manufacturing station comprising the steps of: providing a robot having a gripping apparatus; providing a dispensing apparatus having at least one cylindrical storage container for containing the plurality of stackable shims, and an escapement associated with each storage container for dispensing the shims from the associated storage container, the escapement having a recess for holding one shim, the recess having a depth which is approximately equal to the thickness of the shim; preloading the escapement with one shim; removing the shim from an exposed portion of the escapement with the gripping apparatus of the robot and placing the shim on a workpiece, thereby producing an empty escapement; moving the empty escapement from a first position to a second position for engaging a stackable object within the associated storage container; and moving the escapement from the second position to the first position for transporting the stackable object to a dispensing location. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein the gripping apparatus includes a first gripping device for gripping the shim and a second gripping device for gripping a bearing assembly. 10. The method of claim 8 wherein the cylindrical storage container includes a cutout portion for viewing the shims contained within the storage container. 11. The method of claim 8 further including the step of sensing the presence of the shim within the recess of the escapement. 12. The method of claim 11 wherein the step of sensing includes sensing the presence of the shim with a fiber optic sensor mounted on the gripping apparatus. 13. The method of claim 8 further including the step of sensing the position of the escapement. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein the step of sensing includes sensing the position of the escapement with a fiber optic sensor mounted on the gripping apparatus. 15. The method of claim 8 wherein the shims are annular shims. 16. A method for dispensing a plurality of stackable objects in an automated manufacturing cell comprising the steps of: providing a controllable machine having a gripping apparatus; providing a dispensing apparatus having at least one storage container for containing a plurality of stackable objects, and an escapement associated with each storage container for dispensing the stackable objects from the associated storage container, the escapement including a recess for holding one of the stackable objects, the recess having a depth which is approximately equal to the thickness of the stackable object; removing a stackable object from an exposed portion of the escapement with the gripping apparatus and placing the stackable object on a workpiece, thereby producing an empty escapement; moving the empty escapement from a first position to a second position for engaging a stackable object within the associated storage container; and moving the escapement from the second position to the first position for transporting the stackable object to a dispensing location. 