A resilient elastic toy figure body supports a quartet of downwardly extending legs and a pair of heads outwardly facing from each end of the toy figure body. The stretchy elastic material body defines an interior cavity within which a particulate filler is captivated. Each head is securely attached to its respective end of the toy figure body. A relatively inelastic limiter cord is secured to each head and passes through the particulate filler of the toy figure body. As the stretchable body is elongated during play activity, the limiter cord reaches its full extension and further elongation which might damage the toy figure is prevented.
Claims That which is claimed is: 1. A stretchable animal toy figure comprising: a body having an elongated generally tubular portion defining opposed ends, a pair of oppositely facing toy animal body portions joined to said opposed ends each having pair of front legs and a neck end and an interior cavity, said elongated generally tubular and said pair of toy animal body portions being formed of an elastic skin; a quantity of particulate filler filling said interior cavity; a pair of toy animal heads each secured to one of said neck ends; and a generally inelastic limiter cord having a pair of ends each coupled to one of said toy animal heads, said cord extending loosely through said interior cavity between said toy animal heads, said body and toy animal body portions assuming a relaxed shape in which said heads face outwardly and being stretchable to an elongated shape by drawing said heads apart and said limiter cord having a length limiting said elongated shape to a predetermined elongation. 2. The stretchable toy figure set forth in claim 1 wherein said elastic skin is formed of an outer skin and generally conforming inner skin. 3. A stretchable toy figure comprising: a stretchable toy animal body having a body defining a pair of outwardly facing toy animal head, neck and front legs and a connecting body portion and an interior cavity having a filler therein, said toy animal body being stretchable between a relaxed shape and an elongated shape; and a limiter cord having a pair of ends coupled to said heads and passing through said interior cavity, said limiter cord having a length sufficient to allow said limiter cord to be slack when said body is in said relaxed shape and being drawn into tension when said body is stretched to said elongated shape by drawing said head, neck and front legs apart. 4. The stretchable toy figure set forth in claim 3 further including a pair of plugs secured to said opposed ends of said limiter cord and wherein said plugs are received within said pair of heads. 5. The stretchable toy figure set forth in claim 4 wherein said ends of said limiter cord are attached to said plugs. 