A UV curable, flexible, paintable composition is disclosed. The disclosed composition has enhanced durability, thick and thin film adhesion, resistance to mold growth and dimensional changes while reducing solvent emissions. The disclosed composition reduces, if not eliminates, runs and drips during the thermal bake cycles which are associated with using conventional compositions in automotive applications.
Claims The following is claimed: 1. A composition obtained by combining a mixture comprising at least one epoxy, at least one polyol, a thickener, a photoinitiator and at least one monomer wherein said monomer comprises at least one member selected from the group consisting of acrylates and caprolactones. 2. A composition comprising at least one cationic curing epoxy, at least two polyester polyols, at least one phenoxy resin, silica and an amount of a UV photoinitiator sufficient to cause at least a portion of the composition to cross link when exposed to a source of UV radiation. 3. The composition of claim 1 wherein the thickener comprises silica. 4. A fluid radiation curable composition comprising a combination of at least one cationic epoxy, bis-F-epoxy, at least one polyester polyol, at least one thickener comprising silica and at least one photoinitiator. 5. A fluid radiation curable composition comprising a combination of at least one cycloaliphatic epoxy, at least one polyester polyol, at least one thickener comprising silica, at least one photoinitiator and at least one phenoxy resin wherein the composition is essentially free of volatile organic compounds. 6. A fluid radiation curable composition comprising a combination of at least one cycloaliphatic epoxy, at least one polyester polyol, at least one thickener comprising silica, at least one photoinitiator and at least one monomer. 7. A method for applying a coating comprising, providing the composition of any one of claims 1, 2, or 4-6 applying the composition to a substrate wherein the composition is at least 0.05 mm thick, exposing the substrate to a source of ultra-violet light sufficient to cause cross linking of a least a portion of the composition thereby forming a coating upon the substrate, and; recovering the coated substrate. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein the substrate comprising at least one member selected from the group consisting of metal, wood, concrete and cement. 9. The method of claim 7 wherein the substrate comprises metal and the coating overlies a joint between at least two metal substrates. 10. The method of claim 8 wherein the joint is formed by welding together at least two automotive body components. 11. The composition of claim 1, 6 wherein said at least one polyol comprises at least one polyester polyol and at least one polyether polyol. 12. The composition of any one of claims 1, 2 or 4-6 further comprising at least one gelling agent. 13. The composition of any one of claims 1, 2 or 4-6 further comprising at least one member selected from the group of sulfonic acid, phosphoric acid, carboxylic acids and tannic acid. 14. The composition of any one of claims 1, 2 or 4-6 further comprising polybutadiene. 15. The composition of any one of claims 1, 2 or 4-6 further comprising at least one fluorinated surfactant. 16. The composition of any one of claims 1, 2 or 4-6 wherein said epoxy ranges from 45 to 60 wt. % of the composition. 17. The composition of any one of claims 1, 2 or 4-6 further comprising bis-phenol A epoxy. 18. The method of claim 7 wherein said coating has a Shore A Hardness of greater than 70, and an ASTM D2453 shrinkage of about 0%. 19. A method for treating an automotive component comprising, providing a fluid radiation curable composition comprising a combination of at least one epoxy, at least one polyester polyol, at least one thickener comprising silica and at least one photoiniator, providing an automotive component having an E-coated surface, applying the composition onto said automotive component, substantially simultaneously with said applying exposing the composition to a source of radiation sufficient to cause in-situ cross linking of at least a portion of the composition, heating said at least partially cross-linked composition to a temperature sufficient to improve the adhesion of the cross-linked composition to the E-coated surface, painting the composition and said component. 20. A method for sealing a welded joint or a seam between automotive components comprising, providing a fluid radiation curable composition comprising a combination of at least one epoxy, at least one polyester polyol, at least one thickener comprising silica and at least one photoiniator having a viscosity of about 20,000 to about 80,000 centipoise, providing automotive components having a weld or seam therebetween, applying the composition onto said weld or into said seam, substantially simultaneously with said applying exposing the composition to a source of radiation sufficient to cause in-situ cross linking of a least a portion of the composition wherein said cross-linked composition is substantially shrink-free in accordance with ASTM D2453, painting the composition and said component. 21. A method for repairing a painted automotive component comprising: providing a radiation curable composition comprising a combination of at least one epoxy, at least one polyester polyol, at least one phenoxy resin, at least one thickener comprising silica and at least one photoiniator, providing a painted automotive component, applying the composition onto said painted automotive component as a spray or gel, exposing the composition to a source of radiation sufficient to cause in-situ cross linking of a least a portion of the composition thereby obtaining a cross-linked composition having a Shore D hardness of at least about 60, sanding the composition and painting the composition and said component. 22. The method of any one of claims 19-21 wherein said composition further comprises at least one member selected from the group consisting of cycloaliphatic epoxy, bis-phenol A epoxy, bis-F-epoxy, phenoxy resin, polyester polyols, polyether polyols, acrylates, caprolactones and expansion agents. 23. The method of any one of claims 19-21 wherein said source of radiation comprises ultra violet light. 24. The method of claim 23 wherein said ultra-violet light has a wavelength of 250 to 400 nm. 25. The method of claim 20 wherein said heating is at a temperature and length of time sufficient to improve the adhesion of said at least partially cross-linked composition. 26. The method of claim 19 or 20 wherein said applying comprises at least one of spraying, pumping, brushing, immersing and robotic means. 27. The method of any one of claims 19-21 wherein said automotive component comprises a roof ditch. 28. The composition of any one of claims 1, or 4-6 wherein the composition is cured by being exposed to a source of ultra-violet light sufficient to cause cross linking. 29. The composition of any one of claims 1, 2 or 4-6 wherein the ratio of epoxy to polyol is about 1:1 to about 2.1. 30. The composition of any one of claims 1, 2 or 4-6 wherein the amount of thickener is sufficient to obtain a composition having a viscosity of about 20,000 to about 60,000 centipoise. 31. The composition of any one of claims 1, 2 or 4-6 wherein the photoiniator comprises a sulfonium salt. 32. The method of claim 19 wherein said composition is obtained by combining a first and second component wherein the first component comprises at least one epoxy and at least one polyol, and the second component comprises at least one polyol and an acid, wherein at least one of said first and second components further comprise at least one monomer and a phenoxy resin. 33. The composition of any one of claims 22 or 6 wherein said monomer comprises at least one member selected from the group consisting of acrylates and caprolactones. 34. The method of claim 21 wherein the polyol comprises a polyester polyol, the epoxy comprises a cycloaliphatic epoxy and the acid comprises phosphoric acid. 