A system for providing the reliable and numerically efficient generation of time-optimum trajectories with easy-to-track or continuous acceleration profiles for simple and blended moves of single- and multi-arm robotic manipulators, such as an extension and retraction move along a straight line or a rotary move following a circular arc, with velocity, acceleration, jerk, and jerk rate constraints. A time-optimum trajectory is the set of the position, velocity, and acceleration profiles which describe the move of a selected end effector along a given path in the shortest time possible without violating given constraints, with a special case being an optimum abort trajectory, which brings the moving arm into complete rest in the shortest time. The invention involves firstly identifying the set of fundamental trajectory shapes which cover all possible combinations of constraints for a given category of moves, e.g., a move along a straight line or along a circular arc; next, decomposing the fundamental shapes into segments where a single constraint is active; and, then, determining the time optimum paths in the segments. As a result, a unique design of time-optimum trajectories is produced based on a set of pre-defined trajectory shapes. The invention also involves the blending of simple moves into a single trajectory by decomposing trajectories of the individual moves into their orthogonal components and overlapping them for a given time interval, which results in a non-stop move along a smooth transfer path.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for reliable and numerically efficient generation of constrained time-optimum trajectories with easy-to-track or continuous acceleration profiles for the arm movements of robotic manipulators to produce time-optimum arm movement along a transfer path, comprising the steps of: identifying a set of fundamental trajectory shapes which cover a given set of constraints for a given category of arm movements along a transfer path; determining the set of conditions associated with each fundamental trajectory shape which determine whether the shape can be used for a particular arm movement; decomposing said fundamental trajectory shapes into segments where a single constraint is active; determining the time-optimum trajectory solutions for the segments; combining the time-optimum trajectory solutions of the segments into time-optimum trajectory shapes; and producing a time-optimum arm movement along the transfer path by selecting the time-optimum trajectory shape that can be used for the arm movement based on the determinations from determining the set of conditions. 2. The method as in claim 1 wherein the arm movements are of a single-arm robot, the transfer path is a straight line, and the set of constraints comprises maximum velocity, acceleration, jerk and jerk rate in the vicinity of the acceleration limit. 3. The method as in claim 1 wherein the arm movements are of a single-arm robot, the transfer path is a circular arc, and the set of constraints comprises maximum velocity, total acceleration, and tangential jerk. 4. The method as in claim 1 wherein the arm movements are of a dual-arm robot comprising an end effector A and an end effector B, the transfer path comprises radial moves, and the set of constraints comprises maximum velocity, acceleration, jerk and jerk rate in the vicinity of the acceleration limit on end effector A, and maximum acceleration on end effector B. 5. The method as in claim 1 wherein the arm movements are of a dual-arm robot comprising an end effector A and an end effector B, the transfer path comprises radial moves, and the set of constraints comprises maximum jerk and acceleration on end effector A, and maximum acceleration on end effector B. 6. The method as in claim 1 wherein the arm movements are of a dual-arm robot, the transfer path comprises a rotational move, and the set of constraints comprises maximum velocity, total acceleration, and tangential jerk. 7. The method as in claim 1 wherein said transfer path comprises a straight-line and an arc. 8. The method as in claim 1 wherein said robotic manipulators are provided with end effectors and the trajectories are constrained by velocity, acceleration, jerk and jerk rate limits that are imposed on the centers of the end effectors of the robotic manipulator. 9. The method as in claim 1 wherein said robotic manipulators are provided with end effectors and the step of identifying the set of fundamental trajectory shapes comprises: minimizing the time required for the robotic manipulator to travel a set distance to a final point from a start point along a transfer path; and avoiding a command of an acceleration that would exceed a holding force between an end effector and a substrate supported thereon. 10. An apparatus for reliable and numerically efficient generation of time-optimum trajectories with easy-to-track or continuous acceleration profiles for the arm moves of robotic manipulators to produce time-optimum arm movement along a transfer path, comprising: means for pre-defining a set of fundamental trajectory shapes which cover all possible combinations of constraints for a given category of arm movements along a trajectory path; means for determining the set of conditions associated with each fundamental trajectory shape which determine whether the shape can be used for a particular arm movement; means for decomposing said fundamental trajectory shapes into segments where a single constraint is active; means for determining the time-optimum solutions for the segments; means for combining the time-optimum solutions of the segments into time-optimum trajectory shapes; and means for producing time-optimum arm moves of the robotic manipulators along the transfer path by selecting time-optimum trajectory shapes that can be used for the particular arm moves based on the determinations of said means for determining the set of conditions. 11. Apparatus as in claim 10 wherein the robotic manipulators comprise a single-arm robot, the transfer path is a straight line, and the set of constraints comprises maximum velocity, acceleration, jerk and jerk rate in the vicinity of the acceleration limit. 12. Apparatus as in claim 10 wherein the robotic manipulators comprise a single-arm robot, the transfer path is a circular arc, and the set of constraints comprises maximum velocity, total acceleration, and tangential jerk. 13. Apparatus as in claim 10 wherein the robotic manipulators comprise a dual-arm robot comprising an end effector A and an end effector B, the transfer path comprises radial moves, and the set of constraints comprises maximum velocity, acceleration, jerk and jerk rate in the vicinity of the acceleration limit on end effector A, and maximum acceleration on end effector B. 14. Apparatus as in claim 10 wherein the robotic manipulators comprise a dual-arm robot comprising an end effector A and an end effector B, the transfer path comprises radial moves, and the set of constraints comprises maximum jerk and acceleration on end effector A, and maximum acceleration on end effector B. 15. Apparatus as in claim 10 wherein the robotic manipulators comprise a dual-arm robot, the transfer path comprises a rotational move, and the set of constraints comprises maximum velocity, total acceleration, and tangential jerk. 16. Apparatus as in claim 10 wherein said transfer path comprises a straight-line and an arc. 17. Apparatus as in claim 10 wherein said robotic manipulators comprise end effectors and the trajectories are constrained by velocity, acceleration, jerk and jerk rate limits that are imposed on the centers of the end effectors. 18. Apparatus as in claim 10 wherein said robotic manipulators comprise end effectors and the means for pre-defining the set of fundamental trajectory shapes comprises: means for minimizing the time required for the robotic manipulator to travel a set distance to a final point from a start point along a transfer path; and means for avoiding a command of an acceleration that would exceed a holding force between an end effector and a substrate supported thereon. 19. A method for reliable and numerically efficient blending of trajectories for simple moves of multi-arm robotic manipulators into a non-stop compound move along a smooth path, comprising the steps of: decomposing trajectories for the individual simple moves into independent components; overlapping said independent components of the trajectories for the individual simple moves for a given time interval; and combining the overlapped components into a trajectory that provides a non-stop move along a smooth path; identifying a set of fundamental trajectory shapes which cover a given set of constraints for a given category of arm movement along a transfer path. 20. The method as in claim 19 wherein the independent components of the trajectories for the individual simple moves are orthogonal and obtained by x- and y-decomposition in the cartesian coordinate system. 21. The method as in claim 19, wherein the individual simple moves of the robotic manipulator comprise straight lines and circular arcs. 22. An apparatus for reliable and numerically efficient blending of trajectories for simple moves of multi-arm robotic manipulators into a non-stop compound move along a smooth path, comprising: means for decomposing trajectories for the individual simple moves into independent components; means for overlapping said independent components of the trajectories for the individual simple moves for a given time interval; and means for combining the overlapped components into a trajectory that provides a non-stop move along a smooth path; identifying a set of fundamental trajectory shapes which cover a given set of constraints for a given category of arm movement along a transfer path. 23. The apparatus as in claim 22 wherein the independent components of the trajectories for the individual simple moves are obtained by x- and y-decomposition in the c artesian coordinate system. 24. The apparatus as in claim 22 wherein the individual simple moves of the robotic manipulator comprise straight lines and circular arcs. 