A data storage system for use with a tape cartridge storing data in a serpentine pattern on tape media, and having a memory device for storing a device block map for the tape median, comprises tape drive, or a loading mechanism, which first positions the tape cartridge at memory interface for transfering the device block map from the memory device to a processor, and subsequently positions the tape media for reading and/or writing. The processor processes the device block map from the memory device for optimal retrieval of the serpentine pattern data of the tape media. The processing of the device block map occurs while the tape media is positioned for reading and/or writing, so that the processor begins the retrieval reading process immediately upon the positioning of the tape media. In another aspect of the invention, a robotic accessor of an automated data storage library moves the tape cartridge to the tape drive. The tape cartridge is positioned at the memory interface on the robotic accessor, and the stored device block map is transferred from the memory device to the processor, during the move.
Claims We claim: 1. A data storage system for use with a tape cartridge having a tape media for storing data in a serpentine pattern, and said tape cartridge having a memory device for storing a device block map for said tape media, comprising: a memory interface for transferring data with said memory device; a tape drive for reading and/or writing data on said tape media of said tape cartridge in said serpentine pattern, and for first positioning said tape cartridge at said memory interface and for subsequently positioning said tape media for said reading and/or writing thereby; and a processor coupled to said memory interface for processing said device block map from said memory device upon said positioning of said tape cartridge at said memory interface for optimal retrieval of said serpentine pattern data of said tape media by said tape drive for said reading and/or writing thereof. 2. The data storage system of claim 1, wherein said processor additionally updates said memory device device block map upon completion of said reading and/or writing of said tape media by said tape drive, and said memory interface transfers said updated device block map from said processor to said memory device of said tape cartridge. 3. The data storage system of claim 1, wherein said memory interface is mounted at said tape drive. 4. The data storage system of claim 3, wherein said memory interface transfers said device block map from said memory device to said processor as said tape drive positions said tape media for said reading and/or writing. 5. The data storage system of claim 3, wherein said tape drive comprises a tape head for reading and/or writing said tape media of said tape cartridge, and comprises a drive and servo arrangement for moving said tape media with respect to said tape head in said serpentine pattern, and wherein said tape drive positions said tape media at said tape head, and wherein said tape drive is coupled to said processor for operating said tape head and said drive and servo arrangement for positioning said tape media with respect to said tape head for said optimal retrieval of said serpentine pattern data. 6. The data storage system of claim 5, wherein said drive and servo arrangement of said tape drive additionally initializes the positioning of said tape media with respect to said tape head, wherein said memory interface transfers said device block map from said memory device to said processor as said tape drive positions said tape media at said tape head, and wherein said processor processes said device block map from said memory device as said drive and servo arrangement of said tape drive initializes the positioning of said tape media with respect to said tape head for said optimal retrieval of said serpentine pattern data of said tape media by said tape drive for said reading and/or writing thereof. 7. A data storage system for use with a tape cartridge having a tape media for storing data in a serpentine pattern, and said tape cartridge having a memory device for storing a device block map for said tape media, comprising: a memory interface for transferring data with said memory device of said tape cartridge; a tape drive for reading and/or writing data on said tape media of said tape cartridge in said serpentine pattern; a loading mechanism for first positioning said tape cartridge at said memory interface and for subsequently positioning said tape media at said tape drive for said reading and/or writing thereby; and a processor coupled to said memory interface for processing said device block map from said memory device upon said positioning of said tape cartridge at said memory interface for optimal retrieval of said serpentine pattern data of said tape media by said tape drive for said reading and/or writing thereof. 8. The data storage system of claim 7, wherein said processor additionally updates said memory device device block map upon completion of said reading and/or writing of said tape media by said tape drive, and said memory interface transfers said updated device block map from said processor to said memory device of said tape cartridge. 9. The data storage system of claim 7, wherein said memory interface is mounted at said loading mechanism. 10. The data storage system of claim 9, wherein said memory interface transfers said device block map from said memory device to said processor as said loading mechanism positions said tape media for said reading and/or writing. 11. The data storage system of claim 9, wherein said tape drive comprises a tape head for reading and/or writing said tape media of said tape cartridge, and comprises a drive and servo arrangement for moving said media with respect to said tape head in said serpentine pattern, and wherein said loading mechanism positions said tape cartridge at said tape drive, and thereby said tape media at said tape head, and wherein said tape drive is coupled to said processor for operating said tape head and said drive and servo arrangement for positioning said tape media with respect to said tape head for said optimal retrieval of said serpentine pattern data. 12. The data storage system of claim 11, wherein said drive and servo arrangement of said tape drive additionally initializes the positioning of said tape media with respect to said tape head, wherein said memory interface transfers said device block map from said memory device to said processor as said loading mechanism positions said tape cartridge at said tape drive, and wherein said processor processes said device block map from said memory device as said drive and servo arrangement of said tape drive initializes the positioning of said tape media with respect to said tape head for said optimal retrieval of said serpentine pattern data of said tape media by said tape drive for said reading and/or writing thereof. 13. A data storage library for use with a plurality of tape cartridges, each said tape cartridge having a tape media for storing data in a serpentine pattern, and said tape cartridge having a memory device for storing a device block map for said tape media, comprising: a plurality of storage slots for storing said tape cartridges; at least one tape drive for reading and/or writing data on said tape media of said tape cartridge in said serpentine pattern, and for positioning said tape media for said reading and/or writing thereby; a memory interface for transferring data with said memory device of said tape cartridge; a robotic accessor for moving said tape cartridges amongst said storage slots and said at least one tape drive, said robotic accessor first positioning said tape cartridge at said memory interface, said at least one tape drive subsequently positoning said tape media for said reading and/or writing; and a processor coupled to said memory interface for processing said device block map from said memory device upon said positioning of said tape cartridge at said memory interface for optimal retrieval of said serpentine pattern data of said tape media by said tape drive for said reading and/or writing thereof. 14. The data storage library of claim 13, wherein said processor additionally updates said memory device device block map upon completion of said reading and/or writing of said tape media by said tape drive, and said memory interface transfers said updated device block map from said processor to said memory device of said tape cartridge. 15. The data storage library of claim 13, wherein said memory interface is mounted at said robotic accessor. 16. The data storage library of claim 15, wherein said memory interface transfers said device block map from said memory device to said processor as said robotic accessor moves said tape cartridge to said tape drive. 17. The data storage library of claim 15, wherein said tape drive comprises a tape head for reading and/or writing said tape media of said tape cartridge, and comprises a drive and servo arrangement for moving said tape media with respect to said tape head in said serpentine pattern, and wherein said tape drive positions said tape media at said tape head, and wherein said tape drive is coupled to said processor for operating said tape head and said drive and servo arrangement for positioning said tape media with respect to said tape head for said optimal retrieval of said serpentine pattern data. 18. The data storage system of claim 17, wherein said drive and servo arrangement of said tape drive additionally initializes the positioning of said tape media with respect to said tape head, wherein said memory interface transfers said device block map from said memory device to said processor as said robotic accessor moves said tape cartridge to said tape drive, and wherein said processor processes said device block map from said memory device as said drive and servo arrangement of said tape drive initializes the positioning of said tape media with respect to said tape head for said optimal retrieval of said serpentine pattern data of said tape media by said tape drive for said reading and/or writing thereof. 19. A method for accessing data stored in a tape cartridge for reading and/or writing said data, said tape cartridge having a tape media for storing said data in a serpentine pattern, said tape cartridge having a memory device storing a device block map for said serpentine pattern stored data, comprising the steps of: positioning said tape cartridge at a memory interface which transfers data with said memory device; transferring said stored device block map from said memory device at said memory interface to a processor; said processor processing said device block map from said memory device for optimal retrieval of said serpentine pattern stored data of said tape media for said reading and/or writing thereof; and positioning said tape media for said reading and/or writing of said serpentine pattern stored data. 20. The method of claim 19, comprising the additional step of: upon completion of said reading and/or writing, updating said device block map of said memory device. 21. The method of claim 19, wherein said tape cartridge is stored in one of a plurality of storage slots of an automated data storage library having a robotic accessor for moving said tape cartridge amongst said storage slots and at least one tape drive, said method comprising the additional initial step of said robotic accessor moving said tape cartridge to said tape drive, and wherein said memory interface is at said robotic accessor, and said steps of positioning said tape cartridge at said memory interface, and of transferring said stored device block map from said memory device at said memory interface to a processor, are conducted during said initial step. 22. The method of claim 21, comprising the additional steps of: upon completion of said reading and/or writing, positioning said tape cartridge at said memory interface; said processor updating said device block map of said memory device; and said robotic accessor moving said tape cartridge from said tape drive to one of said plurality of storage slots. 