An electrical connector assembly includes a receptacle connector having a housing defining a mating receptacle. A dielectric wafer is mounted in the housing. A plurality of terminal pins are mounted through the wafer with mating ends of the pins projecting from one side of the wafer into the mating receptacle and connector ends of the pins projecting from an opposite side of the wafer. A plurality of discrete first connector modules are mounted on the housing for termination to selected ones of the connector ends of the terminal pins. A plug connector includes a shell defining a mating plug for insertion into the mating receptacle of the receptacle connector. A plurality of discrete second connector modules are mounted on the shell for termination to selected ones of the mating ends of the terminal pins when the plug connector is mated with the receptacle connector.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An electrical connector assembly, comprising: a receptacle connector including a housing defining a mating receptacle, a dielectric wafer mounted in the housing, a plurality of terminal pins mounted through the wafer with mating ends of the pins projecting from one side of the wafer into the mating receptacle and connector ends of the pins projecting from an opposite side of the wafer, and a plurality of discrete first connector modules mounted on the housing for termination to selected ones of the connector ends of the terminal pins; and a plug connector including a shell defining a mating plug for insertion into the mating receptacle of the receptacle connector, and a plurality of discrete second connector modules mounted on the shell for termination to selected ones of the mating ends of the terminal pins when the plug connector is mated with the receptacle connector. 2. The electrical connector assembly of claim 1 wherein the housing of said receptacle connector and the shell of said plug connector are fabricated of die-cast metal material. 3. The electrical connector assembly of claim 1 wherein said first connector modules are substantially identical. 4. The electrical connector assembly of claim 3 wherein the housing of said receptacle connector includes a plurality of discrete recesses within which the first connector modules are mounted. 5. The electrical connector assembly of claim 1 wherein said second connector modules are substantially identical. 6. The electrical connector assembly of claim 5 wherein the shell of said plug connector includes a plurality of discrete recesses within which the second connector modules are mounted. 7. The electrical connector assembly of claim 5 wherein said first connector modules are substantially identical. 8. The electrical connector assembly of claim 7 wherein the housing of said receptacle connector includes a plurality of discrete recesses within which the first connector modules are mounted. 9. The electrical connector assembly of claim 1 wherein said terminal pins are mounted through the wafer at locations defining a plurality of clusters of pins, with one pin cluster corresponding to each of a plurality of pairs of said first and second connector modules. 10. The electrical connector assembly of claim 9 wherein said first and second connector modules are identical and each module includes a dielectric housing mounting a plurality of female terminals corresponding to one of said clusters of terminal pins. 11. An electrical connector, comprising: a housing defining a receptacle for receiving a complementary mating plug connector; a dielectric wafer mounted in the housing; a plurality of terminal pins mounted through the wafer with mating ends of the pins projecting from one side of the wafer into the receptacle for connection to appropriate terminals of the plug connector, and connector ends of the pins projecting from an opposite side of the wafer, said terminal pins being mounted through the wafer at locations defining a plurality of spaced apart clusters of pins, each said cluster of pins being spaced from an adjacent cluster of pins by a first predetermined distance each said cluster including a plurality of spaced apart terminal pins the pins of each said cluster being spaced apart a second predetermined distance, the first predetermined distance being greater than said second predetermined distance; and a plurality of discrete connector modules mounted on the housing for termination to selected ones of the connector ends of the terminal pins each of the discrete connector modules corresponding to a predetermined one of said plurality of pin clusters. 12. The electrical connector of claim 11 wherein the housing is fabricated of die-cast metal material. 13. The electrical connector of claim 11 wherein said discrete connector modules are substantially identical. 14. The electrical connector of claim 13 wherein the housing includes a plurality of discrete recesses within which the connector modules are mounted. 15. The electrical connector of claim 11 wherein said connector modules are identical and each module includes a dielectric housing mounting a plurality of female terminals corresponding to one of said clusters of terminal pins. 