This invention provides novel assays for topoisomerase activity and for identifying topoisomerase inhibitors. The assays include both solid-phase and liquid-phase methods that are amenable to high throughput screening methods. The assays of the invention are readily adaptable to numerous types of topoisomerase, and are capable of identifying novel classes of topoisomerase activity modulators.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of measuring the activity of a topoisomerase in the presence of a potential topoisomerase activity modulator, the method comprising: incubating a test mixture comprising: a topoisomerase comprising an epitope, a tagged nucleic acid comprising a tag, and a potential activity modulator; adding a denaturant to the test mixture; binding the tag to a solid support, thereby binding the tagged nucleic acid to the solid support; washing the solid support in a high salt solution; contacting the solid support-bound tagged nucleic acid with a labeling moiety comprising a primary label and a binding moiety that specifically binds to the epitope; and determining whether the topoisomerase is bound to the tagged nucleic acid by detecting the presence or absence of the labeling moiety on the solid support, thereby determining the activity of the topoisomerase in the test mixture. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of binding the tag to a solid support is performed prior to, or simultaneously with, the step of incubating the test mixture or adding a denaturant to the test mixture. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the tagged nucleic acid is single-stranded or double-stranded and the topoisomerase is a Type I topoisomerase. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the topoisomerase is selected from the group consisting of a bacterial topoisomerase, a eukaryotic topoisomerase and a viral topoisomerase. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the topoisomerase is selected from the group consisting of bacterial topoisomerase I and III, fungal topoisomerase I and III, human topoisomerase I, III.alpha. and III.beta., and a Type I viral topoisomerase. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the tagged nucleic acid is double-stranded and the topoisomerase is a Type II topoisomerase. 7. The method according to claim 6, wherein the topoisomerase is selected from the group consisting of bacterial topoisomerase II and IV, fungal topoisomerase II, human topoisomerase II.alpha. and II.beta., and a Type II viral topoisomerase. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein incubating the test mixture comprising the potential activity modulator results in a higher rate of linkage between the tagged nucleic acid and the topoisomerase than a control mixture. 9. The method of claim 1, further comprising quantitating the amount of labeling moiety bound to the solid support. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the labeling moiety is detected by binding a secondary label to the primary label and detecting the secondary label. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the primary label and the secondary label are independently selected from the group consisting of: a radioactive label, a fluorophore, a dye, an enzyme, an enzyme substrate, and an antibody. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the tagged nucleic acid is immobilized on the solid support through an interaction selected from the group consisting of: non-covalent binding of a ligand to a ligand binding moiety, and covalent attachment of at least one strand of the tagged nucleic acid to the solid support. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the solid support comprises a substrate coated with streptavidin or neutravidin and the tag comprises a biotin moiety. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein the tag comprises a reactive group which forms an attachment to a functional group on the solid support. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the reactive group is a 3' or a 5' hydroxyl group on a nucleotide or a nucleoside. 16. The method of claim 14, wherein the functional group comprises a linker that is attached to the solid support. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein the topoisomerase becomes covalently attached to the tagged nucleic acid during the step of incubating the test mixture and wherein noncovalently attached topoisomerase is released from the tagged nucleic acid during the step of washing the unbound topoisomerase from the solid support. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein the tagged nucleic acid is at least about 10 nucleotides in length. 19. The method of claim 1, wherein the nucleic acid comprises a polynucleotide sequence that includes a preferred binding or cleavage site for a topoisomerase of interest. 20. The method of claim 1, wherein the tag is attached to the 3' end of the nucleic acid. 21. The method of claim 1, wherein the epitope is not native to the topoisomerase. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein the epitope is a C-Myc epitope. 23. The method according to claim 1, wherein the test mixture comprises a plurality of topoisomerases, each of which comprises a different epitope. 24. The method of claim 1, wherein the potential modulator is selected from the group consisting of a topoisomerase inhibitor and a topoisomerase activator. 