An apparatus and a method for removing and transporting articles from molds. More specifically, the present invention pertains to such an apparatus and method which is particularly well suited for removing the articles from a molding machine having molds in which they are molded, and thereafter carrying the articles within a very short period of time away from the molds and depositing the articles for further processing in a high speed, automated production system. The apparatus removes and transports articles, such as ophthalmic contact lens mold sections or contact lens packaging elements, from a molding station whereby an operating assembly removes the articles from the molding station and transports these in a composite motional displacement enabling rapid conveyance thereof to a first location; a pivotable robotic parts handling element being adapted to receive the articles from the first location and transport these to a further or second location for deposition onto pallets or the like and the continued transport thereof to a treatment or processing facility for producing and/or packaging of the contact lenses.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for removing and transporting ophthalmic lens fabricating mold sections from a molding installation; comprising: (a) actuating a first assembly for removing the lens fabricating mold sections from the molding installation and transporting the lens fabricating mold sections to a first location, said molding installation comprises two separable mold halves, said first assembly having means for imparting a transverse movement to said first assembly for accelerating and optimizing the speed of removal of said mold sections from said molding installation and for transporting said mold sections to said first location; (b) actuating a second assembly for receiving said mold sections at said first location and transporting said mold sections to a second location, wherein said second assembly comprises pivotable arm means for retrieving said mold sections conveyed by said first assembly to said first location and transporting said mold sections to said second location; and wherein said method further comprises at said first location receiving said mold sections from said first assembly and reorienting the mold sections into specific arrays prior to being retrieved by said second assembly. 2. A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein said first assembly comprises: (a) a first linearly reciprocable member including a head receiving and releasably holding said mold sections; (b) a second linearly reciprocable member movable in parallel relationship with said first linearly reciprocable member and being operably connected therewith so as to impart a predetermined variable linear rate of speed to said head between said molding installation and said first location; and (c) said means for imparting said transverse movement being connected to said first linearly reciprocable member to provide a movement transversely of the reciprocable motion at predetermined intervals during the reciprocating linear travel of said head. 3. A method as claimed in claim 2, wherein said head comprises a vacuum plate connected to a source of a selectively releasable vacuum and superatmospheric blow off pressure; a plurality of resiliently deformable vacuum cups mounted on said vacuum plate each communicating with said selectively releasable vacuum source and superatmospheric blow off pressure, each of said vacuum cups being engageable with respectively one said mold section for transporting said mold sections under a vacuum from said molding installation to said first location. 4. A method as claimed in claim 3, wherein a motor operatively connected to said first linearly reciprocable member rotates said vacuum plate into a vertical orientation upon movement of said head into said molding installation and into a horizontal orientation upon movement of said head towards said first location. 5. A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein drive means is operatively connected to one end of said pivotable arm means for imparting oscillatory movement to said arm means between said first and second locations, said drive means imparting vertical displacement to said pivotable arm means intermediate the oscillating end positions thereof to facilitate retrieval of the mold sections at said first location and depositing said mold sections by said pivotable arm means at said second location. 6. A method as claimed in claim 5, wherein said pivotable arm means includes a vacuum head at a free distal end; resiliently flexible vacuum cups at said vacuum head communicating with a selectively releasable source of vacuum and superatmospheric blow off pressure, said vacuum cups each being engageable with respectively one of said mold sections for transporting said mold sections under a vacuum to said second location, releasing said vacuum and generating said blow off pressure for depositing said mold sections at said second location. 7. A method as claimed in claim 5, wherein said second location comprises transport means for conveying mold sections deposited by said pivotable arm means for further processing. 8. A method as claimed in claim 7, wherein said transport means comprises a conveyor system; and pallets transportable by said conveyor system receiving said mold sections from said pivotable arm means. 9. A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein said first assembly selectively conveys mold sections to a third location different from said first and second locations, said third location for testing samples of said mold sections. 10. A method as claimed in claim 2, wherein said second linearly reciprocable member includes displacement means for displacing said head in a direction parallel with said reciprocable motion, and said transverse movement being imparted to said first linearly reciprocable member by providing a rail structure for displacing said head perpendicular to said reciprocable motion. 11. A method as claimed in claim 5, wherein said drive means and said pivotable arm means comprise a robotic structure, said pivotable arm means operates in synchronism with the functioning of said first assembly. 12. A method for removing and transporting mold contact lens packaging articles from a molding installation; comprising: (a) actuating a first assembly for removing the articles from the molding installation and transporting the articles to a first location, said molding installation comprises two separable mold halves, said first assembly having means for imparting a transverse movement to said first assembly for accelerating and optimizing the speed of removal of said articles from said molding installation and for transporting said articles to said first location; (b) actuating a second assembly for receiving said articles at said first location and transporting said articles to a second location, wherein said second assembly comprises pivotable arm means for retrieving said articles conveyed by said first assembly to said first location and transporting said articles to said second location; and wherein said method further comprises at said first location receiving said articles from said first assembly and reorienting the articles into specific arrays prior to being retrieved by said second assembly. 13. A method as claimed in claim 12, wherein said first assembly comprises: (a) a first linearly reciprocable member including a head receiving and releasably holding said articles; (b) a second linearly reciprocable member movable in parallel relationship with said first linearly reciprocable member and being operably connected therewith so as to impart a predetermined variable linear rate of speed to said head between said molding installation and said first location; and (c) said means for importing said transverse movement being connected to said first linearly reciprocable member to provide a movement thereto transversely of the reciprocable motion at predetermined intervals during the reciprocating linear travel of said head. 14. A method as claimed in claim 13, wherein said head comprises a vacuum plate connected to a source of a selectively releasable vacuum and superatmospheric blow off pressure; a plurality of resiliently deformable vacuum cups mounted on said vacuum plate each communicating with said selectively releasable vacuum source and superatmospheric blow off pressure, each of said vacuum cups being engageable with respectively one said article for transporting said articles under a vacuum from said molding installation to said first location. 15. A method as claimed in claim 14, wherein a motor operatively connected to said first linearly reciprocable member rotates said vacuum plate into a vertical orientation upon movement of said head into said molding installation and into a horizontal orientation upon movement of said head towards said first location. 16. A method as claimed in claim 12, wherein drive means is operatively connected to one end of said pivotable arm means for imparting oscillatory movement to said arm means between said first and second locations, said drive means imparting vertical displacement to said pivotable arm means intermediate the oscillating end positions thereof to facilitate retrieval of the articles at said first location and depositing said articles by said pivotable arm means at said second location. 17. A method as claimed in claim 16, wherein said pivotable arm means includes a vacuum head at a free distal end; resiliently flexible vacuum cup at said vacuum head communicating with a selectively releasable source of vacuum and superatmospheric blow off pressure, said vacuum cups each being engageable with respectively one of said articles for transporting said articles under a vacuum to said second location, releasing said vacuum and generating said blow off pressure for depositing said articles at said second location. 18. A method as claimed in claim 16, wherein said second location comprises transport means for conveying articles deposited by said pivotable arm means for further processing. 19. A method as claimed in claim 18, wherein said transport means comprises a conveyor system; and pallets transportable by said conveyor system receiving said articles from said pivotable arm means. 20. A method as claimed in claim 12, wherein said first assembly selectively conveys articles to a third location different from said first and second locations, said third location for testing samples of said articles. 21. A method as claimed in claim 13, wherein said second linearly reciprocable member includes displacement means for displacing said head in a direction parallel with said reciprocable motion, and said transverse movement being imparted to said first linearly reciprocable member by providing a rail structure for displacing said head perpendicular to said reciprocable motion. 22. A method as claimed in claim 16, wherein said drive means and said pivotable arm means comprise a robotic structure, said pivotable arm means operates in synchronism with the functioning of said first assembly. 23. A method for removing and transporting mold articles from a molding installation; comprising: (a) actuating a first assembly for removing the articles from the molding installation and transporting the articles to a first location, said molding installation comprises two separable mold halves, said first assembly having means for imparting a transverse movement to said first assembly for accelerating and optimizing the speed of removal of said articles from said molding installation and for transporting said articles to said first location; (b) actuating a second assembly for receiving said articles at said first location and transporting said articles to a second location, wherein said second assembly comprises pivotable arm means for retrieving said articles conveyed by said first assembly to said first location and transporting said articles to said second location; and wherein said method further comprises at said first location receiving said articles from said first assembly and reorienting the articles into specific arrays prior to being retrieved by said second assembly. 24. A method as claimed in claim 2, wherein said transverse movement is imparted to said first linearly reciprocable member by providing a rail structure operatively connected to a first motor, and wherein a second motor is operatively connected to said second linearly reciprocable member. 25. A method as claimed in claim 13, wherein said transverse movement is imparted to said first linearly reciprocable member by providing a rail structure operatively connected to a first motor, and wherein a second motor is operatively connected to said second linearly reciprocable member. 26. A method for removing and transporting ophthalmic lens fabricating mold sections from a molding installation; comprising: (a) actuating a first assembly for removing the lens fabricating mold sections from the molding installation and transporting the lens fabricating mold sections to a first location, said molding installation comprises two separable mold halves, said first assembly having means for imparting a transverse movement to said first assembly for accelerating and optimizing the speed of removal of said mold sections from said molding installation and for transporting said mold sections to said first location; (b) actuating a second assembly for receiving said mold sections at said first location and transporting said mold sections to a second location, wherein said second assembly comprises pivotable arm means for retrieving said mold sections conveyed by said first assembly to said first location and transporting said mold sections to said second location; and wherein drive means is operatively connected to one end of said pivotable arm means for imparting oscillatory movement to said arm means between said first and second locations, said drive means imparting vertical displacement to said pivotable arm means intermediate the oscillating end positions thereof to facilitate retrieval of the mold sections at said first location and depositing said mold sections by said pivotable arm means at said second location, said pivotable arm means is rotatable about the longitudinal axis of said arm means by said drive means to facilitate retrieval of said mold sections directly from said first assembly in one inverted position of said arm means and inverting said arm means into an opposite position so as to invert said mold sections prior to depositing said mold sections at said second location. 