The invention comprises in various embodiments controllers and apparatus for testing flexible manufacturing systems and methods of operating same. The controller includes a computer, a program, output lines from the computer, and devices connected to the output lines. The program uses matrix logic equations to determine when to start and stop jobs. The devices start and stop individual resources in response to logic signals from the computer. In one embodiment, the controller obtains sensor feedback on the distribution of work pieces and available resources in the manufacturing system. The invention also includes an apparatus and methods for testing a flexible manufacturing system. In response to the input of initial data, the apparatus for testing a flexible manufacturing system solves matrix equations and determines the activity and/or production of the manufacturing system. The apparatus for testing a flexible manufacturing system sends logical signals to a recording device which, in one embodiment, produce a cumulative display of the time dependent production or activity of the system.
Claims What we claim is: 1. A program storage device readable by a computer, tangibly embodying a program of instructions for controlling a workcell, said program having instructions for steps of a method, the instructions being executable by the computer, the method comprising: solving a first matrix logic equation to determine a transition vector from a status vector of said workcell; determining a start vector of said workcell by using said transition vector to solve a second matrix logic equation; sending a logic signal for at least one component of said start vector to an output port of said computer; and updating said status vector using said start vector and repeating said acts in each cycle of said program. 2. The program storage device as set forth in claim 1, wherein said program further comprises: polling at least one input port of said computer for logical sensor signals, said step for polling being performed at least once during each of said cycles; and updating said status vector with components of said logic sensor signals. 3. The program storage device as set forth in claim 2, wherein each of said logic sensor signals includes logical data selected form the group consisting of logical data that a work piece is present at a place, logical data that a job is being performed at said place, and logical data that a resource is available at said place. 4. The program storage device as set forth in claim 1, wherein said program comprises further steps for recognizing conflicts, said steps including first determining a trial new marking vector from said transition vector and an initial marking vector and then recognizing a conflict when at least one component of said trial new marking vector is negative. 5. A program storage device readable by a computer, tangibly embodying a program of instructions for simulating a flexible manufacturing system, said program having instructions for steps of a method, said instructions executable by the computer, the method comprising: determining a status vector from an initial marking vector of said flexible manufacturing system; solving a first matrix logic equation to determine a transition vector from activity completion matrix data and said status vector data; calculating a new marking vector from said transition vector, said activity completion matrix data, said initial marking vector, and activity start matrix data by solving a standard matrix equation; sending at least one logic signal to a recording device; and after the steps for solving and calculating, updating said initial marking vector by replacement with said new marking vector, said program repeating said steps. 6. The program storage device as set forth in claim 5, wherein said program further comprises a means for recognizing and resolving conflicts. 7. The program storage device as set forth in claim 6, wherein said means for recognizing conflicts includes further instructions of said program for first determining a trial new marking vector from said transition vector and an initial marking vector and then recognizing a conflict when at least one component of said trial new marking vector is negative. 8. The program storage device as set forth in claim 5, wherein said recording device is selected from the group consisting of a memory storage device, a cathode ray screen, and a plotter display. 9. An apparatus, for controlling a workcell comprising: at least one output line for sending logic signals, said output line having first and second ends; a computer, having a program executable on the computer and having at least one output port, said first end being attached to said output port, said program having instructions for steps of a method, the method comprising: solving a first matrix logic equation to determine a transition vector from a status vector; determining a start vector from said transition vector by solving a second matrix logic equation; and sending a logic signal for a component of said start vector to said output port, said program updating said status vector using said start vector and repeating said steps; and at least one device, said device being connected to said second end, said device for starting or stopping a job at a place in said workcell in response to logic signals received from said second end. 10. The apparatus as set forth in claim 9, further comprising: at least one sensor, said sensor being located at said place to produce logic sensor signals; an input line having first and second terminations, the first termination being attached to said sensor and the second termination being attached to an input port of said computer; and said method further comprising: polling said input port at least once during each repetition of the steps of solving, determining and sending; and replacing said status vector with said logic sensor signal received at said input port. 11. The apparatus as set forth in claim 10, wherein said logic sensor signal includes data selected from the group consisting of logical data that a work piece is present at said place, logical data that a job is being performed at said place, and logical data that a resource is available at said place. 12. The apparatus as set forth in claim 9 wherein said device is an electric switch operated by at least one logical gate, the logic gate to operate the electric switch, in response to receiving said logical signal. 13. The apparatus as set forth in claim 9, further comprising a means for recognizing and resolving conflicts. 14. The apparatus as set forth in claim 13, wherein said means for recognizing conflicts includes further instructions of said program for first determining a trial new marking vector from said transition vector and an initial marking vector and then recognizing a conflict when at least one component of said trial new marking vector is negative. 15. The apparatus as set forth in claim 9, wherein said computer is a personal computer. 16. A method, for controlling a workcell comprising: solving a first matrix logic equation to determine a transition vector from status vector data; determining a start vector from said transition vector by solving a second matrix logic equation; sending a logic signal to at least one device, said logic signal including at least one of the components of the start vector, starting or stopping at least one job at a place in said workcell with said device in response to receiving the logic signal; and updating said status vector using said start vector and repeating said steps for a preselected number of cycles. 17. The method as set forth in claim 16, further comprising steps for: producing a second logic signal with a sensor located at said place; sending said second logic signal to an input port of said device; polling said input port at least once during each of said cycles; and wherein the step for updating uses said second logic signal. 18. The method as set forth in claim 17, wherein the step of producing said second logic signal includes producing a data signal selected from the group consisting of a logical data indicating that a work piece is present at said place, a logical data indicating that a job is being performed at said place, and a logical data indicating that a resource is available at said place. 19. The method as set forth in claim 16, wherein said step of starting or stopping is performed by at least one logic gate, the logic gate adapted to operate an electric switch in response to said logical signal, said electric switch adapted to turn on or off a resource at said place. 20. The method as set forth in claim 16, further comprising recognizing and resolving a conflict. 21. The method as set forth in claim 20, wherein said step of recognizing and resolving a conflict includes first determining a trial new marking vector from said transition vector and an initial marking vector and then recognizing a conflict when at least one component of said trial new marking vector is negative. 22. The method as set forth in claim 16, wherein said steps of solving, determining, sending, and repeating are performed by a computer. 23. An apparatus for testing a flexible manufacturing system comprising: at least one output line, said output line having first and second ends; a recording device having at least one input, said input connected to the second end of said output line; a computer having a program executable encoded in a memory thereof, the computer having at least one output port, said program including instructions for steps of a method, the method comprising: determining a status vector from an initial marking vector of said flexible manufacturing system; solving a first matrix logic equation to determine a transition vector from activity completion matrix data and said status vector data; calculating a new marking vector from said transition vector, said initial marking vector, said activity completion matrix data, and activity start matrix data by solving a standard matrix equation; sending at least one logic signal to an output port of the computer, said logic signal being a component of the new marking vector; said first end being attached to said output port; and after the steps of solving and calculating, updating said initial marker vector by replacement with said new marking vector and repeating the steps of determining, solving, calculating, and sending. 24. The apparatus for testing a flexible manufacturing system as set forth in claim 23, wherein the recording device includes an accumulator that sums at least one component of said marking vector. 25. The apparatus for testing a flexible manufacturing system as set forth in claim 23, wherein said recording device is selected from the group consisting of a plotter, a cathode ray display, and a memory storage device. 26. The apparatus for testing a flexible manufacturing system as set forth in claim 23, further comprising means for recognizing and resolving a conflict. 27. The apparatus for testing a flexible manufacturing system as set forth in claim 26, wherein said means for recognizing and resolving a conflict includes instructions of said program for first determining a trial new marking vector from said transition and initial marking vectors and for then recognizing a conflict when at least one component of said trial new marking vector is negative. 28. The apparatus for testing a flexible manufacturing system as set forth in claim 23, wherein said computer is a personal computer. 29. A method for testing a flexible manufacturing system comprising: solving a first matrix logic equation to determine a transition vector from an activity completion matrix data and an initial status vector data; calculating a new marking vector from said transition vector, an initial marking vector, said activity completion matrix data, and an activity start matrix data by solving a standard matrix equation; sending at least one logic signal to an input of a recording device, said logic signal including one or more components of said new marking vector; and after the steps of solving and calculating, using said new marking vector to update said status vector data and to replace said initial marking vector with said new marking vector, said program repeating said steps of solving, calculating, and sending. 30. The method for testing a flexible manufacturing system as set forth in claim 29, further comprising recognizing and resolving a conflict. 31. The method for testing a flexible manufacturing system as set forth in claim 30, wherein said step of recognizing and resolving a conflict includes first determining a trial new marking vector from said transition and initial marking vectors and then recognizing a conflict when at least one component of said trial new marking vector is negative. 