The system and method includes a manipulator for manipulating a surgical instrument relative to a patient's body and, a position sensor for sensing the position of the surgical instrument relative to the patient's body. The manipulator can be manually or computer actuated and can have brakes to limit movement. In a preferred embodiment, orthogonal only motion between members of the manipulator is provided. The position sensor includes beacons connected to the patient and manipulator or surgical instrument and, a three dimensional beacon sensor adapted to sense the location and position of the beacons. Redundant joint sensors on the manipulator may also be provided. The system and method uses a computer to actively interact with the surgeon and can use various different input and output devices and modes.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of assisting a surgeon in positioning a first portion of a patient's body relative to a second portion of the patient's body during surgery, comprising steps of: associating perceivable targets with at least the first and second portions of the patient's body; determining the positions of the targets on the patient relative to either (a) each other or (b) a third portion of the patient's body; moving the first portion of the patient's body relative to the second portion; and sensing movement of the targets as the first portion of the patient's body is moved relative to the second portion. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the perceivable target is visually perceivable. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the visually perceivable targets comprise blinking lights. 4. The method of claim 3, further comprising: determining whether the position of the first portion corresponds to a predetermined desired position of the first portion; and providing an indication to the user when the position of the first portion corresponds to the predetermined desired position. 5. The method of claim 3, wherein moving the first portion of the patient's body relative to the second portion comprises: moving the first portion in a first decoupled degree of freedom of movement relative to the second portion until the first portion reaches a predetermined position relative to the second portion or the third portion in that first degree of freedom, and moving the first portion in a second decoupled degree of freedom of movement relative to the second portion until the first portion reaches a predetermined position relative to the second portion or the third portion in that second degree of freedom. 6. The method of claim 4, wherein moving the first portion of the patient's body relative to the second portion comprises: moving the first portion in a first decoupled degree of freedom of movement relative to the second portion until the first portion reaches a predetermined position relative to the second portion or the third portion in that first degree of freedom, and moving the first portion in a second decoupled degree of freedom of movement relative to the second portion until the first portion reaches a predetermined position relative to the second portion or the third portion in that second degree of freedom. 7. A robotic surgical system for aligning portions of a patient's body during surgery, comprising: a plurality of targets attached to at least first and second portions of the patient's body; an optical sensor for sensing the positions of the first and second portions by sensing the positions of the targets; a computer for computing the relative positons of the first and second portions based on information from the optical sensor; and a mechanism for moving the first portion relative to the second portion in decoupled degrees of freedom. 