A window panel assembly for use in a vehicle includes a window panel having interior and exterior surfaces and a power strip attached to the interior surface of the window panel. The power strip includes a channel receiving an electrically powered accessory such as a map light. The accessory is movable to a number of positions within the channel to accommodate the needs of a vehicle occupant. Preferably, the assembly is used in the roof area of the vehicle such that the accessory is supported overhead of the passenger compartment. An opaque frit layer may be included on the window panel to conceal the power strip when the assembly is viewed from the exterior.
Claims The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows: 1. A window panel assembly for use in a vehicle, comprising: a window panel having interior and exterior surfaces; a power strip having an attaching surface attached to said interior surface of said window panel, said power strip including a channel within which is received at least one electrically powered accessory, said accessory being movable to any one of a number of positions within said channel to accommodate the needs of a vehicle occupant. 2. The window panel assembly of claim 1 wherein said electrically powered accessory comprises a map light. 3. The window panel assembly of claim 1 wherein said window panel comprises a roof panel for mounting at least one of within and over an overhead window opening of the vehicle. 4. The window panel assembly of claim 1 wherein said window panel comprises glass. 5. The window panel assembly of claim 1 including an opaque layer covering a first area of said interior surface of said overhead window panel. 6. The window panel assembly of claim 5 wherein said opaque layer has a dimension sufficient to conceal said attaching surface of said power strip when said window panel assembly is viewed from the direction of said exterior surface of said window panel. 7. The window panel assembly of claim 5 wherein said first area of said interior surface having said opaque layer corresponds to at least a footprint of said attaching surface of said power strip secured to said interior surface of said window panel. 8. The window panel assembly of claim 5 wherein said opaque layer comprises ceramic frit. 9. The window panel assembly of claim 5 wherein said attaching surface of said power strip is bonded to said interior surface of said window panel on said opaque layer by an adhesive, said adhesive being selected from the group consisting essentially of single-component adhesives, multi-component adhesives, chemically activated adhesives, thermally activated adhesives, moisture-curable adhesives, thermoplastic adhesives, and thermoset adhesives. 10. The window panel assembly of claim 9 further including an adhesion-promoting compound between said opaque layer and said adhesive. 11. The window panel assembly of claim 1 wherein said attaching surface of said power strip is bonded to said interior surface of said window panel by an adhesive. 12. The window panel assembly of claim 11 wherein said adhesive is selected from the group consisting essentially of single-component adhesives, multi-component adhesives, chemically activated adhesives, thermally activated adhesives, moisture-curable adhesives, thermoplastic adhesives, and thermoset adhesives. 13. The window panel assembly of claim 1 wherein said attaching surface of said power strip is fastened to said window panel by an attachment member selected from the group consisting essentially of a hook and loop fastener assembly, double-sided adhesive tape, a bonded stud fastener, an adhesive, and a polymeric bead. 14. The window panel assembly of claim 1 wherein electrical power is supplied to said power strip by a conductor selected from the group consisting essentially of wire conductors and a conductive film on said window panel. 15. The window panel assembly of claim 14 wherein electrical power is supplied to said power strip from one of a battery and a power source which is remote from said power strip and connected thereto by said conductor. 