An apparatus for joining two optical discs into a disc assembly having multiple layers of data has a disc processing chamber for supporting the first and second discs, wherein each of the discs has a layer of data on a first side thereof. The processing chamber is fluidly connected to a tank containing a bonding fluid. A vacuum pump is selectively connectable to the processing chamber and the tank for selectively evacuating air out of each. An actuator is operatively mounted within the processing chamber and supports the first disc. The actuator moves the first side of the first disc into contact with the first side of second disc after the processing chamber has been evacuated and a bonding fluid is placed on one of the first and second discs, thereby forming a disc assembly having multiple layers of data.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for joining two optical discs into a multilayer disc having multiple layers of data comprising: a processing chamber for supporting first and second discs having first and second layers of data on respective first sides thereof; a tank containing a bonding fluid; a vacuum pump; a vacuum valve connected to the vacuum pump, the tank and the processing chamber for selectively connecting the vacuum pump to one of the tank and the processing chamber; a fluid dispenser mounted within the processing chamber and fluidly connected to the tank for dispensing the bonding fluid on the first side of one of the discs after the processing chamber has been evacuated; and an actuator operatively connected to the first disc within the processing chamber, the actuator moving the first disc into contact with the second disc after the bonding fluid is dispensed onto the first side of the one of the discs. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: a source of inert gas; and a gas valve connected between the source of inert gas and the tank for selectively providing the inert gas to the tank after the tank has been evacuated. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the source of inert gas is a source of helium. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the first disc is supported in the processing chamber with the first side oriented generally horizontally and facing vertically downward and the second disc is supported within the processing chamber with its first side facing vertically upward and substantially parallel to the first side of the first disc. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a dispensing valve connected to the tank for selectively passing the bonding fluid to the fluid dispenser. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 further comprising a dispensing head having one end in fluid communication with and receiving the bonding fluid from the dispensing valve and a second end positioned to dispense the bonding fluid on the first side of the one of the discs. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a return valve connected between the processing chamber and the tank for transferring excessive bonding fluid from the processing chamber back to the tank. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a vent valve connected to the processing chamber for selectively venting the processing chamber to atmospheric pressure. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a process vacuum valve connected between the vacuum valve and the processing chamber for selectively connecting the processing chamber to the vacuum valve. 10. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a motor operatively connected to the one of the discs for rotating the one of the discs as fluid is dispensed thereon. 11. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a robot arm pivotally supporting the dispensing head for pivoting the dispensing head between a nondispensing and a dispensing position. 12. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a control operatively connected to the actuator, the vacuum pump, and the valves to control their operation. 13. An apparatus for joining two optical discs into a multilayer disc having multiple layers of data comprising: a processing chamber for supporting first and second discs having first and second layers of data on respective first sides thereof; a tank containing a bonding fluid and in fluid communication with the processing chamber; a vacuum pump; a vacuum valve connected to the vacuum pump, the tank and the processing chamber for selectively connecting the vacuum pump to one of the tank and the processing chamber; a source of an inert gas in fluid communication with the tank; a gas valve connected between the source of inert gas and the tank for selectively providing the inert gas to the tank after the tank has been evacuated; a dispensing valve and dispenser mounted within the processing chamber and fluidly connected to the tank for selectively dispensing the bonding fluid on the first side of one of the discs after the processing chamber has been evacuated; an actuator operatively connected to the first disc within the processing chamber, the actuator moving the first disc into contact with the second disc after the processing chamber and the tank have been evacuated and a bonding fluid is placed on one of the first and second discs; a vent valve connected to the processing chamber for selectively venting the processing chamber to atmospheric pressure after the first disc has been joined with the second disc with the bonding fluid therebetween; and a control operatively connected to the actuator, the vacuum pump, and the vacuum, gas, dispensing and vent valves to control their operation. 14. An apparatus for joining two optical discs into a multilayer disc having multiple layers of data comprising: a processing chamber for supporting first and second discs having first and second layers of data on respective first sides thereof; a tank containing a bonding fluid; means for applying a partial vacuum to the processing chamber and the tank; a fluid dispenser mounted within the processing chamber and fluidly connected to the tank for dispensing the bonding fluid on the first side of one of the discs after the processing chamber has been evacuated; and an actuator operatively connected to the first disc within the processing chamber, the actuator moving the first disc into contact with the second disc after the bonding fluid is dispensed onto the first side of the one of the discs. 15. A method of joining optical discs comprising: removing air from a tank of bonding fluid, the tank being fluidly connected to a processing chamber; loading into a processing chamber first and second discs having respective first and second layers of data on respective first sides thereof; evacuating the processing chamber; dispensing the bonding fluid directly from the tank into the evacuated processing chamber onto a first side of one of the discs; placing the first side of the first disc in contact with the first side of the second disc, so that the first sides of the first and second discs are juxtaposed with an intermediate layer of bonding fluid; and venting the processing chamber to atmospheric pressure. 16. The method of claim 15 further comprising transferring an inert gas into the tank after removing air from the tank. 17. The method of claim 16 further comprising pivoting a dispensing head from a nondispensing position to a dispensing position over the one of the discs after evacuating the processing chamber. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein dispensing the bonding fluid further comprises operating a dispense valve fluidly connected between the tank and the dispensing head to transfer the bonding fluid from the tank to the fluid dispenser. 19. The method of claim 18 further comprising rotating the one of the discs while dispensing the bonding fluid. 20. The method of claim 19 further comprising pivoting the dispensing head from the dispensing position back to the nondispensing position prior to placing the first disc onto the second disc. 21. A method of joining optical discs comprising: providing within a processing chamber first and second discs having first and second layers of data on respective first sides thereof; evacuating a tank containing a bonding fluid and fluidly connected to the processing chamber; filling the tank with an inert gas; applying a partial vacuum to the processing chamber; transferring the bonding fluid directly from the tank into the partially evacuated processing chamber onto the first side of at least one of the discs; moving the first side of the first disc in contact with the first side of the second disc, so that the first sides of the first and second discs are juxtaposed with an intermediate layer of bonding fluid; and removing the partial vacuum from the processing chamber. 