A tape storage library apparatus includes a gripper for handling tape cartridges and an integrated camera, proximity sensor, and reach safe sensor operable with a common light source for performing multiple tape cartridge sensing functions. The camera reads the labels of tape cartridges stored in slots of a storage library. The proximity sensor senses the presence and absence of tape cartridges in the slots. The proximity sensor also distinguishes between labeled and unlabeled tape cartridges stored in the slots. The reach safe sensor senses the presence of obstructions in the path of movement of the gripper. The proximity sensor further calibrates the position of the gripper in the storage library. A processor operable with the reach safe sensor calibrates the optical source to ensure proper tape cartridge sensing functions.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A tape storage library apparatus for a storage library containing tape cartridges stored in slots, the apparatus comprising: a housing having an entry; a gripper for handling tape cartridges, the gripper movable through the entry between an extended position out of the housing and a retracted position within the housing, wherein the gripper extends to grip a tape cartridge stored in a slot in the storage library and retracts to remove a gripped tape cartridge from the slot; an optical source mounted to the housing for transmitting optical signals, wherein the optical source transmits optical signals towards the slots in the storage library, wherein a tape cartridge stored in a slot reflects an optical signal transmitted from the optical source as a reflected optical signal having a magnitude above a given magnitude threshold; a camera mounted to the housing behind the optical source for sensing reflected optical signals from tape cartridges stored in the slots to read labels attached to labeled tape cartridges; a proximity sensor mounted to the housing above the optical source for sensing reflected optical signals from the slots in the storage library, whereupon sensing a reflected optical signal having a magnitude above the given magnitude threshold the proximity sensor determines the presence of a tape cartridge in a slot; and a reach safe sensor mounted to the housing above the optical source for receiving optical signals from the optical source across the entry, wherein an obstruction in the entry prevents the reach safe sensor from receiving optical signals from the optical source, wherein the reach safe sensor determines the presence of an obstruction in the entry when received optical signals from the optical source are absent. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein: a labeled tape cartridge stored in a slot reflects an optical signal transmitted from the optical source as a reflected optical signal having a high magnitude level above the given magnitude threshold, whereupon sensing a reflected optical signal having a high magnitude level above the given magnitude threshold the proximity sensor determines the presence of a labeled tape cartridge in the slot. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein: an unlabeled tape cartridge stored in a slot reflects an optical signal transmitted from the optical source as a reflected optical signal having a low magnitude level above the given magnitude threshold, whereupon sensing a reflected optical signal having a low magnitude level above the given magnitude threshold the proximity sensor determines the presence of an unlabeled tape cartridge in the slot. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein: the proximity sensor upon sensing a reflected optical signal having a magnitude below the given magnitude threshold determines the absence of a tape cartridge in a slot. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein: the reach safe sensor is disabled while the gripper is moving through the entry. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein: the gripper is prevented from moving while the reach safe sensor determines the presence of an obstruction in the entry. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: a processor for determining the given magnitude threshold as a function of the optical signal received by the reach safe sensor. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein: the camera includes a line scan camera for reading bar code labels on the tape cartridges. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein: the optical source includes a plurality of light emitting diodes. 10. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein: the reach safe sensor and the proximity sensor are photo detectors. 11. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein: the proximity sensor has an optical field of view focused on tape cartridges stored in the slots of the storage library for only sensing reflected optical signals from the tape cartridges stored in the slots. 12. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein: the reach safe sensor has an optical field of view focused on the optical source for only receiving optical signals from the optical source. 13. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein: the gripper retracts to the retracted position to move a gripped tape cartridge across the entry and into the housing, wherein the reach safe sensor is disabled while the gripper and the gripped tape cartridge are moving through the entry. 14. In a tape storage library containing tape cartridges stored in slots and a gripper for handling the tape cartridges, the gripper being movable through an entry of a housing between an extended position out of the housing for gripping a tape cartridge stored in a slot and a retracted position within the housing, a method for operating the tape storage library comprising: transmitting optical signals towards the slots in the storage library from an optical source mounted to the housing, wherein an optical signal have a magnitude above a given magnitude threshold is reflected from a tape cartridge stored in a slot; sensing the reflected optical signals from the slots with a proximity sensor mounted to the housing above the optical source; determining the presence of a tape cartridge in a slot upon the proximity sensor sensing a reflected optical signal having a magnitude above the given magnitude threshold; sensing the reflected optical signals from the tape cartridges with a camera mounted to the housing behind the optical source; reading a label attached to a tape cartridge with the camera; transmitting an optical signal from the optical source across the entry; receiving the optical signal transmitted across the entry from the optical source with a reach safe sensor mounted to the housing above the optical source, wherein an obstruction in the entry prevents the reach safe sensor from receiving optical signals from the optical source; and determining the presence of an obstruction in the entry when received optical signals from the optical source by the reach safe sensor are absent. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein: an optical signal having a high magnitude level above the given magnitude threshold is reflected from a labeled tape cartridge stored in a slot, wherein determining the presence of a tape cartridge in a slot upon the proximity sensor sensing a reflected optical signal having a magnitude above the given magnitude threshold includes determining the presence of a labeled tape cartridge in the slot if the sensed reflected optical signal has a high magnitude level above the given magnitude threshold. 16. The method of claim 14 wherein: an optical signal having a low magnitude level above the given magnitude threshold is reflected from a unlabeled tape cartridge stored in a slot, wherein determining the presence of a tape cartridge in a slot upon the proximity sensor sensing a reflected optical signal having a magnitude above the given magnitude threshold includes determining the presence of an unlabeled tape cartridge in the slot if the sensed reflected optical signal has a low magnitude level above the given magnitude threshold. 17. The method of claim 14 further comprising: disabling the reach safe sensor while the gripper is moving through the entry. 18. The method of claim 17 further comprising: preventing the gripper from moving while the presence of an obstruction in the entry is determined. 19. The method of claim 14 further comprising: determining the given magnitude threshold as a function of the optical signal received by the reach safe sensor. 20. The apparatus of claim 14 further comprising: retracting the gripper to the retracted position to move a gripped tape cartridge across the entry and into the housing; and disabling the reach safe sensor while the gripper and the gripped tape cartridge are moving through the entry. 