A flexible sheet used in manufacture of microelectronic components is held on a frame formed from a rigid material so that the frame maintains the sheet under tension during processing and thereby stabilizes the dimensions of the sheet. The frame may be formed from a rigid, light-transmissive material such as a glass, and the bond between the frame and sheet may be made or released by light transmitted through the frame. Preferred features of the framed sheet minimize entrapment of processing liquids such as etch solutions, thereby minimizing carryover of processing solutions between steps. The frame may have contact openings which permit engagement of a metallic layer on the sheet by an electrode carrying electroplating or etching current without disturbing the main portion of the sheet where features are to be formed or treated.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An article for use in manufacturing a microelectronic component comprising: (a) a flexible sheet having oppositely-facing exterior surfaces; and (b) a frame having an aperture and a light-transmissive portion, said flexible sheet being bonded to said light-transmissive portion of said frame so that said frame holds said sheet taut and so that a first exterior surface of said sheet is exposed through said aperture, the bond between said sheet and said transmissive portion of said frame being susceptible to degradation by exposure to light in a degradation wavelength band, said transmissive portion of said frame being adapted to transmit light in said degradation wavelength band, whereby the bond between the sheet and the transmissive portion of the frame can be released by applying light in said degradation wavelength band to the bond through the transmissive portion of the frame. 2. An article as claimed in claim 1 wherein said flexible sheet includes at least one dielectric layer and at least one metallic layer overlying said at least one dielectric layer at at least one exterior surface of said sheet. 3. An article as claimed in claim 2 wherein said flexible sheet includes one said dielectric layer and two said metallic layers at opposite exterior surfaces of said sheet. 4. An article as claimed in claim 1 further comprising an adhesive disposed between said sheet and said transmissive portion of said frame, said sheet being bonded to said transmissive portion of said frame by said adhesive, said adhesive being degradable by light in said degradation wavelength band and said transmissive portion being transmissive to light in said degradation wavelength band. 5. An article as claimed in claim 1 wherein said light-transmissive portion of said frame includes a unitary ring of a light-transmissive material substantially surrounding said aperture. 6. An article as claimed in claim 1 wherein said light-transmissive portion of said frame is formed from an inorganic material. 7. An article as claimed in claim 6 wherein said light-transmissive portion of said frame is formed from a material selected from the group consisting of quartz, silica, borosilicate glasses and aluminosilicate glasses. 