An improved connection between articulated bodies for agile vehicles is disclosed. It features independent bodies which are connected to each other with concentric sleeves serving as the pivot to allow the bodies to rotate in a plane parallel to the direction of forward movement. The concentric bushings are preferably made of graphite/epoxy and secured to the chassis body sidewalls. Each of the body segments remains uninterrupted by the bushings which are principally disposed between the facing interior sides of the two bodies. The bearing assembly, which is preferably graphite/epoxy, is self-lubricating as it wears over time. Lateral movement is easily controlled, and relative rotation is also controlled by a collar which serves a dual function to control lateral movement of the bodies as well as relative rotation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An articulated vehicle chassis for a vehicle capable of translational motion along a longitudinal axis of said chassis, comprising first and second aligned bodies, said bodies comprising walls having an outer and inner face; and a pivot connection comprising: a tubular structure oriented generally transversely to the longitudinal axis and extending to a wall on said first body and another wall on said second body without completely traversing either of said bodies, wherein said tubular structure does not intersect longitudinal axes of both said bodies. 2. The chassis of claim 1, wherein: said tubular structure comprises first and second, concentrically mounted sleeves. 3. The chassis of claim 2, wherein: said sleeves comprise a longitudinal axis and are restrained as to a predetermined amount of lateral movement along their longitudinal axis. 4. An apparatus comprising first and second bodies connected with a pivot connection, said bodies comprising walls having an outer and inner face, said pivot connection comprising: a tubular structure oriented generally transversely to said walls and extending to a wall on said first body and to a wall on said second body without completely traversing either of said bodies, wherein said tubular structure comprises concentrically mounted sleeves, wherein said sleeves comprise a longitudinal axis and are restrained as to a predetermined amount of lateral movement along their longitudinal axis, and wherein: said sleeves are restrained as to a predetermined relative rotation about their longitudinal axis. 5. The chassis of claim 2, wherein: said first sleeve is disposed between said bodies. 6. The chassis of claim 5, wherein: said second sleeve extends through facing walls of said bodies. 7. The chassis of claim 6, wherein: said first sleeve is mounted over said second sleeve. 8. The chassis of claim 7, wherein: said first sleeve is secured to said first body and said second sleeve is secured to said second body. 9. The chassis of claim 8 wherein in said connection: said second sleeve extends through a wall on said first body and further comprises a travel stop. 10. An apparatus comprising first and second bodies connected with a pivot connection, said bodies comprising walls having an outer and inner face and defining a space therein, said pivot connection comprising: a tubular structure oriented generally transversely to said walls and extending to a wall on said first body and to a wall on said second body without completely traversing either of said bodies, wherein said tubular structure comprises concentrically mounted sleeves, wherein a first of said sleeves is disposed between said bodies; wherein a second of said sleeves extends through facing walls of said bodies, wherein said first sleeve is mounted over said second sleeve; wherein said first sleeve is secured to said first body and said second sleeve is secured to said second body; wherein said second sleeve extends through a wall on said first body and further comprises a travel stop; and wherein: said second sleeve comprises a mounting flange to secure said second sleeve fixedly to a wall of said second body; and said travel stop comprises a stop flange mounted to said second sleeve and disposed inside a wall of said first body without being secured to said first body. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein said stop flange limits relative movement of said sleeves along their longitudinal axis. 12. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein said stop flange comprises a truncated circular shape to limit relative rotation of said bodies about the longitudinal axis of said sleeves. 13. The chassis of claim 8, wherein in said connection: said first sleeve comprises a flange at a first end secured to an outer wall of said first body, said first sleeve having a second end which, when said second end engages a wall on said second body, limits movement of said bodies toward each other along the longitudinal axis of said sleeves; and said connection further comprising a third sleeve mounted with the second sleeve within the first body such that the third sleeve limits movement of the second sleeve. 14. The chassis of claim 2, wherein: said sleeves are made of a self-lubricating material. 15. The chassis of claim 14, wherein: said sleeves are made of a graphite and epoxy mixture. 16. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein said first sleeve comprises a flange at a first end secured to an outer wall of one of said bodies, said first sleeve having a second end, which, when said connection end engages a wall on the other of said bodies, limits movement of said bodies toward each other along the longitudinal axis of said sleeves. 17. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein said sleeves are made of a self-lubricating material. 18. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein said sleeves are made of a graphite/epoxy mixture. 