Method and device for producing three-dimensional objects in layers, comprising treating pulverulent, in particular, polymer, substrates or polymerizable monomers by means of microwave radiation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for producing three-dimensional objects in layers, comprising: (a) providing three-dimensional information on the geometry of the three-dimensional object to be produced; (b) converting said information into a layer model with a layer thickness which depends on the desired precision of the object to be produced; (c) applying a pulverulent substrate onto a surface in a desired uniform thickness; (d) irradiating said pulverulent substrate with microwave radiation generating a first layer of said three-dimensional object; and (e) applying subsequent layers of pulverulent substrate in a desired uniform thickness onto said first layer; and (d) irradiating said layers of pulverulent substrate after each application such that said layers are firmly connected to each other. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein step (a) is performed by computer-aided compilation of a design plan or by measuring said object to be reproduced and subsequently processing the data thus obtained with the aid of a computer-aided design (CAD) program. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein step (b) is performed using a computer-aided design program (CAD). 4. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein said irradiating step causes said pulverulent substrate to become fused. 5. The method as claimed in claim 4, wherein the pulverulent substrate has a grain size of 50 to 100 .mu.m. 6. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the pulverulent substrate is comprised of polymers. 7. The method as claimed in claim 6, wherein the pulverulent substrate comprises polyesters, polycarbonates, polyamides, polyurethanes and/or ABS copolymers. 8. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein said pulverulent substrate is comprised of monomers or prepolymers which are polymerized locally in layers by said microwave irradiation. 9. The method as claimed in claim 8, wherein the monomers used for the microwave-induced polymerization comprise acrylates, vinyl ethers and/or epoxy resins. 10. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein microwave radiation in the frequency range of 430 to 6800 MHZ is used to irradiate said pulverulent substrate. 11. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the microwave radiation is focused onto said pulverulent substrate using a beam width of 0.1 to 3 mm. 12. The method as claimed in claim 11, wherein the microwave radiation is focused onto said pulverulent substrate using a beam width of 0.3 to 1 mm. 13. A device for producing three-dimensional objects in layers, comprising: (a) means for providing three-dimensional information on the geometry of a three-dimensional object to be produced; (b) means for converting said information into a layer model with a layer thickness which depends on the desired precision of the object to be produced; (c) a surface on which to apply a pulverulent substrate; (d) means for applying said pulverulent substrate to said surface; and (e) a microwave generator which supplies a microwave radiation required to produce the three-dimensional objects. 14. The device of claim 13, wherein the microwave generator in (e) contains a probe which comprises means for moving in all directions in space, to direct said microwave radiation onto said pulverulent substrate. 15. The device of claim 14, wherein said means for moving in all directions in space, to direct said microwave radiation onto said pulverulent substrate comprises a moveable arm. 16. The device of claim 15, additionally comprising a computer-aided design (CAD) program which controls said moveable arm by converting data on the three-dimensional geometry of the object to be produced into an industrial robotic technique. 17. The device of claim 13, wherein said means for providing three-dimensional information on the geometry of the three-dimensional object to be produced comprises a computer-aided design (CAD) program. 18. The device of claim 13, wherein said means for converting said information into a layer model with a layer thickness which depends on the desired precision of the object to be produced comprises a computer-aided design (CAD) program. 19. The device of claim 13, wherein said means for applying said pulverulent substrate to said surface in (c) comprises a roller, a doctor knife a movable storage tank or a combination thereof. 20. The device of claim 13, wherein the microwave generator in (e) contains a device which comprises means for moving in the x,y-plane to direct said microwave radiation onto said pulverulent substrate and said surface (c) comprises means for moving in the z-direction. 21. The device of claim 13, wherein said surface is a table. 