A method and system for measuring data in a fluid transportation conduit, such as a well for the production of oil and/or gas. The system employs one or more miniature sensing devices which comprise sensing equipment that is contained in a preferably spherical nut-shell which has an outer width which is smaller than the internal width of the conduit. One or more sensing devices are released sequentially in the conduit and are induced to move in longitudinal direction through the conduit to measure data at desired intervals of time, without requiring a complex infrastructure.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for measuring data in a fluid transportation conduit, the method comprising the steps of: providing one or more sensing devices, the sensing devices each comprising sensors for measuring physical data, a data processor for processing the measured data, and a protective shell containing the sensors and data processor, which shell has a smaller average outer width than the average internal width of the conduit so that fluid in the conduit is permitted to flow around the sensing device; inserting into the conduit the one or more sensing devices; activating the sensors and data processor of at least one inserted sensing device to measure and process physical data in the conduit; releasing at least one sensing device of which the sensors and data processor are or have been activated in the conduit; allowing each released sensing device to move over a selected longitudinal distance through the conduit; and transferring the data processed by the data processor to a data collecting system outside the conduit. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein each released sensing device is allowed to move freely through the conduit under the influence of hydrodynamic forces induced by a means selected from the group consisting of the fluid flowing through the conduit, buoyancy, gravity and magnetic forces. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein each sensing device has a substantially globular protective shell and is released in a tubular conduit which has an average internal diameter which is at least 20% larger than the average external diameter of the spherical protective shell and the sensors and data processor form part of a micro electromechanical system with a component selected from the group consisting of integrated sensory, navigation, power and data storage and data transmission components. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the tubular conduit forms part of an underground hydrocarbon fluid production wellbore and sensing devices having a spherical protective shell with an outer diameter which is less than 15 cm are released sequentially in the conduit and are each induced to move along at least part of the length of the wellbore. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein a plurality of sensing devices are stored at a downhole location near a toe of the well and released sequentially in the conduit, and each released sensing device is allowed to flow with the produced hydrocarbon fluids towards the wellhead. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the sensing devices are stored in a storage bin which is equipped with a telemetry-activated sensing device release mechanism and each sensing device comprises a spherical epoxy shell containing a sensor selected from the group consisting of thermistor-like temperature sensor, a piezo-silicon pressure sensor and a gyroscopic and multidirectional navigational accelerometer based position sensor, which sensors are powered off a chargeable battery or capacitor, and a data processor which is formed by an electronic random access memory chip. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein each sensing device comprises a spherical plastic shell which is equipped with at least one circumferentially-wrapped electrically conductive wire loop which functions as a radio-frequency or inductive antenna loop for communications and as an inductive charger for the capacitor or battery and each sensing device is exposed to an electromagnetic field at least before it is released in the wellbore by the sensing device release mechanism, and wherein each released sensing device is retrieved at or near the earth surface and then linked to a data reading and processing apparatus which removes data from the retrieved sensor device via a wireless method. 8. The method of claim 4, wherein the wellbore comprises a magnetizable element selected from the group consisting of a well tubular having a magnetizable wall and a longitudinal magnetizable strip or wire, and the sensing device is equipped with magnetically-activated rolling locomotion components which induce the sensing device to retain rolling contact with the magnetizable element when the sensing device moves over the selected longitudinal distance thorough the wellbore by the activated rolling locomotion components. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the sensor further comprises a revolution counter which tracks distance moved and a sensor for detecting marker points in the wellbore. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the marker points in the well are selected from the group consisting of a casing junction and bar code marking points. 11. The method of claim 8, wherein the magnetically-activated rolling locomotion components comprise a magnetic rotor which actively induces the sensing device to roll in a longitudinal direction through the well tubular if the well tubular has a substantially horizontal or an upwardly sloping direction. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the sensing device is provided in a carrier that is released into the conduit at a first point of the conduit, and moves through a portion of the conduit, where the sensor is released from the carrier, and then the sensor moves back to the first point in the conduit. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the carrier is a ballasted carrier, and the carrier is moved by gravity to a low point in the conduit. 14. The method of claim 12, wherein the carrier is motivated by a propulsion system. 15. The method of claim 13, wherein the carrier is made of a material that dissolves or melts in the conduit fluids at the conduit temperatures. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein the fluid transportation conduit is a pipeline. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein the fluid transportation conduit is a tubular or an open sewer conduit. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein the sensor for measuring physical data includes a video camera. 19. The method of claim 1, wherein the sensor for measuring physical data includes an acoustic sensor. 20. A system for measuring data in a fluid transportation conduit, the system comprising: at least one sensing device, the sensing device comprising sensors for measuring physical data, a data processor for processing the measured data and a substantially globular protective shell containing the sensors and data processor, which shell has a smaller outer width than the average internal width of the conduit so that fluid in the conduit is permitted to flow around the shell; power means for activating the sensors and data processor of each device to measure and process physical data in the conduit; a releasing mechanism for sequentially releasing one or more sensing devices in the conduit; and a data collecting system located outside the conduit to which the data collected by the data processor of each released sensing device are transferred. 21. The system of claim 20, wherein the conduit forms part of an underground hydrocarbon production well and the system comprises a storage bin for downhole storage of a plurality of sensing devices, which bin is equipped with a telemetry activated sensing device release mechanism for sequentially releasing sensing devices in the conduit, a sensing device retrieval mechanism for retrieving released sensing devices at or near the earth surface and a data reading and collecting apparatus which removes data from the retrieved sensing devices. 22. The system of claim 20, wherein the fluid transportation conduit is a pipeline. 23. A sensing device comprising: a spherical protective shell having an outer diameter less than 15 cm, which shell contains sensors for measuring physical data in the well and a data processor, which sensors and data processor form part of a micro electromechanical system with integrated sensory; a navigation component; a power component; a component selected from the group of a data storage component and a data transmission component; and at least one circumferentially-wrapped electrically conductive wire loop which functions as a radio-frequency or inductive antenna loop for communications and as an inductive charger for the power components of the device. 24. The sensor of claim 23 further comprising a video camera. 25. The sensor of claim 23 further comprising an acoustic sensor. 