A method of using a robot to repeatedly manipulate a brazing nozzle is provided. In a preferred embodiment, the method includes using a pointer to teach the robot to manipulate the brazing nozzle at a preselected angle with respect to, and length away from, an instant surface along a multi-dimensional seam line on an automotive sheet metal body. The pointer includes a base portion for connection with an end of a robot arm. The pointer additionally has a main body having a length inclusive of the base portion approximating the length of the brazing nozzle and the preselected work distance of the brazing nozzle away from the work piece. A contact portion of the pointer is continuous with the main body and is provided for contacting the work piece. The contact portion has two small parallel-spaced surface flats. The surface flats of the contact portion are generally aligned in a common plane at a preselected angle with respect to the robot arm. The flats allow the programming of the robot to follow a multi-dimensional path which is generally parallel with respect to the seam line. After programming, the brazing nozzle is connected with the robot arm and is manipulated to braze the automotive body in lines generally parallel-spaced from the seam line or diagonally between lines parallel-spaced from the seam line.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of robotically manipulating a brazing nozzle to braze a multi-dimensional curvilinear seam line between a roof panel portion and a rear quarter panel portion of C-pillar body panels of a resetting automotive vehicle body at a generally perpendicular work angle and at a pre-selected work distance away from an instant surface of said C pillar body panels adjacent said curvilinear multi-dimensional seam line, said method comprising: brazing a first line generally parallel spaced from said seam line; and brazing a second line generally parallel spaced from said first and seam lines; and wherein said robot traverses one of said lines along a plurality of brazing work points on said line a plurality of times when brazing said line. 2. A method as described in claim 1 wherein in addition said robot brazes said panels on a diagonal line connecting different lines. 3. A method as described in claim 2 wherein said diagonal line connects opposite extreme ends of said different lines. 4. A method as described in claim 1, wherein said robot is programmed to pause the brazing operation along work points of at least one of said lines. 5. A method as described in claim 1, additionally having at least a third line. 