A system for automated production of a fiber optic device includes a chamber regulating an environment and/or atmosphere within for the automated production of the fiber optic device. The system also includes a sealable input port, communicating with the chamber and substantially sealing the environment and the atmosphere of the chamber. The sealable input port receives an optical fiber for insertion therethrough into the chamber. A movable holding stage is included within the chamber, including at least one clamp to be secured to the optical fiber. An energy source is disposed within the chamber, and used to apply energy to the optical fiber. The system also includes a gripping device within the chamber. The gripping device includes a cavity adapted for receiving the optical fiber therethrough and for securing thereto. The gripping device is also adapted to transport the optical fiber from the sealable input port to the movable holding stage and to a predetermined position to receive the energy applied by the energy source.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for automated production of a fiber optic device, comprising: at least one gripping device including a cavity adapted for receiving the at least one optical fiber therethrough and for securing thereto, said at least one gripping device adapted to transport the at least one optical fiber and to connect at least one end of the at least one optical fiber to a connector device facilitating connection of the at least one optical fiber to at least one of another optical fiber and another fiber optic device while maintaining information regarding, and control over, location of at least one of the at least one optical fiber and the at least one end of the at least one optical fiber to perform the automated production of the fiber optic device; at least one collecting device, adapted to receive and collect a predetermined amount of the at least one optical fiber responsive to operation of said at least one gripping device; a fusion splicing device to manually or automatically fusion splice at least one of the fiber optic device and the at least one optical fiber during the production of the fiber optic device; a stripping device to manually or automatically strip at least one section of the at least one optical fiber during the production of the fiber optic device; a cleaving device to manually or automatically cleave at least one section of the at least one optical fiber during the production of the fiber optic device; a testing device to manually or automatically test optical characteristics of the fiber optic device during the production of the fiber optic device; a labeling device to manually or automatically label the fiber optic device subsequent to the production of the fiber optic device for subsequent shipping to a customer; a packaging device to manually or automatically package the fiber optic device in packaging for shipping to a customer; and a shipping device to manually or automatically ship the fiber optic device during the production of the fiber optic device to a customer, and wherein said apparatus transports the at least one fiber optic device for connection to at least one of said fusion splicing) stripping, cleaving, testing, labeling packaging and shipping devices. 2. A system for automated production of a fiber optic device according to claim 1, wherein the optical fiber device comprises at least one of a coupler, a fiber optic coupler, a fused biconical tapered (FBT) coupler, a switch, an optical switch, a wave-division multiplexer (WDM), a filter, an attenuator, a polarizer, a waveguide, a sensor, a fiber optic sensor, a connector, a fiber optic connector, a pigtail, a fiber optic pigtail, a patch cord, a fiber optic patch cord, a transmitter, a fiber optic transmitter, a receiver, a fiber optic receiver, an amplifier, an optical amplifier, a fiber optic amplifier. 3. A system for automated production of a fiber optic device according to claim 1, wherein said gripping device is adapted to receive the at least one optical fiber and to produce at least one optical fiber lead by de-spooling the predetermined amount of the at least one optical fiber from at least one optical fiber spool and storing the predetermined amount in said at least one collecting device. 4. A system for automated production of a fiber optic device according to claim 1, further comprising: at least one movable holding stage including at least one clamp securable to the at least one optical fiber; at least one energy source and applying energy to the at least one optical fiber; at least one transport device adapted to transport the at least one optical fiber from said at least one gripping device to said at least one movable holding stage to receive the energy applied by said at least one energy source while maintaining location of at least one of the at least one optical fiber and an end of the at least one optical fiber to perform the automated production of the fiber optic device. 5. A system for automated production of a fiber optic device according to claim 4, wherein said at least one transport device is adapted to transport the at least one optical fiber from said at least one gripping device to said at least one movable holding stage and is removable therefrom when the energy is applied by said at least one energy source. 6. A system for automated production of a fiber optic device according to claim 1, further comprising at least one de-spooling mechanism de-spooling the at least optical fiber for input to the system and securing by said at least one gripping device. 7. A system for automated production of a fiber optic device according to claim 1, wherein the at least one optical fiber includes first and second ends, and wherein said system further comprises: at least one optical source connected to the first end of the at least one optical fiber; and at least one detector connected to the second end of the at least one optical fiber. 8. A system for automated production of a fiber optic device according to claim 7, further comprising at least one controller controlling movement of the at least one optical fiber responsive to output of said detector. 9. A system for automated production of a fiber optic device according to claim 1, further comprising at least one controller responsively connected to said at least one gripping device, said at least one controller controlling transport of the at least one optical fiber via control of said at least one gripping device. 