An apparatus for facilitating the implantation of an artificial component in one of a hip joint, a knee joint, a hand and wrist joint, an elbow joint, a shoulder joint, and a foot and ankle joint. The apparatus includes a pre-operative geometric planner and a pre-operative kinematic biomechanical simulator in communication with the pre-operative geometric planner.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for facilitating the implantation of an artificial component in one of a hip joint, a knee joint, a hand and wrist joint, an elbow joint, a shoulder joint, and a foot and ankle joint, comprising: a pre-operative geometric planner; and a pre-operative kinematic biomechanical simulator in communication with said pre-operative geometric planner wherein said pre-operative geometric planner outputs at least one geometric model of the joint and the pre-operative kinematic biomechanical simulator outputs a position for implantation of the artificial component. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising an intra-operative navigational module in communication with said pre-operative kinematic biomechanical simulator. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, further comprising a tracking device in communication with said intra-operative navigational module. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said pre-operative geometric planner is responsive to a skeletal data source. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein said skeletal data source includes geometric data. 6. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein said pre-operative geometric planner outputs at least one geometric model of the component. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein said pre-operative kinematic biomechanical simulator is responsive to said geometric model and outputs an implant position. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein said implant position includes an angular orientation of the component. 9. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein said tracking device is selected from the group consisting of an acoustic tracking system, shape based recognition tracking system, video-based tracking system, mechanical tracking system, electromagnetic tracking system and radio frequency tracking system. 10. A system for facilitating an implant position for at least one artificial component in one of a hip joint, a knee joint, a hand and wrist joint, an elbow joint, a shoulder joint, and a foot and ankle joint, comprising: a computer system including; a pre-operative geometric planner; and a pre-operative kinematic biomechanical simulator in communication with said pre-operative geometric planner wherein pre-operative geometric planner outputs at least one geometric model of the joint and the pre-operative kinematic biomechanical simulator outputs a position for implantation of the artificial component; and a tracking device in communication with said computer system. 11. The system of claim 10, further comprising at least one display monitor in communication with said computer system. 12. The system of claim 10, further comprising at least one controller in communication with said computer system. 13. The system of claim 10, wherein said tracking device includes at least one camera. 14. The system of claim 10, wherein said tracking device includes at least one target. 15. The system of claim 10, wherein said computer system further includes an intra-operative navigational module in communication with said pre-operative kinematic biomechanical simulator. 16. The system of claim 10, further comprising: a robotic device in communication with said computer system; and a surgical tool connected to said robotic device. 17. A computerized method of facilitating the implantation of an artificial implant in one of a hip joint, a knee joint, a hand and wrist joint, an elbow joint, a shoulder joint, and a foot and ankle joint, comprising: creating a three dimensional bone model based on skeletal geometric data of a bone and a bony cavity into which the artificial implant is to be implanted; creating a three dimensional component model of the artificial implant; simulating movement of the joint with the artificial implant in a test position; calculating a range of motion of the artificial implant and the bones comprising the joint for the test position based on the simulated movement; determining an implant position based on a predetermined range of motion and the calculated range of motion; identifying the implant position in the bone model; aligning the bone model with the patient's bone and placing the implant based on positional tracking data providing the position of the implant and the bone; and tracking the implant and the bone to maintain alignment of the bone model and to determine the position of the implant relative to the bone. 