Transport of a workpiece into and out of high vacuum conditions is achieved using a vacuum handler having an ante-chamber which buffers a vacuum lock and other mechanically vulnerable components from high pressure differences. During loading of the workpiece, the ante-chamber is vented to atmospheric pressure while the vacuum lock door is sealed closed. The antechamber is then opened and receives the incoming workpiece from the exterior of the vacuum handler. The ante-chamber is then closed and evacuated to the pressure level of the vacuum lock, which is only opened once this pressure level is achieved. The vacuum lock receives the workpiece and is evacuated to the pressure of the main vacuum chamber of the vacuum handler and then opened thereto. An elevator assembly transports the workpiece into the vacuum chamber for processing. The process is reversed during unloading of the workpiece from the vacuum handler following processing completion.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A vacuum handler for processing a workpiece in vacuum conditions comprising: a main vacuum chamber adapted for evacuation to a first predetermined operating pressure level below atmospheric pressure; an ante-chamber adapted for evacuation to a second predetermined pressure level below atmospheric pressure and above the operating pressure level of the main vacuum chamber; an elevator assembly for transporting the workpiece between the main vacuum chamber and the vacuum lock; and a vacuum lock in communication with the main vacuum chamber and the ante-chamber, the vacuum lock capable of being hermetically sealed from the main vacuum chamber and the ante-chamber and adapted for passage of the workpiece therethrough during transport of the workpiece between the ante-chamber and the main vacuum chamber, wherein the vacuum lock and ante-chamber operate to reduce atmospheric pressure force imparted to the elevator assembly by at least 90 percent. 2. The vacuum handler of claim 1, wherein the workpiece comprises a flat panel display (FPD) substrate. 3. The vacuum handler of claim 2, wherein the FPD substrate has an area in excess of 0.071 m.sup.2. 4. The vacuum handler of claim 1, wherein the elevator assembly is adapted to translate between an up position and a down position, the main vacuum chamber and the vacuum lock being substantially hermetically sealed from each other in the up position. 5. The vacuum handler of claim 4, wherein a first inflatable seal is provided to establish the hermetical sealing between the main vacuum chamber and the vacuum lock when the elevator assembly is in the up position. 6. The vacuum handler of claim 5, further comprising a vacuum lock outer door adapted to translate between an open position and a closed position, the vacuum lock adapted for evacuation to a third predetermined intermediate pressure level when the outer door is in the closed position, the intermediate pressure level being lower than the second predetermined pressure level and higher than the first predetermined operating pressure level. 7. The vacuum handler of claim 6, further comprising a second seal for substantially hermetically sealing the vacuum lock from the ante-chamber when the outer door is in the closed position. 8. The vacuum handler of claim 7, further comprising a gate valve for loading the workpiece into the ante-chamber and for unloading the workpiece from the ante-chamber. 9. The vacuum handler of claim 8, further comprising a first robotic arm disposed inside the ante-chamber and adapted to transport the workpiece between the ante-chamber and the vacuum lock and a second robotic arm disposed inside the main vacuum chamber and adapted to transport the workpiece between the elevator assembly and a work region in the main vacuum chamber. 10. A method for transporting a workpiece between atmospheric conditions at the exterior of a vacuum handler and vacuum conditions at a main vacuum chamber in the interior of the vacuum handler, the method comprising: evacuating the main vacuum chamber to a first predetermined operating pressure level; evacuating a vacuum lock region of the vacuum handler to a second predetermined pressure level higher than the operating pressure level; evacuating an ante-chamber region in the vacuum handler to a third predetermined pressure level higher than the second predetermined pressure level; and transporting the workpiece successively between the antechamber region, the vacuum lock region and the main vacuum chamber using an elevator assembly, wherein the vacuum lock region and the ante-chamber serve to achieve an at least 90 percent reduction in atmospheric pressure force imparted to by the elevator assembly. 11. The method of claim 10, further comprising the steps of: establishing in the ante-chamber a fourth predetermined pressure level; and transferring the workpiece from the exterior of the vacuum handler into the ante-chamber. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the step of establishing comprises pumping nitrogen gas into the ante-chamber. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the fourth predetermined pressure level is atmospheric pressure. 14. The method of claim 12, wherein the fourth predetermined pressure level exceeds atmospheric pressure. 15. The method of claim 10, wherein the step of transporting comprises: equalizing the pressures in the ante-chamber region and the vacuum lock region; transporting the workpiece from the ante-chamber region to the vacuum lock region; equalizing the pressures in the vacuum lock region and the main vacuum chamber; and transporting the workpiece from the vacuum lock region to the main vacuum chamber. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the step of equalizing the pressures in the ante-chamber region and the vacuum lock region comprises: hermetically sealing the vacuum lock region from the main vacuum chamber; and venting the vacuum lock region to the third predetermined pressure level. 17. The method of claim 15, wherein the step of equalizing the pressures in the vacuum lock region and the main vacuum chamber comprises: hermetically sealing the vacuum lock region from the ante-chamber region; and evacuating the vacuum lock region to the first predetermined operating pressure level. 18. The method of claim 10, wherein the steps of evacuating are effected using at least one mechanical roughing pump. 19. The method of claim 10, wherein the step of evacuating the main vacuum chamber is effected using a cryogenic pump in combination with a mechanical roughing pump. 20. The method of claim 10, wherein the step of evacuating the main vacuum chamber is effected using a turbo molecular pump in combination with a mechanical roughing pump. 