An improved automated, self propelled lawn mower (14) utilizing a rotating directional loop antenna (36) that determines its position within the cutting area by measuring the angle between transmitters(20A, B, & C) placed in a known configuration beyond the cutting area, and by calculating the solution of simultaneous circle equations (96 & 98) defined by that configuration. Orientation is determined by comparing present and previous positions. Stored path information is compared with the calculated position to determine steering signals which direct the mower to move directly toward the next point in the desired path. When the mower reaches that point the next coordinates are retrieved from memory and the process is repeated similarly for all successive points in the path. The simplicity of programming the path makes this automated lawn mower very versatile and flexible.
Claims I claim: 1. A method for controlling the operation of an automated vehicle in accordance with stored coordinate information compared with calculated coordinate position determined from the solution of simultaneous circle equations, said method including: measuring the angles between continuous wave radio frequency transmitters placed in a right angle configuration around an area to be cut, calculating a coordinate position of said automated vehicle from said solution of simultaneous circle equations defined by said angles and dimensions between said continuous wave transmitters, generating control signals to steer said automated vehicle in the direction of the next point of said stored coordinate information. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein a programming phase operates to store calculated coordinate data as said vehicle is manually directed through a desired cutting path. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein a safety means operates to cause termination of operation of said vehicle in response to said safety means contacting an unexpected object. 4. A guidance system to control a self propelled lawn mower and operative to determine its location in accordance with a simultaneous solution of a set of circle equations defined by angles between continuous wave radio frequency transmitters in a known geometrical configuration, including a directional sensing means to detect a line of sight of each of said continuous wave radio frequency transmitters. 5. The guidance system of claim 4 further including a means to identify each of said continuous wave radio frequency transmitters. 6. The guidance system of claim 4 further including a signal conditioning means to generate digital pulses from said line of sights by said directional sensing means. 7. The guidance system of claim 4 further including a sequencing means to order said digital pulses to assure correct measurement of said angles between said continuous wave radio frequency transmitters. 8. The guidance system of claim 4 further including a counting means to count clock pulses, the number of which represents said angle between said lines of sights of each of said continuous wave radio frequency transmitters. 9. The guidance system of claim 4 further including a central processing means to define a set of circle equations from said angles between said lines of sights of said continuous wave radio frequency transmitters and from known distances between said continuous wave radio frequency transmitters. 10. The guidance system of claim 4 wherein said central processing means calculates a set of position coordinates from said simultaneous solution of said set of circle equations. 