A method of controlling a robot system (20) includes using a camera (40) to generate a first, two-dimensional image of a marking (42) on a workpiece (32). A second, two-dimensional image of the marking (42) is generated from a second perspective. The two images are then used to generate a three-dimensional location of the marking in real space relative to the robot (22). Since the visible marking (42) corresponds to a desired path (48), the three-dimensional location information is used to automatically program the robot (22) to follow the desired path.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of controlling a moveable robot arm that is supported by a robot base to move a tool supported on the robot arm along a path on a workpiece, comprising the steps of: (A) marking the workpiece with a visible marking indicating at least a portion of the path; (B) generating a first two-dimensional image of the marking from a first perspective; (C) generating a second two-dimensional image of the marking from a second perspective; (D) generating a three-dimensional location of the path relative to the robot base using the first and second images; and (E) moving the tool along the path using the three-dimensional location of the path from step (D). 2. The method of claim 1, wherein step (E) includes programming the robot to move the robot arm into a plurality of successive positions that will move the tool along the path and wherein the programming is done using the three-dimensional location of the path from step (D). 3. The method of claim 1, wherein step (D) includes determining a relationship between the first and second images and determining the three-dimensional location of the marking based upon the determined relationship. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein step (D) is performed using stereo techniques. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein step (B) includes obtaining a first set of visual data representing the marking from the first perspective and generating the first two-dimensional image from the first set of visual data and wherein step (C) includes obtaining a second set of visual data representing the marking from the second perspective and generating the second two-dimensional image from the second set of visual data. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein step (B) is performed using a camera in a first orientation relative to the marking and wherein step (C) is performed using a camera in a second orientation relative to the line. 7. The method of claim 5, wherein step (B) is performed using a first camera and step (C) is performed using a second camera. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein steps (B) and (C) include using a camera to obtain visual data of the marking and the method includes the step of moving the camera into a first position to perform step (B) and then moving the camera into a second position to perform step (C). 9. The method of claim 8, including the step of supporting the camera on the robot arm and moving the robot arm into a first orientation to perform step (B) and then moving the robot arm into a second orientation to perform step (C). 10. The method of claim 1, wherein step (A) includes marking the workpiece with a line that extends along the entire path and wherein steps (B) and (C) are successively performed on successive segments of the entire line and wherein step (D) includes generating a three-dimensional location of the entire path. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein step (A) includes painting a line on the workpiece. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein step (A) includes selectively illuminating a contour on the workpiece to thereby generate a visible line on the workpiece wherein the contour corresponds to the path. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein step (A) includes placing a fluorescent substance on the workpiece and wherein the method includes illuminating the workpiece using ultraviolet light. 14. A system for controlling a robot to move a tool along a path on a workpiece, comprising: a robot base; a moveable robot arm supported by said base and having a tool supported by said arm; a controller that controls movement of said arm; a marker that is adapted to make a visually detectable marking on the workpiece that corresponds to the path; a camera for obtaining a first image of the marking from a first perspective and a second image of the marking from a second perspective; means for determining a three-dimensional location of the path relative to said base from the first and second images; and programming means for generating a programmed path using the three-dimensional location of the path and for programming said controller with the programmed path so that the controller controls the robot arm to move the tool along the path. 15. The system of claim 14, wherein said camera is supported on said arm and wherein said controller controls said arm to move into a first orientation where said camera obtains the first image and then controls said arm to move into a second orientation where said camera obtains the second image. 16. The system of claim 14, including a first camera that obtains the first image and a second camera that obtains the second image. 17. The system of claim 14, wherein said determining means comprises software. 18. The system of claim 14, wherein said programming means comprises software and a programming module in communication with said controller. 19. A method of controlling a moveable robot arm that is supported by a robot base to move a tool supported on the robot arm along a path on a workpiece, comprising the steps of: (A) marking the workpiece with a visible marking indicating at least a portion of the path; (B) generating a two-dimensional image of the marking; (C) generating a three-dimensional image of the workpiece surface upon which the visible marking was marked; (D) generating a three-dimensional location of the path relative to the robot base using the two-dimensional image and the three-dimensional image; and (E) moving the tool along the path using the three-dimensional location of the path from Step (D). 20. A method of controlling a moveable robot arm that is supported by a robot base to move a tool supported on the robot arm along a path on a workpiece, comprising the steps: (A) marking the workpiece with a three-dimensional marking indicating at least a portion of the path; (B) generating a three-dimensional image of the workpiece surface upon which the markings were marked; (C) generating a three-dimensional location of the path relative to the robot base using the three-dimensional image; and (D) moving the tool along the path using the three-dimensional location of the path from Step (C). 21. The method of claim 20, wherein step (A) includes using markings that are indented relative to the workpiece surface. 22. The method of claim 20, wherein step (A) includes using markings that are raised relative to the workpiece surface. 