An apparatus for displacing and detecting cross-slotted objects includes a cradle mounted to a frame, the cradle being sized and shaped to hold a tray of objects in slots. As the cradle rotates on the frame, a displacing assembly is deployed at the rear of the tray with projections that contact cross-slotted objects and urge the cross-slotted objects to move at least partially out of the tray. Suitably positioned sensors detect the displaced cross-slotted objects for notification to a controller. A method for detecting cross-slotted objects includes first displacing the cross-slotted objects, and second, detecting the displaced cross-slotted objects.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus for displacing cross-slotted objects in a tray, the tray having a plurality of slots separated by spaces, each slot sized and shaped to receive a substantially planar-shaped object, the tray further including a first opening sized to allow insertion of the objects into the slots and removal of the objects therefrom, and a second opening sized and shaped to permit access to the spaces between the slots, the apparatus comprising: means for supporting the tray; means for displacing one or more cross-slotted objects in the tray, the displacing means comprising at least one projection sized and shaped to be at least partially inserted into at least one of the spaces between the slots through the second opening; and means for moving said displacing means into and out of the at least one of the spaces between the slots whereby said displacing means pushes a cross-slotted object disposed in the at least one of the spaces between the slots at least partially out of the tray through the first opening. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said displacing means comprises a plurality of projections, each projection being aligned with a single space between a pair of slots. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, furthering comprising a means for tilting said supporting means between a substantially horizontal position and a substantially inclined position. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein said moving means cooperates with said supporting means such that said displacing means displaces cross-slotted objects as said supporting means and the tray are moved from the substantially inclined position to the substantially horizontal position. 5. An apparatus for detecting cross-slotted objects in a tray, the tray having a plurality of slots separated by spaces, each slot being sized and shaped to slidably receive a substantially planar-shaped object, the tray further including a first opening sized and shaped to allow insertion of objects into the slots and removal of objects therefrom by a controller, and a second opening sized and shaped to permit access to each space between each pair of slots, the apparatus comprising: means for holding the tray; means for displacing cross-slotted objects projecting across spaces between slots in the tray, said displacing means comprising at least one projection sized and shaped to be at least partially inserted into the space between each pair of slots through the second opening; means for moving said displacing means into the space between each pair of slots to push cross-slotted objects disposed in the spaces between the slots so as to at least partially displace them out of the tray through the first opening; and means for detecting the displaced cross-slotted objects. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein said displacing means comprises a plurality of projections positioned adjacent to the second opening in the tray when the tray is held on said holding means, and further wherein each projection is aligned with a space between a pair of slots. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, further comprising means for notifying the controller of displaced cross-slotted objects. 8. The apparatus of claim 6, further comprising means for tilting said holding means to thereby move the tray between a substantially horizontal position and a substantially inclined position. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein said moving means cooperates with said supporting means to move said displacing means as said tilting means tilts said holding means. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, further comprising means for positively engaging the tray with said holding means for detecting positive engagement of the tray with said holding means. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein said engagement detecting means is coupled to said tilting means and said moving means to disable operation of the apparatus when positive engagement of the tray with said holding means is not detected and to enable operation of the apparatus when positive engagement is detected. 12. An apparatus for detecting cross-slotted objects in a tray having a plurality of slots for receiving objects, each pair of slots being separated by a space, the tray including a first opening sized and shaped to allow insertion of object into the slots and removal therefrom by a controller, sand a second opening sized and shaped to enable access to each of the spaces between the slots, the apparatus comprising: a cradle for holding the tray; means for tilting said cradle between a substantially horizontal position and a substantially inclined position; means for displacing cross-slotted objects at least partially out of the first opening in the tray as said tilting means tilts said cradle and the tray to the substantially horizontal position; and means for detecting displaced cross-slotted objects. 13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein said detecting means further comprises means for notifying the controller of the displaced cross-slotted objects. 14. The apparatus of claim 12, further including a base member upon which said cradle is rotatably mounted; and further wherein said displacing means cooperates with said base member as said tilting means tilts said cradle to move said displacing means from a stored position to a deployed position. 15. The apparatus of claim 14, further comprising a cam member mounted on said base and positioned such that said displacing means contacts said cam member as said tilting means tilts said cradle to the substantially inclined position to thereby move said displacing means to the deployed position. 16. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein said tilting means comprises an actuator, and a tilting assembly coupled to said cradle and a stationary frame, said tilting assembly configured for simultaneous rotational and translational movement whereby said cradle rotates about a rotational axis without substantial overall movement of said cradle in a vertical, horizontal, or lateral direction. 17. A method for detecting cross-slotted objects in a tray formed with side-by-side pairs of aligned slots, each pair of aligned slots for receiving a properly held object, and wherein a cross-slotted object is an object improperly held in non-aligned slots, the method comprising displacing ends of the cross-slotted objects at least partially out of the tray by first causing projections to be at least partially inserted into spaces between said aligned slots; and thereafter electronically detecting the ends of the displaced cross-slotted objects; and notifying a controller of the detected ends of the displaced cross-slotted objects. 18. A method for detecting cross-slotted objects in a tray formed with pairs of side-by-side aligned slots, each pair of aligned slots for receiving a properly held object, and wherein a cross-slotted object is an object improperly held in non-aligned slots, comprising the steps of: tilting the tray from a substantially inclined position to a substantially horizontal position; mechanically displacing cross-slotted objects to a project at least partially out of the tray as the tray is tilted to the substantially horizontal position; and electronically detecting the displaced cross-slotted objects in the tray. 