The present invention provides a method and apparatus for delivering one or more process gases and one or more cleaning gases into one or more processing regions. The gas distribution system includes a gas inlet and a gas conduit, each disposed to deliver one or more gases into the chamber via a desired diffusing passage. Also, a gas delivery method and apparatus for splitting a gas feed into multiple feed lines is provided having a gas filter disposed upstream from a splitting coupling disposed in the line.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A gas distribution assembly, comprising: (a) a base plate defining a process gas passage therethrough; (b) a diffuser plate disposed below the base plate and defining a plurality of apertures therethrough; (c) a face plate disposed below the diffuser plate and defining a plurality of apertures therethrough; and (d) one or more cleaning gas inlets disposed through the base plate. 2. The gas distribution assembly of claim 1 further comprising a power supply connected to the gas distribution assembly. 3. The gas distribution assembly of claim 2 wherein the one or more cleaning gas inlets comprises a conduit disposed through the base plate and the diffuser plate. 4. The gas distribution assembly of claim 3 further comprising a cooling channel disposed in the base plate. 5. A gas distribution assembly for a process chamber, comprising: (a) a first gas inlet; (b) a first gas diffusing member disposed adjacent the first gas inlet and having a plurality of apertures formed therein; (c) a second gas diffusing member disposed adjacent the first gas diffusing member and having a plurality of apertures formed therein; and (d) a second gas inlet disposed through the first gas diffusing member. 6. The gas distribution assembly of claim 5 wherein the second gas inlet is disposed in the first gas inlet. 7. The gas distribution assembly of claim 5 further comprising a gas line connected to a gas source. 8. The gas distribution assembly of claim 7 wherein the gas line is partially disposed in a wall of the process chamber. 9. The gas distribution assembly of claim 8 further comprising a voltage gradient feedthrough having a gas inlet manifold and a gas outlet manifold. 10. The gas distribution assembly of claim 9 wherein the gas outlet manifold is connected to the gas inlet. 11. The gas distribution assembly of claim 10 wherein the gas line is connected to a first gas inlet manifold disposed on a first chamber and a second gas inlet manifold disposed on a second chamber. 12. The gas distribution assembly of claim 11 wherein the gas line includes a splitting member. 13. A gas distribution system, comprising: (a) a first gas distributor comprising: (i) a base plate having a first gas inlet disposed therethrough; (ii) a first gas diffusing member disposed below the base plate adjacent the gas inlet; (iii) a second gas diffusing member disposed below the first gas diffusing member; and (iv) a second gas inlet disposed through the base plate having an opening adjacent the second diffusing member; and (b) a second gas distributor comprising: (i) a base plate having a first gas inlet disposed therethrough; (ii) a first gas diffusing member disposed below the base plate adjacent the gas inlet; (iii) a second gas diffusing member disposed below the first gas diffusing member; and (iv) a second gas inlet disposed through the base plate having an opening adjacent the second diffusing member. 14. The gas distribution system of claim 13 further comprising a gas line connected at one end to a gas source and connected at the other end to both first gas inlets the first and the second gas distributors. 15. The gas distribution system of claim 14 wherein the first and the second gas distributor further comprise a voltage gradient feedthrough disposed between the gas line and the gas inlet. 16. The gas distribution system of claim 15 further comprising an electrical feedthrough connected to at least the second diffusing member of the first and the second gas distributor. 17. The gas distribution system of claim 16 further comprising a cooling channel formed in the base plate of the first and the second gas distributor. 18. A method of delivering one or more gases into two or more process chambers, comprising the steps of: (a) delivering one or more gases through a first gas line to the chambers; (b) splitting the first gas line into a first gas inlet disposed in a first gas distribution system in a first process chamber and a second gas inlet disposed in a second gas distribution system in a second process chamber, wherein at least one of said first and second gas distribution systems comprises the gas distribution assembly of claim 1. 19. The method of claim 18 further comprising the step of delivering one or more cleaning gases into the first and the second gas distribution systems. 20. The method of claim 19 further comprising the steps of delivering the one or more gases through a first diffusing member and then a second diffusing member. 21. The method of claim 20 wherein the one or more cleaning gases are delivered through the second diffusing member. 