A wafer processing system including a processing chamber, a low pressure pump coupled to the processing chamber for pumping noble and non-noble gases, a valve mechanism coupling a source of noble gas to the processing chamber, an in situ getter pump disposed within the processing chamber which pumps certain non-noble gases during the flow of the noble gas into the chamber, and a processing mechanism for processing a wafer disposed within the processing chamber. Preferably, the in situ getter pump can be operated at a number of different temperatures to preferentially pump different species of gas at those temperatures. A gas analyzer is used to automatically control the temperature of the getter pump to control the species of gasses that are pumped from the chamber. A method for processing a wafer of the present invention includes the steps of placing a wafer within a processing chamber and sealing the chamber, flowing a noble gas into the chamber while simultaneously pumping the chamber with an external low pressure pump and with an in situ getter pump disposed within the chamber which pumps non-noble gases, and processing the wafer within the chamber while the noble gas continues to flow. The method also preferably includes the steps of monitoring the composition of the gas within the chamber and controlling the temperature of the getter material based upon the analysis of the composition.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An in situ getter pump module comprising: a plurality of getter elements that are spaced apart such that adjacent getter elements do not abut, where each getter element is provided with a centrally located aperture, each getter element has a pair of opposing sides, and facing sides of adjacent getter elements have nonparallel facing surfaces; and a heater disposed through the apertures of said getter elements to support and heat said getter elements. 2. An in situ getter pump module as recited in claim 1 wherein each getter element is substantially disk shaped with an axial bore forming said centrally located aperture. 3. An in situ getter pump module as recited in claim 1 wherein said facing surfaces define a pair of planes which intersect with an included angle of less than about 5 degrees. 4. An in situ getter pump module as recited in claim 1 wherein said getter elements are substantially planar, and wherein adjacent getter elements are angled relative to each other. 5. An in situ getter pump module as recited in claim 1 wherein said getter elements are substantially parallel and wherein facing surfaces between adjacent getter elements are angled relative to each other. 6. An in situ getter pump module as recited in claim 1 wherein said heater is an electrically resistive heater. 7. An in situ getter pump module as recited in claim 1 wherein said heater is a radiant heater. 8. An in situ getter pump module comprising: a plurality of getter elements that are spaced apart such that adjacent getter elements do not abut, where each getter element is provided with a centrally located aperture; a shaft disposed through the apertures of said getter elements to support said getter elements; and a radiant heater positioned near said getter elements to heat said getter elements, said radiant heater being separated from said shaft. 9. An in situ getter pump module as recited in claim 8, wherein the radiant heater is a lamp. 10. An in situ getter pump module as recited in claim 8, further comprising a heat shield to shield said getter elements from heated surfaces within a processing chamber. 11. An in situ getter pump module as recited in claim 8, wherein the getter elements are substantially disk shaped and are comprised of a porous, sintered getter material. 12. An in situ getter pump system comprising: a processing chamber; a getter pump module disposed in said processing chamber; said getter pump module being comprised of a plurality of getter elements, where each getter element is provided with a centrally located aperture, a shaft disposed through the apertures of said getter elements to support said getter elements, and a radiant heater positioned near said getter elements to heat said getter elements; and a heat shield disposed in said processing chamber adjacent to said getter elements to shield said getter elements from heated surfaces within said processing chamber. 13. An in situ getter pump system as recited in claim 12, wherein the radiant heater is a lamp. 14. An in situ getter pump system as recited in claim 13, wherein the getter elements are substantially disk shaped and are comprised of a porous, sintered getter material. 