Disclosed is an automatic container assembler apparatus (800) to assemble the constitutive elements of a COAST container i.e. the wafer (138) that is to be treated in the manufacturing line, the cassette-reservoir (123) and the single wafer holder (130). In essence, the assembler apparatus consists of a cabinet whose interior space cabinet is submitted to a clean filtered gas flow generated by a blower, so that a clean gaseous mini-environment is created therein with a light overpressure with regard to the outside ambient. The cabinet includes a vertical stocker (804) adapted to be manually and safely filled with the adequate number of the elements mentioned above. Generally, the wafers are carried in a multiple wafer holder (130'). These elements are introduced in the cabinet through an input loadlock device (810) and laid down onto a table (806) by an operator. Next, the operator places them in their respective bins (815) of the stocker through manipulation gloves (805). The cabinet is provided with an automatic manipulator mechanism (807) for automatically and successively grasping one element of each type before proceeding to their complete assembly in a load loadlock device (808). The manipulator mechanism essentially consists of a rotating head (822) movable in the X, Y and Z directions and provided with a plurality of handling grippers (822A to C), each being adapted to a specific element. Once these elements have been properly assembled to form a container, the interior space thereof is pressurized with an ultra pure neutral gas. Moreover, the load loadlock device is also adapted to release the assembled pressurized container onto the IN station (402-I) of the extra-bay conveyor (402) of the COAST manufacturing line and to simultaneously provide identification data to the host computer controlling said line. Similar reasoning applies to the disassembler apparatus which has a quite similar construction and performs the steps in reverse.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A disassembler apparatus for automatically disassembling an assembled COAST container comprising a plurality of elements including a cassette-reservoir, a wafer holder, and a semi-conductor wafer, therein; said apparatus is operable in an average cleanliness room and comprises: a cabinet, having a front wall, a back wall, and two side walls defining at least one compartment; a conveyor an unload loadlock mechanism acting as an interface between said cabinet and said conveyor, and unload loadlock mechanism is further provided with a transport mechanism for transporting said assembled COAST container from an IN station of said conveyor into said cabinet; vertical stocker means mounted inside said cabinet are provided with different types of bins, and wherein each of said bins accommodate one of said elements of said COAST container; an automatic manipulator mechanism inside said cabinet cooperates with said unload loadlock mechanism for automatically disassembling said COAST container, by successively grasping one of said elements of said COAST container and placing them in their respective bins in said stocker means, and thereby said disassembler apparatus automatically disassembles said assembled COAST container. 2. The disassembler apparatus of claim 1, further comprising at least one manipulating means for manipulating said elements inside said cabinet and for removing said elements from their respective bins within said stocker means. 3. The disassembler apparatus of claim 1, further comprising at least one air circulating means for blowing clean air from said cabinet so as to create a clean mini-environment therein with a light overpressure with regard to an outside ambient. 4. The disassembler apparatus of claim 1, further comprising output loadlock means for extracting said elements from inside of said cabinet. 5. The disassembler apparatus of claim 1, further comprising air circulating means for blowing clean air from top of said cabinet to its bottom so as to create a clean mini-environment therein with a light overpressure with regard to an outside ambient. 6. The disassembler apparatus of claim 5, wherein said air circulating means comprises a blower assembly, a filter and hygrometry control means that are secured within said cabinet. 7. The disassembler apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a wafer orientation and identification means inside said cabinet for reading identification data recorded on said wafer. 8. The disassembler apparatus of claim 7, wherein said identification means further includes means for writing onto said wafer. 9. The disassembler apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a working table for supporting said elements when introduced in an interior space of said cabinet. 10. The disassembler apparatus of claim 9, further comprising at least one manipulating means, said at least one manipulating means consists of a plurality of manipulation gloves to allow the handling of said elements by an operator. 11. The disassembler apparatus of claim 1, wherein said stocker means further comprises three elevators, each elevator being provided with a plurality of bins whose spacing and design accommodate one of said elements. 12. The disassembler apparatus of claim 11, wherein said elevators may be moved incrementally either downwards of upwards under manual control. 13. The disassembler apparatus of claim 1, further comprises a partition wall which in combination with said vertical stocker means delineates two compartments inside said cabinet. 14. The disassembler apparatus of claim 1, wherein said unload loadlock mechanism further comprises communication means with a host computer controlling a manufacturing line for process initialization. 15. The disassembler apparatus of claim 1, wherein said manipulator mechanism further comprises at least one rotating head, said rotating head being movable in X, Y and Z directions. 16. The disassembler apparatus of claim 15, wherein said rotating head is provided with a plurality of handling grippers, and wherein each handling gripper safely grasps and handles said elements of said COAST container. 17. The disassembler apparatus of claim 1, wherein said COAST container is a pressurized COAST container. 