The center of a semiconductor wafer relative to a rotation axis of a spindle carrying the wafer is detected by turning the spindle while a line source of optical radiation is directed at the wafer. A CCD linear optical detector array extending along a line between the spindle axis to a point beyond the wafer periphery effectively detects the amount of optical energy intercepted by the wafer. The source is turned on for a predetermined duration and the detector is read out in response to a shaft encoder detecting that the spindle has moved to each of many predetermined angles. A microprocessor responsive to the optical detector determines the length of the line each time the detector turns on by deriving an indication of the amount of optical energy accumulated by the CCD array each time the detector turns on. The microprocessor combines the determined line length indications to detect the workpiece center relative to the spindle axis.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of detecting the center of a workpiece having a circular periphery, the center of the workpiece being detected relative to a rotational axis of the workpiece, the method comprising turning the workpiece about the rotational axis while strobing a source of optical radiation directed at the workpiece on and off many times, N, the radiation being strobed on at different angles .theta..sub.i during turning of the workpiece about the rotational axis, where i=1, 2, . . . , N; the source, each time it is strobed, causing a line of optical radiation to be incident on the workpiece along a line extending from the axis to the workpiece periphery, the optical radiation extending along the line beyond the workpiece periphery, each of the strobes having a predetermined duration, effectively detecting the amount of optical energy in the line that is intercepted by the workpiece during each of the predetermined durations at each of the angles .theta..sub.i, determining the length of a line on the workpiece between the axis and the periphery at each of the angles .theta..sub.i in response to the amount of optical energy detected at each of the angles .theta..sub.i, and detecting displacement of the center of the workpiece relative to the rotational axis by combining indications of the determined lengths of the lines at the different angles .theta..sub.i. 2. The method of claim 1 further including moving the workpiece center to the rotational axis by responding to an indication of the detected displacement of the center of the workpiece relative to the rotation axis. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the periphery deviates from a circle by having an abrupt curvature change at a predetermined point thereon, and further including detecting the angle of the abrupt peripheral change relative to a reference by detecting an abrupt change in the determined line lengths. 4. The method of claim 3 further including moving the workpiece center to the rotational axis by responding to an indication of the detected displacement of the center of the workpiece relative to the rotation axis, then rotating the workpiece about the axis so the predetermined point is at a predetermined angle. 5. The method of claim 1 further including monitoring the rotation angle of the workpiece about the rotational axis, the source being strobed on for the predetermined duration each time the workpiece has been monitored as turning to a predetermined angle about the rotation axis. 6. The method of claim 5 further including reading out the detected amount of optical energy each time the workpiece has been monitored as turning to the predetermined angle about the rotation axis. 7. The method of claim 1 further including monitoring the rotation angle of the workpiece about the rotational axis, and reading out the detected amount of optical energy each time the workpiece has been monitored as turning to the predetermined angle about the rotation axis. 8. The method of claim 1 further including monitoring the rotation angle of the workpiece about the rotation axis, the source being strobed on each time the workpiece has been monitored as turning through the same predetermined angle about the rotation axis. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein the detecting step is performed by a charge coupled device responsive to the optical energy, and further including reading out voltages accumulated on capacitive optical detectors of the device each time the workpiece is detected as turning to a predetermined angle about the axis. 10. Apparatus for detecting the center of a workpiece relative to a rotational axis of the workpiece, the workpiece having a generally circular periphery, the apparatus comprising a drive for turning the workpiece about the rotation axis, a strobed source of optical energy for directing a line of optical energy at the workpiece; the optical energy, workpiece and rotation axis being arranged so some of the optical energy incident on the workpiece extends along a line between the axis and the workpiece periphery and some of the optical energy in the line extends beyond the workpiece periphery, an optical detector with a linearly extending optical detector area optically aligned with the line incident on the workpiece and adapted to extended beyond the workpiece periphery, the optical detector being arranged to derive an output having a value dependent on the amount of optical energy from the source incident thereon each time the source is strobed on, and circuitry responsive to an indication of the amount of energy derived from the detector each time the source is strobed on for (a) determining the length of a line extending from the rotation axis to the workpiece periphery each time the line source is strobed and (b) combining the determined line lengths for determining the displacement of the workpiece center relative to the rotation axis. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 further including a monitor for the angular position of the workpiece about the rotation axis, the source being coupled with the monitor so the source is strobed on for a predetermined interval each time the workpiece is detected by the monitor as being turned to a predetermined angle about the rotation axis. 12. The apparatus of claim 10 further including a robot for moving the workpiece to cause the center of the workpiece to be moved to the rotational axis in response to the determined displacement of the workpiece center relative to the rotation axis. 13. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the workpiece periphery deviates from a circle by having an abrupt change at a predetermined point on its periphery, the circuitry detecting (a) the abrupt peripheral change in response to an abrupt change in the determined length of the line and (b) the angle about the rotational axis where the abrupt change occurs. 14. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein the workpiece is a semiconductor wafer and the apparatus is part of a wafer processing system, the wafer processing system including at least one wafer processor, a robot for moving the wafer so the wafer center is moved to the rotational axis, and an arrangement for moving the wafer to the processor after the wafer has been positioned so its center is on the rotation axis and a peripheral point of the wafer where the abrupt change occurs is at a predetermined angle. 15. The apparatus of claim 10 further including a monitor for the angular position of the workpiece about the rotation axis, the circuitry being arranged so the circuitry is responsive to the detector output each time the monitor indicates the workpiece is at a predetermined angle about to the rotation axis. 16. A method of overcoming a tendency for inaccuracies to occur in readings obtained from an optical detector with a linearly extending optical detector area optically aligned with a line of optical radiation derived from an optical radiation source, the optical detector deriving an output signal having an amplitude dependent on the amount of optical energy in the line that is incident on the detector, the optical energy from the line source being directed toward a generally circular workpiece turned about a rotation axis so the amount of optical energy incident on the detector depends on the length of a line extending radially between the rotation axis and the workpiece periphery, the inaccuracies having a tendency to occur because a shaft turns the workpiece at different speeds about the rotation axis, the method comprising: strobing the optical source on many times for time intervals having known lengths while the motor turns the workpiece about the axis, and accumulating the readings of the detector over the time intervals of known lengths each time the source is strobed on. 17. The method of claim 16 further including monitoring the shaft angular position and strobing the source on in response to the monitored shaft angular position having predetermined values. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein the readings obtained from the detector are derived in response to the monitored shaft angular position having predetermined values. 19. The method of claim 16 further including monitoring the shaft angular position, and deriving readings from the detector in response to the monitored shaft angular position having predetermined values. 20. Apparatus for detecting a center point of a workpiece relative to a rotation axis of a spindle turning the workpiece comprising a drive for turning the spindle, a strobed line source of optical radiation directed at the workpiece so the energy of the source as incident on the workpiece extends beyond the workpiece periphery and is part of a line extending through the rotation axis, a linear optical detector array optically aligned with the line extending through the spindle axis, the array being responsive to optical energy from the source at a point beyond the workpiece periphery and effectively detecting the amount of optical energy intercepted by the workpiece, a shaft encoder coupled with the spindle, the source and detector being responsive to the encoder so each on strobe of the source has a predetermined duration and occurs in response to the shaft encoder detecting that the shaft has moved through a predetermined angle and so the detector is read out in response to the shaft encoder detecting that the shaft has moved through the predetermined angle, circuitry responsive to the optical detector for determining the length of the line each time the source is strobed on and the detector is read out, the circuitry including an arrangement for deriving an indication of the optical energy incident on the array each time the source is strobed on and the detector is read out, the circuitry being arranged to combine the determined line length indications and detect the workpiece center relative to the spindle axis in response to the combined determined line length indications. 21. The apparatus of claim 20 wherein the workpiece is a semiconductor wafer and the apparatus is part of a wafer processing system including at least one wafer processor, a robot for moving the wafer so the wafer center is moved to the rotation axis, and an arrangement for moving the wafer to the processor after the wafer has been positioned by the motor so its center is on the rotation axis and the wafer has been turned by the spindle so a peripheral point of the wafer where an abrupt curvature change occurs is at a predetermined angle. 22. The apparatus of claim 20 wherein the array includes many elements for detecting the accumulated optical energy at different points along each of the lines, and an analog-to-digital converter arrangement responsive to the energy detected by the elements. 23. A method of detecting the center of a workpiece having a circular periphery, the center of the workpiece being detected relative to a rotational axis of the workpiece, the method comprising turning the workpiece about the rotational axis causing many, N, lines of optical radiation to be incident on the workpiece along many lines extending from the axis to the workpiece periphery while the workpiece is turning about the axis, the optical radiation extending along the lines beyond the workpiece periphery at different predetermined angles .theta..sub.i, where i=1, 2, . . . , N, detecting the amount of accumulated optical energy in the lines that is intercepted by the workpiece during each of many equal duration time intervals, reading the accumulated energy during each of the many intervals at times when the workpiece is at each of many determined angles, determining the length of many lines on the workpiece between the axis and the periphery in response to the accumulated energy readings, and detecting displacement of the center of the workpiece relative to the rotational axis by combining indications of the determined lengths of the many lines and the many determined angles. 24. Apparatus for detecting the center of a workpiece relative to a rotational axis of the workpiece, the workpiece having a generally circular periphery, the apparatus comprising a drive for turning the workpiece about the rotation axis, a source of optical energy for directing a line of optical energy at the workpiece; the optical energy, workpiece and rotation axis being arranged so some of the optical energy incident on the workpiece extends along a line between the axis and the workpiece periphery and some of the optical energy in the line extends beyond the workpiece periphery, an optical detector with a linearly extending optical detector area optically aligned with the line incident on the workpiece and extending beyond the workpiece periphery, the optical detector being arranged to derive an output each time the workpiece turns to a predetermined angle, the derived output having a value dependent on the amount of optical energy from the source accumulated by the detector during equal time intervals synchronized with the derived outputs, and circuitry responsive to an indication of the amount of energy derived from the detector each time the workpiece turns to one of the determined angles for (a) determining the length of a line extending from the rotation axis to the workpiece periphery at each of the determined angles and (b) combining the determined line lengths to determine the displacement of the workpiece center relative to the rotation axis. 25. A method of overcoming a tendency for inaccuracies to occur in readings obtained from an optical detector with a linearly extending optical detector area optically aligned with a line of optical radiation derived from an optical radiation source, the optical detector deriving an output signal having an amplitude dependent on the amount of optical energy in the line that is incident on the detector, the optical energy from the line source being directed toward a generally circular workpiece turned about a rotation axis so the amount of optical energy incident on the detector depends on the length of a line extending radially between the rotation axis and the workpiece periphery, the inaccuracies having a tendency to occur because a shaft turns the workpiece at different speeds about the rotation axis, the method comprising: reading out indications of accumulated optical energy sensed by the detector during many time intervals having known lengths while the motor turns the workpiece about the axis, each indication being read out in response to the workpiece turning about the axis to each of many predetermined angles, and combining the read out indications with indications of the determined angles to detect the spacing of the workpiece centerpoint from the rotation axis. 