The present invention pertains to a method of instruction and simulated training and competitive play or entertainment in an activity that couples cognitive and motor functions, in particular, the playing of the game of hockey. The invention includes a computer used to view and to control images of hockey players on a computer screen. An image of a hockey player controlled by the user is juxtaposed to or superimposed upon the image of an instructive, ideal or master hockey player(s). The user manipulates the controlled image of a hockey player in an effort to approximate the movements of the instructive or ideal player via an input device such as a keyboard, joystick, or virtual reality device. The invention also includes means by which the user's performance in approximating the instructive or ideal player may be measured. The user can also control an image of a hockey player on the computer screen so that the image engages in performing offensive and defensive drills in opposition to an ideal or another opponent or team.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of instructing in simulated training for at least one user interacting with at least one image displayed on a display means of a computer system, said method comprising the steps of: generating and storing in a memory means of a computer system, at least one computer displayed sequence of demonstrative images, wherein said at least one computer displayed sequence of demonstrative images comprises a series of pre-recorded images of demonstrative performance of the activity representing human physical activity movements; further generating and storing, in said memory means, at least one computer displayed user controllable image, wherein said at least one computer displayed user controllable image, derived from parameters of human biomechanics, comprises a user controllable image adopted for use by said user to perform a series of simulated human physical activity movements responsive to said sequence of demonstrative images; displaying an image of said sequence of demonstrative images on a display means of said computer; further displaying said user controllable image with said displayed image of said sequence of demonstrative images on said display means; providing said at least one user with input means of said computer system to transmit inputs to said computer for controlling said user controllable image, such that instead of said at least one user performing said responsive movement, said user controllable image is controlled to perform said simulated human physical activity movements responsive to said displayed image of said sequence of demonstrative images; simultaneously storing, in said memory means, said simulated human physical activity movements of said user controllable image as controlled by said input means; displaying said simulated human physical activity movements of said controllable image on said display means in conjunction with said displayed image of said sequence of demonstrative images; prompting said at least one user to compare said movement of said user controllable image to respond to said displayed image of said sequence of demonstrative images, thereby said user being instructed to learn said simulated human physical activity movements responsive to said displayed image of said sequence of demonstrative images; and further comparing, by a computer processor means of said computer system, said simulated human physical activity movements of said user controllable image with said sequence of demonstrative images, in order to provide the result of the comparison to said at least one user. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of presenting to said at least one user a menu of demonstrative human physical activity movements, said menu comprising skills, maneuvers and tactics. 3. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of receiving input from said at least one user to select the speed of movement at which the series of images of demonstrative performance of the activity is displayed. 4. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of receiving input from said at least one user to select the direction of movement in which the series of images of demonstrative performance of the activity is displayed. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said user controllable image is displayed in a region of the display means that is adjacent to the region of said series of images of demonstrative performance of the activity is displayed. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein said user controllable image is superimposed upon the series of images of demonstrative performance of the activity. 7. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of receiving input from said at least one user to control speed of movement at which the user controllable image is caused to move. 8. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of receiving input from said at least one user to control the direction of movement in which the user controllable image is caused to move. 9. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of receiving input from said at least one user to control the location of the user controllable image. 10. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of receiving input from said at least one user to control the locomotion of the user controllable image. 11. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of receiving input from said at least one user to control the posture of the user controllable image. 12. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of receiving input from said at least one user to control at least one piece of equipment of the activity used by the user controllable image. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein said series of simulated human physical activity movements comprises a maneuver of human physical activity movement. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein said series of simulated human physical activity movements comprises at least two players of a sport performing a maneuver of human physical activity movement. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein said input means comprises a virtual reality input device. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein said display means comprises a virtual reality display device. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein said series of images of demonstrative performance of the activity comprises a first maneuver; and said input means provides input, by at least one user, to control at least one of said controllable image to move in performance of a second maneuver in opposition to the first maneuver. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein said series of images of demonstrative performance of the activity comprises a first maneuver; and said input means provides input, by at least one user, to control at least one of said controllable image to move in performance of a second maneuver in cooperation with the first maneuver. 19. The method of claim 1, wherein said series of images of demonstrative performance of the activity comprises a first maneuver; and said input means provides input, by at least one user, to control at least one of said controllable image to move in performance of a second maneuver to interact with the first maneuver. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein said second maneuver is of the type performed by an officiator of said maneuvers. 21. The method of claim 20 further comprising the step of allowing the user to select parameters of biomechanics of the officiator. 22. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of displaying visible instructions to instruct said at least one user in controlling said user controllable image. 23. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of emitting audible instructions to instruct said at least one user in controlling said user controllable image. 24. The method of claim 1, wherein said at least one user further controls at least one additional user controllable image. 25. The method of claim 1 further comprising at least one additional remotely located user to control at least one additional user controllable image. 26. The method of claim 1, wherein said series of simulated human physical activity movements comprises pre-training preparation for real physical activity. 27. The method of claim 1, wherein said at least one user selects to substantially suspend said displayed image of said sequence of demonstrative images while said at least one user controls said user controllable image. 28. The method of claim 1, wherein said at least one selects to substantially suspend said user controllable image while said at least one user observes said displayed image of said demonstrative images. 29. The method of claim 1, wherein said parameters of human biomechanics to said user controllable image are modified to reflect user specifications. 30. The method of claim 1, wherein said parameters of human biomechanics are modified to reflect movements of the user controllable image. 31. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of generating a performance analysis of the user controllable image based on the result of said comparison by said processor means. 32. The method of claim 1, wherein said at least one user is a physically challenged user, who controls the movement of parts of the body of said user controllable image without moving the same parts of the physically challenged user's body. 33. The method of claim 1, wherein said at least one user controls part of the body of said user controllable image. 34. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of allowing said at least one user to select parameters of human biomechanics of said series of images of demonstrative performance of the activity representing human physical activity movements. 35. The method of claim 1, wherein said series of images of demonstrative performance of the activity are displayed in the foreground of said user controllable image. 36. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the user controllable images performs at least one simulated human physical activity movement that is independent of said at least one user's control. 37. The method of claims 1, wherein said at least one user controls movement of said user controllable image to substantially respond to the movements of said displayed image of said sequence of demonstrative images, so as to perform a sequence of human physical activity movements. 38. A computer system for instructing in simulated training for at least one user interacting with at least one image displayed on a display means of said computer system, comprising: a first memory means for storing at least one computer displayed sequence of demonstrative images in a series, wherein said series of at least one of said computer displayed sequence of demonstrative images comprises a series of pre-recorded images illustrating performance of human physical activity movements; a second memory means for storing at least one computer displayed user controllable image in a series, wherein said series of at least one computer displayed user controllable images derived from parameters of human biomechanics, and controlled by at least one user to perform a series of simulated human physical activity movements responsive to the movements of said series of images of demonstrative performance of the activity; display means for displaying said series of images of demonstrative performance of the activity with said series of user controllable images; input means, manipulated by said at least one user, for providing input to said computer system to cause said series of user controllable images to perform said series of simulated human physical activity movements responsive to said movement of said series of images of demonstrative performance of the activity, wherein said input comprises data related to said movement of said user controllable image; and processor means for storing said input from said at least one user in a third memory means for controlling said display means to display said series of images of demonstrative performance of the activity and said series of user controllable images, for retrieving said stored input from said third memory means, for prompting said at least one user to compare said movement of said series of user controllable images with said movement of said series of images of demonstrative performance of the activity, and for displaying the results of said data related to controlled movement of said user controllable image. 39. The computer system of claim 38, wherein said input means comprises a virtual reality input device. 40. The computer system of claim 38, wherein said display means comprises a virtual reality display device. 41. The computer system of claim 38, wherein said human physical activity movements comprises playing a sport. 42. The computer system of claim 38, wherein said series of at least one user controllable image performs at least one simulated human physical activity movement that is independent of said user's control. 43. A method of training at least one user to interact with at least one image displayed on a display means of a computer system, said method comprising the steps of: recording and storing in a memory means of a computer system, a first series of discrete images, said discrete images collectively comprising a sequence of human physical activity movements; further recording and storing in said memory means a second series of discrete images collectively comprising a sequence of human physical activity movements responsive to said first series of discrete images; displaying, on a display means of said computer system, at least one of said discrete images in said first series, said displayed image comprising a first displayed image; further displaying on said display means, at least one of said discrete images in said second series, said displayed image comprising a second displayed image; sequentially displaying the next discrete images in said first series; receiving input from at least one user to control said second displayed image to substantially respond to said first displayed image instead of said at least one user responding to said first series of discrete images displayed during said sequentially displaying step; prompting said at least one user to compare said second displayed images to respond to the movement of said first displayed images, thereby said user being instructed to learn said simulated human physical activity movements responsive to said sequentially displayed discrete images in said first series; and further comparing, by a computer processor means of said computer system, said control of said second displayed images in response to said first series of discrete images in order to provide the result of the comparison to said at least one user. 