An apparatus and method for sealing an underground junction between a lateral service line and a main pipeline from the inside-out. One embodiment provides a substantially rigid patching apparatus which may be positioned and installed with a robotic device within a main pipeline. The patching apparatus has a flange shaped to fit the internal diameter of the main pipeline and a tubular stem or sleeve which penetrates into the lateral service line. The patching apparatus contains an interconnection substrate such as felt, sponge or other similar material. The interconnection substrate may be impregnated with a bonding agent which sealingly interconnects the patching apparatus to the main pipeline and lateral service line. The seal provided by the inverted-tee patch effectively eliminates most water intrusion or the influx of plant roots and other matter which can seriously damage or obstruct the main pipeline. A remote control robotic arm is used in conjunction with a support cage to apply the patch to the underground junction between the main pipeline and lateral service line from within the main pipeline.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus adapted for removable interconnection to a remotely controlled robot for insertion into a main pipeline to sealingly repair a junction between a main pipeline and a lateral service line, comprising: a patch comprising: a substantially rigid tubular stem having a first end and a second end, the second end having a substantially open aperture for communication with the lateral service line; a convex flange having an exterior surface, an interior surface and a cutout portion operatively sized and interconnected to the first end of said tubular stem, wherein said tubular stem extends away from the exterior surface of said convex flange; and sealing means interconnected to the exterior surface of said convex flange having resilient deformation properties adapted to provide sealing engagement between said convex flange and an interior surface of the main pipeline; and a support cage adapted for removable interconnection to the interior surface of said convex flange, said support cage having a first end adapted for interconnection to the remotely controlled robot and a second end having a shape which operatively nests with the interior surface of said convex flange to provide a sufficient uniform force to compress said sealing means between the exterior surface of said convex flange and the interior surface of the main pipeline. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said convex flange is substantially rigid. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the exterior surface of said convex flange is contoured to have a shape substantially coextensive with the interior surface of the main pipeline. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said convex flange covers a portion of a circumference of the main pipeline at least 1.5 times a diameter of the lateral service line. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said tubular stem has a first length less than a second length of the lateral service line. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said tubular stem has a first length less than half a second length of the lateral service line. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said tubular stem has a first length less than a diameter of the main pipeline. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein substantially an entire length of said tubular stem is comprised of a rigid material both before and after insertion of said tubular stem into the lateral service line. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said sealing means substantially surrounds the cutout portion of said convex flange. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said sealing means is comprised of foam rubber, felt, rubber, synthetic polymer, sponge, or cloth. 11. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said sealing means has an uncompressed thickness of at least 5 mm. 12. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said sealing means has a compressed thickness of less than about one-third of an uncompressed thickness. 13. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said sealing means further comprises an annular gasket positioned on an exterior surface of said tubular stem wherein a seal is provided between said tubular stem and an interior surface of the lateral service line. 14. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said patch further comprises an adhesive means interconnected to or impregnated within said sealing means. 15. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said support cage comprises: a support ring, and a plurality of talons having a first end and a second end interconnected to said support ring, said support ring formed to operatively engage the interior surface of said convex flange. 16. An apparatus adapted for removable interconnection to a remotely controlled robot for insertion into a main pipeline to sealingly repair a junction between a main pipeline and a lateral service line, comprising: a patch including: a tubular stem having a first end, a second end and a first length, wherein the second end has a substantially open aperture for communication with fluids traveling in the lateral service line; a convex flange having an exterior surface, an interior surface and a cutout portion operatively sized and interconnected to the first end of said tubular stem wherein the second end of said tubular stem extends away from the exterior surface of said convex flange; and a sealing substrate interconnected to the exterior surface of said convex flange proximate to said tubular stem and having resilient deformation properties adapted to provide sealing engagement between the exterior surface of said convex flange and an interior surface of the main pipeline; and a support cage adapted for removable interconnection to the interior surface of said patch, wherein said support cage has sufficient structure to provide an adequate force to compress said sealing means. 17. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the first length of said tubular stem is less than half a second length of the lateral service line. 18. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the first length of said tubular stem is less than a diameter the main pipeline. 19. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the first length of said tubular stem is substantially rigid both before and after insertion into the lateral service line. 20. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein said sealing means has an uncompressed thickness no greater than about 1 inch. 21. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein said patch further comprises an adhesive means interconnected to or impregnated in said sealing means to provide attachment to the interior surface of the main pipeline. 22. A method for remotely installing a patch to an underground junction between a main pipeline and a lateral service line, comprising the steps of: (a) providing a patch comprising: a tubular stem having a first end, a second end and a first length, wherein the second end has a substantially open aperture for communication with the lateral service line: a convex flange having an exterior surface, an interior surface and a cutout portion operatively sized and interconnected to the first end of said tubular stem wherein the second end of said tubular stem extends away from the exterior surface of said convex flange; and sealing substrate interconnected to the exterior surface of said convex flange having resilient deformation properties adapted to provide sealing engagement between said convex flange and an interior surface of the main pipeline; (b) determining a location of the junction between the main pipeline and the lateral service line; (c) removably attaching said patch to a support cage; (d) positioning said support cage beneath the location of the underground junction; (e) activating a lateral extender to move said support cage from a first traveling position to a second engagement position so that said patch is positioned with said tubular stem within the lateral service line and said convex flange juxtapositioned against an internal surface of the main pipeline; (f) curing said patch so that said patch becomes fixedly connected to the internal surface of the main pipeline wherein said patch substantially prevents infiltration of foreign matter into the main pipeline at the underground junction; (g) deactivating the lateral extender to move said support cage from the second engagement position to the first traveling position; and (h) removing by means of a remote control said lateral extender and said support cage from the main pipeline. 23. The method for installing a patch of claim 22, wherein said tubular stem has a first length less than half a second length of the lateral service line. 24. The method for installing a patch of claim 22, wherein substantially an entire length of said tubular stem is substantially rigid both before and after insertion into the lateral service line. 25. The method for installing a patch of claim 22, wherein said patch further comprises an adhesive means interconnected to or impregnated within said sealing substrate for interconnecting said substrate to the interior surface of the main pipeline. 