A processing system for processing a plurality of products, the system including a plurality of interchangeable units arranged to receive the products and each having a work station for effecting a specific operation, and a canopy covering said work station, the units being interconnected to form an enclosed chamber encompassing the work stations and covered by the interconnected canopies; an environmental control system for controlling environmental conditions within the chamber; and a transport system for transporting the products within the chamber and between the work stations.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A processing system for processing a plurality of products, said system comprising: a plurality of interchangeable units connected in an array arranged to sequentially receive the products; and each having a work station for effecting a specific operation on the products and a canopy covering said work station; each said canopy having at least one open end providing communication with an adjacent said unit and connected with said open end of said adjacent unit; said units being interconnected to form an enclosed chamber encompassing said work stations and covered by said interconnected canopies; an environmental control system for controlling environmental conditions within said chamber; and a transport system for transporting the products through the open ends and between said interconnected work stations within said chamber. 2. A processing system according to claim 1 wherein said interchangeable units are interconnected in an array including entry and discharge said units, said entry unit having a closed end defining an entry door to accommodate entry of the products into said chamber, and said discharge unit having a closed end defining a discharge door to accommodate removal of the products from said chamber. 3. A processing system according to claim 1 wherein said interchangeable units include an isolation unit interconnected as an intermediate section of said array; said isolation unit having walls forming a compartment environmentally isolation from said chamber and doors providing access thereto. 4. A processing system according to claim 1 wherein at least some of said units are interconnected in a rectilinear array that accommodates movement of the products in a rectilinear path. 5. A processing system according to claim 2 wherein each said unit comprises electrical connector means automatically coupled to said connector means of adjacent units in response to interconnection thereof. 6. A processing system according to claim 5 wherein said connector means of each unit comprise a pair of connectors shaped and arranged for connection with said connectors of straddling units. 7. A processing system according to claim 6 wherein said connectors are disposed in uniform locations of each unit. 8. A processing system according to claim 1 wherein the system is a chemical screening system and the products are chemical assays. 9. A processing system according to claim 1 wherein each said unit is supported on rollers to provide mobility. 10. A processing system according to claim 1 wherein each said unit comprises electrical connector means automatically coupled to said connector means of adjacent units in response to interconnection thereof. 11. A processing system according to claim 10 wherein said connector means of each unit comprise a pair of connectors shaped and arranged for connection with said connectors of straddling units. 12. A processing system according to claim 11 wherein said connectors are disposed in uniform locations of each unit. 13. A processing system according to claim 12 wherein said units include a corner unit connected to one end of said rectilinear array and shaped and arranged to provide movement of the products in a direction transverse to said rectilinear path. 14. A processing system according to claim 1 wherein at least one of said units has a work station for effecting a said specific operation comprising removal of air from said enclosed chamber, and said at least one said unit comprises return means for returning to said chamber at least a portion of said air removed therefrom. 15. A method for processing products and comprising the steps of: providing a plurality of interchangeable units each having a work station; covering each of said work stations with a canopy having at least one open end; interconnecting said units and said open ends of adjacent said canopies in a predetermined serial arrangement to form an enclosed chamber encompassing said work stations and covered by said canopies; controlling environmental conditions in said chamber; transporting the products through said open ends and between said work stations within said chamber; and effecting on the products in each work station a specific operation. 16. A method for processing products according to claim 15 wherein said interconnecting step comprises interconnecting at least some of said units in a rectilinear array. 17. A method for processing products according to claim 15 wherein said interconnecting step comprises the steps of interconnecting some of said units into a first rectilinear array and interconnecting other said units in a second array disposed transverse to said first array. 18. A method for processing products according to claim 15 wherein each said unit is supported on rollers to provide mobility. 19. A method for processing products according to claim 15 wherein the system is a chemical screening system and the products are chemical assays. 20. A method for processing products according to claim 19 including the steps of loading said chemical assays into individual receptacles prior to said transporting steps, and wherein said operations comprise incubation, receptacle washing and reagent addition operations. 21. A method for processing products according to claim 15 wherein said effecting step in at least one of said work stations comprises the steps of removing air from said chamber and returning at least a portion of said removed air to said chamber. 22. A processing system according to claim 2 wherein at least one said canopy has a pair of opposite open ends each connected to an open end of a said canopy of a different adjacent said unit. 23. A method according to claim 15 wherein at least one said canopy has a pair of opposite open ends; and including the step of interconnecting each of said opposite open ends to an open end of a said canopy of a different adjacent said unit. 