A method for planning surgery on a body portion is provided in the steps of gathering image data, storing the image data, reading the image data into a computer, generating a three-dimensional computer model of the body portion from the image data, identifying anatomical features relevant to the surgery, and defining at least one desired correction to anatomical structures to be accomplished by the surgery. Also, a method for performing surgery on a body portion is provided in the steps of loading surgical plan data into a computer, registering a three-dimensional computer model of the body portion stored in the surgical plan data to the body portion, providing at least one surgical tool, positioning the surgical tool relative to the body portion and performing the surgery. Further, a jig assembly is provided in the form of a femoral docking jig, a femoral contouring jig, and a tibial jig.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of performing surgery on a portion of a body with the goals of improving the accuracy of the surgery and reducing the risks associated with surgery, comprising the steps of: loading into a computer surgical plan data stored in a memory means interfaced to the computer, the computer having a visual display means for visually displaying images generated in at least one process step, wherein the surgical plan data comprises a three-dimensional computer model of a body portion and data relating to at least one prosthesis of defined size and pose relative to the body portion; registering the three-dimensional computer model to the body portion using a registration means for registering the model and body portion; providing at least one surgical tool having a defined relationship relative to the prosthesis defined in the surgical plan data, the relationship defining a desired pose for the surgical tool relative to the body portion; positioning the surgical tool relative to the body portion in the desired pose and performing the surgery. 2. The method of performing surgery of claim 1, wherein the memory means is selected from a group consisting of electronic media, electronically erasable media, electromagnetic media, magnetic media, optical media, and magnetic-optical media. 3. The method of performing surgery of claim 1, wherein the visual display means is selected from a group consisting of raster display means and vector display means. 4. The method or performing surgery of claim 1, wherein the three-dimensional computer model is registered to the body portion by displaying a three-dimensional representation of the registration means relative to the three-dimensional computer model on the visual display means, aligning the registration means relative to the body portion in the same relationship as shown in the display, and signalling the computer that the registration means is in the pose shown on the display means. 5. The method of performing surgery of claim 4, wherein the registration means is a coordinate measuring device that provides pose data relative to a fixed set of spatial coordinates to the computer. 6. The method of performing surgery of claim 5, wherein the coordinate measuring device has a fixed end and a free end, and further comprises a pointer attached at the free end. 7. The method of performing surgery of claim 6, wherein the pointer comprises a transdermal means for registering the body portion without incision. 8. The method of performing surgery of claim 7, wherein the transdermal means is a percutaneous means for registering the body portion without incision. 9. The method of performing surgery of claim 8, wherein the percutaneous means is a needle. 10. The method of performing surgery of claim 6, wherein the pointer is removably attached to the coordinate measuring device. 11. The method of performing surgery of claim 1, comprising further the step of providing visual feedback on the visual display means to inform a user of the accuracy of registration. 12. The method of performing surgery of claim 1, wherein the three-dimensional computer model is registered to the body portion by touching the body portion with the registration means; signalling the computer that the registration means is located at a point on the body portion to be sampled; and, relating the sampled points to points on the three-dimensional computer model of the body portion. 13. The method of performing surgery of claim 12, wherein the registration means comprises a transdermal means for sampling points on the body portion without incision. 14. The method of performing surgery of claim 13, wherein the transdermal means is a percutaneous means for sampling points on the body portion without incision. 15. The method of performing surgery of claim 14, wherein the percutaneous means is a needle. 16. The method of performing surgery of claim 12, wherein the computer displays on the visual display means the location of predetermined points on the body portion to be sampled. 17. The method of performing surgery of claim 16, wherein the sampled points are displayed on the visual display means. 18. The method of performing surgery of claim 12, wherein the sampled points are displayed on the visual display means. 19. The method of performing surgery of claim 1, wherein the step of positioning at least one of the surgical tools relative to the body portion comprises the steps of attaching the surgical tool to the registration means; displaying a three-dimensional representation of the registration means and the attached surgical tool on the visual display means so that the representation moves in correspondence with movement of the registration means and the surgical tool; displaying a representation of the attached surgical tool in a desired pose on the three-dimensional model of the body portion; positioning the surgical tool relative to the body portion using the registration means; and providing feedback to the user when the surgical tool is in the desired pose. 20. The method of performing surgery of claim 19, further comprising the step of performing at least one resection on the body portion, wherein the resection is performed using a burring device. 21. The method of performing surgery of claim 20, further comprising the step of comparing the resection to the intended resection defined in the surgical plan data. 22. The method of performing surgery of claim 21, wherein the step of comparing the resection to an intended resection comprises the steps of sampling characteristic corners of the resection, constructing the resection on the three-dimensional computer model of the body portion using the characteristic corners by finding the plane formed by the characteristic corners, constructing an intended resection from the surgical plan data on the three-dimensional computer model, comparing the resection with the intended resection by determining variations in the pose of the resections and the pose of the intended resection and displaying the variations on the visual display means. 23. The method of performing surgery of claim 22, wherein software is used to reconstruct the actual resections, to reconstruct the intended resection, to compare the intended resection to the actual resection, and to display the variations on the visual display means. 24. The method of performing surgery of claim 19, wherein feedback is provided to indicate the movement of the surgical tool towards the desired pose and away from the desired pose. 25. The method of performing surgery of claim 19, wherein feedback is audible. 26. The method of performing surgery of claim 19, wherein the feedback is visual. 27. The method of performing surgery of claim 25, wherein the feedback also is visual. 28. The method of performing surgery of claim 1, further comprising the step of performing at least one resection on the body portion using a means for resecting bone. 29. The method of performing surgery of claim 28, wherein the means for resecting bone is a burring device. 30. A method of performing unicompartmental knee arthroplasty surgery with the goals of improving the accuracy of the surgery and reducing the risks associated with surgery, comprising the steps of: loading unicompartmental knee arthroplasty surgical plan data stored in a memory means into a computer interfaced to the memory means, the computer having a visual display means for visually displaying images generated in at least one process step, wherein the surgical plan data comprises a three-dimensional computer model of at least the femur and tibia, data relating to at least one femoral prosthetic component of defined size and pose relative to the femur, and data relating to at least one tibial prosthetic component of defined size and pose relative to the tibia; registering the three-dimensional computer model to the femur and the tibia using a registration means for registering the model to the femur and the tibia; providing at least one femoral jig having a defined relationship relative to the femoral prosthetic component defined in the surgical plan data, and providing at least one tibial jig having a defined relationship relative to the tibial prosthetic component defined in the surgical plan data; positioning the femoral jig relative to the femur, and the tibial jig relative to the tibia, in the desired poses and performing the surgery. 31. The method of performing surgery of claim 30, wherein the memory means is selected from a group consisting of electronic media, electronically erasable media, electromagnetic media, magnetic media, optical media, and magnetic-optical media. 32. The method of performing surgery of claim 30, wherein the visual display means is selected from a group consisting of raster display means and vector display means. 33. The method of performing surgery of claim 30, wherein the step of registering the surgical plan data to the femur and the tibia using the registration means comprises the steps of selecting a first bone to be registered from either the femur or the tibia; displaying a three-dimensional computer representation of the registration means relative to the three-dimensional computer model of the selected bone on the visual display means; aligning the registration means relative to the selected bone as shown on the display means; signalling to the computer that the registration means is aligned as shown on the display means; and repeating the sequence of displaying, aligning and signalling for the other of the femur and the tibia. 34. The method of performing surgery of claim 33, wherein the registration means is a coordinate measuring device that provides pose data relative to a fixed set of spatial coordinates to the computer. 35. The method of performing surgery of claim 34, wherein the coordinate measuring device has a fixed end and a free end, further comprising a pointer attached at the free end. 36. The method of performing surgery of claim 35, wherein the pointer comprises a transdermal means for registering the body portion without incision. 37. The method of performing surgery of claim 36, wherein the transdermal means is a percutaneous means for registering the body portion without incision. 38. The method of performing surgery of claim 37, wherein said percutaneous means is a needle. 39. The method of performing surgery of claim 35, wherein the pointer is removably attached to the coordinate measuring device. 40. The method of performing surgery of claim 30, comprising further the step of providing visual feedback on the display means to inform a user of the accuracy of the registration. 41. The method of performing surgery of claim 30, wherein the three-dimensional computer model is registered to the femur and the tibia by selecting a bone to be sampled, the bone being one of the femur or the tibia; touching the registration means to points on the selected bone; signalling to the computer each point where the registration means touches the selected bone; relating the sampled points to points on the three-dimensional computer model; and repeating the steps of selecting, touching, signalling and relating for the other of the femur and the tibia. 42. The method of performing surgery of claim 41, wherein the registration means comprises a transdermal means for sampling points on the femur and the tibia without incision. 43. The method of performing surgery of claim 42, wherein the transdermal means is a percutaneous means for sampling points on the femur and the tibia without incision. 44. The method of performing surgery of claim 43, wherein the percutaneous means is a needle. 45. The method of performing surgery of claim 41, wherein the computer displays on the visual display means the location of the predetermined points on the body portion to be sampled. 46. The method of performing surgery of claim 45, wherein the sampled points are displayed on the visual display means. 47. The method of performing surgery of claim 41, wherein the sampled points are displayed on the visual display means. 48. The method of performing surgery of claim 30, wherein the step of positioning the femoral jig relative to the femur and the tibial jig relative to the tibia, comprises the steps of selecting a first jig to be positioned from either the femoral jig or the tibial jig; attaching the selected jig to the registration means; displaying a three-dimensional representation of the registration means and the attached selected jig on the visual display means so that the representation moves in correspondence with movement of the registration means and the selected jig; displaying a representation of the selected jig in a desired pose; positioning the selected jig relative to the bone corresponding to the selected jig using the registration means; providing feedback to the user when the selected jig is in the desired pose; and repeating the sequence of attaching displaying, positioning, and providing feedback for the other of the femoral jig and the tibial jig. 49. The method of performing surgery of claim 48, wherein feedback is provided to indicate the movement of the selected jig towards the desired pose and away from the desired pose. 50. The method of performing surgery of claim 48, wherein the feedback is audible. 51. The method of performing surgery of claim 50, wherein the feedback is also visual. 52. The method of performing surgery of claim 48, wherein the feedback is visual. 53. The method of performing surgery of claim 48, further comprising the steps of performing at least one resection on the femur, and performing at least one resection on the tibia using a means for resecting bone. 54. The method of performing surgery of claim 53, wherein the means for resecting bone is a burring device. 55. The method of performing surgery of claim 54, further comprising the steps of comparing the resection on the femur to an intended resection on the femur defined in the surgical plan data, and comparing the resection on the tibia to an intended resection on the tibia defined in the surgical plan data. 56. The method of performing surgery of claim 55, wherein the steps of comparing the resection on the femur to an intended resection on the femur, and comparing the resection of the tibia to an intended resection on the tibia, each comprises the steps of selecting a bone to be checked, sampling characteristic corners of the resection on that bone, constructing the resection on the three-dimensional computer model using the characteristic corners by finding the plane formed by the characteristic corners, constructing an intended resection from the surgical plan data on the three-dimensional computer model, comparing the intended resection with the actual resection by determining variations in the pose of the resections and the pose of the intended resection, displaying the variations on the visual display means, and repeating the steps of sampling, reconstructing, comparing, and displaying for the other of the femur and the tibia. 57. The method of performing surgery of claim 56 wherein software is used to reconstruct the actual resections, to reconstruct the intended resections, to compare the intended resections to the actual resections, and to display the variations on the visual display means. 58. The method of performing surgery of claim 30, further comprising the steps of performing at least one resection on the femur, and performing at least one resection on the tibia, wherein the resections are performed using a burring device. 