The invention provides wafer handling apparatus for use with a wafer handling mechanism of the type that supports and transports wafers through and during semiconductor processes. Typically, the wafer has a first surface for semiconductor processing and a second surface having a surface finish with microfeatures therein. The invention utilizes at least three prongs extending from the mechanism and arranged to support the wafer. A stylus tip--preferably made from diamond--resides at a distal end of each prong. Each tip has a point that is smaller than at least some of the microfeatures of the second surface of the wafer such that the interaction of the tips with the microfeatures resists lateral movement of the wafer relative to the tips when the wafer rests on the tips by the force of gravity. This interaction is sufficient to move the wafer without substantial contribution from the coefficient of friction between the tips and the wafer. The invention solves the problems of the prior art associated with outgassing by rubber pads and low coefficients of friction associated with quartz pads. Motors with feedback control adjust the speed at which the prongs interact with the wafers so as to prolong tip life.
Claims In view of the foregoing, what is claimed is: 1. Wafer handling apparatus for use with a wafer handling mechanism of the type that supports and transports wafers through and during semiconductor processes, the wafer being of the type having a first surface for semiconductor processing and a second surface having a surface finish with microfeatures therein, comprising: at least three prongs extending from the mechanism and arranged to support the wafer, and a stylus tip at a distal end of each prong, each tip having a point that is smaller than at least some of the microfeatures of the second surface of the wafer such that the interaction of the tips with the microfeatures resists lateral movement of the wafer relative to the tips when the wafer rests on the tips by the force of gravity and without substantial contribution from the coefficient of friction between the tips and the wafer. 2. Wafer handling apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the tip is selected from the group consisting essentially of diamond, sapphire, molybdenum, tungsten and steel. 3. Wafer handling apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the tip comprises a diamond. 4. Wafer handling apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the tip is shaped into a point with an included angle of between about forty five and one hundred twenty degrees. 5. Wafer handling apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising an end effector for extending into and between one or more processing chambers, the prongs being mounted with and extending from the end effector. 6. Wafer handling apparatus according to claim 5, further comprising a plurality of steel bases for rigidly coupling the end effector to the prongs. 7. Wafer handling apparatus according to claim 6, wherein each base forms a trench around the prong so as to collect particulates therein. 8. Wafer handling apparatus according to claim 5, wherein the end effector forms a plurality of through-holes for mounting the prongs with the end effector. 9. Wafer handling apparatus according to claim 8, further comprising a plurality of plugs for mounting the prongs to the end effector. 10. Wafer handling apparatus according to claim 9, wherein each plug has one or more sloped sides for firm connection within the through-holes. 11. Wafer handling apparatus according to claim 9, wherein each plug forms a trench around the prong so as to collect particulates therein. 12. Wafer handling apparatus according to claim 1, wherein each prong comprises a shank and a stylus. 13. Wafer handling apparatus according to claim 12, wherein the shank comprises stainless steel and wherein the stylus comprises diamond. 14. Wafer handling apparatus according to claim 12, further comprising a braze joint for connecting the shank to the stylus. 15. Wafer handling apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the tip includes a flat portion that lessens the sharpness of the tip, the flat portion being between about 0.0005 and 0.0008 inch. 16. Wafer handling apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising a motor controller for driving the tips into contact with the wafer, the controller reducing the acceleration prior to impact with the wafer so as to reduce damage during impact between the tips and the wafer. 17. Wafer handling apparatus according to claim 1, wherein each stylus tip comprises bluntness, the tips being constructed and arranged such that stresses on the wafer caused by the bluntness of the tips is less than the compression strength of the wafer. 