An improved method for the orientation of autonomous mobile units is provided. Collision distances to obstacles are thereby calculated on the basis of the steering and drive geometry of the movable unit. On the basis of these distances, allowed steering angle ranges for the unit are defined. Additionally, a defined observation horizon is prescribed for the sensor equipment of the unit. The obstacles to be evaluated are within this horizon. Moreover, a safety zone is defined around the unit in which no obstacles can be located; otherwise, travel in reverse is triggered. For route optimization of the unit, steering angle ranges that derive from different observation horizons and safety zones are combined on a case-by-case basis. By reducing the safety margin only in narrow passages down to the housing contour of the unit in the extreme case, the maximum steering angle can be utilized. As a result thereof, a greatest possible degree of maneuverability is also assured between obstacles residing close to one another.
Claims We claim: 1. Method for collision avoidance for an autonomous mobile unit, comprising the steps of: measuring obstacles in an environment of the mobile unit; identifying a collision distance by determining at least a shortest travel path of the mobile unit from its location to a potential collision point with at least one obstacle located within a defined, variable observation area between said mobile unit and a boundary line surrounding said mobile unit,; identifying a steering angle to be respectively set at said mobile unit using the collision distance and a safety zone around said mobile unit, said steering angle being identified so as to just avoid leading to a collision with said at least one obstacle when said mobile unit travels thereby to derive a permitted steering angle range with reference to said location of said mobile unit therefrom; reversing travel direction of said mobile unit after locating said at least one obstacle in said safety zone; and using said permitted steering angle range to control said mobile unit to avoid collision. 2. Method according to claim 1, further comprising the step of: defining at least two observation areas, a first observation area comparatively small relative to the dimensions of said mobile unit and a second observation area comparable to said dimensions of said mobile unit, wherein at least one permitted steering angle range is respectively defined. 3. Method according to claim 2, further comprising the steps of: determining at least one permitted steering angle range per obstacle and depositing said steering angle in a steering angle range field; and forming said permitted steering angle range from said mobile unit as a union of a plurality of permitted steering angle ranges of said steering angle range field. 4. Method according to claim 1, further comprising the steps of: determining at least one permitted steering angle range per obstacle and depositing said steering angle in a steering angle range field; and forming said permitted steering angle range for said mobile unit as a union of a plurality of permitted steering angle ranges of said steering angle range field. 5. Method according to claim 1, further comprising the step of: varying said steering angle by a pre-determined amount to achieve a resulting steering angle that is located within said permitted steering angle range. 6. Method according to claim 5, wherein said varying step is further defined by varying said steering angle in a first direction, and when not successful, varying said steering angle in a second, opposite direction. 7. Method according to claim 5, wherein said pre-determined amount is equal to one-half a sector width of said permitted steering angle range. 8. Method according to claim 1, further comprising the step of: defining said variable observation area dependent on a travel speed at which the mobile unit travels. 9. Method according to claim 8, wherein the step of defining said variable observation area is further defined by defining at least a first observation area for comparatively low travel speed and defining at least a second observation area for comparatively high travel speed. 10. Method according to claim 1, wherein said safety zone is smaller than said variable observation area, wherein only obstacles that lie outside said safety zone are considered. 11. Method according to claim 10, further comprising the steps of: defining at least two said safety zones for at least one said variable observation area; and determining respectively appertaining steering angle range field. 12. Method according to claim 1, wherein said method is implemented cyclically by repeatedly identifying at least the shortest travel path and by identifying the steering angle. 13. Method according to claim 1, wherein said step of defining a safety zone around said mobile unit is further defined by decreasing the size of said safety zone when no permitted steering angle can be derived. 14. Method according to claim 1, further comprising the step of: orienting said mobile unit on the basis of a cellularly structured environment map wherein an obstacle is indicated in said map by a degree of occupancy. 