In a method for manipulating paper roll heads by a multi-axis robot (8), heads are picked-up and transferred by the robot (8) from multiple stacks in accordance with stored data concerning the height and position of each stack as well as the dimension characteristics of the articles in the stack. At initial start-up, or immediately after a shut-down, previously stored information on the position or height of the stacks is considered not known by or otherwise unreliable by the robot (8) controller. That is, when the operation of the robot (8) is halted to accommodate replacement or replenishment of the head stacks, the stored parameter data for all stacks is set unknown. In accordance with its operating program, the system operation is restarted, the robot performs a slow-speed approach toward an uncalibrated stack, measures the stack data, that is, calibrates the stack height and position, and thus can perform the next stack approach through a normal transfer cycle on the basis of the measured data.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for transferring heads for paper rolls from a stack of heads to a placement location, the stack and the placement location being within an operating range of a multi-axis robot, the robot having an arm adapted to remove a head from the stack and being interactively connected to a memory device for storing data and for controlling operation of the robot, comprising: transferring the heads from a plurality of stacks of heads to the placement location, the stacks of heads being positioned within the operating range of the robot in a semi-circular line about the robot; storing data in the memory device relating to physical characteristics of the stack and the heads therein; moving the arm in a first operating mode into a head pick-up location relative to the stack in accordance with the data in the memory device, removing a head from the stack using the arm, and using the arm to transfer the removed head to the placement location; interrupting the first operating mode of the arm to effect replacement to the stack of removed heads and deleting a portion of the data stored in the memory device in said storing step relating to a portion of the physical characteristics of the stack and the heads therein; subsequent to said interrupting step and replacement of removed heads, moving the arm in a second operating mode into the head pick-up location relative to the stack, acquiring at least one measurement of the physical characteristics of the stack and the heads therein, removing a head from the stack using the arm, using the arm to transfer the removed head to the placement location, and updating the data in the memory device in accordance with the measurement acquired in said second operating mode; and after completion of the second operating mode, moving the arm in accordance with the first operating mode. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein data stored during said storing step includes stack height and wherein stack height is measured during said second operating mode. 3. The method according to claim 2, wherein data stored during said storing step includes stack position and wherein stack position is measured during said second operating mode. 4. The method according to claim 2, where said interrupting step further includes resetting the data stored in the memory device relating to the stack height to a predetermined maximum height value, and wherein said second operating mode includes: positioning the arm proximate the stack at a predetermined distance above the predetermined maximum height; and lowering the arm toward the stack. 5. The method according to claim 4, wherein the arm is lowered at a lowering speed during said lowering step in a fast-speed mode until proximity of an upper surface of the stack is detected by a first sensing means disposed on the arm and in a slow-speed mode thereafter, the lowering speed of the arm in the fast-speed mode being greater than the lowering speed of the arm in the slow-speed mode. 6. The method according to claim 5, wherein the arm is lowered in said slow-speed mode until the upper surface of the stack is sensed by a second sensing means disposed on the arm, said second sensing means providing a stack height measurement for the updating step. 7. The method according to claim 5, wherein the arm is lowered in said slow-speed mode until the arm has been lowered by the predetermined distance. 8. The method according to claim 7, further comprising lowering the arm in predetermined distance increments after lowering the predetermined distance until the arm reaches a position corresponding to a predetermined minimum stack height. 9. The method according to claim 1, wherein data stored during said storing step includes stack position and wherein stack position is measured during said second operating mode. 10. The method according to claim 1, wherein the first operating mode further comprises periodically acquiring at least one measurement of the physical characteristics of the stack and the heads therein and updating the data in the memory device in accordance with the measurement acquired in the first operating mode. 11. A method for transferring heads for paper rolls from a stack of heads to a placement location, the stack and the placement location being within an operating range of a multi-axis robot, the robot having an arm adapted to remove a head from the stack and being interactively connected to a memory device for storing data and for controlling operation of the robot, comprising: (a) storing data in the memory device relating to physical characteristics of the stack and the heads therein, including stack position; (b) moving the arm in a first operating mode into a head pick-up location relative to the stack in accordance with the data in the memory device, removing a head from the stack using the arm, and using the arm to transfer the removed head to the placement location; (c) interrupting the first operating mode of the arm to effect replacement to the stack of removed heads and deleting a portion of the data stored in the memory device in said storing step relating to a portion of the physical characteristics of the stack and the heads therein, including resetting the data stored in the memory device relating to the stack position to a predetermined initial pick-up positions; (d) subsequent to said interrupting step and replacement of removed heads, moving the arm in a second operating mode into the head pick-up location relative to the stack, acquiring at least one measurement of the physical characteristics of the stack and the heads therein, including stack position, removing a head from the stack using the arm, using the arm to transfer the removed head to the placement location, and updating the data in the memory device in accordance with the measurement acquired in said second operating mode, said second operating mode including the steps of: moving the arm into the initial pick-up position; moving the arm radially with respect to the stack until an edge thereof is detected by a sensing means disposed on the arm; determining a difference between the initial pick-up position and the detected edge; and updating data stored in the memory device using the difference; and (e) after completion of the second operating mode, moving the arm in accordance with the first operating mode. 12. The method according to claim 11, wherein the heads are transferred from a plurality of stacks of heads to the placement location, and the stacks of heads are positioned within the operating range of the robot in a semi-circular line about the robot. 13. The method according to claim 11, wherein data stored during said storing step includes stack height and wherein stack height is measured during said second operating mode. 14. The method according to claim 13, where said interrupting step further includes resetting the data stored in the memory device relating to the stack height to a predetermined maximum height value, and wherein said second operating mode includes: positioning the arm proximate the stack at a predetermined distance above the predetermined maximum height; and lowering the arm toward the stack. 15. The method according to claim 14, wherein the arm is lowered at a lowering speed during said lowering step in a fast-speed mode until proximity of an upper surface of the stack is detected by a first sensing means disposed on the arm and in a slow-speed mode thereafter, the lowering speed of the arm in the fast-speed mode being greater than the lowering speed of the arm in the slow-speed mode. 16. The method according to claim 15, wherein the arm is lowered in said slow-speed mode until the upper surface of the stack is sensed by a second sensing means disposed on the arm, said second sensing means providing a stack height measurement for the updating step. 17. The method according to claim 15, wherein the arm is lowered in said slow-speed mode until the arm has been lowered by the predetermined distance. 18. The method according to claim 17, further comprising lowering the arm in predetermined distance increments after lowering the predetermined distance until the arm reaches a position corresponding to a predetermined minimum stack height. 19. The method according to claim 11, wherein the first operating mode further comprises periodically acquiring at least one measurement of the physical characteristics of the stack and the heads therein and updating the data in the memory device in accordance with the measurement acquired in the first operating mode. 