A modular robotic welding station comprises a base skid to which is mounted robotic welding equipment. The base skid defines one or more docking stations. Satellite modules can have either stationary tables or turn tables that hold the workpieces to be welded. The satellite modules are detachably and interchangeably docked to selected base skid docking stations to thereby create customized workstations for the workpieces. The docking stations, satellite modules, and tables are designed to accurately locate the workpieces relative to the welding equipment. By detaching the satellite modules from the skid base, the satellite modules and skid base are easily transported individually from one location to another. A safety fence secured to the skid base can be arranged in different configurations to suit whether or not a satellite module is docked at a docking station.
Claims We claim: 1. Apparatus for welding workpieces comprising: a. a skid base that defines at least one docking station; b. welding means mounted on the skid base for performing selected welding operations on the workpieces; and c. a satellite module detachably docked to the skid base docking station, the satellite module including a table that holds the workpieces at an accurately controlled distance from the welding means, the satellite module and the skid base being independently transportable when the satellite module is detached from the skid base. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein: a. the skid base defines a plurality of docking stations each having opposed ends; and b. a plurality of satellite modules are docked interchangeably at selected skid base docking stations to thereby create multiple workstations for the workpieces. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein: a. the skid base docking station comprises a first surface located at an accurately controlled distance from the welding means; and b. the satellite module comprises: i. a second surface that rests on the skid base first surface when the satellite module is docked at the skid base docking station, the table locating the workpieces at an accurate location relative to the second surface; and ii. level means for cooperating with the satellite module second surface to locate the table and the workpieces held thereon at an accurately controlled distance relative to the welding means. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein the satellite module further comprises docking elements that locate and retain the satellite module to the skid base docking station, the docking elements cooperating with the skid base first surface and the satellite module second surface to accurately locate the workpieces relative to the welding means. 5. The apparatus of claim 2 further comprising fence means for controlling access to the skid base docking stations at which no satellite module is docked and to the satellite modules docked at the selected skid base docking stations. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein the fence means comprises: a. a pair of braces secured to the skid base adjacent the ends of each docking station; b. a pair of fence frames fastened to the pairs of braces associated with the respective docking stations; and c. post means for partially supporting the fence frames. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein: a. the fence frames are coplanar and extend along a skid base docking station at which a satellite module is not docked to thereby prevent access to the docking station; and b. the fence frames are parallel to each other and are on opposite sides of a satellite module that is docked at a docking station to thereby limit access to the satellite module. 