An imaging fluorometer is described comprising a source of electromagnetic radiation, optical components to direct the radiation, excitation and emission filters, and an imaging device. The fluorometer is used to obtain images of the fluorescence emitted by illuminated arrays of photosynthetic components, such as those found in leaves. These fluorescence images, in turn, are used to construct an image of the photosynthetic efficiency of the array. Because efficiency in plants depends on the physiological state of the leaf, the fluorometer affords a method for the sensitive and rapid characterization of freeze damage, herbicide damage, and disease damage to plants. Moreover, the fluorometer may be used in robotic applications, as well as for remote sensing from a location distant from the plant.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for assessing differences in pathology and physiology of materials containing photosynthetic components, the method comprising: illuminating a sample of a material containing photosynthetic components; measuring fluorescence excited from the sample by the illumination at multiple times to acquire data regarding measured fluorescence as a function of time; analyzing the data to select a value for the maximum measured fluorescence; analyzing the data to determine the fluorescence at a fixed time after illumination is begun, the fixed time being after the fluorescence has attained its maximum value; and comparing an indicator for the sample to a standard to determine whether the indicator differs substantially from the standard, a substantial difference indicating that the sample has a pathology or physiology that differs from the pathology or physiology represented by the standard, the indicator comprising the ratio of (a) the difference between the maximum measured fluorescence and the fluorescence at the fixed time after illumination is begun to (b) the maximum measured fluorescence. 2. A method for assessing differences in plant pathology and physiology according to claim 1, the method comprising: positioning a fluorometer at a location appropriate for measuring fluorescence emitted by a first plant and acquiring data regarding measured fluorescence as a function of time for the first plant; and after measuring the fluorescense of the first plant, moving the fluorometer to a location appropriate for measuring fluorescence emitted by a second plant and acquiring data regarding measured fluorescence as a function of time for the second plant. 3. A method for assessing freeze damage of a plant comprising assessing differences in plant pathology according to the method of claim 1. 4. A method for assessing herbicide damage of a plant comprising assessing differences in plant pathology according to the method of claim 1. 5. A method for assessing disease damage of a plant comprising assessing differences in plant pathology according to the method of claim 1. 6. A method for assessing phytotoxin damage of a plant comprising assessing differences in plant pathology according to the method of claim 1. 7. A method for assessing differences in plant pathology and physiology according to claim 1 wherein the assessing comprises measuring differences induced by variations in plant illumination intensity that occurred during growth of a plant. 8. A method for assessing differences in pathology and physiology according to claim 1 wherein the assessing comprises measuring differences that have been induced by mechanical manipulation of a material containing photosynthetic components. 9. A method for assessing differences in pathology and physiology according to claim 1 wherein the standard is obtained by: illuminating a healthy sample of the material containing photosynthetic components; and measuring fluorescence excited from the healthy sample to acquire data regarding measured fluorescence as a function of time for the healthy sample, the standard comprising the ratio of (a) the difference between the maximum measured fluorescence and the fluorescence at the fixed time after illumination is begun to (b) the maximum measured fluorescence for the healthy sample. 10. A method for assessing differences in pathology and physiology according to claim 1 wherein the indicator is the effective quantum yield (Y'). 11. A method for assessing differences in pathology and physiology according to claim 1 wherein the photosynthetic components comprise chloroplast components. 12. A method for assessing differences in pathology and physiology according to claim 1 wherein the material containing photosynthetic components is plant germplasm. 