The present invention provides an integrated, fully automated, high-throughput system for two-dimensional electrophoresis comprised of gel-making machines, gel processing machines, gel compositions and geometries, gel handling systems, sample preparation systems, software and methods. The system is capable of continuous operation at high-throughput to allow construction of large quantitative data sets.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for preparing a gel medium for separating a plurality of protein molecules, said apparatus comprising: a) a movable mold half which, when placed near a gel-binding material, forms a mold cavity; b) means for moving said movable mold half; c) means for transporting said gel-binding material; and d) means for dispensing a polymerizable gel mixture into said mold cavity, wherein said means for dispensing said polymerizable gel mixture comprises a precision gradient maker, wherein said gradient maker comprises a plurality of syringes coupled to a plurality of valves and said valves are coupled to a plurality of reservoirs. 2. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said precision gradient maker further, comprises: a) a delivery tube comprising a first end and a second end, wherein said first end is coupled to said plurality of valves; and b) said second end of said delivery tube is inserted into said mold cavity. 3. The apparatus according to claim 2 wherein said valves are coupled to said reservoirs such that when said valves are switched to allow refilling of said syringes said delivery tube is washed with a non-polymerizable solvent. 4. The apparatus according to claim 3, wherein said apparatus further comprises a means for aspirating a solution from said delivery tube. 5. The apparatus according to claim 2 further comprising means for smoothly withdrawing said delivery tube during liquid delivery so that said second end of said delivery tube remains at or just above the rising meniscus of liquid in said mold cavity. 6. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said precision gradient maker further comprises: a) a delivery tube comprising a first end and a second end, wherein said first end is coupled to said plurality of valves; and b) one of said valves coupled to said second end so that said delivery tube can be alternatively coupled to a lowest point in said mold cavity or coupled to a waste container. 7. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein each of said reservoirs contains a solution selected from the group comprising: a wash solution, one of a plurality of acrylamide monomer solutions, an ammonium persulfate solution and a tetramethylethylene diamine solution. 8. A method of preparing a gel medium for separating a plurality of protein molecules, wherein said method comprises steps of: a) attaching a gel-binding material to a longitudinal mold cavity; b) dispensing a variable composition of a polymerizable gel mixture into said mold cavity through a delivery tube having an open end, wherein said open end is inserted into said mold cavity, wherein said gel mixture comprises a gradient and wherein said gel mixture becomes chemically bonded to said backing material; c) withdrawing said delivery tube from said mold cavity during said dispensing whereby said open end of said delivery tube remains at or just above the rising meniscus of said gel mixture in said mold cavity; and d) removing said gel-binding material and said gel mixture from said mold cavity, wherein said gradient is dispensed as part of a sequence of segments comprising: i) a first segment similar in volume to the volume of said delivery tube, wherein said first segment is dispensed before insertion of said delivery tube into said mold cavity; ii) a second segment comprising the remainder of said gradient, wherein said second segment is dispensed after insertion of said delivery tube into said mold; and iii) a third segment having a volume similar to the volume of said first segment. 9. A method of separating a plurality of proteins wherein said proteins are in a liquid sample, said method comprising steps of: a) applying said liquid sample onto a surface of a gel medium, wherein said gel medium comprises a pH gradient and is attached to a backing material; b) applying a voltage across said gel medium to effect a separation of said proteins; and c) subjecting said gel medium to conditions wherein the volume of said liquid sample is substantially decreased through inhibition of said liquid sample into said gel medium or through loss of water in said liquid sample to an insulating gaseous or a liquid environment of said gel, such that said proteins are substantially incorporated into said gel. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein said sample is applied to a surface of said gel, wherein said surface comprises a hole internal to said gel, a groove formed in said surface of said gel, or a groove comprising an included angle between said gel and an area of said backing material extending outwardly from said gel. 11. An apparatus for processing a gel medium for separating a plurality of protein molecules wherein said gel medium is fixed to a backing material, wherein said apparatus comprises: a) a plurality of stations; b) means for loading said gel medium with said protein molecules; c) means for reversibly grasping said backing material; and d) means for transporting said gel medium to said stations, wherein one or more of said stations comprise means for application of a voltage longitudinally across said gel medium. 12. The apparatus according to claim 11, wherein one or more of said stations is maintained at different voltages. 13. A gel medium for separating a plurality of protein molecules, wherein said gel medium comprises: a) a first segment, wherein said first segment is planar and provides a medium for separating said protein molecules; and b) a second segment, wherein said second segment is of greater thickness than said first segment and comprises a buffer reservoir for supplying ions, wherein a rigid electrode is embedded within said second segment and wherein said electrode is used to apply a voltage across said gel. 14. The gel medium according to claim 13, wherein said electrode forms a handle for transporting said gel medium. 15. A gel medium for separating a plurality of protein molecules, wherein said gel medium comprises: a) a first segment, wherein said first segment is planar and provides a medium for separating said protein molecules: and b) a second segment, wherein said second segment is of greater thickness than said first segment and comprises a buffer reservoir for supplying ions, wherein an internal slot is formed in said second segment during molding, the floor of said slot being at or near a junction between said first segment and said second segment. 16. A gel medium for separating a plurality of protein molecules, wherein said gel medium comprises: a) a first segments wherein said first segment is planar and provides a medium for separating said protein molecules: and b) a second segment wherein said second segment is of greater thickness than said first segment and comprises a buffer reservoir for supplying ions, and c) a third segment, wherein said third segment is interposed between said first segment and said second segment, said third segment is a stacking gel, wherein said protein molecules are stacked between a first low molecular weight ionic species and a second low molecular weight ionic species prior to effecting a separation of said protein molecules in said first segment. 17. A gel medium for separating a plurality of protein molecules, wherein said gel medium comprises: a) a first segment, wherein said first segment is planar and provides a medium for separating said protein molecules; and b) a second segment, wherein said second segment is of greater thickness than said first segment and comprises a buffer reservoir for supplying ions, and c) a third segment, wherein said third segment is interposed between said first segment and said second segment, and wherein said third segment comprises a composition different from the compositions of said first segment and said second segment and wherein said third segment has greater strength and elasticity than said first segment and said second segment. 18. A method of performing electrophoresis in an acrylamide gel, said method comprises steps of: a) polymerizing said gel in a mold; b) removing said gel from said mold by mechanical interaction with a region of said gel; and c) performing an electrophoretic separation in said gel. 19. The method according to claim 18 wherein said gel is supported by means of a rigid mechanical component, wherein said component is at least partially enclosed within said gel. 20. The method according to claim 18 wherein said gel comprises a first segment in which macromolecular separation occurs and a second segment comprising a first buffer reservoir. 21. The method according to claim 20 wherein a sample is applied to said gel by inserting said sample into a slot inside said gel such that the floor of said slot is at or near a junction between said first segment and said second segment. 22. The method according to claim 20 wherein a sample is applied to an external surface of said gel nearby a junction between said first segment and said second segment. 23. The method according to claim 20 wherein said second segment partially encloses a rigid electrode. 24. The method according to claim 23 wherein said first segment comprises a first end which contacts said second segment and a second end which is distal from said second segment and wherein said second end contacts a second buffer reservoir at an electrical voltage different from a voltage applied to said rigid electrode. 25. The method according to claim 24 wherein said gel is at least partially suspended in an insulating fluid. 26. The method according to claim 25 wherein said insulating fluid is less dense than fluid comprising said second buffer reservoir. 27. The method according to claim 26 wherein said insulating fluid is cooled. 28. The method according to claim 27 wherein said insulating fluid is circulated over a surface of said gel. 29. The method according to claim 20 wherein said gel further comprises a third segment which is a stacking gel. 30. The method according to claim 18 wherein said gel comprises a plurality of projections or cavities or a combination thereof for mechanically supporting said gel. 31. The method according to claim 30 wherein said gel comprises a first segment in which macromolecular separation occurs and a second segment comprising a first buffer reservoir, and wherein said first segment comprises a first end which contacts said second segment and a second end which is distal from said second segment and wherein said second end contacts a second buffer reservoir at an electrical voltage different from a voltage applied to said rigid electrode. 32. The method according to claim 31 wherein said gel is at least partially suspended in an insulating fluid during electrophoresis. 33. The method according to claim 32 wherein said insulating fluid is less dense than fluid comprising said second reservoir buffer. 34. The method according to claim 33 wherein said insulating fluid is cooled. 35. The method according to claim 34 wherein said insulating fluid is circulated over the surface of said gel. 36. The method according to claim 18 wherein said gel is grasped by a plurality of gripping movable jaws, wherein one or more of said jaws comprises a cavity and an electrode, said cavity forming a liquid vessel bounded in part by said gel, such that when said vessel is filled with an appropriate buffer solution, electrical contact is established between said electrode and said gel. 37. The method according to claim 36 wherein an edge of said gel is distal from said liquid vessel, said edge contacting a second buffer reservoir at an electrical voltage different from a voltage applied to said electrode. 38. The method according to claim 36 wherein said gel is at least partially suspended in an insulating fluid. 39. The method according to claim 36 wherein each of said gripping movable jaws has a first face and a second face, each of said first face and said second face being in frictional contact with said gel. 40. The method according to claim 39, wherein each of said first face and said second face comprises a plurality of small sharp grit particles. 41. The method according to claim 18, wherein said gel is grasped by a plurality of gripping movable jaws, wherein one or more of said jaws comprises an internal liquid channel having an external input and an external output, said channel having at least one segment exposed to the surface of said gel such that a liquid circulating through said channel contacts said gel. 42. The method according to claim 41, wherein an edge of said gel is distal from said liquid channel, said edge contacting a second buffer reservoir at an electrical voltage different from a voltage applied to said electrode. 43. The method according to claim 42 wherein said gel is at least partially suspended in an insulating fluid. 44. The method according to claim 41, wherein each of said gripping movable jaws has a first face and a second face, each of said first face and said second face being in frictional contact with said gel. 45. The method according to claim 44, wherein each of said first face and said second face comprises a plurality of small sharp grit particles. 46. A method of detecting macromolecules in an electrophoresis gel which method comprises the step of suspending said gel by an edge of said gel in a solution or a sequence of solutions such that said macromolecules are rendered detectable. 47. The method according to claim 46, wherein said gel is transferred from one solution to another by a movable arm. 48. The method according to claim 46, wherein said gel is suspended by a rigid member which is at least partially embedded within said gel. 49. The method according to claim 46, wherein said gel is suspended from a non-planar region of said gel. 50. The method according to claim 46, wherein said gel is suspended by a plurality of gripping movable jaws. 51. The method according to claim 50, wherein said jaws comprise springs, magnets, electrical solenoids, pneumatic pistons or hydraulic pistons. 52. The method according to claim 50, wherein each of said jaws has a first face and a second face, each of said first face and said second face being in frictional contact with said gel. 53. The method according to claim 52, each of said first face and said second face comprises a plurality of small sharp grit particles. 54. A method for scanning a stained gel medium, wherein said method comprises the steps of: a) grasping an edge of said gel medium; b) transporting said gel medium to a scanning station by a mechanical motion means; and c) placing said gel medium in a space illuminated by a light source and within view of a light detector. 55. The method according to claim 54 further comprising the step of detecting light absorption, light scatter, fluorescence, luminescence, or fluorographic emission of said gel medium. 56. The method according to claim 54, wherein said gel medium is scanned by a position-sensitive optical sensor, photodiode array camera, CCD camera, moving laser beam, or a moving scanning head. 57. The method according to claim 54, wherein said mechanical motion means supports said gel by a rigid support embedded in said gel. 58. The method according to claim 54, wherein said mechanical motion means supports said gel by interaction with a non-planar region of said gel. 59. The method according to claim 54, wherein said mechanical motion means grasps said edge of said gel by a plurality of gripping movable jaws. 60. A method for separating a plurality of protein molecules in a plurality of gel mediums, said method comprising steps of: a) grasping an edge of each of said gel mediums; b) transporting each of said gel mediums to a plurality of stations wherein said stations comprise a plurality of environments; and c) inserting each of said gel mediums into said stations for separating said protein molecules. 61. The method according to claim 60, wherein said gel mediums are held by a plurality of grasping means respectively. 62. The method according to claim 61, wherein said grasping means comprise one or more springs, magnets, electrical solenoids, pneumatic pistons, or hydraulic pistons. 63. A programmable system for separating a plurality of protein molecules in a plurality of gel mediums respectively, said system comprising: a) means for preparing said gel mediums; b) means for loading each of said gel mediums with said protein molecules; c) means for separating said protein molecules in each of said gel mediums; d) means for staining or otherwise revealing proteins in each of said gels; and e) means for scanning each of said gel mediums to detect resolved macromolecules, wherein said programmable system comprises a plurality of stations, further wherein each of said gel mediums is assigned thereto a plurality of parameters for separating said protein molecules in each of said gel mediums, and further comprising means for grasping each of said gel mediums at each of said stations. 64. A programmable system for separating a plurality of protein molecules in a plurality of gel mediums respectively, said system comprising: a) means for preparing said gel mediums: b) means for loading each of said gel mediums with said protein molecules: c) means for separating said protein molecules in each of said gel mediums: d) means for staining or otherwise revealing proteins in each of said gels: and e) means for scanning each of said gel mediums to detect resolved macromolecules. wherein said programmable system comprises a plurality of stations, further wherein each of said gel mediums is assigned thereto a plurality of parameters for separating said protein molecules in each of said gel mediums, further comprising means for transporting each of said gel mediums to said stations. 65. An integrated system for two-dimensional electrophoresis, said system comprising: a) means for preparing an isoelectric focusing gel; b) means for loading said isoelectric focusing gel with a plurality of protein molecules; c) means for applying a first voltage across said isoelectric focusing gel; d) means for preparing a slab electrophoresis gel; e) means for loading said isoelectric focusing gel onto said slab electrophoresis gel; f) means for applying a second voltage across said slab electrophoresis gel; and g) means for staining said slab electrophoresis gel. 66. The integrated system according to claim 65, wherein said system is programmable. 67. The integrated system according to claim 66, wherein said system can operate on a repeated basis. 68. The integrated system according to claim 66, wherein said system comprises means for scanning said gel. 69. The integrated system according to claim 68, wherein said system comprises computer software means for extracting estimates of protein abundance and position from an image generated by said means for scanning said gel. 70. The integrated system according to claim 68, wherein said system comprises computer software means for inserting said estimates of protein abundance and position into a database. 71. A gel medium for separating a plurality of protein molecules, wherein said gel medium comprises two regions of distinct geometry wherein a first region is essentially planar and provides a medium for separating a plurality of macromolecules and a second region is nonplanar and provides a means for suspending said gel by an edge in liquid or gaseous surroundings, and wherein part of said gel medium is polymerized around a rigid support. 72. The gel medium according to claim 43, wherein said rigid support is used to transport or suspend said gel medium. 73. A gel medium for separating a plurality of protein molecules, wherein said gel medium comprises three regions of distinct geometry: a first region that is essentially planar and provides a medium for separating a plurality of macromolecules, a second region is nonplanar and provides a means for suspending said gel by an edge in liquid or gaseous surroundings, and a third region that is interposed between said first and second region, and wherein said third region has a different composition than said first and second region and said third region displays greater strength and elasticity than said first and second region. 74. A gel medium for separating a plurality of protein molecules, wherein said gel medium comprises two regions of distinct geometry wherein a first region is essentially planar and provides a medium for separating a plurality of macromolecules and a second region is nonplanar and provides a means for suspending said gel by an edge in liquid or gaseous surroundings, and wherein a rigid electrode is polymerized within said second region, said electrode extends outside of said second region at one or more locations and said electrode is used to apply a voltage across said gel medium. 