An article positioning apparatus which includes a positioning arm structure on a rigid base structure and elevator structure. The base structure includes an upper flange and a lower flange secured to the upper flange by rigid members extending between the upper flange and the lower flange. The upper flange includes a bore therein. The elevator structure is positioned between the upper flange and the lower flange and itself includes an upper plate and a lower plate. The elevator structure coupled to the positioning arm structure through the bore in the upper flange. The elevator structure includes lead screw members having a respective upper end portion and a lower end portion, extending from the upper plate to the lower plate. In addition, the elevator structure includes a plurality of universal joints supported by the upper plate, one of said plurality of universal joints being associated with one of the lead screw members and being arranged to universally mount the upper plate to a respective lead screw. A seal structure is coupled to the upper flange and the upper plate, the seal structure isolating the upper flange from the elevator structure.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A universal tilt adjustable elevator structure for positioning an apparatus for picking up an article, comprising: a rigid frame comprising: a base having an upwardly facing generally planar surface; a rigid structure having a structure upper end portion, the structure extending upwardly generally orthogonally from the planar surface to the structure upper end portion; and a flange attached to the structure upper end portion, the flange being generally parallel to the planar surface; and a movable and tiltable elevator structure telescopically mounted to the rigid frame, comprising: an upper plate; a lower plate positioned a spaced distance from and generally parallel to the upper plate; at least three non-coplanar linearly extending generally parallel members, each of the members having a respective upper end portion and a respective lower end portion, each of the members extending from the upper plate to the lower plate, the members each being generally orthogonal relative to the plates; a plurality of universal joints supported by the upper plate, the number of upper universal joints being equal to the number of linearly extending members, each of the upper universal joints being arranged to universally mount the respective upper end portion of a respective one of the linearly extending members to the upper plate; a seal structure positioned adjacent to the upper plate isolating the elevator structure from a controlled environment on top of the upper plate; and motor means supported rigidly relative to the base for motivating each of said linearly extending members independently of each other of said linearly extending members selectively upwardly and downwardly. 2. An elevator structure as set forth in claim 1, wherein the motor means comprises: a plurality of individual motors supported by the base, the number of motors being equal to the number of linearly extending members, each of the motors being connected to motivate a corresponding one of the linearly extending members selectively upwardly and downwardly. 3. An elevator structure as set forth in claim 2, wherein the connection of each of the motors to motivate the corresponding one of the linearly extending members comprises: a plurality of lead screws supported between the base and the flange and being rotatable relative thereto, the number of lead screws being equal to the number of linearly extending members, each lead screw being located adjacent and parallel to a respective one of the linearly extending members, each of the motors being connected to rotate a corresponding one of the lead screws; and a plurality of belt means, the number of belt means being equal to the number of motors, each belt means being driven by a corresponding one of the motors and being engaged to rotate a corresponding one of the lead screws. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the seal structure includes: an inner shaft; an outer shaft surrounding the inner shaft; a ferro-fluidic seal between the inner and outer shaft; and a bellows structure surrounding the outer shaft. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein the bellows member comprises: a first cylindrical member surrounding and coupled to the outer shaft; a second cylindrical member surrounding a portion of the first member and coupled to the upper plate; and a pliable bellows member surrounding the first member and coupled to the first and second members. 6. An apparatus as set forth in claim 5, wherein the elevator structure further includes: rigidity increasing means attached to the lower plate of the movable elevator structure for increasing the rigidity of the bottom portion of the movable elevator structure. 7. An apparatus as set forth in claim 6, wherein the motor means comprises: a plurality of individual motors supported by the base, the number of motors being equal to the number of linearly extending members, each of the motors being connected to motivate a corresponding one of the linearly extending members upwardly and downwardly. 8. An apparatus as set forth in claim 7, wherein the connection of each of the motors to motivate the corresponding one of the linearly extending members comprises: a plurality of lead screws supported between the lower plate and the upper plate and being universally rotatable relative thereto, the number of lead screws being equal to the number of linearly extending members, each lead screw being located adjacent and parallel to a respective one of the linearly extending members, each of the motors being connected to rotate a corresponding one of the lead screws; and a plurality of belt means, the number of belt means being equal to the number of motors, each belt means being driven by a corresponding one of the motors and being engaged to rotate a corresponding one of the lead screws. 9. An apparatus as set forth in claim 8, wherein the motor means comprises: a plurality of individual motors supported by the lower plate, the number of motors being equal to the number of linearly extending members, each of the motors being connected to motivate a corresponding one of the linearly extending members upwardly and downwardly. 10. A combined elevation and article positioning apparatus, comprising: a rigid frame comprising: a base having an upwardly facing generally planar surface; a rigid structure extending upwardly generally orthogonally from the planar surface to a structure upper end portion; and a flange having a generally centrally positioned opening there through, the flange being attached to the structure upper end portion, the flange being generally parallel to the planar surface; and a movable elevator structure telescopically mounted to the rigid frame, comprising: an upper plate; a lower plate positioned a spaced distance from and generally parallel to the upper plate; at least three linearly extending generally parallel members, each of the members having a respective upper end portion and a respective lower end portion, each of the members extending from the upper plate to the lower plate, the members each being generally orthogonal relative to the plates; a plurality of upper universal joints supported by the upper plate, the number of upper universal joints being equal to the number of linearly extending members, each of the upper universal joints being arranged to universally mount the respective upper end portion of a respective one of the linearly extending members to the upper plate; a seal structure isolating the opening in the flange from the movable elevator structure; motor means supported rigidly relative to the base for motivating each of the linearly extending members independently of each other of said linearly extending members upwardly and downwardly; and an article positioning apparatus supported by the elevator structure, the article positioning apparatus extending upwardly through the generally central opening in the flange to above the upper plate. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the seal structure includes: an inner shaft; an outer shaft surrounding the inner shaft; a ferro-fluidic seal between the inner and outer shaft; and a bellows structure surrounding the outer shaft. 12. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein the bellows member comprises: a first cylindrical member surrounding and coupled to the outer shaft; a second cylindrical member surrounding a portion of the first member and coupled to the upper plate; and a pliable bellows member surrounding the first member and coupled to the first and second members. 13. An article positioning apparatus, comprising: a positioning arm structure; a rigid base structure having an upper flange and a lower flange secured to the upper flange by rigid members extending between the upper flange and the lower flange; an elevator structure positioned between an upper plate and a lower plate including an upper plate and a lower plate, the elevator structure comprising: three lead screw members having a respective upper end portion and a lower end portion, extending from the upper plate to the lower plate; and a plurality of universal joints supported by the upper plate, one of said plurality of universal joints being associated with one of the lead screw members and being arranged to universally mount the upper plate to a respective lead screw; a rotational shaft structure coupled to the positioning arm structure; and a seal structure coupled to the upper flange and the upper plate and surrounding the rotational shaft, the seal structure isolating the positioning arm structure from the elevator structure. 14. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein the shaft structure includes: a inner shaft; an outer shaft surrounding the inner shaft; and the seal structure includes: a ferro-fluidic seal between the inner and outer shaft; and a bellows structure surrounding the outer shaft. 15. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein the bellows member comprises: a first cylindrical member surrounding and coupled to the outer shaft; a second cylindrical member surrounding a portion of the first member and coupled to the upper plate; and a pliable bellows member surrounding the first member and coupled to the first and second members. 16. An article positioning apparatus comprising: a positioning arm structure; a rigid base structure having an upper flange and a lower flange secured to the upper flange by rigid members extending between the upper flange and the lower flange, the upper flange including a bore therein; an elevator structure positioned between the upper plate and the lower plate including an upper plate and a lower plate, the elevator structure coupled to the positioning arm structure through the bore in the upper flange, the elevator structure comprising: three lead screw members having a respective upper end portion and a lower end portion, extending from the upper plate to the lower plate; and a plurality of universal joints supported by the upper plate, one of said plurality of universal joints being associated with one of the lead screw members and being arranged to universally mount the upper plate to a respective lead screw; and a seal structure coupled to the upper flange and the upper plate, the seal structure isolating the upper flange from the elevator structure. 