The present invention provides systems, methods and apparatus for depositing titanium films at rates up to 200 .ANG./minute on semiconductor substrates from a titanium tetrachloride source. In accordance with an embodiment of the invention, a ceramic heater assembly with an integrated RF plane for bottom powered RF capability allows PECVD deposition at a temperature of at least 400.degree. C. for more efficient plasma treatment. A thermal choke isolates the heater from its support shaft, reducing the thermal gradient across the heater to reduce the risk of breakage and improving temperature uniformity of the heater. A deposition system incorporates a flow restrictor ring and other features that allow a 15 liters/minute flow rate through the chamber with minimal backside deposition and minimized deposition on the bottom of the chamber, thereby reducing the frequency of chamber cleanings, and reducing clean time and seasoning. Deposition and clean processes are also further embodiments of the present invention.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A thermal choke, comprising: a body having opposed surfaces, an aperture and a peripheral surface, surrounding said aperture, with both said aperture and said peripheral surface extending between said opposed surfaces, said peripheral surface having an annular groove formed therein, extending from said peripheral surface toward said aperture. 2. The thermal choke of claim 1 wherein said annular groove surrounds said aperture and has two spaced-apart interior surfaces, one of which is disposed proximate to one of said opposed surfaces, defining a thickness therebetween, and a height measured between said spaced-apart interior surfaces along a direction extending between said opposed surfaces, with said height being greater than said thickness. 3. The thermal choke of claim 1 wherein each of said opposed surfaces includes a recess, with said annular groove extending from said peripheral surface and terminating proximate to said aperture. 4. The thermal choke of claim 2 wherein said annular groove has an effective length, measured transversely to said height, ranging between about 0.6-1.0 inch, inclusive, with said thickness ranging between 20-100 mil, inclusive. 5. The thermal choke of claim 2 wherein said thickness is between 40-60 mil, inclusive. 6. The thermal choke of claim 5 wherein said height is between 200-240 mil, inclusive. 7. The thermal choke of claim 3 wherein each recess of said opposed surfaces defines a circumferential shoulder, one of which includes a circumferential groove disposed proximate to said peripheral surface. 8. The thermal choke of claim 7 further including a clamp having a surface with a depression formed therein defining an annular shoulder having a shape complementary to a shape of said circumferential shoulder. 9. The thermal choke of claim 8 where said clamp includes spaced-apart arcuate tensioning arms threadably engaged with one another. 10. The thermal choke of claim 9 wherein said body includes a plurality of through-holes and said claim includes a plurality of threaded bores each of which is associated with one of said through-holes. 11. A coupler comprising: a lower member comprised of an upper pocket for receiving a ceramic stub comprising a flange, and tensioning arms capable of being secured around said flange such that a hoop tension is maintained on said flange over a first selected range of temperatures; and an upper clamp comprised of sections removably attachable to said lower member, said sections comprising cantilevered washers disposed above said flange and said upper pocket, said cantilevered washers applying a compressive force on said flange over a second selected range of temperatures when said upper clamp is attached to said lower member. 12. The coupler of claim 11 wherein each of said first selected range of temperatures and said second selected range of temperatures is between about 50.degree. C. and 750.degree. C. 13. The coupler of claim 11 wherein each of said tensioning arms and said cantilevered washers includes at least one strain relief slot to avoid cracking of said ceramic stub. 14. The coupler of claim 11 wherein said heater assembly comprises aluminum nitride. 15. The coupler of claim 11 wherein said lower member is further comprised of a thermal choke and a lower pocket, said lower pocket for holding an end of a metal support shaft, said thermal choke coupling said upper pocket and said lower pocket via a web, and wherein said web includes: a first portion integral with said upper pocket, a second portion integral with said lower pocket, and a third portion disposed between said first portion and said second portion, said third portion being substantially perpendicular to said first and second portions to separate said flange from said end of said metal support shaft, said web having a thermal resistivity greater than that of said ceramic stub; and wherein said upper pocket has a first diameter substantially corresponding to that of said flange, wherein said lower pocket has a second diameter substantially corresponding to that of said end of said metal support shaft, and said third portion of said web having a third diameter smaller than said first and second diameters. 16. The coupler of claim 15 wherein said lower pocket of said lower member is removably attachable to said metal support shaft. 17. The coupler of claim 11 wherein said lower member is further comprised of a thermal choke coupled to said metal support shaft, said thermal choke coupling said upper pocket and said metal support shaft via a web, and wherein said web includes: a first portion integral with said upper pocket, a second portion integral with said metal support shaft, and a third portion disposed between said first portion and said second portion, said third portion being substantially perpendicular to said first and second portions to separate said flange from said metal support shaft, said web having a thermal resistivity greater than that of said ceramic stub; and wherein said upper pocket has a first diameter substantially corresponding to that of said flange, wherein said lower pocket has a second diameter substantially corresponding to that of said metal support shaft, and said third portion of said web having a third diameter smaller than said first and second diameters. 18. The coupler of claim 11 wherein said upper pocket includes an alignment edge, said shape of said upper pocket corresponding to a shape of said flange. 19. A thermally choked coupler for connecting a ceramic heater with a flanged stub to a metal support shaft, said thermally choked coupler comprising: a lower portion having a first pocket, said first pocket for engaging said metal support shaft; an upper portion having a second pocket, said second pocket for engaging said flanged stub, said second pocket comprised of tensioning arms for securing said flanged stub, said tensioning arms having ends that include holes through which a connector may be disposed, said tensioning arms capable of applying a hoop tension around said flanged stub over a selected temperature range; a web of metal coupled between said upper portion and said lower portion, said web partially separated from said tensioning arms by a slot; an upper clamp with a cantilevered washer capable of applying a compressive force to said flanged stub over said selected temperature range, said upper clamp capable of securing said flanged stub to said upper portion, wherein said tensioning arms and said cantilevered washer include at least one strain relief slot to avoid cracking said flanged stub. 20. The thermally choked coupler of claim 19 wherein said upper clamp and said upper portion have corresponding holes through which corresponding connectors may be disposed to secure said flanged stub between said upper clamp and said upper portion. 21. The thermally choked coupler of claim 20 wherein said lower portion includes holes for connectors to connect said lower portion to said metal support shaft. 22. The thermally choked coupler of claim 20 wherein said metal support shaft is integrated with said lower portion as a single unit. 