An apparatus and method for physically exchanging a force with a user in a user-local environment. The apparatus includes a user connection element and a linkage physically linking the user connection element to a reference. The linkage provides at least six independent degrees of freedom to the user connection element. The linkage has an actuator system which powers at least three degrees of freedom of the user connection element, while at least three degrees of freedom remain unpowered. The method includes providing an apparatus which includes a user connection element and a linkage physically linking the user connection element to a reference, the linkage providing at least six independent degrees of freedom to the user connection element. The linkage of the apparatus provided has an actuator system which powers at least three of the six independent degrees of freedom relative to the reference. The method further includes connecting the user connection element to a body member of a user and powering at least three of the six independent degrees of freedom.
Claims Having described the invention, what is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for generating a signal representative of force comprising: a. a receiver for receiving a signal representative of the location of a user reference point relative to a user reference frame; b. a geometry model residence for storing a representation of: i. a non-local reference frame; ii. the user reference frame, relative to said non-local reference frame; and iii. the conformation of a, non-local environment comprising a switch-type, spring-type element, relative to said non-local reference frame; c. a comparator for comparing the location of the user reference point relative to the non-local environment; and d. a force generator for generating a signal representative of a force, based on the location of the user reference point relative to the non-local environment and a set of force rules, including spring-force rules which specify a switch output force signal in response to a location signal of said user reference point indicative of a deflected conformation of said spring-type element, said switch output force signal being specified by a non-linear function. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a non-local environment reaction calculator that makes changes to the representation of the conformation of the non-local environment based on the signal representative of force and the set of force rules. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, said spring force rules specifying a change in the representation of the conformation of the non-local environment in response to a location signal of said user reference point indicative of a deflected conformation of said switch-type element. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, said change in the conformation of the non-local environment comprising a change in the conformation of the representation of the switch type element. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, said switch-type element comprising a switch having at least two positions, said change in conformation of the representation of the switch type element comprising a change from one position to another of said at least two positions. 6. An apparatus for generating a signal representative of force comprising: a. a receiver for receiving a signal representative of the location of a user reference point relative to a user reference frame; b. a geometry model residence for storing a representation of: i. a non-local reference frame; ii. the user reference frame, relative to said non-local reference frame; and iii. the conformation of a, non-local environment comprising a diagonal-type, spring-type element, relative to said non-local reference frame; c. a comparator for comparing the location of the user reference point relative to the non-local environment; d. a force generator for generating a signal representative of a force, based on the location of the user reference point relative to the non-local environment and a set of force rules, including spring-force rules which specify a diagonal element output force signal in response to a location signal of said user reference point indicative of a deflected conformation of said diagonal-type element; and e. a non-local environment reaction calculator that makes changes to the representation of the conformation of the non-local environment based on the signal representative of force and the set of force rules, said diagonal element spring-type rule specifying a change in the representation of the cross-sectional area of a selected region of said diagonal-type element. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, said set of force rules including a plurality of selectable different spring-force rules that specify a diagonal element output force signal, thereby facilitating a plurality of relationships between said spring-force output signal and the location of said user reference point indicative of a deflected conformation of said diagonal-type element. 8. The apparatus of claim 6 said force generator further generating forces based on the time history of the location of the user reference point relative to the non-local environment and a set of force rules, including friction-type rules which specify a friction output force signal in response to the time history of the location signal of said user reference point indicative of a change in position over time of the user reference point. 9. The apparatus of claim 6, said non-local environment further comprising an indicia of the cross-sectional area of said selected region of said diagonal-type element. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, said geometrical model residence further comprising means for storing a representation of said indicia of the cross-sectional area of said diagonal-type element as it changes over time. 11. A method for generating a signal representative of force, said method comprising the steps of: a. receiving a signal representative of the location of a user reference point relative to a user reference frame; b. storing a representation of: i. a non-local reference frame; ii. the user reference frame, relative to said non-local reference frame; and iii. the conformation of a, non-local environment comprising a diagonal-type, spring-type element, relative to said non-local reference frame; c. comparing the location of the user reference point relative to the non-local environment; and d. generating a signal representative of a force, based on the location of the user reference point relative to the non-local environment and a set of force rules, including spring-force rules which specify a diagonal element output force signal in response to a location signal of said user reference point indicative of a deflected conformation of said diagonal-type element; e. changing the representation of the conformation of the non-local environment based on the signal representative of force and the set of force rules, said diagonal element spring-type rule specifying a change in the representation of the cross-sectional area of a selected region of said diagonal-type element. 12. The method of claim 11, further comprising the step of maintaining in said representation of said non-local environment an indicia of the cross-sectional area of said selected region of said diagonal-type element. 13. The method of claim 12, further comprising the step of storing a representation of said indicia of the cross-sectional area of said diagonal-type element as it changes over time. 14. The method of claim 13, further comprising the step of displaying said representation of said indicia of the cross-sectional area of said diagonal-type element as it changes over time on a visual display. 15. An apparatus for physically exchanging a force with a user in a user-local environment, comprising: a user connection element; and a linkage physically linking said user connection element to a reference, said linkage providing at least six independent degrees of freedom to said user connection element, said linkage comprising: an actuator system powering at least three of the at least six independent degrees of freedom of said user connection element relative to the reference; wherein at least three of the at least six independent degrees of freedom of said user connection element are free-of-power relative to the reference. 16. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein said linkage further comprises at least two linked orthogonal bearings. 17. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein said linkage further comprises a sensor determining a position of said user connection element relative to the reference with respect to the at least three powered degrees of freedom. 18. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein said user connection element is capable of exchanging an attractive force and a repulsive force with a user. 19. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein said actuator system further comprises at least one ironless armature motor powering at least one of the at least three powered degrees of freedom of said user connection element. 20. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein said linkage further comprises a plurality of interconnected links, at least one of the plurality of interconnected links being mechanically coupled to said user connection element and wherein said actuator system further comprises: at least one ironless armature motor powering at least one of the at least three powered independent degrees of freedom; and a cable transmission mechanically coupling said motor to said plurality of interconnected links. 21. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein the reference is a portion of the user's body. 22. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein said linkage further comprises a link and wherein said actuator system further comprises a pair of actuators more distal to the reference than said link, each actuator being connected to said link through a cable and being movable relative to each other and relative to said link. 23. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein said actuator system further comprises: an actuator powering at least one of the at least three powered independent degrees of freedom of said user connection element; and a cable transmission mechanically coupling said actuator to said linkage. 24. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein said actuator system receives a non-local signal from a non-local environment and powers the at least three powered independent degrees of freedom of said user connection element relative to the reference in response to the non-local signal. 25. The apparatus of claim 24 wherein said linkage further comprises a sensor tracking the at least three powered degrees of freedom and sending a master signal to the non-local environment in response to the tracked at least three powered degrees of freedom. 26. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein said linkage further comprises a sensor determining a position of said user connection element relative to the reference with respect to at least one of the at least three free-of-power degrees of freedom. 27. The apparatus of claim 26 wherein said actuator system powers the at least three powered degrees of freedom in response to the position of said user connection element with respect to the at least one sensed free-of-power degree of freedom. 28. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein said linkage further comprises at least two masses that are movable relative to the reference, movable relative to each other and movable relative to said user connection element such that the center of mass among said at least two masses and said user connection element remains substantially stationary relative to the reference despite motion of said user connection element. 29. The apparatus of claim 28 wherein at least one of said at least two masses comprises actuator. 30. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein said linkage further comprises a plurality of interconnected links, at least one of the plurality of interconnected links being mechanically coupled to said user connection element, and wherein said actuator system further comprises: an actuator powering at least one of the three powered degrees of freedom of said user connection element; and a flexible transmission member mechanically coupling said actuator to said plurality of interconnected links. 31. The apparatus of claim 30 wherein said actuator is an ironless armature motor. 32. The apparatus of claim 30 wherein said actuator comprises a motor having a capstan with an exterior surface, the exterior surface having a groove extending at least a portion of the circumference of said capstan, wherein said groove is sized and shaped to engage said flexible transmission member. 33. The apparatus of claim 30 wherein said actuator system comprises a motor having a capstan, and wherein said flexible transmission member extends along at least a portion of a perimeter of one of said plurality of interconnected links and is intracrossed forming a loop, said loop being engaged on said capstan. 34. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein said linkage further comprises first and second linked orthogonal bearings and a third bearing, which is linked to and orthogonal to one of either the first or second linked bearings. 35. The apparatus of claim 34 wherein each of said first, second and third bearings has an axis of rotation, each of the axes of rotation coinciding at a user reference point. 36. The apparatus of claim 35 wherein said user connection element comprises a thimble into which a body member of the user may be inserted, said thimble being arranged such that the user reference point is within the body member when inserted into said thimble. 37. An apparatus for physically exchanging a force with a user in a user-local environment, comprising: a user connection element comprising a rod; and a linkage physically linking said user connection element to a reference, said linkage providing at least four independent degrees of freedom to said user connection element, said linkage comprising: an actuator system powering at least three of the at least four independent degrees of freedom of said user connection element relative to the reference; wherein at least one of the at least four independent degrees of freedom of said user connection element is free-of-power relative to the reference. 38. The apparatus of claim 37 wherein said actuator system further comprises at least one ironless armature motor powering at least one of the at least three powered degrees of freedom of said user connection element. 39. The apparatus of claim 37 wherein said linkage further comprises a plurality of interconnected links, at least one of the plurality of interconnected links being mechanically coupled to said user connection element and wherein said actuator system further comprises: at least one ironless armature motor powering at least one of the at least three powered degrees of freedom; and a cable transmission mechanically coupling said motor to said plurality of interconnected links. 40. The apparatus of claim 37 wherein the reference is a portion of the user's body. 41. The apparatus of claim 37 wherein said actuator system further comprises: an actuator powering at least one of the at least four independent degrees of freedom of said user connection element; and a cable transmission mechanically coupling said actuator to said linkage. 42. The apparatus of claim 37 wherein said linkage further comprises a sensor determining a position of said user connection element relative to the reference with respect to the at least one free-of-power degree of freedom. 43. The apparatus of claim 42 wherein said actuator system powers the at least three powered degrees of freedom in response to the position of said user connection element with respect to the at least one free-of-power degree of freedom. 44. The apparatus of claim 37 wherein said linkage further comprises a plurality of interconnected links, at least one of the plurality of interconnected links being mechanically coupled to said user connection element, and wherein said actuator system further comprises: an actuator powering at least one of the three powered degrees of freedom of said user connection element; and a flexible transmission member mechanically coupling said actuator to said plurality of interconnected links. 45. The apparatus of claim 44 wherein said actuator system comprises a motor having a capstan, and wherein said flexible transmission member extends along at least a portion of a perimeter of one of said plurality of interconnected links and is intracrossed forming a loop, said loop being engaged on said capstan. 46. An apparatus for physically exchanging a force with a user in a user-local environment, comprising: a user connection element comprising a rod; and a linkage physically linking said user connection element to a reference, said linkage providing at least five independent degrees of freedom to said user connection element, said linkage comprising: an actuator system powering at least three of the at least five independent degrees of freedom of said user connection element relative to the reference; wherein at least two of the at least five independent degrees of freedom of said user connection element are free-of-power relative to the reference. 47. An apparatus for physically exchanging a force with a user in a user-local environment comprising: a user connection element comprising a rod; and a linkage physically linking said user connection element to a reference, said linkage providing at least five independent degrees of freedom to said user connection element, said linkage comprising: an actuator system powering at least four of the at least five independent degrees of freedom of said user connection element relative to the reference; wherein at least one of the at least five independent degrees of freedom of said user connection element are free-of-power relative to the reference. 48. An apparatus for physically exchanging a force with a user in a user-local environment, comprising: a user connection element comprising a rod; and a linkage physically linking said user connection element to a reference, said linkage providing at least six independent degrees of freedom to said user connection element, said linkage comprising: an actuator system powering at least five of the at least six independent degrees of freedom of said user connection element relative to the reference; wherein at least one of the at least six independent degrees of freedom of said user connection element are free-of-power relative to the reference. 49. A method for physically exchanging a force between an apparatus and a user in a user-local environment, comprising the steps of: a. providing an apparatus comprising: i. a user connection element; and ii. a linkage physically linking said user connection element to a reference, said linkage providing at least six independent degrees of freedom to said user connection element, said linkage comprising: an actuator system powering at least three of the at least six independent degrees of freedom of said user connection element relative to the reference, three of the at least six independent degrees of freedom remaining free-of-power relative to the reference; b. connecting said user connection element to a body member of a user; and c. powering the at least three of the at least six independent degrees of freedom of said user connection element. 50. The method of claim 49 wherein the step of powering the at least three of the at least six independent degrees of freedom further comprises the step of generating a signal in a non-local environment and powering the at least three of the at least six independent degrees of freedom in response to the non-local signal. 51. An apparatus for physically exchanging a force with a user in a user-local environment comprising: a user connection element; and a linkage physically linking said user connection element to a reference, said linkage providing at least two independent degrees of freedom to said user connection element, said linkage comprising: an actuator system comprising an ironless armature motor, said actuator system powering at least one of the at least two independent degrees of freedom of said user connection element relative to the reference, wherein at least one of the at least two independent degrees of freedom of said user connection element is free-of-power relative to the reference. 52. The apparatus of claim 51, wherein said motor has a capstan and wherein said linkage further comprises: a plurality of interconnected links; and a flexible transmission member mechanically coupling said capstan to said plurality of interconnecting links, said flexible transmission member extending along at least a portion of a perimeter of one of said plurality of interconnected links and being intracrossed forming a loop, said loop being engaged on said capstan. 