The methods and devices of the invention include an encoder, an endoscopic robotic instrument, and an encoder/robotic instrument interface. A preferred embodiment of the encoder has a chest/shoulder plate provided with telescoping tubes and joints. Each joint is provided with a direct drive potentiometer to monitor movement and provide a corresponding signal. The chest plate is preferably adaptable to a large range of human chest sizes and the telescopic segments are strapped to the arms of the practitioner at the elbows. A pistol grip is provided at the wrist end of the telescopic segments. According to the presently preferred embodiment, the encoder encodes flexion and rotation at the shoulder, elbow and wrist of each arm in addition to gripping at each hand. The encoding device is coupled to a circuit which operates a servo system. The servo system includes a series of servo motors. A series of pulleys corresponding to the number of servo motors are arranged in a housing. The robotic instrument preferably comprises two arms mounted at the distal end of a multi-lumen tube. Each arm has rotational and flexional joints corresponding to the shoulder, elbow, and wrist of the practitioner. Tendons are coupled to the pulleys of the servo motors and are fed through the multi-lumen tube to the joints of the two arms.
Claims We claim: 1. A robotic surgical system comprising: a surgical device including a robotic arm and a drive device coupled to the robotic arm, the robotic arm having a surgical tool at an end of the robotic arm; and a control system at a remote location from the surgical device, the control system including a control circuit and an encoder device, the control circuit linked to the drive device, the encoder device capable of being moved by a surgeon, the control circuit capable of receiving an input corresponding to movement of the encoder device by the surgeon, wherein the drive device is capable of receiving output from the control circuit that operates the drive device to cause robotic arm movement corresponding to movement of a surgeon. 2. The robotic surgical system of claim 1, wherein the surgical device further includes an endoscope proximate the robotic arm, and the control system further includes a display, the endoscope being capable of providing a visual image of a surgical site to the display for viewing by a surgeon. 3. The robotic surgical system of claim 1, wherein the encoder device is capable of movement through a plurality of degrees of freedom. 4. The robotic surgical system of claim 3, wherein the encoder device includes a plurality of transducers to indicate a position of the encoder device. 5. The robotic surgical system of claim 4, wherein the transducers are potentiometers. 6. The robotic surgical system of claim 1, wherein the encoder device is for connection to a surgeon. 7. The robotic surgical system of claim 3, wherein the encoder device is for rigid connection to a surgeon. 8. The robotic surgical system of claim 1, wherein the encoder device includes an exoskeleton. 9. The robotic surgical system of claim 8, wherein the exoskeleton is attachable to an arm of a surgeon. 10. The robotic surgical system of claim 1, wherein the encoder device is capable of registering an arm position of a surgeon. 11. The robotic surgical system of claim 1, wherein the encoder device is capable of encoding arm movement of a surgeon. 12. The robotic surgical system of claim 1, wherein the encoder device includes optical sensors. 13. The robotic surgical system of claim 12, wherein the optical sensors include a plurality of reflectors for reflecting light to at least one photodetector. 14. The robotic surgical system of claim 1, wherein the encoder device includes a handle. 15. The robotic surgical system of claim 14, wherein operation of the handle causes actuation of the surgical tool. 16. The robotic surgical system of claim 15, wherein the surgical tool is a gripper, and operation of the handle causes the gripper to open or close. 17. The robotic surgical system of claim 1, wherein the control circuit is electrically coupled to the encoder device. 18. The robotic surgical system of claim 1, wherein the robotic arm is a first robotic arm, the surgical tool is a first surgical tool, and the surgical device is a first surgical device, and further comprising a second surgical device including a second robotic arm having a second surgical tool at an end of the second robotic arm, wherein the second robotic arm is coupled to the drive device, the drive device being capable of receiving output from the control circuit that operates the drive device to cause movement of the second robotic arm corresponding to movement of a surgeon. 19. The robotic surgical system of claim 1, wherein the drive device is mechanically coupled to the robotic arm. 20. A robotic surgical system comprising: an encoder device for movement by a surgeon; a controller coupled to the encoder device to receive an input corresponding to movement of the encoder device; and a robotic arm having a surgical tool at an end of the robotic arm, wherein the robotic arm is coupled to the controller and the controller translates the input to mechanical motion of the robotic arm so that the robotic arm follows movement of the encoder device. 21. The robotic surgical system of claim 20, wherein the encoder device is capable of movement through a plurality of degrees of freedom. 22. The robotic surgical system of claim 21, wherein the encoder device includes a plurality of transducers to indicate a position of the encoder device. 23. The robotic surgical system of claim 22, wherein the transducers are potentiometers. 24. The robotic surgical system of claim 20, wherein the encoder device is for connection to a surgeon. 25. The robotic surgical system of claim 24, wherein the encoder device is for rigid connection to a surgeon. 26. The robotic surgical system of claim 20, wherein the encoder device includes an exoskeleton. 27. The robotic surgical system of claim 26, wherein the exoskeleton is attachable to an arm of a surgeon. 28. The robotic surgical system of claim 20, wherein the encoder device is capable of registering an arm position of a surgeon. 29. The robotic surgical system of claim 20, wherein the encoder device is capable of encoding arm movement of a surgeon. 30. The robotic surgical system of claim 20, wherein the encoder device includes optical sensors. 31. The robotic surgical system of claim 30, wherein the optical sensors include a plurality of reflectors for reflecting light to at least one photodetector. 32. The robotic surgical system of claim 20, wherein the encoder device includes a handle. 33. The robotic surgical system of claim 32, wherein operation of the handle causes actuation of the surgical tool. 34. The robotic surgical system of claim 20, wherein the controller includes a control circuit electrically coupled to the encoder device. 35. The robotic surgical system of claim 20, wherein the controller includes a drive device linked to the control circuit and mechanically coupled to the robotic arm, the drive device being capable of receiving output from the control circuit that operates the drive device to move the robotic arm. 36. The robotic surgical system of claim 20, further comprising an endoscope proximate the robotic arm and capable of providing a visual image of a surgical site to a display for viewing by a surgeon. 37. The robotic surgical system of claim 20, wherein the robotic arm is a first robotic arm and the surgical tool is a first surgical tool, and further comprising a second robotic arm having a second surgical tool at an end of the second robotic arm, wherein the second robotic arm is coupled to the controller and the controller translates the input to mechanical motion of the second robotic arm so that the second robotic arm follows movement of the encoder device. 38. A robotic surgical system comprising: an encoder device; a controller coupled to the encoder device; and a robotic arm having a surgical tool at an end of the robotic arm, the robotic arm being coupled to the controller, wherein the encoder device is capable of simulating the operation of the robotic arm through movement of the encoder device by a surgeon, the controller is capable of receiving an input corresponding to movement of the encoder device and translating the input to mechanical motion of the robotic arm so that the robotic arm follows movement of the encoder device. 