The present invention provides systems, methods and apparatus for high temperature (at least about 500.degree.-800.degree. C.) processing of semiconductor wafers. The systems, methods and apparatus of the present invention allow multiple process steps to be performed in situ in the same chamber to reduce total processing time and to ensure high quality processing for high aspect ratio devices. Performing multiple process steps in the same chamber also increases the control of the process parameters and reduces device damage. In particular, the present invention can provide high temperature deposition, heating and efficient cleaning for forming dielectric films having thickness uniformity, good gap fill capability, high density, low moisture, and other desired characteristics.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for fabricating an integrated circuit device comprising: an enclosure housing a processing chamber, the enclosure including a gas inlet and a gas outlet, said gas inlet in communication with the chamber for receiving a cleaning gas capable of reacting with unwanted residue in the chamber in a cleaning process to produce clean gas reactants, and said gas outlet for discharging a used cleaning gas and the clean gas reactants from the chamber; and an endpoint detection assembly coupled to the gas outlet, said endpoint detection assembly determining when the cleaning process in the chamber has been substantially completed by detecting radiation absorbance of said used cleaning gas and the clean gas reactants discharged from the chamber. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the endpoint detection assembly determines when the cleaning process in the chamber has been completed. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the cleaning process in the chamber is done in the absence of a plasma within the chamber. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a pump for withdrawing the used cleaning gas and the clean gas reactants from the chamber through the gas outlet, the endpoint detection assembly being coupled between the gas outlet and the pump. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the endpoint detection assembly comprising a gas detector for detecting presence of clean gas reactants discharged from said chamber via said gas outlet. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein the gas detector generates a signal indicating when the gas detector detects when the used cleaning gas and the clean gas reactants discharged from the chamber contains less than about 5% clean gas reactants. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a discharge line coupling the gas outlet with the pump, the endpoint detection assembly comprising a housing mounted to the discharge line and having a throughhole aligned with the discharge line for the clean gas reactants and the used cleaning gas to pass therethrough. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a discharge line coupling the gas outlet with the pump and a bypass line having an inlet and an outlet coupled to the discharge line, the endpoint detection assembly comprising a housing mounted to the bypass line. 9. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein the gas detector comprises a radiation generator disposed to generate radiation and to transmit the radiation through the clean gas reactants and the used cleaning gas gases passing therethrough, wherein the clean gas reactants comprise at least one compound that absorb a particular wavelength of the radiation. 10. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein the radiation comprises far-infrared light beams having a wavelength of at least about 10 .mu.m. 11. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein the gas detector further comprises a radiation detector disposed to receive the radiation after said radiation has passed through the clean gas reactants and the used cleaning gas, the radiation detector generating signals representative of the intensity of the radiation. 12. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the cleaning gas comprises a fluorine-containing compound and the clean gas reactants comprise SiF.sub.4. 13. A method for cleaning residues from a deposition apparatus, said method comprising steps of: introducing a cleaning gas into a processing chamber, said cleaning gas capable of reacting with unwanted residue on interior surfaces of the processing chamber; removing products of a reaction between the cleaning gas and the unwanted residue from the chamber, said products including used cleaning gas and clean gas reactants; and detecting when the products no longer contain a substantial amount of clean gas reactants by analyzing absorbance of radiation by said products. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein the introducing step is terminated substantially immediately after the detecting step. 15. The method of claim 13 further comprising the step of determining when said introducing step is to be terminated based on said detecting step. 16. The method of claim 13 wherein said radiation comprises far-infrared light. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein said removing step comprises withdrawing the products from the processing chamber along a fluid passageway; and wherein said detecting step comprises: transmitting light beams through at least a portion of the fluid passageway; and detecting intensity of the light beams transmitted through the fluid passageway to detect changes in intensity of the light beams due to absorbance of the light beams. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein the light beams have a wavelength of at least about 10 .mu.m. 19. The method of claim 17 further comprising generating signals representative of the detected intensity of the light beams. 20. The method of claim 18 further comprising terminating the introducing step when the intensity of the light beams has reached a reference value that indicates that the light beams are no longer being absorbed by products passing through the fluid passageway. 21. The method of claim 17 wherein said cleaning gas includes a fluorine-containing compound and said clean gas reactants comprise SiF.sub.4. 22. The method of claim 2 wherein said cleaning gas is selected from a group consisting of NF.sub.3, N.sub.2 and NF.sub.3, O.sub.2 and NF.sub.3, O and NF.sub.3, and argon and NF.sub.3. 23. The method of claim 22 wherein said fluorine-containing compound is selected from a group consisting of NF.sub.3, F.sub.2, CF.sub.4, C.sub.2 F.sub.6, C.sub.3 F.sub.8, and SF.sub.6. 24. An apparatus for detecting a cleaning endpoint for a processing chamber comprising: a housing defining a fluid conduit for the passage of output gases that include used cleaning gas and clean gas reactants from the processing chamber; a light generator coupled to the housing and disposed to transmit light through the fluid conduit in communication with the output gases; and a light detector coupled to the housing disposed to detect the light from the light generator and to generate signals representative of an intensity of the detected light. 25. The apparatus of claim 24 wherein the light beams include beams having a wavelength absorbed by the clean gas reactants to cause a decrease in the intensity of the light received by the light detector. 26. The apparatus of claim 25 wherein the beams are far-infrared light beams and said wavelength is at least about 10 .mu.m. 27. The apparatus of claim 26 wherein the housing comprises first and second windows on opposite sides of the fluid conduit, the windows being configured to allow far-infrared light to pass through without absorbing a substantial amount of the far-infrared light. 28. The apparatus of claim 27 wherein the windows comprise a material substantially inert to fluorine. 29. The apparatus of claim 28 further comprising a comparator for comparing the intensity of the light received by the light detector with a reference intensity representing the intensity of the light transmitted by the light generator. 