An interactive control system for controlling the automatic consolidation of contact lenses in a contact lens product flow, the interactive control system comprises a product line having random variations in product flow. A consolidation buffer receives the products from the product line. A controller initiates consolidation of the random variations in the product flow. The consolidation is preferably performed by at least one stacking cylinder.
Claims We claim: 1. An interactive control system for controlling the consolidation of a serial product flow wherein said product flow includes a series of discrete product units, said control system comprising: (a) at least one serial product line having random variations in serial product flow; (b) a consolidation buffer for receiving said serial products from said line; (c) a controller for initiating consolidation of said random variations in said product flow; and (d) an automated output means for selecting a predetermined number and arrangement of product units from said consolidation buffer, and transporting said number and arrangement to a subsequent processing station, said subsequent processing station includes a product packaging index dial. 2. An interactive control system for controlling the consolidation of a serial product flow as claimed in claim 1 wherein said subsequent processing station further includes an intermediate buffer storage area for temporarily storing said products that have not or could not be transported to said packaging index dial. 3. An interactive control system for controlling the consolidation of a serial product flow wherein said product flow includes a series of discrete product units, said control system comprising: (a) at least one serial product line having random variations in serial product flow; (b) a consolidation buffer for receiving said serial products from said line; (c) a controller for initiating consolidation of said random variations in said product flow; (d) an automated output means for selecting a predetermined number and arrangement of product units from said consolidation buffer, and transporting said number and arrangement to a subsequent processing station, wherein said subsequent processing station includes a product packaging index dial and an intermediate buffer storage area, said intermediate buffer storage area for temporarily storing said products that have not or could not be transported to said packaging index dial, at least one of said products temporarily stored in said intermediate buffer storage area subsequently transported to said packaging index dial. 4. An interactive control system for controlling the consolidation of a serial product flow wherein said product flow includes a series of discrete product units, said control system comprising: (a) at least one serial product line having random variations in serial product flow; (b) a consolidation buffer for receiving said serial products from said line; (c) a controller for initiating consolidation of said random variations in said product flow, wherein said consolidation of said random variations is performed by at least one stacking cylinder; and (d) an automated output means for selecting a predetermined number and arrangement of product units from said consolidation buffer, and transporting said number and arrangement to a subsequent processing station, said subsequent processing station includes a product packaging index dial. 5. An interactive control system for controlling the consolidation of a serial product flow wherein said product flow includes a series of discrete product units, said control system comprising: (a) at least one serial product line having random variations in serial product flow; (b) a consolidation buffer for receiving said serial products from said line; and (c) a controller for initiating consolidation of said random variations in said product flow, wherein said consolidation of said random variations is performed by at least one stacking cylinder. 