A stationary vacuum deposition machine is used in a method for controlling the height of bumps formed in annular regions of substrates; the substrates are transported to the machine in a first condition in which each substrate is subject to a chemicapillary effect when subjected to localized thermal heating and melting. The machine includes a series of stations including an entrance station for receiving substrates into the machine, first and second predetermined stations, and a transport for operating in a cycle with each cycle including a transport phase and a stationary phase such that the transport causes all the substrates that are in the machine to be moved during the transport phase, and be temporarily held stationary during the stationary phase, such that during each stationary phase a predetermined one of the stations is occupied by one of the substrates while each of a plurality of others of the stations is occupied by a respective one of a plurality of others of the substrates. The machine also includes a plurality of vacuum deposition stations, each for operating during each stationary phase such that each vacuum deposition station causes a thin film to be deposited on a respective one of the substrates and an ion gun for etching a surface of the substrate occupying the first predetermined station while the substrate is held stationary, in an environment such that the first condition of the substrate is changed to a second condition that substantially reduces its susceptibility to the chemicapillary effect. The machine also includes a main chamber for providing an environment that reduces the substrate's risk of reversion to the first condition when the transport moves the substrate from the first predetermined station to the second predetermined station and scanning beam generator for directing a scanning beam at the substrate occupying the second predetermined station while the substrate is held stationary to form the bumps in the annular region of the substrate, wherein the height of bumps is controlled.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for using a stationary vacuum deposition machine to control the height of bumps formed in an annular region of a substrate in making a magnetic hard disk, the machine having controllable transport means and a series of stations including stations to which the controllable transport means sequentially moves the substrate and at each of which a film layer is deposited onto the substrate and including first and second stations, the method comprising the steps of: transporting the substrate to the machine such that the substrate is in a first condition in which it is subject to chemicapillary and thermocapillary effects when subjected to localized thermal heating and melting; loading the substrate into the machine; controlling the transport means to cause the substrate to be moved into, and then be temporarily held stationary in, the first station; etching a surface of the substrate while it is held stationary in the first station in an environment such that the first condition of the substrate is changed to a second condition that substantially reduces its susceptibility to the chemicapillary effect; controlling the transport means to cause the substrate to be moved out of the first station and into, and then be temporarily held stationary in, the second station such that the substrate as it is moved from the first station to the second station, is maintained in an environment that reduces risk of reversion to the first condition; and directing a scanning beam at the substrate while it is held stationary in the second station to form the bumps by the thermocapillary effect in the annular region of the substrate, wherein the height of bumps is controlled. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the etching step includes sputter etching the surface of the substrate. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein the annular region is an inner annular region. 4. The method of claim 2, wherein the sputter etching step removes 1 to 1000 monolayers from the surface of the substrate. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the series of stations includes a third station and further comprising the step of: prior to the directing a scanning beam step, preheating the substrate to a start temperature while the substrate is temporarily held stationary in the third station to control the height of bumps to be formed in the annular region. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the environment of the etching step is vacuum. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein the environment that reduces risk of reversion to the first condition is vacuum. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein the scanning beam is directed at the substrate in an inert atmosphere or vacuum. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein the inert atmosphere includes argon, helium, neon, or krypton. 