A method for tool calibration for a robotic tool includes providing a calibration device within a robot envelope. The calibration device includes a calibrating member positioned along a calibrating plane. The tool tip of the robotic tool is positioned to an initial position within the calibrating plane and position values of the robot face plate are obtained. The tool tip is rotated about the estimated or prior tool center point, the tool tip is again positioned within the calibrating plane, and further position values of the robot face plate are obtained. The actual tool center point is calculated from the obtained position values.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for tool calibration for a robot with a face plate having a tool tip and tool tip axis, said tool tip movable by said robot within a robot envelope, said method comprising the steps of: a) providing a calibration means within the robot envelope, wherein said calibration means includes a calibrating member positioned along a calibrating plane; b) positioning said tool tip to an initial position within said calibrating plane; c) obtaining values of said robot face plate with said tool tip positioned within said calibrating plane; d) rotating said tool tip about an estimated tool center point in a first direction to at least a second position and positioning said tool tip within said calibrating plane; e) obtaining values of said robot face plate with said tool tip within said calibrating plane following said rotation to said second position; and f) calculating a tool center point based upon said obtained values. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said robot is a spot welding robot. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein said calibrating member is formed by a workpiece to be worked on by said tool of said robot. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein said workpiece is sheet metal. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein said calibrating member is formed by a workpiece to be worked on by said tool of said robot. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein said workpiece is sheet metal. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein steps b) through e) are repeated and performed independently for each of two axes of said tool center point which are parallel to said calibrating plane. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein steps b) through f) are repeated with a greater angle of rotation. 9. The method of claim 1 further including the steps of rotating said tool tip about said estimated tool center point to a third position, positioning said tool tip within said calibrating plane and obtaining values of said face plate with said tool tip within said calibrating plane following said rotation to said third position. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein said rotation to said third position is in a second direction opposite to said first direction. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein said third position is rotationally offset from said first position an angle equal to an angle between said first position and said second position. 12. The method of claim 11 wherein steps b) through e) are repeated and performed independently for each of two axes of said tool center point which are parallel to said calibrating plane. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein steps b) through f) are repeated with a greater angle of rotation. 14. The method of claim 11 wherein said calibrating member is formed by a workpiece to be worked on by said tool of said robot. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein said robot is a spot welding robot. 