A method of using a reaction plenum in the presence or absence of paramagnetic beads to perform chemical syntheses resulting in separation and recovery of a final desired reaction product is provided. The reaction plenum comprises a reaction plate, a reaction vessel for mounting in the reaction plate, a reaction plate holder, a screw-like rod, a mounting block attached to the reaction plate holder for operably receiving the screw-like rod, a motor, a sonication region in a temperature controllable water bath and a magnetic separation region in the water bath. Paramagnetic beads having reaction sites are introduced into the reaction vessels along with the appropriate solvent and one or more reactants. The contents of the reaction vessel are sonicated, then moved to the magnetic separation region where the paramagnetic beads are tightly held against the reaction vessel while the solvent is aspirated off. Once the desired reaction product is attained, the reaction product is cleaved off the paramagnetic bead. In an alternative embodiment, chemical synthesis is performed in a similar manner in the absence of the paramagnetic beads.
Claims I claim: 1. A method for producing organic molecules in a temperature controlled environment on a paramagnetic bead having a reactive site, said method comprising: a. providing a reaction plenum comprising a reaction vessel for receiving said paramagnetic bead, a sonication region, a magnetic separation region and a temperature controlled environment; b. placing said paramagnetic bead having said reactive site in said reaction vessel; c. adding two or more organic compounds to said reaction vessel in a solvent for said organic compounds; d. placing said reaction vessel in said sonication region; e. sonicating said solvent, said organic compounds and said paramagnetic bead to form a reaction product on said paramagnetic bead; f. moving said reaction vessel from said sonication region to said magnetic separation region so that said paramagnetic bead is firmly held to said reaction vessel; g. removing said solvent; and h. recovering said reaction product. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of providing a protected linker site on said paramagnetic bead at said reactive site before proceeding to step c. 3. The method of claim 2 further comprising the step of deprotecting said linker site prior to proceeding to step c. 4. The method of claim 3 further comprising the step of attaching an organic compound to said linker site. 5. The method of claim 4 further including the step of washing said paramagnetic beads prior to step h. 6. The method of claim 4 wherein said organic compound is an amino acid. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein said reaction product is recovered by cleaving said reaction product from said paramagnetic bead at said linker site. 8. A method for producing a reaction product in a temperature controlled environment, said method comprising: a. providing a reaction plenum comprising a reaction vessel, a sonication region and a temperature controlled environment; b. placing a first reactant in said reaction vessel; c. placing a second reactant in said reaction vessel; d. sonicating said first reactant and said second reactant in said sonication region to form a first reaction product; and e. recovering said first reaction product by separating said reaction product from said first reactant and from said second reactant. 9. The method of claim 8 further comprising the steps of repeating steps c-d until a final reaction product is formed and then recovering said final reaction product by separating said final reaction product from said first reactant and from said second reactant. 