The present invention is an automated crawling robot system including a platform, a first leg assembly, a second leg assembly, first and second rails attached to the platform, and an onboard electronic computer controller. The first leg assembly has an intermittent coupling device and the second leg assembly has an intermittent coupling device for intermittently coupling the respective first and second leg assemblies to a particular object. The first and second leg assemblies are slidably coupled to the rail assembly and are slidably driven by motors to thereby allow linear movement. In addition, the first leg assembly is rotary driven by a rotary motor to thereby provide rotary motion relative to the platform. To effectuate motion, the intermittent coupling devices of the first and second leg assemblies alternately couple the respective first and second leg assemblies to an object. This motion is done while simultaneously moving one of the leg assemblies linearly in the desired direction and preparing the next step. This arrangement allows the crawler of the present invention to traverse an object in a range of motion covering 360 degrees.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automated crawling robot system for traversing about an object having a generally flat surface, comprising: a platform; a first leg assembly slidably coupled to the platform and rotatably coupled to the platform and having an intermittent coupling device for intermittently coupling the first leg assembly to the object; a second leg assembly slidably coupled to the platform and having an intermittent coupling device for intermittently coupling the second leg assembly to the object; means for slidably traversing the first and the second leg assemblies independent of each other and parallel to the flat surface; and means for rotatably traversing the first leg assembly such the the first leg assembly is capable of rotating the platform 360 degrees about a single point on the object with the first leg assembly coupled to the object. 2. The invention as set forth in claim 1, further comprising an onboard computer controller for controlling the movement of the robot. 3. The invention as set forth in claim 2, wherein the onboard computer controller controls the robot with preprogrammed instructions and with remote commands. 4. The invention as set forth in claim 1, further comprising a carrying area for carrying data gathering equipment and for transporting materials. 5. The invention as set forth in claim 1, wherein said platform further comprises a rail system, wherein said first and second leg assemblies slidably traverse independent of each other about said rail system. 6. The invention as set forth in claim 1, wherein said means for slidably traversing the first and second leg assemblies is a first motor with a ball screw and receiver system and a second motor with a ball screw and receiver system, respectively. 7. The invention as set forth in claim 1, wherein said means for rotatably traversing the first leg assembly is a rotary motor. 8. The invention as set forth in claim 7, wherein said rotary motor is a low mass compact ultrasonic motor. 9. The invention as set forth in claim 1, wherein said intermittent coupling device is a magnetic device having intermittently activated solenoids. 10. The invention as set forth in claim 1, wherein said intermittent coupling device is a plurality of suction cups. 11. The invention as set forth in claim 10, wherein said plurality of suction cups are a plurality of vacuum cups, each having a separate vacuum pump and a separate air cylinder coupled to it, wherein each vacuum pump provides each vacuum cup with a vacuum source independent of the other vacuum cups. 12. The invention as set forth in claim 11, wherein said vacuum pumps are venturi vacuum pumps. 13. The invention as set forth in claim 11, wherein said vacuum pumps and said air cylinders are coupled to a standard air compressor for providing each vacuum pump and each air cylinder with air pressures. 14. The invention as set forth in claim 13, wherein said air pressures range from 70-120 psi. 15. The invention as set forth in claim 13, further comprising flexible tubing for providing a means for transferring the air pressure from the air compressor to each vacuum pump and each air cylinder. 