A semiconductor workpiece holder for use in processing a semiconductor workpiece includes a workpiece support operatively mounted to support a workpiece in position for processing. A finger assembly is operatively mounted upon the workpiece support and includes a finger tip. The finger assembly is movable between an engaged position in which the finger tip is engaged against the workpiece, and a disengaged position in which the finger tip is moved away from the workpiece. Preferably, at least one electrode forms part of the finger assembly and includes an electrode contact for contacting a surface of said workpiece. At least one protective sheath covers at least some of the electrode contact. According to one aspect of the invention, a sheathed electrode having a sheathed electrode tip is positioned against a semiconductor workpiece surface in a manner engaging the workpiece surface with said sheathed electrode tip. A seal is formed about the periphery of the electrode tip, and with the electrode tip engaging the workpiece, a desired electrical contact is made to the workpiece. Thereafter, the workpiece is exposed to desired semiconductor processing conditions.
Claims We claim: 1. A workpiece holder for use in processing a workpiece comprising: a movable workpiece support mounted for movement between a processing position which is used to support a workpiece in position for processing and an open position wherein the workpiece support is open and available for loading and unloading a workpiece to and from the workpiece support; at least one finger assembly mounted upon said movable workpiece support, said at least one finger assembly including at least one electrode having an electrode contact for contacting a surface of said workpiece to provide electrical connection therewith; at least one finger actuator operable with said at least one finger assembly for moving said finger assembly between an engaged position wherein said finger assembly is in contact with the workpiece and a disengaged position wherein said finger assembly is disengaged from the workpiece, said at least one finger actuator having means for moving the at least one finger assembly in an axial movement toward and from the workpiece and means to rotate the at least one finger assembly in a rotational movement. 2. The workpiece holder of claim 1 wherein said at least one finger actuator moves said at least one finger assembly in a reciprocal manner. 3. The workpiece holder of claim 1, wherein said means to rotate the at least one finger assembly rotates the finger assembly about a pivot axis which is aligned with the axial movement produced by said means for moving the at least one finger assembly in an axial movement. 4. The workpiece holder of claim 1 further comprising at least one protective sheath covering at least a portion of the at least one finger assembly to protect the finger assembly from contact with a plating fluid, said at least one protective sheath being made from a dielectric material. 5. The workpiece holder of claim 4, wherein said at least one protective sheath includes a rim portion for engaging said workpiece and forming a seal therebetween. 6. The workpiece holder of claim 4, wherein said electrode contact is maintained in a generally retracted position within said at least one protective sheath when said at least one finger assembly is in said disengaged position; said electrode contact being moved out of said retracted position when said at least one finger assembly is moved into said engaged position. 7. The workpiece holder of claim 4, wherein said at least one protective sheath includes a yieldable terminal end adjacent said electrode contact for engaging said workpiece and effectively sealing said electrode contact therewithin when said at least one finger assembly is moved to said engaged position; wherein said electrode contact is maintained in a generally retracted position within said at least one protective sheath when said at least one finger assembly is in said disengaged position; said electrode contact being moved out of said retracted position when said finger assembly is moved into said engaged position. 8. The workpiece holder of claim 1, wherein said at least one finger assembly comprises: a finger assembly frame; a collet movably mounted on said finger assembly frame for longitudinal reciprocation into and out of said engaged position; a finger secured to said collet and movable thereby, a portion of said finger extending generally away from said collet; and a bend in said finger between said collet and said contact. 9. The workpiece holder of claim 1, wherein said movable workpiece support includes a rotor operatively mounted for rotation about a rotor axis; said rotor moving said workpiece about said rotor axis for processing. 10. The workpiece holder of claim 1, wherein: said movable workpiece support includes a rotor operatively mounted for rotation about a rotor axis; said rotor rotating said workpiece for processing; and there are plural finger assemblies and plural finger actuators. 11. A workpiece holder for use in a plating process to hold and provide electrical contact with a workpiece, comprising: a movable workpiece support mounted for powered movement between a processing position wherein the workpiece support is placed in relationship with a processing bowl, and an open position wherein the workpiece support is removed from the processing bowl and available for loading and unloading a workpiece to and from the workpiece support; a workpiece support operator for powering movement of the movable workpiece support between said processing position and said open position; a rotor mounted for rotational movement upon the movable workpiece support to allow the workpiece support and a workpiece supported thereon to be rotated during processing; at least one finger assembly mounted upon said rotor, said at least one finger assembly including at least one contact for contacting the workpiece; at least one finger actuator mounted upon the movable workpiece support, said at least one finger actuator being controllably movable to effect movement of the at least one finger assembly between an engaged position wherein the at least one finger assembly engages the workpiece and a disengaged position wherein the at least one finger assembly is disengaged from the workpiece to allow the workpiece to be loaded and unloaded from the workpiece support; at least one electrode forming a part of said at least one finger assembly, said at least one electrode having an electrode contact for contacting a surface of said workpiece to provide electrical connection therewith, wherein said electrode contact is one of said at least one contact. 12. A workpiece holder according to claim 11 wherein there are a plurality of finger assemblies and finger actuators. 13. A workpiece holder according to claim 11 wherein said at least one finger actuator is controllably engaged and disengaged with the at least one finger assembly mounted upon the rotor. 14. A workpiece holder according to claim 11 wherein said at least one finger actuator includes means for moving the at least one finger assembly in an axial movement toward and from the workpiece. 15. A workpiece holder according to claim 11 wherein said at least one finger actuator includes means to rotate the at least one finger assembly in a rotational movement. 16. A workpiece holder according to claim 11 wherein said at least one finger actuator includes means for moving the at least one finger assembly in an axial movement toward and from the workpiece and means to rotate the at least one finger assembly in a rotational movement. 17. A workpiece holder according to claim 11 and further comprising at least one protective sheath covering at least a portion of the at least one finger assembly to protect the finger assembly from contact with a plating fluid, said at least one protective sheath being made from a dielectric material. 18. A workpiece holder according to claim 17 wherein there are a plurality of finger assemblies and finger actuators. 19. A workpiece holder according to claim 17 wherein said at least one protective sheath includes a rim portion for engaging said workpiece and forming a seal therebetween. 20. A workpiece holder according to claim 17 wherein said electrode contact is maintained in a generally retracted position within said at least one protective sheath when said at least one finger assembly is in said disengaged position; said electrode contact being moved out of said retracted position when said at least one finger assembly is moved into said engaged position. 21. A workpiece holder according to claim 17 wherein said at least one protective sheath includes a yieldable terminal end adjacent said electrode contact for engaging said workpiece and effectively sealing said electrode contact therewithin when said at least one finger assembly is moved to said engaged position; wherein said electrode contact is maintained in a generally retracted position within said at least one protective sheath when said at least one finger assembly is in said disengaged position; said electrode contact being moved out of said retracted position when said finger assembly is moved into said engaged position. 