A modular vial autosampler has a storage area for vials containing samples to be analyzed and at least one modular sampling station. A vial transfer mechanism includes an arm having a gripper that lifts a sample vial from the storage section, and the arm moves it to a station for identification and then to a sampling station, and under central control activates the sampling station for obtaining a sample for analysis. The vial transfer mechanism gripper is movable in X, Y, and Z directions to capture and move a selected vial and includes an alignment guide for the vials. Potentiometers are used for providing signals indicating arm position and the control is provided with updated information for calibration of the potentiometers and also updated position information for the arm relative to a fixed home position is obtained.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A vial handling device, comprising: a base unit having a front portion and a rear portion, and having a vial storage area at the front portion; a thermal block fixedly mounted to the base unit at the vial storage area and having an upper wall and a passageway for fluid circulation, an input fluid port and an output fluid port connected to the passageway, the thermal block also having a plurality of receptacles spaced from the passageway, the receptacles adapted to receive and substantially surround vials therein; a removable vial rack positionable over the thermal block in heat conducting relation with the upper wall and having a plurality of apertures adapted to receive the vials therein, the apertures being alienable with the receptacles; and a vial transporter including a main arm projecting from the base unit along a first axis, the main arm being mounted for translation along a second axis substantially perpendicular to the first axis, the vial transporter further including a vial gripper assembly mounted on the main arm for translation along the first axis of the main arm, the vial gripper assembly including a gripper head mounted for translation along a third axis substantially perpendicular to the first and second axes. 2. The device of claim 1, wherein the gripper head includes a plunger and a member having a first end coupled to the plunger and a second end for contacting a vial end, the member being pivotally mounted in the gripper head such that movement of the plunger causes the second end to move. 3. The device of claim 2, wherein the member is L-shaped, and wherein the plunger has an inner and outer position corresponding to a hold and release position respectively of the second end. 4. The device of claim 3, wherein the plunger is coupled to an actuator that moves the plunger between the inner and outer position, the plunger occupying the inner position when the actuator is not energized and the outer position when the actuator is energized. 5. The vial handling device of claim 1, wherein the input fluid port and the output fluid port are located at the rear portion. 6. The vial handling device of claim 1, further comprising a switch positioned at the vial storage area for activation by the removable vial rack. 7. The vial handling device of claim 1, wherein the vial storage area comprises a fixed platform on the base unit shaped to receive the removable vial rack to locate the apertures at known positions, and wherein the vial handling device includes: a potentiometer coupled to the vial gripper assembly and providing an output voltage signal proportional to the position of the gripper assembly relative to a home position along the first axis; a fixed reference member on said base unit; a sensor on the gripper assembly for providing a sensor signal when the gripper assembly has been moved to the home position in at least one direction along the first axis; and a control including a memory for storing information identifying the known positions of the apertures in the vial rack on the fixed platform, the control controlling translation of the main arm along the second axis and movement of the gripper assembly alone the first axis, the control being coupled to the sensor and to the potentiometer to receive the potentiometer voltage signal and the sensor signal and adjust the control to compensate the stored information identifying positions of the apertures for chances in the sensed home position. 8. The vial handling device of claim 7 further comprising a pair of limit sensors mounted a fixed distance apart along the first axis and operable to provide limit signals indicating the gripper assembly is at selected travel limits along the first axis, a drive to drive the gripper assembly along the first axis between the limit sensors, an analog to digital converter to receive the voltage from the potentiometer and provide a count proportional to the received voltage to establish a calibrated scale of counts for a selected unit of distance between the limit sensors for controlling the drive for the gripper assembly. 9. The vial handling device of claim 8, wherein there is a separate drive to translate the main arm along the second axis, a second potentiometer coupled to the main arm and providing a second signal indicating the position of the main arm along the second axis relative to the home position, the control receiving the second signal to compensate the stored information identifying the aperture positions for changes in the sensed home position of the main arm along the second axis. 10. A vial handling device, comprising: a base unit having a vial storage area; and a vial transporter including at least: a main arm projecting from the base unit along a first axis, the main arm being mounted for translation along a second axis substantially perpendicular to the first axis; and a vial gripper assembly mounted on the main arm for translation along the main arm, the vial gripper assembly including a gripper head mounted for translation along a third axis substantially perpendicular to the first and second axes; wherein the gripper head includes a vial gripper that engages a vial to be moved and holds the vial, and a vial alignment ring slidably mounted on the gripper head and movable from a position wherein the vial alignment ring is retracted to be adjacent the vial gripper, and upon movement of the vial gripper away from a vial support, the vial alignment ring moving to surround the vial at a position spaced from the gripper head. 11. The vial handling device of claim 10, wherein the alignment ring is slidably mounted relative to the gripper head, and is spring loaded to be urged away from an end of the gripper head. 