An apparatus for testing specimens for infection by a retrovirus is described. The apparatus comprises a process controller including a communications module for translating user commands into test instrument suite commands and a means for communicating specimen test results to a user. The apparatus further comprises a test instrument suite including a means for treating the specimen to manifest an observable result and a detector for measuring the observable result.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for performing integrated testing of a specimen potentially infected with a retrovirus comprising: (a) means for treating the specimen to manifest an observable result, the observable result being the serotype of the virus as determined by reactivity with a panel of immunoglobulins, the panel employing at least two different immunoglobulins to establish the serotype of the virus; and (b) means for controlling the means for treating the specimen in order to perform automated testing of the specimen of a type selected from the group consisting of immunological, virological, and cellular testing, the means for controlling the means for treating the specimen being subject to commands of a remote client so that the remote client can control the operation of the means for treating the specimen to carry out a determination of the reactivity of the specimen with the panel of immunoglobulins by performing at least two immunoassays on the specimen, the remote client communicating with the controlling means through an Internet link. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the observable result is the infectious fraction of the virus. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the observable result is the reproductive number of the virus. 4. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein the remote client is located geographically on a continent different to the continent locating the apparatus. 5. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein the remote client is located geographically removed from the automated apparatus such that, the remote client delivers the specimen to the apparatus at least partly through the services of a common delivery carrier. 6. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein the remote client is located geographically removed from the automated apparatus such that the remote client delivers the specimen to the apparatus at least partly through the services of a common delivery carrier. 7. An apparatus for performing automated testing of a specimen potentially infected with a retrovirus comprising: (a) a process controller including: (i) a communications module for translating user commands into test instrument suite commands; (ii) means for communicating specimen test results to a remote client; and (b) a test instrument suite including: (i) means for treating the specimen to manifest an observable result in response to commands from the process controller, the observable result being the serotype of the virus as determined by reactivity with a panel of immunoglobulins, the panel employing at least two different immunoglobulins to establish the serotype of the virus; and (ii) a detector for measuring the observable result to generate a specimen test result in response to commands from the process controller, the process controller being subject to commands of the remote client so that the remote client can control the operation of the process controller and thus control the operation of the test instrument suite to determine the reactivity of the sample with the panel of immunoglobulins by performing at least two immunoassays on the specimen, the remote client communicating with the process controller through an Internet link. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein the retrovirus is a human immunodeficiency virus. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein the human immunodeficiency virus is HIV-2. 10. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein the human immunodeficiency virus is HIV-1. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the observable result is the infectious fraction of the virus. 12. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the observable result is the reproductive number of the virus. 13. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the observable result is the number of copies of an envelope protein associated with the virus, the envelope protein being gp120. 14. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the observable result is the number of copies of a core protein associated with the virus, the core protein being p24. 15. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the observable result is the number of copies of reverse transcriptase associated with the virus. 16. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the observable result is the rate of spontaneous degradation of the virus, the rate of spontaneous degradation of the virus being determined by measurement of at least one of the rate of shedding of gp120 receptor complexes and the loss of enzymatic activity of reverse transcriptase. 17. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the observable result is the genetic classification of the virus as determined by sequence hybridization, the genetic classification being identified by subtype. 18. An apparatus as claimed in claim 7 wherein the remote client is located geographically on a continent different to the continent locating the apparatus. 19. An apparatus for performing quantitative analysis of a biological specimen potentially infected with a retrovirus in a plurality of detection modes comprising: (a) an automated immunolabeling test instrument module for fixing and staining a biological specimen by applying at least two antibodies selected from the group consisting of an antibody specific for a retrovirus and an antibody specific for an antibody produced by a mammal in response to the retrovirus and specific for the retrovirus; (b) an automated image acquisition and analysis test instrument module for performing image analysis of a signal generated by the automated immunolabeling test instrument module, the automated immunolabeling test instrument module and the automated image acquisition and analysis test instrument module being subject to commands of a remote client so that the remote client can control the operation of the automated immunolabeling test instrument module and the automated image acquisition and analysis test instrument module through an Internet communication link to perform immunoassays employing at least two antibodies on the specimen. 20. The apparatus of claim 19 wherein the retrovirus is a human immunodeficiency virus. 21. The apparatus of claim 20 wherein the human immunodeficiency virus is HIV-1. 22. The apparatus of claim 21 wherein the antibodies are a panel of antibodies for serotyping of HIV-1. 23. The apparatus of claim 21 wherein the antibody is at least one of an anti-gp120 antibody and an anti-p24 antibody to quantitate the gp120 envelope glycoprotein and/or the anti-p24 core protein. 24. The apparatus of claim 21 wherein the antibody is an antibody specific for an antibody produced by a mammal infected with HIV-1 in response to the retrovirus and specific for the retrovirus to determine the immunological response of the provider of the specimen to the HIV-1. 25. The apparatus of claim 20 wherein the human immunodeficiency virus is HIV-2. 26. An apparatus as claimed in claim 19 wherein the remote client is located geographically on a continent different to the continent locating the apparatus. 27. An apparatus as claimed in claim 20 wherein the remote client is located geographically removed from the automated apparatus such that the remote client delivers the specimen to the apparatus at least partly through the services of a common delivery carrier. 28. A method for performing integrated testing of a specimen potentially infected with a retrovirus comprising: (a) physically delivering a specimen from a remote client located in a place geographically removed from a testing apparatus, the physical deliver including handling by a common carrier physical delivery system; (b) treating the specimen to manifest an observable result, the observable result being the serotype of the virus as determined by reactivity with a panel of immunoglobulins, the panel employing at least two different immunoglobulins to establish the serotype of the virus; and (c) controlling the treating of the specimen through a controlling means in order to perform automated testing of the specimen of a type selected from the group consisting of, immunological, virological, and cellular testing, the controlling means being the subject of commands of a remote client so that the remote client can control the operation of treating the specimen to effect the testing of the sample with the at least two different immunoglobulins to establish the serotype of the virus, the remote client communicating with the controlling means through an Internet link. 29. A method for performing automated testing of a specimen potentially infected with a retrovirus comprising: (a) physically delivering a specimen from a remote client located in a place geographically removed from a testing apparatus, the physical delivery including handling by a common carrier physical delivery system; (b) translating in a communications module user commands into test instrument suite commands; (c) treating the specimen to manifest an observable result in response to commands from a process controller, the observable result being the serotype of the virus as determined by immunoassays employing at least two different immunoglobulins; (d) measuring the observable result to generate a specimen test result in response to commands from the process controller, the process controller being subject to commands of the remote client so that the remote client can control the operation of the process controller and thus control the treating of the specimen to perform immunoassays employing at least two different immunoglobulins, the remote client communicating with the process controller through an Internet link; and (e) communicating the specimen test result to the remote client. 30. A method for performing quantitative analysis of a biological specimen potentially infected with a retrovirus in a plurality of detection modes comprising: (a) physically delivering a specimen from a remote client located in a geographically removed from an analysis apparatus, the physical delivery including handling by a common carrier physical delivery system; (b) fixing and staining a biological specimen by applying at least two antibodies selected from the group consisting of an antibody specific for a retrovirus and an antibody specific for an antibody produced by a mammal in response to the retrovirus and specific for the retrovirus; and (c) performing image analysis of a signal generated by an automated immunolabeling test instrument module, the automated immunolabeling test instrument module and an automated image acquisition analysis test instrument module being subject to commands of a remote client such that the remote client can control the operation of the automated immunolabeling test instrument module and the automated image acquisition analysis test instrument module through an Internet communication link to perform immunoassays employing the at least two antibodies. 