An overload protector is provided which is secured to a robot arm and a tool to protect the tool form being overloaded or forced into an abnormal position. A rocker assembly is located within the cavity in the protector and the cavity is pressurized in order to force a wall of the rocker assembly into a sealing relationship with a wall of the cavity. The rocker assembly has a peripheral wall in which a number of semi-conical detents are formed in the wall of the cavity. The detents are accommodated in the recesses when the rocker assembly is in a sealing relationship with the cavity wall. When the tool is overloaded or forced into an abnormal position the rocker assembly rocks in the cavity with resulting leakage of fluid from the cavity and a drop of pressure. A pressure switch detects that drop and signals the robot to stop.
Claims We claim: 1. In an overload protector adapted to be secured between a robot arm and a tool to protect the tool from being overloaded or forced into an abnormal position, said overload protector having a housing in which a cavity is formed, a rocker assembly disposed within said cavity, means for introducing fluid under pressure into said cavity to force a wall of said rocker assembly into a sealing relationship with a wall of said cavity, overloading of the tool or movement thereof into an abnormal position causing relative movement between said housing and said rocker assembly with resulting leakage of fluid from said cavity and a drop of pressure within said cavity, and means for detecting such pressure drop, the improvement wherein said rocker assembly has a peripheral wall and one of said peripheral wall and said cavity wall has a plurality of semi-conical recesses formed therein and the other of said peripheral wall and said cavity wall has a plurality of semi-conical detents formed thereon, said recesses and detents being arranged such that said detents are accommodated within said recesses when said rocker assembly is in a sealing relationship with said cavity wall. 2. The overload protector as claimed in claim 1 wherein said recesses are formed in the peripheral wall of said rocker assembly and said detents are formed in said cavity wall. 3. The overload protector as claimed in claim 1 wherein said recesses are formed in a peripheral wall of said rocker assembly and said detents are formed in a cavity wall. 4. The overload protector as claimed in claim 1 wherein said recesses are formed in a peripheral wall of said rocker assembly and said detents are formed in a cavity wall. 5. In an overload protector adapted to be secured between a robot arm and a tool to protect the tool from being overloaded or forced into an abnormal position, said overload protector having a housing in which a cavity is formed, a rocker assembly disposed within said cavity, means for introducing fluid under pressure into said cavity to force a wall of said rocker assembly into a sealing relationship with a wall of said cavity, overloading of the tool or movement thereof into an abnormal position causing relative movement between said housing and said rocker assembly with resulting leakage of fluid from said cavity and a drop of pressure within said cavity, and means for detecting such pressure drop, the improvement wherein said rocker assembly includes a hub assembly and a flange assembly, said hub assembly being attached to said flange assembly but slidable relative thereto, said tool being operatively connected to said hub assembly such that when said tool is overloaded in such a way that it causes said hub assembly to advance toward said flange assembly, fluid leaks from said cavity with resulting drop in the pressure of said fluid within said cavity. 6. The overload protector as claimed in claim 5 wherein both said hub and flange assemblies have cylindrical walls which are arranged coaxially, one within the other, the surfaces of said walls which face each other having a plurality of longitudinally extending grooves each of which in one said wall faces a like groove in the other said wall and in some of which are received dowels for preventing rotation of one said wall relative to the other, the grooves not having dowels serving as passages for fluid which leaks from said cavity. 7. The overload protector as claimed in claim 5 wherein said rocker assembly has a peripheral wall and one of said peripheral wall and said cavity wall has a plurality of semi-conical recesses formed therein and the other of said peripheral wall and said cavity wall has a plurality of semi-conical detents formed thereon, said recesses and detents being arranged such that said detents are accommodated within said recesses when said rocker assembly is in a sealing relationship with said cavity wall. 8. The overload protector as claimed in claim 6 wherein said rocker assembly has a peripheral wall and one of said peripheral wall and said cavity wall has a plurality of semi-conical recesses formed therein and the other of said peripheral wall and said cavity wall has a plurality of semi-conical detents formed thereon, said recesses and detents being arranged such that said detents are accommodated within said recesses when said rocker assembly is in a sealing relationship with said cavity wall. 9. The overload protector as claimed in claim 7 wherein said recesses are formed in a peripheral wall of said rocker assembly and said detents are formed in a cavity wall. 10. The overload protector as claimed in claim 8 wherein said recesses are formed in a peripheral wall of said rocker assembly and said detents are formed in a cavity wall. 