The present invention relates to a mechanism for and method of applying labels, printing images, or scanning a feature on the surface of a substrate. The mechanism (1) comprises a read/write/apply means (4) for reading, writing or applying the information, carried and located relative to a predetermined position by a robotically actuated device. The device comprises a mounting member (5), a support member (6) relatively movable with respect to the mounting member (5) and carrying the said means (4), and at least three pairs of extendable arms (7,8,9) extending between and pivotally mounted on the members (5,6). The arrangement is such that one arm in each of said pairs of arms (7,8,9) cooperates with an arm from another pair of arms. Extension and/or retraction of the arms (7,8,9) causes movement and/or rotation of the support member (6) relative to the mounting member (5), whereby the said means (4) may be located relative to the predetermined position.
Claims I claim: 1. A mechanism for reading from, and/or for writing to, and/or for applying on, a substrate, machine readable information at a predetermined position on the surface of the substrate, comprising: read/write/apply means for reading, writing or applying the information; a robotically actuated device which carries the read/write/apply means and which may locate the read/write/apply means relative to the predetermined position; characterised in that the device comprises a mounting member, a support member relatively movable with respect to the mounting member and which carries the read/write/apply means, and at least three pairs of arms extending between the mounting member and the support member, the arrangement being such that: i) one arm in each of said pairs of arms cooperates with an arm from another pair of arms; ii) the arms in each of said pairs of arms are independently connected to the support and mounting members by attachment means which permit the arms to pivot with respect to the said mounting and support members; and iii) the arms are provided with means for varying the lengths of the arms relative to one another whereby relative extension or contraction of an arm with respect to the other arm in its pair, and/or with respect to one or more arms in other pairs, causes movement and/or rotation of the support member relative to the mounting member, whereby the read/write/apply means may be located relative to the predetermined position. 2. A mechanism as claimed in claim 1, in which the support member is essentially planar, the attachment means permitting the arms to pivot independently of one another with respect to the plane of the support member. 3. A mechanism as claimed in claim 2, in which the mounting member is essentially planar, the attachment means permitting the arms to pivot independently of one another with respect to the plane of the mounting member. 4. A mechanism as claimed in claim 1, in which the movement and/or rotation of the support member relative to the mounting member allows the read/write/apply means to be controlled within a certain volume of space in all three dimensions. 5. A mechanism as claimed in claim 1, in which the mechanism comprises a sensor means so that the mechanism may be brought into proximity with the predetermined position on the surface of the substrate. 6. A mechanism as claimed in claim 1, in which the support and mounting members are of a polygonal plan shape having the same number of corners as there are pairs of arms. 7. A mechanism as claimed in claim 1, in which the arms are attached to the mounting member by means of ball and socket attachments which incorporate the means for independently varying the lengths of the arms relative to one another. 8. A mechanism as claimed in claim 1, in which the robotic device comprises means to determine positional data related to the extension of each of the arms. 9. A mechanism as claimed in claim 1, in which the read/write/apply means is an information writing device. 10. A mechanism as claimed in claim 1, in which the read/write/apply means is an information application device. 11. A mechanism as claimed in claim 1, in which the read/write/apply means is an information scanning device. 12. A method for reading from, and/or for writing to, and/or for applying on, a substrate, machine readable information at a predetermined position on the surface of the substrate, the method comprising the steps of: a) providing a mechanism for reading from, and/or for writing to, and/or for applying on, a substrate, the mechanism including a read/write/apply means for reading, writing, and applying the information; a robotically actuated device which carries the read/write/apply means and which may locate the read/write/apply means relative to the predetermined position characterized in that the device comprises a mounting member, a support member relatively movable with respect to the mounting member and which carries the read/write/apply means, and at least three pairs of arms extending between the mounting member and the support member, the arrangement being such that: i) one arm in each of said pairs of arms cooperates with an arm from another pair of arms; ii) the arms in each of said pairs of arms are independently connected to the support and mounting members by attachment means which permit the arms to pivot with respect to the said mounting and support members; and iii) the arms are provided with means for varying the lengths of the arms relative to one another whereby relative extension or contraction of an arm with respect to the other arm in its pair, and/or with respect to one or more arms in other pairs, causes movement and/or rotation of the support member relative to the mounting member, whereby the read/write/apply means may be located relative to the predetermined position; b) varying the lengths of the arms relative to one another so that the mounting member is moved and/or rotated relative to the mounting member, whereby the read/write/apply means is located relative to the predetermined position; and c) using the read/write/apply means to read from, and/or to write to, and/or to apply on, a substrate, the machine readable information at the predetermined position on the surface of the substrate. 13. A method as claimed in claim 12, comprising before step b) the step of: d) using the read/write/apply means to write to a first substrate, the machine readable information at the predetermined position on the surface of the first substrate; then step c) comprising applying on a second substrate the machine readable information at the predetermined position. 14. A method as claimed in claim 1, in which the mechanism comprises a sensor means so that the mechanism may be brought into proximity with the predetermined position on the surface of the substrate, the method comprising the step of: d) using the sensor means to detect the proximity of the substrate. 15. A method as claimed in claim 12, in which the robotic device comprises means to determine positional data related to the extension of each of the arms; the method comprising the step of: e) applying a label to the substrate; f) determining the positional data from the extension of each of the arms; and g) using the positional data to position a print head relative to the predetermined position on the surface of the substrate. 