A virtual surgery system or virtual testing system provides a simulation or test based on image data. A simulator combined with a real exam requires simulation tasks by a test taker. Additionally, a surgical procedure may be simulated using image data of a patient in devices simulating the physical instruments a surgeon uses in performing the actual procedure, for example. The user input device, such as a mouse, three dimensional mouse, joystick, seven dimensional joystick, full size simulator, etc., can be used in a virtual simulation to move through the image data while the user looks at the data and interaction of the input device with the image data on a display screen. Force feedback can be provided based on physical constraint models (of the anatomy, for example), or based on edge and collision detection between the virtual scope or virtual tool used by the operator and walls or edges of the image data in the image space. The virtual simulator may be used as a teaching, training, testing, demonstration, or remote telesurgery device, for example.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A virtual surgery system, comprising; a virtual mouse; a tube; a virtual orifice; a box device; wherein said tube is connected to said virtual mouse at a first end and extends through said virtual orifice and into said box device at a second end; and a computer for simulating a surgical procedure having memory for storing image data corresponding to a portion of an anatomy, wherein said computer directly receives feedback from each of said virtual mouse, said tube, said virtual orifice and said box device and wherein said computer directly transmits forced feedback to each of said virtual mouse, said tube, said virtual orifice and said box device. 2. The virtual surgery system of claim 1 further comprising: a display device wherein said display device receives data from said computer to display a simulated surgical procedure. 3. The virtual surgery system of claim 1, wherein said forced feedback is generated by computer software. 4. The virtual surgery system of claim 1, wherein said forced feedback is transmitted electronically to said virtual mouse, said tube, said virtual orifice and said box device. 5. The virtual surgery system according to claim 1, wherein said virtual mouse comprises at least one of a joystick, a full-scale model of a surgical instrument, and an actual surgical instrument. 6. The virtual surgery system according to claim 1, wherein said image data stored in said memory is obtained from at least one of ultrasound, a CT scan, an MRI scan and a PET scan. 7. The virtual surgery system according to claim 1, wherein said image data is obtained from human anatomy image data. 8. The virtual surgery system according to claim 1, wherein said image data is obtained from medical illustrationist or artist renderings. 9. The virtual surgery system according to claim 1, wherein said image data is obtained from a combination of reconstructive modelling, medical illustration, data averaging to reduce a data load, real-time calculations, or video simulations stored and replayed as data files. 10. The virtual surgery system according to claim 1, wherein said tube is a virtual endoscopic tube. 11. The virtual surgery system according to claim 1, wherein image data corresponding to said simulated surgical procedure is recorded on a recording medium. 12. The virtual surgery system according to claim 10, wherein said recording medium is at least one of a video tape, a digital storage device, and an analog storage device. 13. The virtual surgery system according to claim 1, wherein said box device contains at least one physical constraint model. 14. The virtual surgery system according to claim 1, wherein said computer is a non-dedicated computer which is not dedicated only to the virtual surgery system. 15. The virtual surgery system according to claim 1, wherein said anatomy is at least one of a human anatomy and an animal anatomy. 16. The virtual surgery system according to claim 1, wherein said memory additionally stores image data unrelated to an anatomy and further comprising means for learning how to use said virtual mouse in response to said additionally stored image data unrelated to an anatomy. 17. The virtual surgery system according to claim 1, wherein said image data stored in said memory is obtained from at least one of digital subtraction angiography, digital scan of analog data such as a photograph of a body or a body part, and a standard analog x-ray. 18. The virtual surgery system according to claim 1, further comprising a display displaying the image data. 19. The virtual surgery system according to claim 18, wherein the display displays an image of said virtual mouse moving through the image data according to movements of said virtual mouse made by a user. 20. The virtual surgery system according to claim 18, wherein at least a portion of the display displays during a surgical simulation a pre-recorded expert simulation of a surgical operation. 21. The virtual surgery system according to claim 20, wherein the pre-recorded expert simulation is recorded on video tape or CDROM. 22. The virtual surgery system according to claim 18, wherein at least a portion of the display illustrates a tutorial of a stimulated surgical procedure. 23. The virtual surgery system according to claim 1, wherein the virtual surgery system is a competency, credentialling or proficiency testing device requiring a user to perform particular virtual operations using the virtual mouse. 24. The virtual surgery system according to claim 1, wherein said virtual mouse, said tube, said virtual, orifice, and said box device are connected to said computer via a wire connection or a wireless connection such as infrared or radio. 25. The virtual surgery system according to claim 3, wherein said computer software is edge collision and detection software. 26. The virtual surgery system according to claim 1, wherein the memory is a remote memory and the stored image data is transmitted to the computer via a communication line. 27. The virtual surgery system according to claim 1, wherein said computer generates reports relating to the simulated surgical procedure. 28. The virtual surgery system according to claim 1, wherein said computer requests a user to answer test questions relating to a patient's clinical condition and cause of illness. 29. The virtual surgery system according to claim 1 further comprising means for capturing the motion and position of at least one of said virtual mouse and said tube during a virtual surgery procedure, wherein said means for capturing the motion and position transmits data representative of the captured motion and position to said computer. 30. The virtual surgery system according to claim 29 wherein said means for capturing the motion and position also captures the motion and position of the persons conducting the virtual surgery procedure and the virtual patient and wherein said means for capturing the motion and position of the persons conducting the virtual surgery procedure and the virtual patient transmits data representative of the captured motion and position of the persons and virtual patient to said computer. 31. The virtual surgery system according to claim 29 wherein said means for capturing the motion and position includes motion detection sensors. 32. The virtual surgery system according to claim 29 wherein said means for capturing the motion and position includes a video camera. 33. The virtual surgery system according to claim 31 wherein said motion detection sensors are located within the room where the virtual surgery procedure is being conducted and wherein said motion detection sensors are located external to said virtual mouse, said tube, and said computer. 