A surgical fastener in the form of a ferruled loop, instrument and method are provided for constructing a graft to artery anastomosis and other soft tissue anastomoses, particularly by minimally invasive (or endoscopic) surgery. The ferruled loop fastener is comprised of a needle, a suture and a ferrule. The needle and suture member allow this fastener to be sewn through, for example, a graft and artery to be joined. The ferrule member allows a ferruled loop to be formed without knotting the suture member, and that serves as a suture stitch to fasten the graft and artery together. The instrument holds the needle and ferrule at its distal end, and controls in the handle allow manipulation of the needle and controllable application of the fastener. The method employs the ferruled loop and instruments to join soft tissues and to construct graft to artery anastomoses.
Claims We claim: 1. A surgical fastener comprising: a suture material, a needle having a base portion joined to a first end of the suture material, said needle capable of skewering and aligning tissues, or tissue and graft, in an endoscopic procedure, and said needle capable of positioning the suture material around the tissues, or tissue and graft, and a ferrule joined to a second end of the suture material, said ferrule including an opening for receiving said needle and a length of said suture material therethrough, said ferrule capable of being deformed to engage said length of suture material to secure said suture material around the tissues, or tissue and graft. 2. A fastener defined in claim 1 wherein the base portion of the needle is configured to be releasably engaged with an associated applying instrument. 3. A surgical fastener comprising: a suture material, needle means joined to a first end of said suture material, said needle means capable of skewering and aligning tissues, or tissue and graft, in an endoscopic procedure, and said needle means capable of positioning the suture material around the tissues, or tissue and graft, and ferrule means joined to a second end of said suture material, said ferrule means including an opening for receiving said needle means and a length of said suture material therethrough, said ferrule means capable of engaging said length of suture material upon being deformed to secure said length of suture material in a fixed position with respect to said ferrule means. 4. A fastener defined in claim 3 wherein the needle means further comprises base means for releasably engaging an associated applying instrument. 5. An instrument for applying a surgical fastener comprising: an elongated shaft assembly having a distal end portion, a needle holder at the distal end portion for engaging a needle having a base portion joined to a first end of a suture material, a ferrule holder at the distal end portion for holding a ferrule joined to a second end of the suture material, and for placing the ferrule over the needle, a needle pulling member at the distal end portion for pulling the needle away from said needle holder to form a loop in the suture material, a deforming member at the distal end portion for securing the ferrule to a selected point on the suture material, and controls located remotely from the distal end portion for controlling operation of the ferrule holder, needle pulling member, and deforming member. 6. An instrument defined in claim 5 wherein the elongated shaft has a length and width adapted to use in minimally invasive surgery. 7. An instrument as defined in claim 5 wherein the needle holder is also adapted to articulate the needle relative to the elongated shaft, and the controls including means for articulating the needle holder. 8. An instrument as defined in claim 5 wherein the elongated shaft comprising at its distal end portion a needle and a ferrule has a maximum diameter less than about 20 millimeters. 9. An instrument for applying a surgical fastener as recited in claim 5, wherein said controls comprise hand-actuated controls. 10. An instrument for applying a surgical fastener as recited in claim 5, wherein said controls comprise automated robotic controls. 11. An instrument for applying a surgical fastener comprising: an elongated shaft assembly having a distal end portion, needle means at the distal end portion for engaging a needle joined to a suture member, ferrule means at the distal end portion for engaging a ferrule also joined to the suture member and placing the ferrule over the needle, needle pulling means at the distal end portion for pulling the needle to form a loop in the suture member and to tighten the loop, deforming means at the distal end portion for securing the ferrule to a selected point on the suture member, and a handle having control means for actuating the ferrule means, the needle pulling means and the deforming means. 12. An instrument defined in claim 11 wherein the elongated shaft has a length and width adapted to use in minimally invasive surgery. 13. An instrument as defined in claim 11 wherein the needle means has means to articulate the needle relative to the elongated shaft, and the handle has control means for actuating such articulation means. 14. An instrument as defined in claim 13 wherein the elongated shaft comprising at its distal end portion a needle and a ferrule has a maximum diameter less than about 20 millimeters. 15. A method for attaching soft tissues located in the abdomen, chest and retroperitoneal space and for attaching a graft to an artery in these areas comprising: providing an instrument for applying a surgical fastener having an elongated shaft with a distal end portion and having a ferrule holder member, a needle pulling member, and a deforming member at the distal end portion adapted to form a ferruled loop, providing to a needle holder member at the distal end portion, a needle comprising a suture needle having a base portion joined to a first end of a suture member, providing to the ferrule holder member, a ferrule joined to a second end of the suture member and adapted to engage and secure the suture at another selected point along its length, incising a patient's tissues to create at least one opening into the patient's abdominal cavity, chest or retroperitoneal space, inserting the distal end of the instrument through the opening, so that the distal end is disposed in the patient, passing the needle through a portion of one tissue, graft or artery and through a portion of a second tissue, artery or graft, and actuating the ferrule holder member, needle pulling member, and deforming member to form a closed ferruled loop containing a portion of one tissue, graft or artery and a portion of a second tissue, artery or graft. 16. The method defined in claim 15 wherein the passing and actuating steps are repeated to apply additional fasteners. 17. The method defined in claim 15 wherein the incising step creates a small incision and wherein the inserting, passing and actuating steps are performed by minimally invasive surgical procedures. 18. The method defined in claim 15 wherein the needle is passed through a portion of a graft or artery and through an artery or graft to form a portion of an artery to graft anastomosis. 19. The method defined in claim 15 wherein the artery is selected from the group consisting of the aorta, the coronary arteries, the iliac arteries and the femoral arteries. 20. The method defined in claim 19 wherein the artery is at least about 2 millimeters diameter or larger. 21. An instrument for applying a surgical fastener as recited in claim 5, further comprising connecting means for connecting said controls to said ferrule holder, said needle pulling member, and said deforming member. 22. An instrument for applying a surgical fastener as recited in claim 21, wherein said controls and said connecting means together comprise an automated robotic system for actuating said ferrule holder, said needle pulling member, and said deforming member. 23. An instrument for applying a surgical fastener as recited in claim 21, further comprising a motor, controlled by said controls, for actuating said connecting means. 24. An instrument for applying a surgical fastener as recited in claim 21, further comprising pneumatic means, controlled by said controls, for actuating said connecting means. 25. An instrument for applying a surgical fastener as recited in claim 21, further comprising hydraulic means, controlled by said controls, for actuating said connecting means. 26. A method of fastening together tissues, or tissue and graft, in a minimally invasive procedure, comprising the steps of: (a) skewering the tissues, or tissue and graft, onto a needle having a trailing suture material attached thereto in a minimally invasive procedure; (b) locating a ferrule attached to the suture material at an end of the suture material opposite the needle over the needle with a ferrule holder; (c) grasping said needle with a needle pulling member; (d) pulling said needle grasped in said step (b) through the ferrule to position the suture material around the tissues, or tissue and graft; and (e) deforming the ferrule with a ferrule deforming member to fix the suture material around the tissues, or tissue and graft. 27. A method of fastening together tissues, or tissue and graft, in a minimally invasive procedure as recited in claim 26, further comprising the step (f) of providing a clear line of sight for a surgeon to the needle during said step (a) by positioning the ferrule holder, the needle pulling member, and the deforming member out of the line of sight. 