A wafer transfer system is described for transferring a wafer while at substantially the same time another wafer is being processed. The wafer transfer system comprises, in one embodiment, a transfer chamber having a wafer transfer blade, a load lock chamber coupled to the transfer chamber, an atmospheric robot for loading and unloading the wafer into the load lock chamber, and a slider coupled to the wafer transfer blade for moving the wafer transfer blade between the transfer chamber and the load lock chamber. According to a preferred embodiment, the slider utilizes a magnetic coupling mechanism and a plurality of plasma sources are coupled to the transfer chamber. The plurality of plasma sources are arranged in a plurality of pairs of plasma sources. Each plasma source in a pair of plasma sources share the other plasma source's induction coils.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus for transferring and processing a plurality of wafers, comprising: a transfer chamber within which processing of said plurality of wafers takes place; a load lock chamber coupled to said transfer chamber; a transfer blade located within said transfer chamber, said transfer blade being capable of transferring said plurality of wafers one at a time from said load lock chamber to said transfer chamber or from said transfer chamber to said load lock chamber while others of said plurality of wafers are being processed within said transfer chamber; a plurality of plasma sources coupled to said transfer chamber wherein each of said plurality of plasma sources is capable of generating a plasma, and comprises: a tube having a first end and a second end, said first end of said tube being disposed above said transfer chamber and said second end of said tube being disposed within said transfer chamber; an induction coil having a first end and a second end, said first end of said induction coil being connected to an RF power source, said second end of said induction coil being connected to ground, said induction coil being spiral-wound around said tube between said first end and said second end; a gas source coupled to said first end of said tube; and, said plurality of plasma sources are arranged in a plurality of pairs of plasma sources wherein each plasma source of said pair of plasma sources shares the other's induction coils; that is, said induction coil of a first of said pair of plasma sources is spiral-wound around said tube of said first of said pair of plasma sources and also spiral-wound around said tube of a second of said pair of plasma sources while said induction coil of said second of said pair of plasma sources is spiral-wound around said tube of said second of said pair of plasma sources and also spiral-wound around said tube of said first of said pair of plasma sources. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said transfer blade comprises: a first magnet coupled to said transfer blade wherein said first magnet is located adjacent to the interior surface of a wall of said transfer chamber; and, a second magnet located adjacent to the exterior of said wall of said transfer chamber wherein said second magnet is operatively connected to said first magnet such that movement of said second magnet results in a corresponding movement of said first magnet and said transfer blade coupled to said first magnet. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, comprising a robot wherein said robot is: operatively connected to said load lock chamber; and, located external to said load lock chamber. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein said robot comprises a plurality of platens, each of said plurality of platens being capable of supporting one of said plurality of wafers. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein each of said plurality of platens comprises a vacuum chuck. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 comprising a plurality of cassette holders wherein each of said plurality of cassette holders is: independently capable of holding said plurality of wafers; and, operatively connected to said robot such that said robot is capable of delivering to or receiving from each of said plurality of cassettes independently all of said plurality of wafers in said cassette at once. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein said plurality of cassette holders comprises two cassette holders. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, comprising a plurality of stages located within said transfer chamber, wherein each of said plurality of stages is capable of supporting one of said plurality of wafers during processing in said transfer chamber while said transfer blade is transporting another of said plurality of wafers from said load lock chamber to said transfer chamber or from said transfer chamber to said load lock chamber. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein each of said plurality of plasma sources is located above one of said plurality of stages. 10. The apparatus of claim 9 comprising a hub centrally located within said transfer chamber. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein said plurality of stages and said transfer blade are located equally spaced around the circumference of a circle having said hub as its center point. 12. The apparatus of claim 11, comprising a plurality of fins wherein each of said plurality of fins has a first end and a second end, said first end being capable of supporting one of said plurality of wafers and said second end being coupled to said centrally located hub. 13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein said plurality of fins is capable of moving in a synchronous manner about said centrally located hub. 14. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein each of said plurality of fins is capable of moving one of said plurality of wafers between one of said plurality of stages and another of said plurality of stages or between one of said plurality of stages and said transfer blade. 15. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein said plurality of fins comprises seven fins. 16. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the temperature of each of said plurality of stages is capable of being independently controlled. 17. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein said plurality of stages comprises six stages. 18. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said load lock chamber comprises a wafer holder having a plurality of shelves capable of holding said plurality of wafers. 19. The apparatus of claim 18 wherein said wafer holder is made of aluminum. 20. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein said wafer holder is capable of holding fifty wafers. 21. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein said wafer holder comprises a counterbalancing means for supporting said wafer holder in the event of a power failure. 22. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein said wafer holder is coupled to a centering means capable of centering said plurality of wafers within said wafer holder. 23. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said load lock chamber comprises a gate valve coupled to said load lock chamber wherein when said gate valve is open said load lock chamber is open to external atmosphere and when said gate valve is closed said load lock chamber is isolated from said external atmosphere. 24. The apparatus of claim 23 wherein said load lock chamber comprises a slit valve operatively coupled to said load lock chamber wherein when said slit valve is open, said load lock chamber is open to said transfer chamber and, when said slit valve is closed, said load lock chamber is isolated from said transfer chamber. 25. The apparatus of claim 1, comprising: a plurality of RF generators each of which is independently coupled to one of said plurality of pairs of plasma sources wherein each of said RF generators is capable of independently generating RF power; and, a plurality of RF tuners each of which is independently coupled to one of said plurality of RF generators. 26. The apparatus of claim 25 wherein said RF tuner comprises: a phase angle detector; a tuning capacitor; and, a control motor wherein said control motor is capable of adjusting said tuning capacitor such that the phase angle between said RF power and said induction coil is zero. 27. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said plurality of wafers comprises twenty-five wafers. 