A method for forming at least a portion of the edge 12, 14 of an airfoil 10 using a cutting tool 164 is disclosed. Various details of this method are developed which enable incremental removal of material by repetitively moving the tool with respect to the edge while positioning the tool with respect to a spanwisely extending airfoil R.sub.5, on the airfoil.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for forming the contour of at least a portion of an edge of an airfoil having a plurality of airfoil sections, which comprises: disposing a tool having the shape of the edge adjacent the edge so that the tool will engage the edge when reciprocated; engaging the edge of the airfoil with the edge on the tool to position the tool on the airfoil; engaging a spanwisely extending reference surface on the airfoil to further position the tool at each airfoil section with respect to the airfoil surface by permitting movement of the tool at that airfoil section with respect to the edge of the airfoil; applying a force to the tool; and, removing material by repeatedly moving the tool relative to the edge in the spanwise direction while positioning the tool during travel at each airfoil section with respect to the spanwisely extending surface and with respect to the airfoil edge in response to engaging the airfoil edge and engaging the reference surface on the airfoil. 2. The method for forming the contour of claim 1 wherein the airfoil has a spanwise axis S and surfaces defined by a plurality of airfoil sections extending chordwisely wherein the step of positioning the tool includes permitting at each airfoil section limited movement of the tool with respect to the reference surface in the chordwise direction against a restoring force acting in the chordwise direction to avoid gouging and chatter marks on the airfoil as the tool is moved and positioned to form the desired contour with respect to the reference surface. 3. The method for forming the contour of claim 1 wherein the step of positioning the tool with respect to the reference surface includes permitting at each airfoil section limited movement of the tool with respect to the reference surface including permitting limited movement of the tool circumferentially about a chordwise axis against a restoring force acting in the circumferential direction. 4. The method for forming the contour of claim 2 wherein the step of positioning the tool with respect to the reference surface includes permitting at each airfoil section limited movement of the tool with respect to the reference surface including permitting limited movement of the tool circumferentially about a chordwise axis against a restoring force acting in the circumferential direction. 5. The method for forming the contour of claim 3 wherein the step of permitting limited movement of the tool with respect to the reference surface includes permitting limited movement against a restoring force acting in a direction substantially perpendicular to the reference surface. 6. The method for forming the contour of claim 4 wherein the step of permitting limited movement of the tool with respect to the reference surface includes permitting limited movement against a restoring force acting in a direction substantially perpendicular to the reference surface. 7. The method for contouring the edge of an airfoil of claim 2 wherein the step of engaging the reference surface includes engaging the surface with two rotatable surfaces attached to and disposed fore and aft of the tool in the spanwise direction and probing the reference surface continuously by rolling the rotatable surfaces on the reference surface. 8. The method for contouring the edge of an airfoil of claim 3 wherein the step of engaging the reference surface includes engaging the surface with two rotatable surfaces attached to and disposed fore and aft of the tool in the spanwise direction and probing the reference surface continuously by rolling the rotatable surfaces on the reference surface. 9. The method for contouring the edge of an airfoil of claim 4 wherein the step of engaging the reference surface includes engaging the surface with two rotatable surfaces attached to and disposed fore and aft of the tool in the spanwise direction and probing the reference surface continuously by rolling the rotatable surfaces on the reference surface. 10. The method for contouring the edge of an airfoil of claim 5 wherein the step of engaging the reference surface includes engaging the surface with two rotatable surfaces attached to and disposed fore and aft of the tool in the spanwise direction and probing the reference surface continuously by rolling the rotatable surfaces on the reference surface. 11. The method for contouring the edge of an airfoil of claim 6 the step of engaging the reference surface includes engaging the surface with two rotatable surfaces attached to and disposed fore and aft of the tool in the spanwise direction and probing the reference surface continuously by rolling the rotatable surfaces on the reference surface. 12. The method for forming the contour of claim 1 wherein the step of positioning the tool includes the step of permitting limited movement of the tool with respect to the reference surface. 13. The method for forming the contour of claim 1 wherein the step of positioning the tool includes the step engaging the reference surface with a probe. 