A controller for one or more pieces of industrial equipment is configured to perform a series of control functions each organized into one or more procedures for performing particular machine actions. The progress of an action, or some parameter of the action-taking machine (which may or may not be associated with an action), is represented by one or more "states." A database associates entries corresponding to the items of an object (including the action(s) and the state(s)), and contains storage locations where the associated procedural instructions and/or data are to be found. The action can be independent of state information, or can instead be executed in a manner responsive to a sensed state. The controller may also include diagnostic capability, as well as accumulation and processing of performance data for subsequent analysis.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A programmable apparatus for performing a plurality of user-selectable control functions, the apparatus comprising: a. a database for storing a plurality of items associated with each of the control functions, the items including, for each function: i. at least one procedure for performing a plurality of actions associated with the control function; ii. a specification of at least one state associated with each procedure; b. means facilitating selection of a procedure in the database; c. means responsive to the selection for accessing the database and causing performance of the selected procedure to achieve the states specified therein; and d. means for monitoring at least one resource associated with the actions of the procedure and, based thereon, determining whether the specified states have been achieved. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the performance means is responsive to executable instructions causing it to respond, in causing performance of the action, to the state determined by the monitoring means. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the items further include a list of resources associated with the action, the performance means being configured to establish control connections to the listed action resources to perform the action. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the items further include a list of resources associated with the state, the monitoring means being configured to establish monitoring connections to the listed state resources to determine the state. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 further comprising: a. an input/output module for connection to at least one input/output point on a controlled machine; and b. a computer memory comprising a plurality of registers and flags for containing data associated associated with the action, the state resources including the at least one input/output point and the registers and flags. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the means facilitating selection and the means responsive to the selection comprise: a. a compiler; b. a series of high-level instructions including instructions invoking the at least one procedure; and c. a database manager, responsive to procedure-invoking instructions, for locating the at least one procedure; the compiler compiling the high-level instructions and the procedure into a machine-executable run-time program. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 further comprising memory means for storing the run-time program. 8. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein the run-time program accesses, during execution, at least one state item by means of the database manager. 9. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein the items further include a template specifying at least one performance characteristic, the monitoring means evaluating the resource against the at least one performance characteristic during performance of the action, the run-time program accessing, during execution, at least one performance-characteristic item by means of the database manager. 10. The apparatus of claim 6 further comprising a programming interface for accepting the high-level instructions and the items, the programming interface communicating with the database manager so as to cause storage of the items in the database. 11. A programmable apparatus for performing a plurality of user-selectable control functions the apparatus comprising: a. a database for storing a plurality of items associated with each of the control functions, the items including, for each function: i. at least one procedure for performing an action associated with the control function; ii. a specification of at least one state associated with the control function; and iii. a template specifying at least one performance characteristic, the monitoring means evaluating the resource against the at least one performance characteristic during performance of the action; b. means facilitating selection of an action in the database; c. means responsive to the selection for accessing the database and causing performance of the selected action; and d. means for monitoring a resource associated with the action and, based thereon, determining the state specified in the database. 12. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein: a. the performance characteristic comprises a plurality of parameter limit value ranges; and b. the template specifies a limit procedure associated with at least one of the limit value ranges, the performance means causing performance of the limit procedure if the parameter value falls within the limit value range. 13. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein the parameter is a time between the action and the state. 14. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein the parameter is a time between first and second states. 15. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein the items further include historical parameter values associated with completions of the action or performances of the limit procedure. 16. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein the monitoring means is configured to dynamically update the historical parameter values upon completion of an action or performance of the limit procedure. 