A pair of connected joints in a master-slave robotic system each operated by a plurality of force imparting means. Such force imparting means for the second joint imparts force thereto at an acute angle. A third joint is used with a flexible drive tape partly internal thereto. A gripping system having an orthogonally rotatable base effector is supported by this joint using a pair of linear actuators to position the base effector as desired. A counterpart system having an orthogonally rotatable base follower orthogonally rotatable on a pair of linear actuators uses the actuators to null out forces occurring thereon.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An articulated manipulating system for mounting on a base in a robotic manipulator and capable of engaging selected objects, said system comprising: a support frame having a base support for mounting on said base with said base support having a first frame extension so as to extend therefrom in a first direction and a second frame extension rotatable connected to said base support and extending therefrom in a second direction at an angle to said first direction; a first effector base rotatably connected to said first frame extension so as to be rotatable with respect thereto in plural different directions; a second effector base rotatable connected to said second frame extension so as to be rotatable with respect thereto in plural different directions; first pair of base linear actuators each having an end thereof rotatably connected to said first frame extension at corresponding extension connection locations thereon, and each having that opposite end thereof rotatably connected to said first effector base at corresponding effector connection locations thereon so that any substantial differentials in movement of these actuators cause corresponding substantial motions of said first effector base towards a corresponding one of said extension connection locations and so that substantial common movements of these actuators causes substantial motions of said first said effector toward or away from both of said extension connection locations; and a second pair of base linear actuators each having an end thereof rotatable connected to said second frame extension at corresponding extension connection locations thereon, and each having that opposite end thereof rotatably connected to said second effector base at corresponding effector connections locations thereon. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said first effector base is rotatably connected to said first frame extension by there being a first pedestal extending from said first frame extension in a direction at an angle with respect to said first direction and substantially away from said base arrangement and having a first partial spherical support mounted on said first pedestal having an outer surface substantially shaped at least in part as a portion of a spherical surface, said first effector base having a first capture opening at one end thereof with an interior surface substantially shaped at least in part as a portion of a spherical surface in which said first partial spherical support is positioned, said first pair of base linear actuators each having an end thereof rotatably connected to said first frame extension on either side of said first pedestal, and each having that opposite end thereof rotatably connected to said first effector base on opposite sides of said first capture opening. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a first gripping extension rotatably connected to said first effector base and an extension linear actuator having one end thereof rotatably connected to said first effector base adjacent where said first frame extension is rotatably connected thereto, and that opposite end thereof rotatably connected to said first gripping extension adjacent to where said first gripping extension is rotatably connected to said first effector base. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said support frame has a subextension extending in a subextension direction at an angle to said first direction and said support frame has a support frame extension extending in a support direction at an angle to said first direction, and further comprising: an opposed effector base rotatably connected to said subextension so as to be rotatable with respect thereto in orthogonal directions; and a pair of lateral linear actuators each having an end rotatably connected to said opposed effector base and one of said pair having that opposite end thereof rotatably connected to said support frame extension, and that one remaining having that opposite end thereof rotatably connected to said first frame extension. 5. An articulated manipulating system for mounting on a base in a robotic manipulator and capable of engaging selected objects, said system comprising: a support frame having a base support with a first frame extension so as to extend therefrom in a first direction, a base arrangement for mounting on said base comprising an output effector affixed to said base support, said output effector being rotatably mounted in a drive housing, said drive housing having a pair of housing sectorial frames affixed thereto, each having a bearing race following a circular arc therein for holding corresponding ball bearings against a corresponding bearing race following a circular arc in a corresponding one of a pair of housing sectorial mounts affixed to a support standard to result in said drive housing being rotatably connected to said support standard; a first effector base rotatably connected to said first frame extension so as to be rotatable with respect thereto in plural different directions; and a first pair of base linear actuators each having an end thereof rotatable connected to said first frame extension at corresponding extension connection locations thereon, and each having that opposite end thereof rotatably connected to said first effector base at corresponding effector connection locations thereon so that any substantial differentials in movement of these actuators cause corresponding substantial motions of said first effector base towards a corresponding one of said extension connection locations and so that substantial common movements of these actuators causes substantial motions of said first said effector toward or away from both of said extension connection locations. 6. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein each of said first effector base linear actuators has said end thereof rotatably connected to said first effector base so as to have said first effector base be rotatable with respect thereto in orthogonal directions. 7. The apparatus of claim 3 further comprising a second gripping extension rotatably connected to said first gripping extension at an end thereof opposite that to which said extension linear actuator is connected. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein those ends of said first and second frame extensions away from said base support are directed sufficiently toward one another to permit connecting a relative motion linear actuator therebetween to permit causing said second frame extension to be rotated about said rotatable connection thereof to said base support. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said second effector base is rotatably connected to said second frame extension by there being a pedestal extending from said second frame extension in a direction at an angle with respect to said second direction and substantially away from said base arrangement and having a partial spherical support mounted on said pedestal having an outer surface substantially shaped as a portion of a spherical surface, said second effector base having a capture opening at one end thereof with an interior surface substantially shaped as at least a portion of a spherical surface in which said partial spherical support is positioned, said second pair of base linear actuators each having an end thereof rotatably connected to said second frame extension on either side of said pedestal, and each having that opposite end thereof rotatably connected to said second effector base on opposite sides of said capture opening. 10. The apparatus of claim 4 further comprising an opposed gripping extension rotatably connected to said opposed effector base and an opposed extension linear actuator having one end thereof rotatably connected to said opposed effector base adjacent where said subextension is rotatably connected thereto, and that opposite end thereof rotatably connected to said opposed gripping extension adjacent to where said opposed gripping extension is rotatably connected to said opposed base effector. 11. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein said output effector has a housed gear sector affixed thereto engaged with a housed drive gear on an output shaft of a housed drive motor supported in said drive housing, and with one of said pair of housing sectorial frames affixed to said drive housing having a housing drive gear sector affixed thereto which is engaged with a housing drive gear on an output shaft of a housing drive motor supported by said support tube. 12. The apparatus of claim 6 further comprising said first effector base linear actuators each having force sensors therein capable measuring forces thereon. 13. The apparatus of claim 6 further comprising said first effector base linear actuators each having relative translation sensors thereon capable measuring relative translations between ends thereof. 14. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said first pair of base linear actuators are rotatably connected to said first effector base as aforesaid so as to be also on a further common side thereof. 15. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein said first pair of base linear actuators are rotatably connected to said first frame extension as aforesaid on either side of where said first effector base is rotatably connected thereto. 