An apparatus for providing a tactile stimulus to a part of the body of a physical operator when a virtual operator, created by movements of the physical operator, encounters a virtual object defined by a computer. A signalling unit communicates with the computer and emits a signal when the virtual operator encounters a virtual object. A stimulus unit responsive to the signalling unit is disposed in close proximity to a part of the body of the physical operator for providing a tactile stimulus when the virtual operator encounters a virtual object. The stimulus unit may comprise a segment of memory metal which undergoes a martensitic transformation to a different form or a solenoid having a member which moves in response to a signal emitted by the signalling unit. A vibrating member, such as a piezoceramic bender may be used instead of or in addition to the solenoid or memory metal.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus for providing a stimulus to a human operator, the apparatus for use in a virtual reality system in which a part of the body of the human operator is depicted as a virtual body part in a visual display, the apparatus comprising: a signaling unit configured to provide an indication in response to the virtual body part contacting a virtual object; and a stimulus unit configured to provide a stimulus to the human operator in response to the indication from the signaling unit; wherein the stimulus unit comprises: a segment of memory metal disposed in close proximity to a part of the body of the human operator; and a signal generator operable to produce, depending upon the indication from the signaling unit, a signal to cause the segment of memory metal to change form, whereby a movement of the segment of memory metal into a different form imparts a tactile stimulus to the human operator. 2. The apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein the stimulus unit provides a tactile stimulus to the human operator. 3. The apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein the stimulus unit provides a tactile stimulus to the part of the body of the human operator which is depicted by the virtual body part. 4. The apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein the stimulus unit moves depending upon the indication from the signaling unit. 5. The apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein the stimulus unit includes a metallic member which moves depending upon the indication from the signaling unit; wherein the metallic member includes a nickle titanium alloy. 6. The apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein the signal generator comprises a transistor coupled to selectively control a flow of current through the segment of memory metal depending upon the indication from the signaling unit. 7. The apparatus as recited in claim 6, wherein the signal generator provides a pulse to a base of the transistor when the virtual operator contacts the virtual object. 8. The apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein the segment of memory metal is positioned on a fabric to be placed in close proximity to a part of the body of the human operator. 9. The apparatus as recited in claim 8, wherein the segment of memory metal is positioned on the fabric such that the segment of memory metal encircles a part of the body of the human operator when the fabric is worn by the human operator. 10. The apparatus as recited in claim 9, wherein the part of the body encircled by the segment of memory metal is a finger. 11. An apparatus for providing a stimulus to a human operator, the apparatus for use in a virtual reality system in which a part of the body of the human operator is depicted as a virtual body part in a visual display, the apparatus comprising: a signaling unit configured to provide an indication in response to the virtual body part contacting a virtual object; and a stimulus unit configured to provide a stimulus to the human operator in response to the indication from the signaling unit, wherein the stimulus unit includes a metallic member which moves depending upon the indication from the signaling unit, wherein the metallic member includes a nickle titanium alloy. 12. An apparatus for interacting with a virtual object represented within a display, the apparatus comprising: a processing system configured to generate a virtual representation of a part of a user's body on the display; a signaling unit configured to provide an indication in response to the virtual representation of the part of the user's body contacting the virtual object within the display; and a stimulus unit configured to provide a stimulus to the user depending upon the indication from the signaling unit; wherein the stimulus unit includes a segment of memory metal disposed in close proximity to the part of the user's body; and a signal generator operable to produce, depending upon the indication from the signaling unit, a signal to cause the segment of memory metal to change form, whereby a movement of the segment of memory metal into a different form imparts a tactile stimulus to the user. 13. An apparatus for use with a virtual reality system, the apparatus comprising: a glove adapted to be worn on a part of a user's body; and a stimulus unit attached to the glove, wherein the stimulus unit is configured to provide a tactile stimulus to the user depending upon a signal from the virtual reality system; wherein the stimulus unit includes a segment of memory metal disposed in close proximity to the part of the user's body; and a signal generator operable to produce, depending upon the indication from the signaling unit, a signal to cause the segment of memory metal to change form, whereby a movement of the segment of memory metal into a different form imparts a tactile stimulus to the user. 14. The apparatus as recited in claim 13, further comprising a flex sensor attached to the glove, wherein the flex sensor generates a signal indicative of a flexing of the part of the user's body. 15. A method for providing a tactile stimulus to a part of a body of a human operator using a virtual reality system in which a virtual operator controlled by the human operator manipulates virtual objects, the method comprising: disposing a segment of memory metal in close proximity to a part of the body of the human operator; producing a signal when the virtual operator contacts the virtual object; and applying a current in response to the signal sufficient to cause the segment of memory metal to change form, whereby a movement of the segment of memory metal into a different form imparts a tactile stimulus to the human operator. 