A transfer system for transferring objects into a barrier isolator is provided. The barrier isolator includes a barrier wall to maintain a decontaminated environment in an isolated space. The transfer system includes a port opening located in the barrier wall. A first port barrier film is sealingly located over the port opening. A container is provided which includes an interior cavity which contains a second, replacement port barrier film and which is adapted to further receive and hold decontaminated objects to be delivered through the port opening and into the isolated space. A container barrier film is sealingly connected to the container to seal the second, replacement port barrier film and the decontaminated objects within the cavity in a decontaminated state. The container barrier film has a first, decontaminated side which faces the cavity, and a second exposed side, positionable adjacent to the port barrier film. A parting and sealing element is located within the isolated space and is adapted to part the first port barrier film and the container barrier film to define a transfer opening in the first port and container barrier films and to simultaneously seal together and decontaminate the edges of the first port and container barrier films such that the exposed and potentially contaminated second sides of the first port barrier film and the container barrier film are locked together and remain isolated from the isolated space allowing the decontaminated objects and the second, replacement port barrier film to be passed into the isolated space.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A transfer system for transferring objects into a barrier isolator which includes a barrier wall to maintain a decontaminated environment in an isolated space, the transfer system comprising: a port opening located in the barrier wall to provide access to the isolated space; a first port barrier film sealingly located over the port opening, the first port barrier film having a first, decontaminated side which faces the isolated space and a second side which faces away from the isolated space; a container having an interior cavity which contains a second, replacement port barrier film and which is adapted to further receive and hold decontaminated objects to be delivered through the port opening and into the isolated space; a container barrier film sealingly connected to the container to maintain the decontaminated objects and the second, replacement port barrier film within the cavity in a decontaminated state, the container barrier film having a first, decontaminated side which faces the cavity, and a second exposed side, positionable adjacent to the port barrier film; a parting and sealing element located within the isolated space adjacent to the port opening, pivotably mounted for movement from a first, inoperative position out of alignment with the port opening to a second in-use position adjacent to the first side of the first port barrier film, where the parting and sealing element is adapted to part the first port barrier film and the container barrier film to define a transfer opening having edges in the first port barrier film and the container barrier film and to simultaneously seal together and decontaminate the edges of the first port barrier film and the container barrier film such that the exposed and potentially contaminated second sides of the first port barrier film and the container barrier film are locked together and remain isolated from the isolated space, whereby the decontaminated objects and the second, replacement port barrier film can be passed from the container cavity, through the transfer opening and into the isolated space while maintaining the decontaminated environment. 2. The transfer system of claim 1 further comprising a holder located adjacent to the port opening and adapted to position the container against the port opening with the second side of the first port barrier film in facing engagement with the second side of the container barrier film. 3. The transfer system of claim 1 further comprising a surface surrounding the port opening in the barrier wall, the surface having a depth, and a plurality of spaced apart, annular seals being located on the surface, the first port barrier film being mounted in a first frame having an outer periphery which is complementary to the port opening, the second, replacement port barrier film being mounted in a second frame having an outer periphery which is complementary to the port opening, the outer periphery of the first and second frames being adapted to be sealingly engaged by at least one annular seal and being slidably displacable through the port opening. 4. The transfer system of claim 3 wherein the second frame is located within the container with the second, replacement barrier film. 5. The transfer system of claim 3 wherein the first and second frames each have a thickness, and the depth of the surface is greater than the combined thicknesses of the first and second frames such that the first frame with an associated container connected by the parted and sealed barrier films can be displaced outwardly from the port opening while the second frame is sealingly engaged by at least one annular seal in the port opening to maintain isolation of the isolated space as the first frame is removed. 6. The transfer system of claim 1 further comprising a robotic arm located within the isolated space, the robotic arm being adapted to remove the second, replacement port barrier film from the container and sealingly install the second, replacement port barrier film in the port opening prior to removal of the container with the first port barrier film. 7. The transfer system of claim 1 wherein the container includes a flange and the container barrier film is sealingly connected to the flange, and a shield is located between the container barrier film and the flange to prevent the parting and sealing element from acting on the flange. 8. The transfer system of claim 1 wherein the parting and sealing element extends only partially around the port opening, and is adopted to form a flap in the first port and container barrier films such that no loose pieces are created. 9. The transfer system of claim 8 wherein a flap support is located within the isolated space and is movable from a first position, which is adopted to hold the flap closed, to a second position, which is adopted to allow the flap to open. 10. The transfer system of claim 9 wherein the parting and sealing element and the flap support are located on a door assembly pivotably mounted within the isolated space. 11. A method of supplying decontaminated objects and a replacement port barrier film to a decontaminated environment in an isolated space delimited by a barrier wall, comprising the steps of: (a) providing a port opening in the barrier wall and a first port barrier film sealing the port opening, the first port barrier film having a first, decontaminated side facing the isolated space to close-off the isolated space and a second exposed side; (b) positioning a container adjacent to the port opening, the container having a decontaminated interior cavity with decontaminated objects and a second, replacement port barrier film sealed within the cavity b a container barrier film, the container barrier film having a first decontaminated side and a second, exposed side, the second side of the first port barrier film being in facing engagement with the second side of the container barrier film; (c) moving a pivotably mounted parting and sealing element pivotably from a first, inoperative position out of alignment with the port opening to a second, in-use position and simultaneously creating a transfer opening in the first port barrier film and the container barrier film and sealing together edges formed around the transfer opening in the first port barrier film and the container barrier film with the parting and sealing element; (d) transferring the decontaminated objects and the second, replacement port barrier film from the container, through the transfer opening in the first port barrier film and the container barrier film, and into the isolated space; and (e) resealing the port opening with the second, replacement port barrier film while maintaining the decontaminated environment in the isolated space. 