A CVD reactor includes separate reaction and pressure chambers, where the reaction chamber is contained within and isolates process gases from the pressure chamber. In this manner, each of the chambers may be designed specifically for its intended purpose. The pressure chamber is of a bell-jar shaped designed to sustain a low-pressure environment. The reaction chamber is of a parallel-plate shaped designed for optimized process gas flow. The reaction chamber is isolated from the pressure chamber such that process gases present in the reaction chamber are separated from and cannot come into contact with the inner surface of the bell jar. In this manner, process gases do not deposit on the walls of the pressure chamber. In one embodiment, the wafer is heated by induction coils external to the process chamber. In this manner, the heat transferred to the wafer is not dependent upon the thickness of deposition layers formed on the walls of the reaction chamber.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A CVD reactor comprising: a pressure chamber for maintaining a reduced pressure environment; a reaction chamber contained entirely within said pressure chamber, said reaction chamber comprising a susceptor upon which rests a wafer to be processed therein using one or more process gases, the interior of said reaction chamber being substantially isolated from said pressure chamber such that said process gases present in said reaction chamber do not contact a surface of said pressure chamber; and a first plurality of induction coils positioned on an external periphery of said pressure chamber, said induction coils generating an RF field which inductively couples with a portion of said reaction chamber which in turn heats said wafer in said reaction chamber, wherein said first plurality of induction coils are arranged in two or more independently controllable concentric zones. 2. A CVD reactor comprising: a pressure chamber for maintaining a reduced pressure environment; a reaction chamber contained entirely within said pressure chamber, said reaction chamber comprising a susceptor upon which rests a wafer to be processed therein using one or more process gases, the interior of said reaction chamber being substantially isolated from said pressure chamber such that said process gases present in said reaction chamber do not contact a surface of said pressure chamber; and a first plurality of induction coils positioned on an external periphery of said pressure chamber, said induction coils generating an RF field which inductively couples with a portion of said reaction chamber which in turn heats said wafer in said reaction chamber, wherein said portion of said reaction chamber comprises a dish structure positioned immediately above said wafer in said reaction chamber, said dish structure heating said from above said wafer. 3. The reactor of claim 2, further comprising a gas injection system for injecting said one or more process gases into said chamber, said gas injection system comprising: one or more first feed tubes; and one or more second feed tubes; wherein said one or more process gases are injected into said reaction chamber from each of said first feed tubes, and a first gas is injected into said reaction chamber via said second feed tubes, the flow of said first gas from said second feed tubes directing the flow of said process gases parallel to a top surface of said wafer while shielding said dish from said flow of said process gases so as to prevent deposition of said process gases on said dish. 4. The reactor of claim 2, wherein said dish structure and said susceptor form said reaction chamber and approximate a black body cavity within which said wafer rests and is heated from all sides. 5. The reactor of claim 4, wherein said dish structure is comprised of graphite. 6. The reactor of claim 4, further comprising first and second aligned openings formed in said respective pressure chamber and said reaction chamber through which said wafer may be inserted into and removed from said reactor, said first and second openings being proximate to a bottom surface of said reactor. 7. The reactor of claim 6, wherein said black body cavity is proximate to a top surface of said reactor. 8. A CVD reactor comprising: a pressure chamber for maintaining a reduced pressure environment; a reaction chamber contained entirely within said pressure chamber, said reaction chamber comprising a susceptor upon which rests a wafer to be processed therein using one or more process gases, the interior of said reaction chamber being substantially isolated from said pressure chamber such that said process gases present in said reaction chamber do not contact a surface of said pressure chamber; a first plurality of induction coils positioned on an external periphery of said pressure chamber, said induction coils generating an RF field which inductively couples with a portion of said reaction chamber which in turn heats said wafer in said reaction chamber; a second plurality of induction coils positioned immediately below said wafer, said second plurality of induction coils generating an RF field which inductively couples with and thus heats said susceptor which in turn heats said wafer from below said wafer. 9. The reactor of claim 8, further comprising: a controller; a first group of sensors positioned above said wafer and coupled to said controller, said first group of sensors providing to said controller information indicative of the temperature of portions of said reaction chamber immediately above said wafer; and a second group of sensors positioned below said wafer and coupled to said controller, said second group of sensors providing to said controller information indicative of the temperature of portions of said reaction chamber immediately below said wafer; wherein said controller adjusts the RF field generated by said first plurality of induction coils in response to said information provided by said first group of sensors and adjusts the RF field generated by said second plurality of induction coils in response to said information provided by said second group of sensors. 10. The reactor of claim 9, wherein said sensors comprises infrared sensors. 11. A CVD reactor comprising: a pressure chamber for maintaining a reduced pressure environment; a reaction chamber contained entirely within said pressure chamber, said reaction chamber comprising a susceptor upon which rests a wafer to be processed therein using one or more process gases, the interior of said reaction chamber being substantially isolated from said pressure chamber such that said process gases present in said reaction chamber do not contact a surface of said pressure chamber; a dish formed as part of said reaction chamber, said dish, said susceptor, and said wafer approximating a black body cavity; and a first plurality of radiant energy sources positioned on an external periphery of said pressure chamber, said radiant energy sources radiantly heating said dish which in turn heats said wafer. 12. The reactor of claim 11, further comprising a second plurality of radiant energy sources positioned beneath said wafer, said second plurality of radiant energy sources indirectly heating said wafer from below and from above said wafer. 13. The reactor of claim 12, wherein each of said first and second plurality of radiant energy sources is arranged in two or more independently controlled concentric zones. 