A non-invasive servo-write system for use in a data recording disk drive. The system measures actuator position and generates a reference clock using semiconductor lasers. Internal position references are provided by reflective diffraction gratings affixed to the actuator arm and the spindle hub. Wavefront reconstruction optics correct for aberrations in the gratings. Optical sensors detect differential changes in the diffraction patterns created by the gratings, eliminating sensitivity to frequency drift. Decode electronics convert optical sensor data into an actuator position measurement. Control electronics drive the voice coil motor within the disk drive, which positions the write transducer to record servo information provided in a servo pattern generator. Transparent windows in the head-disk-assembly cover allow the servo-writer to write drives which are completely assembled and sealed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for measuring the position of an actuator in a data recording disk drive, comprising: a laser which emits a light beam to the actuator, the light beam having a substantially constant angle of incidence with respect to the actuator; a reflective diffraction grating, affixed to the actuator, which diffracts the incident light beam; detection optics which produce first and second signals from the diffracted beam indicative of direction and magnitude of actuator movement during servowriting; and actuator position signal decode electronics, coupled to the detection optics, which receive the first and second signals and produce therefrom a position signal indicative of the actuator position during servowriting, the decode electronics including coarse decode electronics for obtaining coarse actuator position information, and fine decode electronics for further resolving the coarse actuator position information to obtain fine actuator position information, wherein the coarse and fine decode electronics process the first and second signals in determining the fine and coarse position information, the position signal being produced from both the coarse and fine actuator position information. 2. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein the detection optics measure the phase difference between the +1 order diffracted laser beam and the -1 order diffracted laser beam. 3. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein the laser is a semiconductor laser. 4. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein the diffraction grating includes a linear grating pattern. 5. The system as recited in claim 4, wherein the diffraction grating is positioned on the actuator with its grating lines perpendicular to the direction of motion of the actuator near the midpoint of the actuator's travel range. 6. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein the actuator is a rotary actuator and the diffraction grating includes a radial grating pattern. 7. The system as recited in claim 6, wherein the point of convergence of the radial grating lines is substantially coincident with the pivot point of the actuator. 8. The system as recited in claim 2, wherein the detection optics include reconstruction optics which compensate for variations in the angles of the diffracted laser beams caused by grating motion. 9. The system as recited in claim 2, wherein the detection optics include reconstruction optics which compensate for optical wavefront aberrations in the diffracted laser beams. 10. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein the fine decode electronics include a microprocessor. 11. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein the decoding electronics include means for generating quadrature signals; means for measuring parameters of the quadrature signals; and means for computing from the measured parameters and the received first and second signals the actuator position. 12. The system as recited in claim 11, wherein the measured parameters include any of amplitude, DC offset bias, and phase difference. 13. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein the data recording disk drive is sealed by a housing enclosure, the laser is located externally to the disk drive, and the light beam enters and exits the disk drive through at least one aperture disposed in the housing enclosure. 14. The system as recited in claim 13, wherein the at least one aperture is covered with light-transmissive material. 15. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein the laser is attached to the data recording disk drive. 16. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein the light beam is collimated. 17. The system of claim 1, wherein the first and second signals are cyclic signals having a phase difference between them. 18. The system of claim 17, wherein the coarse decode electronics includes a counter which counts the cycles of the first and second signals to obtain the coarse position information. 19. The system of claim 17, wherein the fine decode electronics further resolve a single cycle of the first and second signals to obtain the fine position information. 20. The system of claim 1, wherein the first and second signals are quadrature signals. 21. The system of claim 20, wherein the coarse decode electronics includes a quadrature counter which counts the cycles of the first and second signals to obtain the coarse position information. 22. The system of claim 20, wherein the fine decode electronics further resolve a single cycle of the quadrature signals into 2.sup.N parts. 23. The system of claim 1, wherein the coarse position information further comprises magnitude of actuator movement and direction of actuator movement relative to an initial position. 24. The system of claim 1, wherein the fine position decode electronics obtains the fine position information by measuring a phase difference between the first and second signals. 25. The system of claim 1, wherein the fine position information includes information about absolute direction of movement of the actuator. 26. The system of claim 1, wherein the position signal is produced by splicing the coarse actuator position information with the fine actuator position information. 27. The system of claim 1, wherein the decode electronics comprise, a counter which counts cycles of the first and second signals to produce a coarse grating position, at least one memory addressed by the coarse grating position for storing first and second pluralities of amplitude adjustment values corresponding to selected grating positions, a circuit for adjusting the first signal using a value selected from the first amplitude adjustment values and corresponding to the current coarse grating position, and for adjusting the second signal using a value selected from the second amplitude adjustment values and corresponding to the current coarse grating position, and a processor for receiving the coarse grating position and the adjusted first and second signals and producing therefrom the actuator position signal. 28. The system of claim 27, wherein the first and second plurality of amplitude adjustment values comprise a plurality of average amplitudes obtained in a calibration procedure wherein the actuator is swept through its range of movement and an average amplitude for each of the selected grating positions is determined. 29. The system of claim 28, wherein the first and second signals are cyclical, and wherein 2.sup.N average amplitudes are determined for each cycle of the first and second signals. 30. The system of claim 28, wherein the decode electronics further comprises a feedback loop for determining the plurality of average amplitudes during the calibration process. 31. The system of claim 30, wherein the feedback loop further comprises a bias detector, divider and accumulator. 32. A system for generating a reference clock in a data recording disk drive having a rotating spindle stack and at least one disk surface for storing data, comprising: a laser of fixed position relative to the spindle stack which emits a light beam incident to the spindle stack; a reflective diffraction grating, affixed to the spindle stack, which diffracts the incident light beam; detection optics which detect phase differences in the diffraction pattern reflected from the grating; and clock detection electronics, coupled to the detection optics, which receive the detected phase differences and convert them into a reference clock signal phase-locked to the disk surface for use in controlling circumferential position during servowriting of the disk surface. 33. The system as recited in claim 32, wherein the clock detection electronics further convert the received phase differences into a signal representing an index location on the spindle stack. 34. The system as recited in claim 32, wherein the detection optics detects the phase difference between the +1 order diffracted laser beam and the -1 order diffracted laser beam. 35. The system as recited in claim 32, wherein the laser is a semiconductor laser. 36. The system as recited in claim 32, wherein the diffraction grating includes a radial grating pattern. 37. The system as recited in claim 32, wherein the detection optics include reconstruction optics which compensate for optical wavefront aberrations in the diffracted laser beams. 38. The system as recited in claim 32, wherein the light beam is substantially focused at the grating surface and the detection optics include reconstruction optics which re-collimate the diffracted laser beams. 39. The system as recited in claim 32, wherein. the detection electronics include raw clock detection electronics and timing adjustment electronics for measuring grating centration error and providing compensation therefor. 40. The system as recited in claim 32, further comprising: a second laser, positioned on the opposite side of the diffraction grating center from the first laser, which emits a second light beam incident to the diffraction grating; second detection optics which detect phase differences in the second diffraction pattern reflected from the grating; second clock detection electronics, coupled to the second detection optics, which receive the second detected phase differences and convert them into a second reference clock signal; and mixer electronics, coupled to the first and second clock detection electronics, which combine the first and second reference clock signals to produce a reference clock signal compensated for grating centration error. 41. The system as recited in claim 32, wherein the data recording disk drive is enclosed by a housing, the laser is located externally to the disk drive, and the light beam enters and exits the disk drive through at least one aperture disposed in the housing. 42. The system as recited in claim 32, wherein the at least one aperture is covered with light-transmissive material. 43. The system as recited in claim 32, wherein the laser is attached to the data recording disk drive. 44. The system as recited in claim 32, wherein the light beam is collimated. 45. The system as recited in claim 32, wherein the light beam is substantially focused at the grating surface. 46. The system as recited in claim 32, wherein the reflective diffraction grating is in the shape of a full annulus substantially centered at the spindle stack rotation axis. 47. A system for writing servo information in an enclosed data recording disk drive having a housing enclosing a spindle stack which includes a data recording disk and a spindle motor having a spindle shaft for attachment to the center of the data recording disk, and a data recording head attached to an actuator positionable over the data recording disk, comprising: a first semiconductor laser, located externally to the disk drive, which emits a light beam to the actuator, the light beam having a substantially constant angle of incidence with respect to the actuator; a first reflective diffraction grating, affixed to the actuator, which diffracts the incident light beam from the first semiconductor laser; a first detection optics which produce first and second signals from the diffracted beam indicative of direction and magnitude of actuator movement during servowriting; and actuator position signal decode electronics, coupled to the first detection optics, which receive the first and second signals and produce therefrom a position signal indicative of the actuator position during servowriting, the decode electronics including coarse decode electronics for obtaining coarse actuator position information, and fine decode electronics for further resolving the coarse actuator position information to obtain fine actuator position information, wherein the coarse and fine decode electronics process the first and second signals in determining the fine and coarse position information, the position signal being produced from both the coarse and fine actuator position information; servo controller electronics, coupled to the actuator position decode electronics and the actuator, which controllably adjust the position of the actuator; and servo pattern generator, coupled to the data recording head, which provides servo information for the data recording head to write on the data recording disk. 48. The system as recited in claim 47, further comprising: a second semiconductor laser, located externally to the disk drive, which emits a light beam incident to the spindle stack; a second reflective diffraction grating, affixed to the spindle stack, which diffracts the incident light beam from the second semiconductor laser; second detection optics which detect phase differences in the diffraction pattern reflected from the second grating; clock detection electronics, coupled to the second detection optics, which receive the detected phase differences and convert them into a reference clock signal; and servo write control electronics, coupled to the servo controller electronics, the servo pattern generator, and the clock detection electronics, which coordinate the writing of the servo information. 49. The system as recited in claim 48, wherein the light beams and diffraction patterns enter and exit the enclosed data recording disk drive through apertures disposed in the housing enclosure, which apertures are covered with light-transmissive material. 50. The system as recited in claim 48, wherein the first and second semiconductor lasers are attached to the data recording disk drive. 51. The system as recited in claim 48, wherein at least one of the light beams is collimated. 52. The system as recited in claim 48, wherein the second reflective diffraction grating is in the shape of a full annulus substantially centered at the spindle stack rotation axis. 53. The system of claim 47, wherein the first and second signals are cyclic signals having a phase difference between them. 54. The system of claim 53, wherein the coarse decode electronics includes a counter which counts the cycles of the first and second signals to obtain the coarse position information. 55. The system of claim 53, wherein the fine decode electronics further resolve a single cycle of the first and second signals to obtain the fine position information. 56. The system of claim 47, wherein the first and second signals are quadrature signals. 57. The system of claim 56, wherein the coarse decode electronics includes a quadrature counter which counts the cycles of the first and second signals to obtain the coarse position information. 58. The system of claim 56, wherein the fine decode electronics further resolve a single cycle of the quadrature signals into 2.sup.N parts. 59. The system of claim 47, wherein the coarse position information further comprises magnitude of actuator movement and direction of actuator movement relative to an initial position. 60. The system of claim 47, wherein the fine position decode electronics obtains the fine position information by measuring a phase difference between the first and second signals. 61. The system of claim 47, wherein the fine position information includes information about absolute direction of movement of the actuator. 62. The system of claim 47, wherein the position signal is produced by splicing the coarse actuator position information with the fine actuator position information. 63. The system of claim 47, wherein the decode electronics comprise, a counter which counts cycles of the first and second signals to produce a coarse grating position, at least one memory addressed by the coarse grating position for storing first and second pluralities of amplitude adjustment values corresponding to selected grating positions, a circuit for adjusting the first signal using a value selected from the first amplitude adjustment values and corresponding to the current coarse grating position, and for adjusting the second signal using a value selected from the second amplitude adjustment values and corresponding to the current coarse grating position, and a processor for receiving the coarse grating position and the adjusted first and second signals and producing therefrom the actuator position signal. 64. The system of claim 63, wherein the first and second plurality of amplitude adjustment values comprise a plurality of average amplitudes obtained in a calibration procedure wherein the actuator is swept through its range of movement and an average amplitude for each of the selected grating positions is determined. 65. The system of claim 64, wherein the first and second signals are cyclical, and wherein 2.sup.N average amplitudes are determined for each cycle of the first and second signals. 66. The system of claim 64, wherein the decode electronics further comprises a feedback loop for determining the plurality of average amplitudes during the calibration process. 67. The system of claim 66, wherein the feedback loop further comprises a bias detector, divider and accumulator. 68. A system for writing servo information in an enclosed data recording disk drive having a housing enclosing a spindle stack which includes at least one disk surface for storing data and a spindle motor having a spindle shaft for attachment to the center of the data recording disk, and a data recording head attached to an actuator positionable over the data recording disk, comprising: an actuator position subsystem comprising, a first semiconductor laser, located externally to the disk drive, which emits a light beam to the actuator, the light beam having a substantially constant angle of incidence with respect to the actuator; a first reflective diffraction grating, affixed to the actuator, which diffracts the incident light beam from the first semiconductor laser; first detection optics which produce first and second signals from the diffracted beam indicative of direction and magnitude of actuator movement during servowriting; and actuator position signal decode electronics, coupled to the first detection optics, which receive the first and second signals and produce therefrom a position signal indicative of the actuator position during servowriting, the decode electronics including coarse decode electronics for obtaining coarse actuator position information, and fine decode electronics for further resolving the coarse actuator position information to obtain fine actuator position information, wherein the coarse and fine decode electronics process the first and second signals in determining the fine and coarse position information, the position signal being produced from both the coarse and fine actuator position information; a write clock subsystem for generating a reference clock comprising, a laser of fixed position relative to the spindle stack which emits a light beam incident to the spindle stack, a reflective diffraction grating, affixed to the spindle stack, which diffracts the incident light beam, detection optics which detect phase differences in the diffraction pattern reflected from the grating, clock detection electronics, coupled to the detection optics, which receive the detected phase differences and convert them into a reference clock signal phase-locked to the disk surface for use in controlling circumferential position during servowriting of the disk surface; servo controller electronics, coupled to the actuator position decode electronics and the actuator, which controllably adjust the position of the actuator; and servo pattern generator, coupled to the data recording head, which provides servo information for the data recording head to write on the data recording disk. 