An apparatus and method having short stroke motion for gripping and releasing an object utilizes a programmable stepper motor for controlling various short stroke, generally arcuate motions of the gripper. Gears associated with each of the at least one gripper jaws supported on a carrier shaft engage a common ring gear that is driven by drive means including the stepper motor which imparts synchronous motion of the grippers for opening and closing about the object.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus having short stroke arcuate motion for gripping and releasing an object, said apparatus comprising: a frame; at least one object engaging means for engaging and then gripping the object, each of said at least one object engaging means being arranged on a corresponding carrier shaft mounted for rotation in said frame, each of said corresponding carrier shafts having at least one gear arranged thereon for engaging a common ring gear rotatably mounted in the frame; and, drive means operably associated with said ring gear for actuating said object engaging means to synchronously move for engaging said object, said drive means comprising a stepper motor operably connected to said ring gear through an offset gear train, said stepper motor capable of being selectively overdriven to grip and release an object within a short motion range. 2. The apparatus recited in claim 1, wherein said object engaging means is mounted eccentrically on said carrier shaft for rotation in a substantially arcuate path about said frame. 3. The apparatus recited in claim 1, wherein said object engaging means includes an eccentric element mounted thereon for gripping said object, said object engaging means being concentrically mounted to said carrier shaft. 4. The apparatus recited in claim 1, wherein said stepper motor is programmably adapted to driving the object engaging means to reposition said at least one object engaging means for accommodating larger and smaller objects. 5. The apparatus recited in claim 1, wherein said at least one object engaging means comprises a generally circular pin. 6. The apparatus recited in claim 5, wherein said generally circular pin comprises a vacuum cup arranged on an end portion of said pin for engaging said object, said vacuum cup being supplied with vacuum from a vacuum generating means associated therewith. 7. The apparatus recited in claim 1, wherein said at least one object engaging means is mounted to said carrier shaft by a permanent magnet arranged between said carrier shaft and said object engaging means. 8. The apparatus recited in claim 1. wherein said stepper motor is operably connected to said ring gear through a cycloidal gear reducer. 9. The apparatus recited in claim 1, wherein each one of said corresponding carrier shafts rotate about a respective axis in synchronism with another of said carrier shafts. 10. Method of gripping an object with short stroke motion, comprising the steps of: providing an object; providing an apparatus having short stroke motion for gripping and releasing said object, said apparatus comprising a frame; at least one object engaging means for engaging and then gripping the object, each of said at least one object engaging means being arranged on a corresponding carrier shaft mounted for rotation in said frame, each of said corresponding carrier shafts having at least one gear arranged thereon for engaging a common ring gear rotatably mounted in the frame; and, drive means operably associated with said ring gear for actuating said object engaging means to synchronously move for engaging said object, said drive means comprising a stepper motor operably connected to said ring gear through an offset gear train, said stepper motor capable of being selectively overdriven to grip and release an object within a short motion range; moving said engaging means within reach of said object; engaging said object with said engaging means; and, securely grasping said object with said engaging means. 11. The method recited in claim 10, further comprising the step of maneuvering said object from a first position at which said object was securely gripped to a second position at which said object is subjected to independent treatment, and then releasing said object from said engaging means. 