Thermal stresses normally associated with joining are alleviated by a low temperature joining technique of the present invention. A low-temperature joining material is applied (as a paste, or as a powder spray, or as a tape, or as a paint, or as a putty) at the junction of two components desired to be joined together. Energy from a source such as a laser beam (for example an Nd:YAG or a CO.sub.2 laser) or by a flame, arc, plasma, or the like, is either "walked" along the joining material to react the entire amount of joining material, or the joining material is self-sustaining and simply requires igniting a selected portion of the joining material by the energy source. In an exemplary application of the process, vanes are brazed to the bowl and/or to the shroud of an automatic transmission bowl (impeller or turbine) assembly, preferably using the low-temperature joining material. Systems for delivering the joining material and the energy are described. The fabrication of hollow vanes is described. The fabrication of shroudless bowl components and stator components subsuming the function of the shroud are described.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Method of joining components together, comprising: positioning one component adjacent another component; applying a self-sustaining exothermic joining material including a first part comprising nanoscale size particles and a second part comprising a metal having particulate sizes of between 1-3 .mu.m to at least one junction between the one component and the other component; and directing an energy source at said self-sustaining exothermic joining material for initiating a continuous exothermic reaction along said junction between said one component and said other component for joining said components together. 2. Method, according to claim 1, wherein: the energy source is a laser. 3. Method, according to claim 2, wherein: the laser is an Nd:YAG laser. 4. Method, according to claim 2, wherein: the laser provides a beam having a cross-sectional linear dimension of less than three millimeters. 5. Method, according to claim 4, wherein the cross-sectional dimension of the beam is between two and three millimeters. 6. Method, according to claim 1, wherein: the energy source is selected from the group of energy sources consisting of arc, plasma and spark. 7. Method, according to claim 1, wherein: the one and the other components are steel. 8. Method, according to claim 1, wherein: the joining material includes nanoscale elements. 9. Method, according to claim 1, wherein: the joining material includes at least a portion, by weight, of nanoscale size particles of an exothermic material. 10. Method, according to claim 9, wherein: the exothermic material is aluminum. 11. Method, according to claim 9, wherein: the exothermic material is magnesium. 12. Method, according to claim 9, wherein: the joining material contains nanoscale size particles of aluminum and of magnesium. 13. Method, according to claim 1, wherein: the joining material contains 18% by weight magnesium of nanoscale particle size. 14. Method, according to claim 1, wherein: the joining material comprises 15% by weight aluminum of nanoscale particle size. 15. Method, according to claim 1, wherein: the joining material comprises nanoscale size particles selected from the group consisting of gold, cadmium, copper, zinc, tin, lead, silver, silicon, chromium, cobalt, antimony, bismuth, aluminum, iron, magnesium, nitrogen, carbon, boron, and alloys and composites of these materials. 16. Method, according to claim 1, wherein said self-sustaining exothermic joining material contains nanoscale-size material smaller than approximately 100 nanometers. 17. Method, according to claim 1, wherein said self-sustaining exothermic joining material includes boron (<1 .mu.m), nickel (<1 .mu.m), nanoscale aluminum, copper (1-3 .mu.m), and iron. 18. Method, according to claim 1, wherein said self-sustaining exothermic joining material includes chromium, aluminum, and iron. 19. Method, according to claim 1, wherein said self-sustaining exothermic joining material includes boron, chromium, zinc, and silver. 20. Method of joining components together, comprising: positioning one component adjacent another component; applying a joining material to at least one junction between the one component and the other component, the joining material including a first part comprising nanoscale size particles of an exothermic material and a second part comprising copper having particulate sizes of between 1-3 .mu.m; and directing an energy source solely at the joining material; wherein: the one component is a first plurality of vanes, each vane having an inner edge and an outer edge with a length; the other component is an automatic transmission bowl component having an inner surface; further comprising: positioning the vanes with their outer edges adjacent the inner surface of the bowl; and applying the joining material along the outer edges of the vanes. 21. Method, according to claim 20, wherein: the bowl component is an impeller bowl. 22. Method, according to claim 20, wherein: the bowl component is a turbine bowl. 23. Method, according to claim 20, further comprising: joining the inner edges of the vanes to a shroud. 24. Method, according to claim 20, wherein: at least one vane is formed as a hollow member. 25. Method, according to claim 20, wherein: the other component is an automatic transmission impeller bowl; further comprising: providing an automatic transmission turbine bowl disposed opposing the impeller bowl and a second plurality of vanes secured to the turbine bowl; disposing a stator between the impeller bowl and the turbine bowl, between the first plurality of vanes and the second plurality of vanes, and extending radially to at least a radial midpoint of the vanes. 26. Method, according to claim 25, further comprising: disposing an annular ring on a peripheral edge of the stator for the purpose of supplanting a torus ring attached to the first plurality of vanes. 27. Method, according to claim 25, further comprising: providing a flat disc-like extension extending radially from a peripheral edge of the stator. 28. Method, according to claim 20, wherein: the joining material is in the form of a multi-layer tape, a first layer of the tape comprising aluminum, and a second layer of the tape comprising an oxidizing agent. 29. Method of joining components together, comprising: positioning one component adjacent another component; applying a joining material to at least one junction between the one component and the other component; and directing an energy source at the joining material; wherein: the joining material contains the following weight percentages of the following materials having the following particle sizes: 2% Cerium (<1 .mu.m); 3% Boron (<1 .mu.m); 5% Chromium (<1 .mu.m) ; 12% Nickel (<1 .mu.m) ; 18% Magnesium (<1 .mu.m) ; 15% Aluminum (nanoscale); 2% Tin (1-3 .mu.m); 5% Zinc (1-3 .mu.m); 20% Copper (1-3 .mu.m); and 18% Silver (1-3 .mu.m). 30. Method of joining vanes to the bowl of an automatic transmission impeller assembly, comprising: positioning a vane adjacent a bowl of an automatic transmission impeller assembly; applying a self-sustaining joining material containing a metal having particulate sizes of between 1-3 .mu.m to a junction between the vane and the bowl; and directing a beam from an Nd:YAG laser at the joining material to raise the temperature of the joining material to a point no more than between and including about 200 and 400 degrees centigrade. 31. Method, according to claim 30, wherein: the laser has a 200 W (Watt) output, emitting pulses of 0.5 ms (millisecond) duration at a frequency of 260 Hz (Hertz), with a beam diameter of approximately 1.5 mm (millimeters). 32. Method, according to claim 30, wherein: the laser has a 500 W (Watt) output, emitting pulses of 1.0 ms (millisecond) duration at a frequency of 260 Hz (Hertz), with a beam diameter of approximately 1.5 mm (millimeters). 33. Method of joining components together comprising: positioning one component adjacent another component; applying a self-sustaining exothermic joining material to at least one junction between the one component and the other component; directing an energy source at the self-sustaining exothermic joining material for elevating the temperatures of said joining material by no more than approximately 400.degree. C. to initiate a continuous exothermic reaction along said junction between said one component and said other component for joining said components together; and maintaining the temperature of said joining material at a level no more than approximately 400.degree. C. throughout the process of joining the components together. 34. Method of joining components together comprising: positioning one component adjacent another component; applying a self-sustaining exothermic joining material to at least one junction between the one component and the other component, said self-sustaining exothermic joining material containing a first component including nanoscale size material smaller than approximately 100 nanometers and a second component including material having sizes of between 1-3 .mu.m; and directing an energy source at the self-sustaining exothermic joining material for elevating the temperature of said nanoscale material by no more than approximately 400.degree. C. to initiate a continuous exothermic reaction along said junction between said one component and said other component for joining said components together. 35. Method of joining components together comprising: positioning one component adjacent another component; applying a self-sustaining exothermic joining material to at least one junction between the one component and the other component, said self-sustaining exothermic joining material containing nanoscale size material smaller than approximately 100 nanometers; directing a laser beam at the self-sustaining exothermic joining material for elevating the temperature of said nanoscale material by no more than approximately 400.degree. C. to initiate a continuous exothermic reaction in said self-sustaining exothermic joining material along said junction between said one component and said other component for joining said components together; and maintaining the temperature of said joining material at a level no more than approximately 400.degree. C. throughout the process of joining the components together. 36. Method of joining components together comprising: positioning one component adjacent another component; applying a self-sustaining exothermic joining material to at least one junction between the one component and the other component, said self-sustaining exothermic joining material containing nanoscale size material smaller than approximately 100 nanometers; directing an infrared laser beam at the self-sustaining exothermic joining material for elevating the temperature of said nanoscale material by no more than approximately 400.degree. C. to initiate a continuous exothermic reaction in said self-sustaining exothermic joining material along said junction between said one component and said other component for joining said components together; and maintaining the temperature of said joining material at a level no more than approximately 400.degree. C. throughout the process of joining the components together. 37. Method of joining components together, comprising: positioning one component adjacent another component; applying a joining material flowable at ambient temperatures to at least one junction between the one component and the other component, the joining material including a first part comprising nanoscale size particles of an exothermic material and a second part comprising copper having particulate sizes of between 1-3 .mu.m; and directing an energy source at the joining material to raise the temperature of the joining material to a point no more than between and including about 200 and 400 degrees centigrade. 