An improved device for edging flat products is provided having a plurality of spaced apart generally upstanding fingers, the fingers being forwardly translatable with a group of flat products between them. Each of the fingers is rockable back and forth across a vertical centerline as the fingers are forwardly translated to jostle the flat products, thereby to align the bottom edges of the flat products.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for aligning in an edger station having a back wall a plurality of substantially vertically oriented flat articles moving in a feed direction, comprising the steps of: positioning said flat articles between a pair of tabs; moving the pair of tabs in the feed direction; rotating a first roller mounted below said flat articles to position a side edge of each flat article in contact with the back wall of the edger station; and rocking said pair of tabs longitudinally back and forth along a vertical axis of the edger station to adjust a bottom edge of the flat articles to be substantially flush to one another. 2. The method in accordance with claim 1 further comprising the step of rotating a second roller adjacent the side edge of the flat articles to downwardly position the bottom edge thereof. 3. The method in accordance with claim 1 wherein the step of rocking said pair of tabs further comprises the step of contacting a roller cam follower mounted to each said tab with a wavy cam guide. 4. The method in accordance with claim 1 wherein the step of rotating a first roller further comprises the step of bouncing the bottom edges of the flat articles to further position the side edge of the flat articles. 5. An edger station for aligning a plurality of flat articles moving in a feed direction comprising: a frame; a pair of tabs for supporting said flat articles in a substantially vertical orientation therebetween, each said tab includes a ledge extending therefrom to form an article supporting platform, the bottom edges of the flat articles alternately contact the ledges of the pair of tabs to adjust the bottom edges to be substantially flush to one another; a drive mounted to said frame and coupled to each said tab for moving said tabs in the feed direction; a wavy cam guide mounted to said frame and extending along the feed direction; and each said tab further includes a roller cam follower extending therefrom that engages the wavy cam guide while said tabs move in the feed direction to impart a rocking motion to each said tab. 6. The edger station in accordance with claim 5 wherein each tab further comprises an upward tab portion extending across the frame and traverse to the feed direction, each said ledge extends from a respective one of the upward tab portions to form an inverted T-shaped configuration. 7. The edger station in accordance with claim 5 wherein said wavy cam guide further includes an engaging surface in contact with each of the roller cam followers as said tabs move in the feed direction to impart a rocking motion to each said tab in the range of 20 degrees to either side of a vertical orientation of each said tab. 8. The edger station in accordance with claim 5 further comprising: a back wall of the edger station; and a first roller positioned below said flat articles and rotated to position a side edge of each flat article in contact with the back wall of the edger station. 9. The edger station in accordance with claim 8 further comprising a second roller adjacent said side edge of each flat article, said second roller rotated to move the bottom edge of each flat article in a downwardly direction. 10. The edger station in accordance with claim 9 further comprising a roller drive coupled to the first roller and the second roller to rotate the first roller in one direction and the second roller in an opposite direction. 11. The edger station in accordance with claim 9, wherein said first roller and said second roller each include a non-circular surface for imparting a jostling motion to the flat articles when contacting the surface. 12. An apparatus for aligning a bottom edge and a side edge of each of a plurality of mail pieces moving towards a feeding station of a sorter comprising: a frame; a plurality of tabs for supporting said mail pieces between adjacent pairs of said tabs, each said tab including a ledge extending therefrom to form a mail piece supporting platform, the bottom edges of the mail pieces alternately contacts the ledges of said tabs to position the bottom edges to be substantially flush to one another; a rotatable drive mounted to said frame and coupled to each said tab for moving said tabs in the feed direction; a wavy cam guide mounted to said frame and extending along the feed direction; each said tab further includes a roller cam follower extending therefrom that engages the wavy cam guide while said tabs move in the feed direction to impart a rocking motion to each said tab; a first roller mounted to said frame below said mail pieces and rotated to position the side edge of each mail piece in contact with a back wall of the frame; and a second roller mounted to said frame adjacent the side edge of each mail piece, said second roller rotated to move the bottom edge of each mail piece in a downwardly direction. 13. The apparatus in accordance with claim 12 wherein each said tab further comprises an upward tab portion extending across the frame and traverse to the feed direction, each ledge extends from a respective one of the upward tab portions to form an inverted T-shaped configuration. 14. The apparatus in accordance with claim 12 wherein said wavy cam guide further includes an engaging surface in contact with each of the roller cam followers as said tabs move in the feed direction to impart a rocking motion to each said tab to either side of a vertical orientation of each said tab. 15. The apparatus in accordance with claim 12 further comprising a roller drive coupled to the first roller and the second roller to rotate the first roller in one direction and the second roller in an opposite direction. 16. The edger station in accordance with claim 12 wherein said first roller and said second roller each include a non-circular surface for imparting a jostling motion to the mail pieces when contacting the surface. 17. An apparatus for aligning a plurality of mail pieces moving in a feed direction comprising: a frame having a back wall; means coupled to said frame for supporting said mail pieces and moving said mail pieces in a feed direction relative to the frame; means for imparting a rocking motion to said means for supporting to position a bottom edge of the mail pieces to be substantially flush to one another; means located below said mail pieces for rotating in a direction to position a side edge of each mail piece in contact with the back wall of the frame; and means adjacent the side edge of each mail piece for rotating in a direction to move the bottom edge of each mail piece in a downwardly direction. 18. The apparatus in accordance with claim 17 wherein said means for supporting and moving said mail piece further includes: a plurality of tabs for supporting said mail pieces between adjacent pairs of said tabs, each said tab includes an upward tab portion and a ledge, each said upward tab portion extends across the frame and traverse to the feed direction, and each said ledge extends from a respective one of the upward tab portions to form an inverted T-shaped configuration; and a drive mounted to said frame and coupled to each said tab for moving said plurality of tabs in the feed direction. 19. The apparatus in accordance with claim 18 wherein said means for imparting a rocking motion further includes: a wavy cam guide mounted to said frame and extending along the feed direction; and each said tab further includes a roller cam follower extending therefrom that engages the wavy cam guide while each said tab move in the feed direction to impart a rocking motion to said each tab. 20. The apparatus in accordance with claim 17 wherein said means located below said mail pieces for rotating further includes a first roller rotated to position the side edge of each mail piece in contact with the back wall of the frame. 21. The apparatus in accordance with claim 17 wherein said means adjacent the side edge of each mail piece for rotating further includes a second roller rotated to move the bottom edge of each mail piece in a downwardly direction. 