An interactive control system for controlling the automatic packaging of contact lenses in a contact lens fabrication facility, the interactive control system consisting of a first robot device for periodically transferring individual arrays of a first predetermined amount or discrete contact lens packages each containing a contact lens therein from a first station to an intermediate conveyor where the individual arrays are conveyed to a second station, and a controller for initiating a time stamp for each individual array transferred from the first station and determining elapsed time data for each individual array and for generating position status data indicating a good array or a bad array of defective lenses for each individual array as it is conveyed to the second station, the controller shifting the elapsed time data and position status data for each individual array as it is conveyed on the intermediate conveyor for transfer to the second station.
Claims We claim: 1. An interactive method of controlling the automatic packaging of products in a product fabrication facility, the manufacture of said products being time sensitive, said interactive method comprising: a. periodically transferring individual arrays of a first selected amount of discrete products from a first station to an intermediate conveyor where said individual arrays are conveyed to a second station; b. initiating a time stamp for each individual array transferred from said first station and determining elapsed time data for each individual array to generate position status data indicating a good array or a bad array of defective products for each individual array as it is conveyed to said second station; and c. shifting said elapsed time data and position status data for each individual array as it is conveyed on said intermediate conveyor for transfer to said second station; wherein the method includes the steps of determining whether said each individual array is defective and then rejecting products of said array that are determined to be defective prior to transfer to said intermediate conveyor, the method further including the step of consolidating the remaining products for each individual array transferred to said intermediate conveyor to ensure that a second predetermined amount of products is available for transfer to said second station; wherein the method further includes the step of periodically transferring individual arrays of said second predetermined amount of products from said intermediate conveyor for receipt at said second station, and initiating rejection of an individual array of said second predetermined amount of products when said shifted elapsed time data for that individual array is greater than a predetermined time limit. 2. An interactive method for controlling the automatic packaging of products as claimed in claim 1, which further includes the step of determining whether said second station is available to receive each individual array of said second predetermined amount of products at said every period and further transferring said individual arrays of said second predetermined amount to an intermediate storage area when it is determined that said second station is not available to receive said individual arrays of said second predetermined amount of products. 3. An interactive method for controlling the automatic packaging of products as claimed in claim 2 which further includes the shifting of elapsed time data for each individual array of said second predetermined amount and shifting position status data for each individual array of said second predetermined amount as it is transferred to said second station. 4. An interactive method for controlling the automatic packaging of products as claimed in claim 3, which further includes the step of enabling transfer of said individual array of said second predetermined amount of products from said intermediate storage area to said second station when it is determined that an individual array of said second predetermined amount of products is good based on said position status data. 5. An interactive method for controlling the automatic packaging of products as claimed in claim 3, which further includes the step of transferring an individual array of said second predetermined amount of products from said intermediate storage area to said second station when it is determined that an individual array of said second predetermined amount of products is not available for transfer from said intermediate conveyor. 6. An interactive method for controlling the automatic packaging of products as claimed in claim 5, wherein said second station includes an indexing package dial, and said method includes the step of transferring each individual array of said second predetermined amount of products to a predetermined location on said indexing dial. 7. An interactive method for controlling the automatic packaging of products as claimed in claim 6, which includes the step of indexing said package dial to index each individual array of said second predetermined amount to a subsequent location after each individual array of said second predetermined amount is transferred to said dial. 8. An interactive method of controlling the automatic packaging of contact lenses in a contact lens fabrication facility, said interactive method comprising: (a) periodically transferring individual arrays of a first selected amount of discrete contact lens packages each containing a contact lens therein from a first station to an intermediate conveyor where said individual arrays are conveyed to a second station; (b) initiating a time stamp for each individual array transferred from said first station and determining elapsed time data for each individual array and for generating position status data indicating a good array or a bad array of defective lenses for each individual array as it is conveyed to said second station; and (c) shifting said elapsed time data and position status data for each individual array as it is conveyed on said intermediate conveyor for transfer to said second station. 9. An interactive method of controlling the automatic packaging of contact lenses as claimed in claim 8, which includes the steps of determining whether said each individual array is defective and then rejecting contact lens packages of said array that are determined to be defective prior to transfer to said intermediate conveyor. 10. An interactive method of controlling the automatic packaging of contact lenses as claimed in claim 9, which further includes the step of consolidating the remaining contact lens packages for each individual array transferred to said intermediate conveyor to ensure that a second predetermined amount of packages is available for transfer to said second station. 11. An interactive method of controlling the automatic packaging of contact lenses as claimed in claim 10, which further includes the step of periodically transferring individual arrays of said second predetermined amount of packages from said intermediate conveyor for receipt at said second station, and initiating rejection of an individual array of said second predetermined amount of packages when said shifted elapsed time data for that individual array is greater than a predetermined time limit. 12. An interactive method of controlling the automatic packaging of contact lenses as claimed in claim 11, which further includes the step of determining whether s aid second station is available to receive each individual array of said second predetermined amount of packages at said every period, and transferring said individual arrays of said second predetermined amount to an intermediate storage area when it is determined that said second station is not available to receive said individual arrays of said second predetermined amount of packages. 13. An interactive method of controlling the automatic packaging of contact lenses as claimed in claim 12, which additionally includes the step of shifting elapsed time data for each individual array of said second predetermined amount and shifting position status data for each individual array as it is transferred to said second station. 14. An interactive method of controlling the automatic packaging of contact lenses as claimed in claim 13, which further includes the step of transferring said individual array of said second predetermined amount of packages from said intermediate storage area to said second station when it is determined that an individual array of said second predetermined amount of packages is good based on said position status data. 15. An interactive method of controlling the automatic packaging of products in a product fabrication facility, the manufacture of said products being time sensitive, said interactive method comprising: a. periodically transferring individual arrays of a first selected amount of discrete products from a first station to an intermediate conveyor where said individual arrays are conveyed to a second station; b. initiating a time stamp for each individual array transferred from said first station and determining elapsed time data for each individual array to generate position status data indicating a good array or a bad array of defective products for each individual array as it is conveyed to said second station; and c. shifting said elapsed time data and position status data for each individual array as it is conveyed on said intermediate conveyor for transfer to said second station; wherein the method includes the steps of determining whether said each individual array is defective and then rejecting products of said array that are determined to be defective prior to transfer to said intermediate conveyor, the method further including the step of consolidating the remaining products for each individual array transferred to said intermediate conveyor to ensure that a second predetermined amount of products is available for transfer to said second station; wherein the method further includes the steps of arranging said products into first and second rows of products for conveyance on said intermediate conveyor, and simultaneously gripping said first and second rows of products prior to transferring said products from said intermediate conveyor. 16. An interactive method for controlling the automatic packaging of products as claimed in claim 15, which includes the steps of determining amounts of products in said first and said second rows and calculating the difference in the amounts of products, and selectively transferring products to said first row or said second row to maintain the difference in the amount of products on each row to within a selected amount. 17. An interactive method for controlling the automatic packaging of products as claimed in claim 16, wherein said selected amount is equal to the amount required for one (1)product. 