Methods and apparatuses for reducing the oscillatory motion of rotary crane payloads during operator-commanded or computer-controlled maneuvers. An Input-shaping filter receives input signals from multiple operator input devices and converts them into output signals readable by the crane controller to dampen the payload tangential and radial sway associated with rotation of the jib. The input signals are characterized by a hub rotation trajectory .gamma.(t), which includes a jib angular acceleration .gamma., a trolley acceleration x, and a load-line length velocity L. The system state variables are characterized by a tangential rotation angle .theta.(t) and a radial rotation angle .phi.(t) of the load-line. The coupled equations of motion governing the filter are non-linear and configuration-dependent. In one embodiment, a filter is provided between the operator and the crane for filtering undesired frequencies from the angular .gamma. and trolley x velocities to suppress payload oscillation. In another embodiment, crane commands are computer generated and controlled to suppress vibration of the payload using a postulated asymmetrical shape for the acceleration profiles of the jib, which profiles are uniquely determined by a set of parameters (including the acceleration pulse amplitude and the duration and coast time between pulses), or a dynamic programming approach.
Claims We claim: 1. A system for filtering crane input signals such that payload sway is damped, the rotary crane having a rotary jib, the rotary jib being rotatable in the horizontal plane, a trolley attached to the rotary jib, the trolley being moveable in a horizontal plane and being controlled by a crane controller, a payload suspended by a variable-length load-line from the trolley, the payload being moveable in the horizontal and a vertical plane by an operator via at least one operator input device, the payload experiencing a sway characterized by a tangential rotation angle .theta.(t) and a radial rotation angle .phi.(t), the system being characterized by multiple oscillatory degrees of freedom for the radial rotation angle and the tangential rotation angle, the system comprising: input signal receiving means for receiving input signals from the operator input device, the input signals comprising a jib angular velocity .gamma. and a trolley velocity x; input-shaping filter means for converting the input signals into output signals readable by the crane controller, the output signals comprising a filtered jib angular velocity .gamma..sub.F and a filtered trolley velocity x.sub.F such that the tangential rotation angle .theta.(t) and the radial rotation angle .phi.(t) approach zero; and output signal transmitting means for transmitting the output signals to the crane controller to dampen the payload sway associated with movement of the rotary jib. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the input-shaping filter means is computer implemented. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein the multiple oscillatory degrees of freedom for the radial rotation angle .phi. and the tangential rotation angle .theta. are determined by a plurality of equations of nonlinear and coupled equations of motion, the plurality of equations being a function of the load-line length L, gravity g, trolley position x, the jib rotation angle .gamma., the radial rotation angle .phi., and the tangential rotation angle .theta.. 4. The system of claim 3, wherein the plurality of equations have a form of: ##EQU22## is the load-line length, g is gravity, x is the position of the trolley, .gamma. is the jib rotation angle, .phi. is the radial rotation angle, and .theta. is the tangential rotation angle. 5. The system of claim 3, wherein the plurality of equations have a form of: ##EQU23## where L is the load-line length, g is gravity, x is the position of the trolley, .gamma. is the jib rotation angle, .phi. is the radial rotation angle, and .theta. is the tangential rotation angle. 6. The system of claim 4, wherein the input-shaping filter means is a function of the plurality of equations. 7. The system of claim 6, wherein the input-shaping filter means comprises a first filter for jib angular velocity .gamma. and a second filter for trolley velocity x. 8. The system of claim 7, wherein the first filter and second filter are a function of trolley position x, trolley acceleration x, and jib angular acceleration y. 9. The system of claim 8, wherein the first filter and second filter are a function of load-line length L and gravity g. 10. The system of claim 9, wherein: the first filter is defined by the integral of a Laplace-domain quantity having a form of: ##EQU24## and the second filter is defined by the integral of a Laplace-domain quantity having a form of: ##EQU25## where a is a predetermined design constant, .beta. is a function of gravity g and load-line length L, x is trolley position, x is trolley acceleration, and y is jib angular acceleration. 11. The system of claim 9, wherein: the first filter is decoupled and is defined by the integral of a Laplace-domain quantity having a form of: ##EQU26## the second filter is decoupled and is defined by the integral of a Laplace-domain quantity having a form of: ##EQU27## where a is a predetermined design constant, .beta. is a function of gravity g and load-line length L, x is trolley position, x is trolley acceleration, and y is jib angular acceleration. 12. The system of claim 10, wherein the first filter and second filter are adapted to yield unity steady-state gain. 13. The system of claim 10, further comprising means for providing a load-line length velocity L signal to the crane controller. 14. The system of claim 13, further comprising means for updating said first and second filters with trolley position x and load-line length L in real-time. 15. The system of claim 2, further comprising visual means for providing real-time graphical output to the operator for training purposes and operator input responsive to the graphical output. 16. A computer-implemented method for filtering rotary crane input signals such that payload sway is damped, the rotary crane having a rotary jib, the rotary jib being rotatable in the horizontal plane, a trolley attached to the rotary jib, the trolley being moveable in a horizontal plane and being controlled by a crane controller, a payload suspended by a variable-length load-line from the trolley, the payload being moveable in the horizontal and a vertical plane by an operator via at least one operator input device, the payload experiencing a sway characterized by a tangential rotation angle .theta.(t) and a radial rotation angle .phi.(t), the system being characterized by multiple oscillatory degrees of freedom for the radial rotation angle and the tangential rotation angle, the method comprising the steps of: representing the dynamics of the rotary crane with a plurality of equations of nonlinear and coupled equations of motion, the plurality of equations being a function of the load-line length L, gravity g, trolley position x, the jib rotation angle .gamma., the radial rotation angle .phi., and the tangential rotation angle .theta.; implementing command-shaping filters based on the plurality of equations; receiving input signals from at least one operator input device; filtering the input signals to produce filtered input signals; transmitting the filtered input signals to the crane controller such that payload sway associated with movement of the rotary jib is dampened. 17. The method of claim 16, further comprising the steps of: linearizing the plurality of equations with respect to the radial rotation angle .phi. and the tangential rotation angle .theta.; transforming the linearized plurality of equations to modal coordinates; designing and implementing command-shaping filters; transforming the command-shaping filters to a physical coordinate system to obtain filtered inputs; providing the filtered input signals to the crane controller. 18. A computer-implemented system for generating rotary-crane maneuvers such that payload sway is damped, the rotary crane having a rotary jib, the rotary jib being rotatable in the horizontal plane, a trolley attached to the rotary jib, the trolley being moveable in a horizontal plane and being controlled by a crane controller, a payload suspended by a variable-length load-line from the trolley, the payload being moveable in the horizontal and a vertical plane by commands from the computer-implemented system, the payload experiencing a sway characterized by a tangential rotation angle .theta.(t) and a radial rotation angle .phi.(t), the system being characterized by multiple oscillatory degrees of freedom for the radial rotation angle and the tangential rotation angle, the system comprising: maneuver generation means for providing input signals readable by the crane controller, the input signals being characterized by predetermined initial and final positions of the payload, the initial positions being a function of a trolley position x, a jib rotation angle .gamma., and a load-line length L; and output signal transmitting means for transmitting the output signals to the crane controller to control a series of predetermined paths of the payload in such a way that sway associated with movement of the rotary jib is damped. 19. The system of claim 18, wherein the multiple oscillatory degrees of freedom for the radial rotation angle .phi. and the tangential rotation angle .theta. are determined by a plurality of equations of nonlinear and coupled equations of motion, the plurality of equations being a function of the load-line length L, gravity g, trolley position x, the jib rotation angle .gamma., the radial rotation angle .phi., and the tangential rotation angle .theta.. 20. The system of claim 19, wherein the plurality of equations have a form of: ##EQU28## wherein L is the load-line length, g is gravity, x is the position of the trolley, .gamma. is the jib rotation angle, .phi. is the radial rotation angle, and .theta. is the tangential rotation angle. 21. The system of claim 20, wherein the maneuver generation means comprises means for generating a parameterized jib angular acceleration profile, a parameterized trolley acceleration profile, and a parameterized load-line velocity profile. 22. The system of claim 21, wherein the maneuver generation means comprises a predetermined asymmetrical pulse form, the pulse form comprising a first pulse magnitude A.sub.1, a first pulse duration T.sub.1, a coast duration T.sub.2, a second pulse magnitude A.sub.2, and a second pulse duration T.sub.3. 23. The system of claim 22, wherein the second pulse magnitude A.sub.2 determines a final position of the payload. 24. The system of claim 23, wherein the second pulse magnitude A.sub.2 is determined by ##EQU29## 25. The system of claim 24, wherein the second pulse magnitude A.sub.2 is optimized to obtain a residual oscillation-free motion of the payload. 26. The system of claim 25, wherein the second pulse magnitude A.sub.2 is optimized by applying recursive quadratic programming. 27. The system of claim 25, further comprising: integration means for integrating the plurality of equations; and means for evaluating a cost function of the form where w.sub.i are weighting coefficients and are selected such that residual oscillation of the payload is minimized. 28. The system of claim 20, wherein the maneuver generation means comprises means for generating a parameterized jib angular acceleration profile, a parameterized trolley acceleration profile, and a parameterized load-line velocity profile. 29. The system of claim 28, wherein the parameterized jib angular acceleration profile, the parameterized trolley acceleration profile, and the parameterized load-line velocity profile are optimized by dynamic programming to obtain a residual oscillation-free motion of the payload. 30. The system of claim 28, wherein the load-line length is defined by: L=L.sub.o -.sqroot.x.sup.2 +c.sub.1.sup.2 +c.sub.2.sup.2 +2xc.sub.1 cosy+2xc.sub.2 sin.gamma., where L.sub.o is a nominal load-line length, c.sub.1 is a x-coordinate of the trolley, c.sub.2 is a y-coordinate of the trolley, x is the jib length, and .gamma. is the jib rotation angle. 