A vacuum loadlock is provided for housing a pair of wafers in proper alignment for concurrent processing. In one embodiment, a single chamber loadlock is provided with a gas diffuser disposed therein to decrease venting times within the loadlock. In another embodiment, a dual chamber loadlock is provided having first and second isolatable regions disposed adjacent a transfer region to increase throughput of the system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for loading wafers into a processing system, comprising: (a) a chamber disposed adjacent to the processing system, the chamber comprising: (i) an enclosure; (ii) a transfer region which communicates between the enclosure and the processing system through an aperture formed in a sidewall of the chamber; (iii) a first and second loading/unloading port formed in the sidewall of the chamber; and (iv) one or more exhaust ports; (b) a first and a second isolatable compartment movably disposed in the chamber, each compartment positionable in communication with the aperture while the other compartment is in communication with one of the loading/unloading ports, each compartment comprising: (i) a top platform; (ii) a bottom platform substantially parallel to the top platform; and (iii) a support member interposed between the top platform and the bottom platform; (c) one or more actuators coupled to the first and second compartments to provide movement of the first and second compartments through the chamber; and (d) one or more exhaust pumps connected to the one or more exhaust ports for adjusting a pressure condition in the first and second isolatable compartments. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a first and a second evacuable space disposed at opposed ends of the chamber, each space having a vacuum port connected to a vacuum pump, the first space being defined by a chamber lid, the chamber sidewall, and the top platform of the first compartment and the second space being defined by a chamber bottom, the chamber sidewall, and the bottom platform. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 further comprising one or more sealing members comprising a first and a second pair of sealing flanges disposed in the chamber to selectively isolate the first compartment and the second compartment, respectively; wherein each compartment is selectively isolated by maintaining the first pair of flanges in mating abutment with the top platform and bottom platform of the first compartment and maintaining the second pair of flanges in mating abutment with the top platform and bottom platform of the second compartment. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein the one or more actuators comprise a first actuator coupled to the first compartment and a second actuator coupled to the second compartment, wherein each actuator selectively moves each compartment from a loading/unloading position in communication with the first and second loading/unloading ports to a wafer transfer position in communication with the aperture. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 further comprising one or more wafer cassettes disposed in each compartment. 6. The apparatus of claim 4 further comprising a front-end system disposed in fluid communication with the compartments in the loading/unloading position. 7. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the one or more exhaust ports are disposed in the sidewall of the chamber. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the one or more exhaust ports comprise two ports disposed at opposite ends of the chamber and disposed to communicate with the first and the second compartments positioned in a wafer loading.backslash.unloading position. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the first compartment and the second compartment are in selective fluid communication with the one or more exhaust ports. 10. A processing apparatus comprising: (a) a front end environment; (b) a processing system comprising: (i) a transfer chamber; (ii) one or more processing chambers attached to the transfer chamber; and (iii) a transfer chamber robot located in the transfer chamber, the transfer chamber robot adapted to handle one or more wafers; and (iv) a load lock interposed between the front end environment and the processing system, the loadlock being in selective communication with the front end environment and the processing system, the loadlock comprising: (i) a chamber body comprising an upper loading/unloading end, a lower loading/unloading end, and a transfer region; (ii) an upper access port and a lower access port formed in the chamber body adapted for wafer transfer into and out of the upper and lower loading/unloading ends respectively; (iii) a movable first compartment disposed within the chamber body having access to the upper port; (iv) a movable second compartment disposed within the chamber body having access to the lower port; one of the first or second movable compartments positionable in communication with the aperture while the other compartment is in communication with one of the access ports; (v) one or more actuators to move the first and second compartments into the transfer region; (vi) one or more sealing members to isolate the compartments; (vii) an aperture formed in the chamber body providing access for wafer transfer between the first and second movable compartments and the processing system; and (viii) one or more exhaust pumps in selective communication with the first and second movable compartments to adjust a pressure condition therein. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the one or more exhaust pumps are coupled to exhaust ports formed in the chamber body at the upper and lower loading/unloading ends. 12. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the first and second compartments each comprise: (a) a top platform disposed in the chamber body; (b) a bottom platform disposed in the chamber body; and (c) a support wall vertically disposed between the top platform and the bottom platform. 13. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein the one or more sealing members comprise: (a) a first pair of sealing flanges disposed in the chamber for selectively isolating the first compartment; and (b) a second pair of sealing flanges disposed in the chamber for selectively isolating the second compartment. 14. The apparatus of claim 13 further comprising: (a) a first evacuable space disposed at the upper loading/unloading end of the load lock chamber body and defined by the chamber body and a top plate of the first compartment; (b) a second evacuable space disposed at the lower loading/unloading end of the load lock chamber body and defined by the chamber body and a bottom plate of the second compartment; and (c) one or more vacuum pumps disposed in fluid communication with the first evacuable space and the second evacuable space. 15. A load lock, comprising: (a) a chamber body having an upper loading/unloading end, a lower loading/unloading end, and a central transfer region accessible by the upper and lower loading/unloading ends; (b) access ports disposed in the upper and lower loading/unloading ends; (c) loading doors to selectively seal the access ports; (d) a movable first compartment disposed within the chamber body; (e) a movable second compartment disposed within the chamber body; (f) one or more actuators mounted to move the first compartment between the upper loading/unloading end and the central transfer region and the second compartment between the lower loading/unloading end and the transfer region; (g) one or more sealing members to selectively isolate the compartments; (h) one or more pumps in communication with the first and second chambers to adjust a pressure condition therein; and (i) an aperture formed in the chamber body communicating with the central transfer region; wherein the first compartment is positionable in the upper loading/unloading end while the second compartment is disposed in the transfer region and wherein the second compartment is disposed in the lower loading/unloading end while the first compartment is disposed in transfer region. 16. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein the exhaust pump is coupled to exhaust ports formed in the chamber body at the upper and lower loading/unloading ends. 17. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein the first and second compartments each comprise: (a) a top platform disposed in the chamber body; (b) a bottom platform disposed in the chamber body; and (c) a support member vertically disposed between the top platform and the bottom platform. 18. The apparatus of claim 17 wherein the sealing members comprise: (a) a first pair of sealing flanges disposed in the chamber for selectively isolating the first compartment; and (b) a second pair of sealing flanges for selectively isolating the second compartment. 19. The apparatus of claim 18 further comprising: (a) a first evacuable space disposed at the upper loading/unloading end of the load lock and defined by the chamber body and a top plate of the first compartment; (b) a second evacuable space disposed at the lower loading/unloading end of the load lock and defined by the chamber body and a bottom plate of the second compartment; and (c) a vacuum pump disposed in fluid communication with the first evacuable space and the second evacuable space. 