A method and apparatus for assembling a part, such as a spool valve into a bore of a body, such as a transmission valve body. A gripper tool attached to a robotic arm supports the spool valve with a light vacuum pressure and maneuvers the spool valve, aligning it with the valve bore. The gripper vacuum is perturbated to allow the valve to be properly aligned with the bore.
Claims We claim: 1. An automated method of assembling a spool valve into a valve bore of a vehicle transmission body comprising: applying a holding force to the spool valve; aligning the spool valve immediately outside of the bore oriented substantially concentric with the bore; beginning vacuum suction in the bore in the direction of insertion of the spool valve; and alternately removing and applying the holding force on the spool valve until the spool valve is received into the bore. 2. An automated method of assembling a close fitting part into a bore of a body comprising: applying a holding force to the part; aligning the part immediately outside of the bore oriented substantially concentric with the bore; beginning vacuum suction in the bore in the direction of insertion of the part; and alternately removing and applying the holding force on the part until the part is received into the bore. 3. A method according to claim 1 wherein the part is pulled into the bore with the suction and a gravity force. 4. A method according to claim 1 further comprising the step of sensing when the part is aligned outside of the bore oriented substantially concentric with the bore prior to perturbating the hold on the part. 5. A method according to claim 2 further comprising the step of holding the part by a suction mechanism prior to receiving the part into the bore. 6. A method according to claim 5 wherein the step of holding the part comprises sucking up the part on a pilot gripper tool and maneuvering the part with the pilot gripper tool. 7. A method according to claim 5 wherein the step of supporting the part comprises picking up the part with a V-block gripper tool and maneuvering the part with the V-block gripper tool. 8. A method according to claim 1 further comprising the step of twisting the part back-and-forth until the part is received into the bore. 9. A method according to claim 1 further comprising the step of moving the part in a spiral motion about a central longitudinal axis of the part of progressively increasing diameter until the part is received into the bore. 10. A method according to claim 2 further comprising evacuating foreign matter from the bore prior to receiving the part into the bore. 