A wafer polishing apparatus includes a module frame; a continuous belt rotatable with respect to the frame, the belt having at least one vertically-oriented belt transverse portion including a polishing pad assembly; and at least one pivotable wafer-holding head drive within the frame and having a distal end portion movable to a vertical first position parallel and juxtaposed to the belt transverse portion. The head drive includes a wafer carrier for holding a wafer on the distal end portion of the head drive, while a drive moves the distal end portion and a held wafer into a vertical polishing position abutting the belt transverse portion and pressure is applied to the held-wafer against the polishing pad assembly while the wafer-holding distal end portion is rotated and swept side-by-side. After polishing the drive is reversed and the head drive is pivoted away from the belt transverse portion to a horizontal or other orientation and the then polished wafer removed. Multiple modules may be placed end-to-end or side-by-side with a robot pathway therebetween to load unpolished wafers and to unload polished wafers to a buffing station, to a cassette or other processing station.
Claims We claim: 1. A wafer polishing apparatus comprising: a module frame; a continuous belt rotatable with respect to the frame, said belt having at least one vertically-oriented belt transverse portion including a polishing pad assembly; at least one pivotable wafer-holding head drive within the frame and having a head portion movable to a vertical first position parallel and juxtaposed to the belt transverse portion; said head drive including a wafer carrier for holding a wafer on said head portion of the head drive; a drive for moving said head portion and a held wafer into a vertical polishing position abutting the belt transverse portion and means for applying pressure to force the held-wafer against the polishing pad assembly; and wherein after polishing the head drive is pivotable away from the belt transverse portion to a position for unloading a polished wafer from said head portion. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 further including: a gripper for receiving an unpolished wafer; and a shuttle associated with the frame for moving the gripper and an unpolished wafer from a wafer-receiving first position to said head drive when said head drive is pivoted away from said belt, to a second position for loading the unpolished wafer on the head portion of the head drive or for unloading a polished wafer from the head portion of the head drive. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said shuttle includes a rail attached to said frame and wherein said gripper is vertically movable for loading the unpolished wafer on the head portion of the head drive. 4. The apparatus of claim 2 further including a pair of vertically-spaced drums, an inner surface of said belt being in contact with each of said drums, one of said drums being driven rotatively to rotate said belt. 5. The apparatus of claim 2 including a motor for rotating said head portion while the held-wafer is forced against the polishing pad assembly. 6. The apparatus of claim 2 further including a robot for conveying the unpolished wafer to said gripper. 7. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said head drive is pivoted from the vertical first position in a sweeping arc extending perpendicularly from the belt transverse portion. 8. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said head drive is pivoted from the vertical first position in a swing arc extending parallel to the belt transverse portion. 9. The apparatus of claim 2 further including a multiplicity of said head drives within said frame; a matching number of grippers and shuttles; and a matching numbers of belt transverse portions and polishing pad assemblies on said belt. 10. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein a multiplicity of the recited apparatus are placed in an end-to-end or a side-by-side configuration with an associated robot movably in a pathway between the apparati to mount an unpolished wafer onto respective ones of said grippers. 11. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said wafer carrier is a vacuum assembly in said head drive. 12. The apparatus of claim 1 further including a pair of vertically-spaced drums, an inner surface of said belt being in contact with each of said drums, one of said drums being driven rotatively to rotate said belt. 13. The apparatus of claim 1 including a motor for rotating said head portion and said held-wafer while the held-wafer is forced against the polishing pad assembly. 14. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said head drive is pivoted from the vertical first position in a sweeping arc extending perpendicularly from the belt transverse portion. 15. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said head drive is pivoted from the vertical first position in a swing arc extending parallel to the belt transverse portion. 16. The apparatus of claim 1 further including a robot and a shuttle, said robot being movable to convey an unpolished wafer to said shuttle and wherein said shuttle moves the unpolished wafer to said head portion, all while said unpolished wafer is in a horizontal orientation. 17. The apparatus of claim 1 further including means for sweeping the head portion back and forth in a direction parallel to the belt transverse portion. 18. The apparatus of claim 1 containing at least two belt transverse portions on each of opposite sides of said belt and a like number of wafer-holding head drives pivotable against said belt transverse portions. 19. A method of polishing a semiconductor wafer comprising: providing a continuous polishing belt including a polishing surface and having a vertically-oriented belt transverse portion and a pivotable wafer-holding head drive; placing the drive into a horizontal orientation; placing a horizontally-oriented wafer on the head drive; actuating a wafer carrier to hold the wafer on the head drive; pivoting the head drive to a vertical polishing position in which the held-wafer is in an abutting relation with the belt transverse portion; pressure-forcing the held-wafer against the belt transverse portion while the belt is turning; polishing the wafer; and upon completion of polishing, moving the held-wafer away from the belt, pivoting the head drive back to the horizontal-orientation and removing a polished wafer in a horizontal orientation from the head drive. 20. The method of claim 19 further including the step of shuttling the unpolished wafer from an offset first position horizontally to a second position above the horizontally-oriented head drive. 21. The method of claim 19 further including the step of actuating a wafer carrier, said step comprises vacuum attaching the wafer to a head portion of the head drive and further including the step of rotating the head portion and the held-wafer during the pressure-forcing step. 22. The method of claim 19 further comprising: simultaneously pressure-forcing a second head drive and a second held-wafer against a second belt transverse portion on an oppositely-facing side of the belt or on the same side of the belt; and simultaneously polishing the second held-wafer. 23. The method of claim 19 further comprising simultaneously sweeping the held-wafer back and forth across the belt transverse portion. 