A vacuum loadlock is provided for housing a pair of wafers in proper alignment for concurrent processing. In one embodiment, a single chamber loadlock is provided with a gas diffuser disposed therein to decrease venting times within the loadlock. In another embodiment, a dual chamber loadlock is provided having first and second isolatable region disposed adjacent a transfer region to increase throughput of the system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A loadlock chamber, comprising: (a) one or more walls defining an enclosure, the walls having a sealable loading port selectively sealable by a door and a plurality of side-by-side wafer transfer slots selectively sealable by one or more slit valves the wafer transfer slots disposed substantially opposite of the loading port; (b) a plurality of wafer support plates disposed in the enclosure, the wafer support plates defining a plurality of side-by-side wafer seats; (c) a vacuum port disposed in a wall of the enclosure; (d) an actuator coupled to the wafer support plates to align the wafer support plates with the loading port for transferring a plurality of wafers through the loading port and to align the side-by-side wafer seats with the side-by-side wafer transfer slots for transferring two or more wafers substantially simultaneously through the wafer transfer slots; and (e) a vacuum pump coupled to the vacuum port; whereby a plurality of wafers are transferred into the loadlock chamber through the loading port onto the wafer seats while the wafer transfer slots are sealed by the one or more slit valves, then the vacuum pump evacuates the loadlock chamber while the loading port is sealed by the door and the wafer transfer slots are sealed by the one or more slit valves and then two or more wafers are transferred out of the loadlock chamber substantially simultaneously through the side-by-side wafer transfer slots while the loading port is sealed by the door. 2. The loadlock chamber of claim 1 wherein the wafer support plates comprise a wafer cassette having a plurality of wafer seats formed thereon. 3. The loadlock chamber of claim 2 wherein the wafer seats include a wafer support member. 4. The loadlock chamber of claim 3 wherein the wafer support member comprises a ceramic rail. 5. The loadlock chambers of claim 1 further comprising a purge gas source connected to the chamber via a purge gas inlet. 6. The loadlock chamber of claim 5 further comprising a gas diffuser disposed in and connected to the purge gas inlet. 7. The loadlock chamber of claim 6 wherein the gas diffuser comprises a cylindrical body having a plurality of gas passages disposed therethrough. 8. The loadlock chamber of claim 1 wherein the actuator is a stepper motor. 9. The loadlock chamber of claim 1 wherein the wafer support plates define two or more side-by-side wafer seats. 10. A loadlock chamber, comprising: (a) one or more walls defining an enclosure, the walls having a sealable loading port and one or more sealable wafer transfer slots; (b) a plurality of wafer support plates disposed in the enclosure, wherein the wafer support plates define two or more side-by-side wafer seats; (c) a vacuum port disposed in a wall of the enclosure, the vacuum port coupled to a vacuum pump for evacuating the loadlock chamber; and (d) an actuator coupled to the wafer support plates to align the wafer support plates with the loading port for transferring a plurality of wafers through the loading port and to align the side-by-side wafer seats with the one or more wafer transfer slots for transferring two or more wafers substantially simultaneously through the wafer transfer slots. 11. The loadlock chamber of claim 10 wherein the wafer support plates comprise a wafer cassette having a plurality of wafer seats formed thereon. 12. The loadlock chamber of claim 11 wherein the wafer seats include a wafer support member. 13. The loadlock chamber of claim 12 wherein the wafer support member comprises a ceramic rail. 14. The loadlock chambers of claim 10 further comprising a purge gas source connected to the chamber via a purge gas inlet. 15. The loadlock chamber of claim 14 further comprising a gas diffuser disposed in and connected to the purge gas inlet. 16. The loadlock chamber of claim 15 wherein the gas diffuser comprises a cylindrical body having a plurality of gas passages disposed therethrough. 17. The loadlock chamber of claim 10 wherein the actuator is a stepper motor. 18. A loadlock chamber, comprising: (a) one or more walls defining an enclosure, the walls having a sealable loading port, one or more sealable wafer transfer slots disposed substantially opposite of the loading port, and a purge gas inlet; (b) a plurality of wafer support plates disposed in the enclosure, wherein the wafer support plates define two or more side-by-side wafer seats and each wafer seat includes a wafer support member; (c) a vacuum port disposed in a wall of the enclosure; (d) an actuator coupled to the wafer support plates to align the wafer support plates with the loading port for transferring a plurality of wafers through the loading port and to align the side-by-side wafer seats with the one or more wafer transfer slots for transferring two or more wafers substantially simultaneously through the wafer transfer slots; (e) a vacuum pump coupled to the vacuum port to evacuate the loadlock chamber; and (f) a purge gas source connected to the purge gas inlet to selectively provide a purge gas into the loadlock chamber; wherein the loading port and the wafer transfer slots are selectively sealed to facilitate transferring a plurality of wafers through the loading port, transferring two or more wafers substantially simultaneously through the one or more wafer transfer slots, purging the loadlock chamber using a puree gas, and evacuating the loadlock chamber using the vacuum pump. 19. The loadlock chamber of claim 18 wherein the wafer support plates comprise a wafer cassette having the wafer seats formed thereon, and the wafer support member comprises a ceramic rail. 20. The loadlock chamber of claim 19 further comprising a gas diffuser disposed in and connected to the purge gas inlet, wherein the gas diffuser comprises a cylindrical body having a plurality of gas passages disposed therethrough. 