A device is able to simultaneously transport a plurality of biological samples. The device has a plurality of strips of bibulous material extending from a body of the device with a regular spacing between the strips. By manipulating the device the effective spacing between the extremities of the strips changes. This enables the strips to pick up fluid biological samples from a laboratory appliance in which the samples are located at a first spacing and then deposit the biological samples onto another laboratory appliance which accepts the samples at a different spacing. A version of the device for robotic manipulation also is disclosed.
Claims I claim: 1. An article for simultaneously transporting a plurality of biological samples, wherein the article comprises: a body; a plurality of strips of bibulous material for absorbing the plurality of biological samples and extending from the body, each of the plurality of strips having an extremity; and a member coupled to the body for engagement by an external manipulator and which upon manipulation by the external manipulator changes a shape of the body which varies a spacing between extremities of the plurality of strips. 2. An article for simultaneously transporting a plurality of biological samples, wherein the article comprises: a first tab; a second tab; and a plurality of strips of bibulous material for absorbing the plurality of biological samples and being connected between the first tab and the second tab, each of the plurality of strips having at least one extremity; and wherein the first tab and the second tab are slidable with respect to each other to adjust the plurality of strips to provide variation of a spacing between extremities of adjacent ones of the plurality of strips. 3. The article as recited in claim 2 wherein each of the plurality of strips has a first section with a first longitudinal axis, a second section with a second longitudinal axis, and an intermediate section extending at an angle between the first section and the second section wherein the first longitudinal axis is offset from the second longitudinal axis. 4. The article as recited in claim 2 wherein each of the plurality of strips has a first section attached to the first tab, a second section attached to the first tab, and an intermediate section extending between the first section and the second section, wherein there is a first spacing between the first section of adjacent ones of the plurality of strips and a second spacing between the second section of adjacent ones of the plurality of strips. 5. The article as recited in claim 4 wherein the intermediate section is attached to the first section at a first junction and to the second section at a second junction; and wherein the first and second tabs overlap wherein sliding the first and second tabs with respect to each other folds the plurality of strips alternately at the first and second junction. 6. The article as recited in claim 2 wherein each of the plurality of strips has a first section with a first longitudinal axis and a first end portion, a second section with a second longitudinal axis and a second end portion, and an intermediate section joining the first section to the second section wherein the first longitudinal axis is offset from the second longitudinal axis, the plurality of strips being placed side-by-side in an array and folded at the intermediate section so that the first end portion of each strip overlaps with and is attached to the second end portion of an adjacent strip. 7. The article as recited in claim 6 wherein: the first tab is connected to the first section of a strip at a first end of the array, the first tab extends between the first and second sections of the plurality of strips and projects outward from a second end of the array; the second tab is connected to the second section of a strip at the second end of the array, the second tab extends between the first and second sections of the plurality of strips and projects outward from the first end of the array; and the first and second tabs being movable into and out of the array to change a spacing between the plurality of strips. 8. An article for simultaneously transporting a plurality of biological samples, wherein the article comprises: a helical section having a first end and a second end with a plurality of convolutions therebetween, and having a plurality of tongues of bibulous material for absorbing the plurality of biological samples with each tongue being attached to a different one of the plurality of convolutions; a first tab connected to the first end, passing through the helical section and projecting from the second end; and a second tab connected to the second end, passing through the helical section and projecting from the first end; wherein movement of the first and second tabs in relation to each other changes spacing between the plurality of tongues. 9. The article as recited in claim 8 wherein helical section comprises a plurality of strips, each having a first end and a second end, wherein the second section of each strip is attached to the first section of another strip. 10. The article as recited in claim 9 wherein a different one of the plurality of tongues is attached to one of the first and second sections of each strip. 11. An article for simultaneously transporting a plurality of biological samples, wherein the article comprises: a plurality of strips of bibulous material for absorbing the plurality of biological samples, each of the plurality of strips having a first section with a first longitudinal axis and a first end portion, a second section with a second longitudinal axis and a second end portion, and an intermediate section joining the first section to the second section wherein the first longitudinal axis is offset from the second longitudinal axis; the plurality of strips being placed side-by-side in an array and folded at the intermediate section so that the a first end portion each strip overlaps and is attached to the second end portion of an adjacent strip; a first tab connected to the first section of a strip at a first end of the array, the first tab extending between the first and second sections of the plurality of strips and projection outward from a second end of the array; and a second tab connected to the second section of a strip at the second end of the array, the second tab extending between the first and second sections of the plurality of strips and projection outward from the first end of the array; the first and second tabs being movable with respect to each other to change a spacing between the plurality of strips. 12. A method for transporting a plurality of biological samples simultaneously between first and second appliances: juxtaposing a transfer article with respect to the first appliance, wherein the transfer article has a plurality of strips of bibulous material which absorb the plurality of biological samples from the first applicance; moving first and second tabs attached to the a plurality of strips which movement changes spacing between extremities of adjacent ones of the plurality of strips; and then juxaposing the transfer article with respect to the second applicance which deposits the plurality of biological samples onto the second applicance. 13. An article for simultaneously transporting a plurality of biological samples, wherein the article comprises: a body having opposing first and second sides; a first plurality of strips of bibulous material for absorbing biological samples, wherein the first plurality of strips are spaced apart and project from the first side of the body; and a second plurality of strips of bibulous material for absorbing biological samples, wherein the second plurality of strips are spaced apart and project from the second side of the body with the second plurality of strips being offset from the first plurality of strips; wherein the body is foldable into a state in which the is first plurality of strips is interdigitated with the second plurality of strips. 14. The article as recited in claim 13 wherein the body has a slit which defines two portions of the body that become folded against one another to interleave the first and second pluralities of strips. 15. The article as recited in claim 14 wherein the body further comprises first and second lateral sides extending between the first and second sides, and a slit separated from the first and second sides and from the first and second lateral sides. 16. The article as recited in claim 15 wherein the body further comprises a first crease extending between the slit and the first lateral side; and a second crease extending between the slit and the second lateral side. 17. A method for transporting a plurality of biological samples simultaneously between first and second appliances using a transfer article having a first portion from which project a first plurality of strips of bibulous material and a second portion from which project a second plurality of strips of bibulous material, the method comprising: juxtaposing the transfer article with respect to the first appliance whereby the first and second plurality of strips absorb biological samples from the first appliance; moving the first portion of the transfer article with respect to the second portion thereby changing a spacing between adjacent ones of the first and second pluralities of strips; and juxtaposing the transfer article with respect to the second appliance which deposits biological samples from the first and second plurality of strips onto the second appliance. 18. The method as recited in claim 17 wherein juxtaposing the transfer article with respect to the first appliance comprises: juxtaposing the first portion of a transfer article with respect to the first appliance, wherein the first plurality of strips absorb biological samples from the first appliance; and then juxtaposing the second portion of a transfer article with respect to the first appliance, wherein the second plurality of strips absorb additional biological samples from the first appliance. 19. The method as recited in claim 18 wherein moving the first portion of the transfer article with respect to the second portion comprises folding the transfer article so that the first plurality of strips are interdigitated with the second plurality of strips. 20. The method as recited in claim 17 wherein: juxtaposing the transfer article with respect to the first appliance comprises folding the transfer article so that the first plurality of strips are interdigitated with the second plurality of strips; and moving the first portion of the transfer article with respect to the second portion comprises unfolding the transfer article. 21. The method as recited in claim 20 wherein juxtaposing the transfer article with respect to the second appliance comprises: juxtaposing the first portion of a transfer article with respect to the first appliance, wherein the first plurality of strips deposits biological samples onto the second appliance; and then juxtaposing the second portion of a transfer article with respect to the first appliance, wherein the second plurality of strips deposits biological samples onto the second appliance. 22. A method for transporting a plurality of biological samples simultaneously between first and second appliances: juxtaposing a first side of a transfer article with respect to the first appliance, wherein the first side has a first plurality of strips of bibulous material which absorb biological samples from the first appliance; juxtaposing a second side of a transfer article with respect to the first appliance, wherein the second side has a second plurality of strips of bibulous material which absorb additional biological samples from the first appliance; folding the transfer article so that the first plurality of strips are interdigitated with the second plurality of strips; and after folding, juxtaposing the transfer article with respect to the second appliance which deposits biological samples from the first and second plurality of strips onto the second appliance. 