Apparatuses and methods are disclosed for determining an implant position for at least one artificial component in a joint and facilitating the implantation thereof. The apparatuses and methods include creating a joint model of a patient's joint into which an artificial component is to be implanted and creating a component model of the artificial component. The joint and artificial component models are used to stimulate movement in the patient's joint with the artificial component in a test position. The component model and the joint model are used to calculate a range of motion in the joint for at least one test position based on the simulated motion. An implant position, including angular orientation, in the patient's joint is determined based on a predetermined range of motion and the calculated range of motion. In a preferred embodiment, the implant position can be identified in the joint model and the joint model aligned with the joint by registering positional data from discrete points on the joint with the joint model. Such registration also allows for tracking of the joint during surgical procedures. A current preferred application of the invention is for determining the implant position and sizing of an acetabular cup and femoral implant for use in total hip replacement surgery.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for facilitating the implantation of an artificial component in one of a hip joint, a knee joint, a hand and wrist joint, an elbow joint, a shoulder joint, and a foot and ankle joint, comprising: a pre-operative geometric planner; and a pre-operative kinematic biomechanical simulator in communication with said pre-operative geometric planner wherein said pre-operative kinematic biomechanical simulator outputs a position for implantation of the artificial component. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising an intra-operative navigational module in communication with said pre-operative kinematic biomechanical simulator. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, further comprising a tracking device in communication with said intra-operative navigational module. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said pre-operative geometric planner is responsive to a skeletal data source. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein said skeletal data source includes geometric data. 6. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein said pre-operative geometric planner outputs at least one geometric model of the component and the joint. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein said pre-operative kinematic biomechanical simulator is responsive to said geometric model. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein said implant position includes an angular orientation of the component. 9. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein said tracking device is selected from the group consisting of an acoustic tracking system, shape based recognition tracking system, video-based tracking system, mechanical tracking system, electromagnetic tracking system and radio frequency tracking system. 10. A system for facilitating an implant position for at least one artificial component in one of a hip joint, a knee joint, a hand and wrist joint, an elbow joint, a shoulder joint, and a foot and ankle joint, comprising: a computer system including: a pre-operative geometric planner; and a pre-operative kinematic biomechanical simulator in communication with said pre-operative geometric planner wherein said pre-operative kinematic biomechanical simulator outputs a position for implantation of the artificial component; and a tracking device in communication with said computer system. 11. The system of claim 10 further comprising at least one display monitor in communication with said computer system. 12. The system of claim 10, further comprising at least one controller in communication with said computer system. 13. The system of claim 10, wherein said tracking device includes at least one camera. 14. The system of claim 10, wherein said tracking device includes at least one target. 15. The system of claim 10, wherein said computer system further includes an intra-operative navigational module in communication with said pre-operative kinematic biomechanical simulator. 16. A computer-assisted method, comprising determining an implant position of an artificial component in one of a hip joint, a knee joint, a hand and wrist joint, an elbow joint, a shoulder joint, and a foot and ankle joint, by utilizing a predetermined range of motion and a calculated range of motion determined from a simulated movement of said joint and component models from a test position. 17. A method for determining an implant position for at least one artificial component in one of a hip joint, a knee joint, a hand and wrist joint, an elbow joint, a shoulder joint, and a foot and ankle joint, comprising: creating at least one model of the joint and at least one model of the artificial component; calculating a range of motion based on a simulated movement of the joint with the artificial component in a test position; and determining the implant position based on said calculated range of motion and a predetermined range of motion. 18. The method of claim 17 further comprising simulating movement of the joint with the artificial component in a test position using said models. 19. A method for facilitating an implant position for at least one artificial component in one of a hip joint, a knee joint, a hand and wrist joint, an elbow joint, a shoulder joint, and a foot and ankle joint, comprising: creating at least one model of the joint and at least one model of the artificial component; calculating a range of motion based on a simulated movement of the joint with the artificial component in a test position; determining the implant position based on said calculated range of motion and a predetermined range of motion; aligning said model of the joint with the joint and said model of the artificial component with the artificial component; and tracking the artificial component and the joint. 20. The method of claim 19 further comprising simulating movement of the joint with the artificial component in a test position using said models. 21. The method of claim 19 wherein aligning said model of the joint with the joint and said model of the artificial component with the artificial component includes aligning said model of the joint with the joint and said model of the artificial component with the artificial component based on positional tracking data representative of the position of the joint and the artificial component. 22. The method of claim 19 wherein tracking the artificial component and the joint includes tracking the artificial component and the joint to maintain alignment of the joint model with the joint and to determine the artificial component position relative to the implant position in the joint. 23. A system for determining an implant position of at least one artificial component in one of a hip joint, a knee joint, a hand and wrist joint, an elbow joint, a shoulder joint, and a foot and ankle joint, comprising: means for creating a joint model of the joint; means for creating a component model of the component; means for simulating movement of the joint with the component in a test position using the component model and the joint model; means for calculating a range of motion of the joint at the test position based on the simulated movement; and means for determining an implant position for the component based on a predetermined range of motion and the calculated range of motion. 24. An apparatus for facilitating the implantation of an artificial component in one of a hip joint, a knee joint, a hand and wrist joint, an elbow joint, a shoulder joint, and a foot and ankle joint, comprising: a tracking device; and a system comprising, means for creating a joint model of the joint; means for creating a component model of the component; means for simulating movement of the joint with the artificial component in a test position using the component model and the joint model; means for calculating a range of motion of the joint for said test position based on the simulated movement; means for determining an implant position of the component based on a predetermined range of motion and the calculated range of motion; means for identifying the determined implant position in the joint model, and means for aligning the joint model with the joint and the artificial component model with the component based on said positional tracking data. 25. The apparatus of claim 24, wherein said system further comprises: means for calculating the position of the component relative to the implant position; and a display in communication with said system. 26. A computer readable medium having stored thereon instructions which, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to perform the steps of: creating a joint model of one of a hip joint, a knee joint, a hand and wrist joint, an elbow joint, a shoulder joint, and a foot and ankle joint into which an artificial component is to be implanted; creating a component model of the component; simulating movement of the joint with the component in a test position using the component model and the joint model; calculating a range of motion of the joint for at least one test position based on the simulated movement; and determining an implant position for the component based on a predetermined range of motion and the calculated range of motion. 27. A computer readable medium having stored thereon instructions which, when executed by a processor, cause said processor to perform the step of determining an implant position in one of a hip joint, a knee joint, a hand and wrist joint, an elbow joint, a shoulder joint, and a foot and ankle joint by utilizing a predetermined range of motion and a calculated range of motion determined from a simulated movement of said joint and component models from a test position. 