A processor for processing semiconductor articles, such as integrated circuit wafers, flat panel displays, semiconductor substrates, and data disks. The processor has an interface section which receives articles in article carriers. The interface section transfers the articles from carriers into processing arrays. A conveyor having an automated arm assembly moves article arrays to and between processing stations. The processing stations are accessed from an enclosed area adjoining the interface section.
Claims We claim: 1. A semiconductor article transfer for transferring semiconductor articles from an article carrier into an article processing array, comprising: a carriage; a transfer head mounted on said carriage for supporting at least one semiconductor article thereon; an engagement head mounted for movement relative to the transfer head; a plurality of contact members for contacting the at least one semiconductor article and positioning the at least one semiconductor article in an article processing array; said plurality of contact members being discrete from one another to contact the at least one semiconductor article at plural contact positions; said plurality of contact members also being constructed with engagement features which during operation allow the engagement head to be disengaged from the contact members, or to be engaged with the plurality of contact members to hold the contact members in a spaced array relationship; wherein said engagement head is mounted for controlled movement to allow the engagement head to be engaged or detached from said plurality of contact members. 2. A semiconductor article transfer according to claim 1 wherein said contact members have contact faces which include a series of spacer elements. 3. A semiconductor article transfer according to claim 1 wherein said engagement head includes engagement members which engage with conveyor engagement features formed upon said contact members. 4. A semiconductor article transfer according to claim 1 wherein said engagement head includes engagement members which engage with said contact members; and further comprising at least one latch for latching at least one contact member to said engagement head. 5. A semiconductor article transfer according to claim 1 wherein said engagement head includes engagement members which engage with said contact members; said engagement members including at least one latch for latching at least one contact member to said engagement head. 6. A semiconductor article transfer according to claim 1 wherein said transfer head includes a plurality of transfer tangs which are interpositioned between the articles during transfer. 7. A semiconductor article transfer according to claim 1 wherein said transfer head is movable laterally and to achieve different elevations, said transfer head also comprising a plurality of transfer tangs which are interpositioned between the articles during transfer. 8. A semiconductor article transfer according to claim 1 and further comprising at least one contact member storage for holding contact members for engagement by the engagement head. 9. A semiconductor article transfer according to claim 1 wherein said engagement head is mounted upon a conveyor. 10. A semiconductor article transfer according to claim 1 wherein said engagement head is mounted upon a conveyor which includes a mechanical arm assembly with a hand portion that mounts the engagement head. 11. A semiconductor article transfer according to claim 1 wherein said engagement head is mounted upon a conveyor which includes a mechanical arm assembly; said mechanical arm assembly having: an upper arm portion; a lower arm portion connected to the upper arm portion; a hand portion connected to the lower arm portion, said hand portion mounting the engagement head. 12. A semiconductor article transfer according to claim 1 wherein said engagement head is mounted upon a conveyor which includes a conveyor tram carriage movably mounted upon the frame. 13. A semiconductor article transfer according to claim 1 wherein said engagement head is mounted upon a conveyor which includes a mechanical arm assembly; said mechanical arm assembly having: a conveyor tram carriage movably mounted upon the frame; an upper arm portion mounted upon said conveyor tram carriage for pivotal motion at a shoulder pivot; a lower arm portion connected to the upper arm portion for pivotal motion at an elbow pivot; a hand portion connected to the lower arm portion for pivotal motion at a wrist pivot; said engagement head being connected to the hand portion. 14. A semiconductor article processing array handling apparatus, comprising: a plurality of contact members for contacting at least one semiconductor article and positioning the article in an article processing array; said plurality of contact members being discrete from one another to contact the at least one semiconductor article at plural contact positions; an engagement head; said engagement head being controllable to engage or detach from said plurality of contact members; said plurality of contact member being constructed with engagement features which during operation allow the engagement head to be disengaged from the contact members or to be engaged with the plurality of contact members to hold the contact members in a spaced array relationship. 15. A semiconductor article processing array handling apparatus according to claim 14 wherein said contact members have contact faces which include a series of spacer elements. 16. A semiconductor article processing array handling apparatus according to claim 14 wherein said engagement head includes engagement members which engage with said contact members; and further comprising at least one latch for latching at least one contact member to said engagement head. 17. A semiconductor article processing array handling apparatus according to claim 14 wherein said engagement head includes plural engagement members which engage with said contact members; said engagement members including at least one latch for latching at least one contact member to said engagement head. 18. A semiconductor article processing array handling apparatus according to claim 14 wherein said engagement head includes plural engagement members which engage with receiving channels formed in said contact members. 19. An engagement head for supporting semiconductor processing contact members used in contacting and supporting semiconductor articles, comprising: an engagement head main part; plural engagement members arranged in parallel orientations and extending from the engagement head main part; at least one engagement member latch mounted upon at least one of the engagement members for latching a contact member into position when engaged by the engagement member. 20. A semiconductor array contact member, comprising: at least one contact face for engaging a peripheral is edge of a semiconductor article; at least one first engagement feature adapted for controlled operational engagement with an engagement head member and for operational disengagement from a engagement head member; at least one second engagement feature adapted for controlled operational engagement with a processing station engagement feature and for operational disengagement from a processing station engagement feature; said at least one first engagement feature and said at least one second engagement feature being distinct whereby the contact member can be simultaneously engaged by an engagement head member and a processing station engagement feature. 21. A semiconductor array contact member according to claim 20 wherein said at least one first engagement feature and said at least one second engagement feature are shaped to allow slidable engagement and disengagement by the respective engagement head member and processing station engagement feature. 22. A semiconductor array contact member according to claim 20 wherein said at least one first engagement feature and said at least one second engagement feature are parallel and shaped to allow slidable engagement and disengagement by the respective engagement head member and processing station engagement feature. 