An automated self-service pizza process and system comprises a vending machine with self-contained cooking and processing equipment to rapidly prepare delicious pizza. The stand-alone unattended process and system visually displays pizzas with choices of different toppings for selection by a customer who can pay for the pizza by credit card, debit card, prepaid card, bank card, or by paper money or other cash. Pizza crust can be moved to an assembly area by a robot. In the assembly area, the selected toppings are automatically dispensed on the pizza crust. The pizza is then conveyed to an oven where it is cooked and discharged into a cardboard box or other suitable container. The type of pizza and customer's name can be printed on the box with an ink jet printer.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automated pizza process for making a pizza using an automated pizza system, the automated pizza process comprising the steps of: electronically displaying representations of different pizzas, pizza crust sizes, pizza toppings and pizza prices on a monitor for viewing and selecting, said toppings selected from the group consisting of tomato sauce, cheese, sausage, pepperoni, anchovies, onion, green pepper, mushrooms, ground beef, olives, and spices; selecting a pizza by engaging a plurality of controls operatively associated with said monitor, said controls corresponding to the representation of a desired pizza crust size and said pizza toppings, said controls being selected from the group consisting of a touch screen display on said monitor or a push button connected to said monitor; inserting a card into a card reader to order and pay for said selected pizza, said card being selected from the group consisting of a credit card, a debit card, and an automatic teller machine card, said card reader being operatively connected to said control and said monitor; selecting a pizza crust size and selecting pizza topping choices; dispensing said selected pizza toppings via a plurality of cartridge tube dispensers containing pizza toppings; transporting said pizza crust within the automated pizza system via a robot, said robot having at least four degrees of freedom, said robot further being operatively associated with said plurality of cartridge tube dispensers thus providing means for dispensing pizza toppings; building said pizza according to said selected pizza crust size and said selected topping choices; cooking said pizza; discharging and dispensing said cooked pizza from said oven onto a pizza support member selected from the group consisting of a cardboard box, carton, container, package, pepper plate and plastic plate; automatically cutting the pizza into slices with a cutting tool; and permitting a consumer to access said sliced cooked pizza on said pizza support member. 2. An automated pizza process in accordance with claim 1 wherein said cooked pizza is dispensed into a cardboard box; and said box is mechanically closed after said cooked pizza has been automatically cut into slices. 3. An automated pizza process in accordance with claim 2 including: printing the customer's name and type and toppings for said pizza on an identification label; and securing said identification label on said box. 4. An automated pizza process in accordance with claim 2 including printing the customer's name on said box. 5. An automated pizza process in accordance with claim 1 wherein said sliced cooked pizza is dispensed from a vending machine. 6. An automated pizza process in accordance with claim 1 wherein said pizza is electrically cooked in an electric pizza oven. 7. An automated pizza process in accordance with claim 1 wherein said sliced cooked pizza is accessed by thereafter inserting said card into said card reader and retrieving said pizza. 8. An automated pizza process in accordance with claim 1 wherein said steps of displaying, selecting, initiating a plurality of cartridge tube dispensers, initiating a robot, building, and cooking are controlled by a central processing unit selected from the group consisting of: a programmable controller, microprocessor, computer electronic chip, control board, and logic controller. 9. An automated pizza process in accordance with claim 1 including viewing said building of said pizza through windows comprising transparent glass or plastic. 10. An automated pizza system, comprising: a touch screen providing a monitor for displaying a representation of a pizza, different pizza crust sizes, pizza toppings, and pizza prices, said touch screen having sensors for detecting a finger of a customer selecting the desired pizza crust size and pizza toppings, said sensors being activated by manual engagement of the customer's finger to generate electrical impulses; a central processing unit operatively connected to said monitor for receiving and transmitting said electrical impulses, said central processing unit being selected from the group consisting of a programmable controller, microprocessor, computer, electronic chip, control board, and logic controller; a credit card reader operatively connected to said monitor and said central processing unit for receiving and reading a customer card selected from the group consisting of a credit card, debit card, and automatic teller machine card; a modem operatively connected to said credit card reader for verifying and transmitting information about said customer card to a remote processing center; a plurality of cartridge tube dispensers operatively associated with said automated pizza system, said cartridge tube dispensers providing means to dispense pizza toppings, said cartridge tube dispensers containing pizza toppings; a robot operatively associated with said automated pizza system, said robot having at least four degrees of freedom, said robot providing transport of said pizza crust within said automated pizza system, said robot further being operatively associated with said plurality of cartridge tube dispensers, a pizza oven for cooking said pizza; and said robot, cartridge tubes, and pizza oven cooperating with each other to prepare and cook the selected pizza. 11. An automated pizza system in accordance with claim 10 including an ink jet printer operatively associated with said central processing unit for printing the customer's name and type of pizza on a cardboard box containing the cooked pizza. 12. An automated pizza system in accordance with claim 10 wherein said automated pizza system comprises a vending machine. 13. An automated pizza system in accordance with claim 10 including transparent glass or transparent plastic for viewing said pizza oven, robot and cartridge tubes. 14. A process for making a pizza using an automated pizza system, the process comprising the steps of: interacting with a monitor operatively associated with the automated pizza system to start the automated pizza system, said monitor providing a person-to-machine interface, said monitor including access to operating instructions for the automated pizza system, said monitor further including access to a plurality of descriptions of pizza crust sizes and topping choices, said monitor further including access to a display of the status of a pizza made by the automated pizza system; selecting the pizza crust size by further interacting with said monitor; selecting the topping choices by further interacting with said monitor; dispensing said selected pizza toppings via a plurality of cartridge tube dispensers containing pizza toppings; transporting said pizza crust within said automated pizza system via a robot, said robot having at least four degrees of freedom, said robot further being operatively associated with said plurality of cartridge tube dispensers thus providing means for dispensing pizza toppings; building said pizza according to said selected pizza crust size and said selected topping choices; cooking said pizza. 15. The process of claim 14 further including a step of vending said pizza. 16. The process of claim 15 wherein the step of vending said pizza includes a step of paying for said pizza. 17. The process of claim 16 wherein the step of paying for said pizza includes: inserting a plastic credit card, automatic teller machine card, debit card, or prepaid card, into an optical or electrical card reader operatively associated with said vending machine; and verifying and transmitting information on said card by a modem to a processing center. 18. The process of claim 16 wherein the step of paying for said pizza includes inserting paper money into the automated pizza system. 19. The process of claim 14 further including the step of packaging said pizza. 20. The process of claim 19 wherein the step of packaging said pizza includes placing said pizza in a box. 21. The process of claim 19 wherein the step of packaging said pizza includes labeling the package with a customer's information. 22. The process of claim 14 further including a step of retrieving said pizza from said automated pizza system. 23. The process of claim 22 wherein the step of retrieving said pizza from said automated pizza system includes inserting a credit card into said automated pizza system. 24. The process of claim 14 wherein said monitor further includes access to a plurality of descriptions of pizza topping patterns. 25. The process of claim 24 further including the step of selecting a pizza topping pattern by further interacting with said monitor. 26. The process of claim 25 wherein said robot is operatively associated with said plurality of cartridge dispensers such that said pizza toppings are dispensed according to said selected pizza topping pattern. 