An adaptive interface for a programmable system, for predicting a desired user function, based on user history, as well as machine internal status and context. The apparatus receives an input from the user and other data. A predicted input is presented for confirmation by the user, and the predictive mechanism is updated based on this feedback. Also provided is a pattern recognition system for a multimedia device, wherein a user input is matched to a video stream on a conceptual basis, allowing inexact programming of a multimedia device. The system analyzes a data stream for correspondence with a data pattern for processing and storage. The data stream is subjected to adaptive pattern recognition to extract features of interest to provide a highly compressed representation which may be efficiently processed to determine correspondence. Applications of the interface and system include a VCR, medical device, vehicle control system, audio device, environmental control system, securities trading terminal, and smart house. The system optionally includes an actuator for effecting the environment of operation, allowing closed-loop feedback operation and automated learning.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A programmable controller for controlling a system, having an input for receiving an external signal relating to said system, and an output for effecting control of said system, and a plurality of stored profiles, said controller being responsive to said external signal, comprising: an input for inputting sets of control parameters; a memory for storing said control parameters; a processor for characterizing said external signal to produce an abstract characterized signal; means for comparing said abstract characterized signal with at least one of said plurality of stored profiles to produce a relational parameter; and a control parameter evaluation system, selectively producing an output varying in dependence on said relational parameter, said stored control parameters, at least one of said processor for characterizing, said means for comparing and said control program evaluation system being adaptive relative to sequential sets of inputted control parameters. 2. The programmable controller according to claim 1, wherein said processor executes an algorithm on said external signal comprising a transform selected from the group consisting of an Affine transformation, a Fourier transformation, and a wavelet transformation. 3. The programmable controller according to claim 1, said controller being for controlling a recording device for recording an analog signal sequentially on a recording medium having a plurality of identifiable storage locations, further comprising a sequential recording device for recording the analog signal, and a memory for storing, in a directory location on the recording medium which is different from the storage location of the analog signal, said abstract characterized signal and an identifier of a storage location on the recording medium at which said analog signal is recorded. 4. An image information retrieval apparatus, comprising: a user input, receiving a control input from a user; a memory for storing compressed data representing a plurality of images; a data storage system for retrieving compressed data representing at least one of said plurality of images; a memory for storing characterization data representing a plurality of abstract image types, each abstract image type representing a set of different characteristics; and an image processor, operating on data stored in said data storage system and said characterization data memory, and selectively producing a signal corresponding to a relation between at least one of said plurality of images of said compressed data and at least one of said image types of said characterization data, said signal varying in dependence on the control input. 5. An adaptive programmable apparatus having a plurality of states, being programmable to execute program instructions by a programmer through a programmer input and operating in an environment in which a plurality of possible external events occur, each of the events being associated with different data, comprising: a data input for receiving data, said data being related to events and said programmer input; a feedback device for providing information relating to said programmer input and a current status of the apparatus to the programmer; a memory for storing program instructions associated with said programmer input; and a processor for controlling the response of said apparatus to events, for: (a) abstracting information from said data related to said events to reduce an information storage requirement while substantially retaining an abstract portion of said information; (b) storing a quantity of said abstracted information representing distinct events; and (c) processing said abstracted information in conjunction with said stored quantity of abstracted information to alter an execution of the stored program instructions. 6. The apparatus according to claim 5, further comprising: an input for receiving a programming preference from the programmer indicating a plurality of possible desired events; and a correlator for correlating said programming preference with said data based on an adaptive algorithm and for determining a likelihood of occurrence of at least one of said desired events, producing said output, said output being associated with the initiation of the said response. 7. The apparatus according to claim 6 further comprising: an input for receiving feedback from the programmer indicating a concurrence with said output of said correlator, and modifying said algorithm based on said received feedback; and said feedback device comprising a display, said input device being remote from said display, and providing a direct manipulation of display information of said display. 8. The programmable apparatus according to claim 5, wherein said processor verifies said program instructions to ensure that said program instructions are valid and executable by said processor; further comprising an output of said processor for providing an option, selectable by said programmer input, for changing an instruction stored by said memory, such that said apparatus enters a state wherein a new instruction may be input to substitute for said stored instruction, wherein said feedback device further presents information to the programmer and requests confirmation from the programmer of the instructions associated with said programmer input. 9. The programmable apparatus according to claim 5, further comprising a chronological database containing information relating to a schedule of potential events, and an accessing system for accessing said chronological database on the basis of said program instructions stored in said memory. 10. The programmable apparatus according to claim 5, further comprising an input signal memory for storing at least a portion of said data, a profile generator for selectively generating a profile of said data, and an input signal profile memory for storing said profile of said data separately from said data in said input signal memory. 11. The programmable apparatus according to claim 10, further comprising a processor for comparing said data with said stored profile of said data to determine the occurrence of an event. 12. The programmable information storage apparatus according to claim 5, wherein said data comprises image data, said processor abstracting information function comprising image analysis. 13. An adaptive programmable interface, interacting with a user to define and control a desired operational mode, comprising: a user input, receiving a user information input from the user representing aspects of a desired operational mode; a memory, for storing representations defining a series of desired operational modes based on said received user information, including a presently desired operational mode; a user output, presenting to the user a state of the programmable interface, including a presently defined operational mode and a status of the interface, said user output presenting information to the user in dependence on said stored representations; a data input, receiving data generated external to the programmable interface, the data having a structure capable of representing a distinction between a plurality of external events; a processor for controlling the response of the adaptive interface to said data based on said stored desired operational mode information, said processor: (a) abstracting information from said data to reduce an information storage requirement while substantially retaining an abstract significance of said information; (b) storing a quantity of said abstracted information representing a plurality of events; and (c) processing said abstracted information in conjunction with said stored quantity of abstracted information to control said desired operational mode. 