An apparatus and methods are provided for performing maintenance procedures such as washing, cleaning, deicing, and painting to an aircraft. The apparatus according to an embodiment of the present invention preferably has a horizontally-extending mounting track and a track follower connected to the mounting track for following the mounting track. A maintenance tool support base preferably is connected to the track follower for supporting a maintenance tool thereon. An extending and retracting assembly is connected to the support base and to the track follower for extending the support base outwardly from the track follower and toward a portion of an aircraft and for retracting the support base inwardly from a portion of an aircraft and toward the track follower. An aircraft contour following assembly preferably is rotatably mounted to the support base and adapted for positioning adjacent an aircraft for following the contour of an aircraft to perform a maintenance procedure thereto. The aircraft contour following assembly includes at least one maintenance tool such as used for washing, cleaning, deicing, or painting an aircraft.
Claims That which is claimed: 1. An apparatus for maintaining an aircraft, the apparatus comprising: at least a pair of spaced-apart, horizontally-extending mounting tracks adapted for positioning an aircraft therebetween; at least a pair of track followers connected to said at least a pair of mounting tracks for following said pair of mounting tracks; at least a pair of maintenance tool support bases each respectively connected to said at least a pair of track followers for supporting a maintenance tool thereon; at least a pair of support base driving means connected to said support base and to said track follower for driving each of said at least a pair of support bases outwardly from said mounting track and toward a portion of an aircraft positioned between said pair of spaced-apart mounting tracks and for driving each of said at least a pair of support bases inwardly from a portion of an aircraft and toward said mounting track; and at least a pair of aircraft contour following means each mounted to said at least a pair of support bases and adapted for positioning adjacent an aircraft for following the contour of an aircraft when positioned between said at least a pair of spaced-apart mounting tracks to perform a maintenance procedure thereto, each of said at least a pair of aircraft contour following means including at least one maintenance tool, a vertically-extending track rotatable mounted to said support base, and maintenance tool positioning means movably mounted to said vertically-extending track for positioning the at least one maintenance tool closely adjacent a portion of an aircraft. 2. An apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein said maintenance tool positioning means comprises: first carriage means for carrying the at least one maintenance tool thereon; and second carriage means movably mounted to the vertically-extending track for carrying said first carriage means along a generally vertical path of travel. 3. An apparatus as defined in claim 2, wherein said support base extends and retracts in a first path of travel being defined as transverse to a main body of an aircraft positioned between said pair of mounting tracks, and wherein each of said pair of track followers move along a second path of travel being defined as generally parallel to the main body of the aircraft positioned between said pair of mounting tracks. 4. An apparatus as defined in claim 3, wherein said second carriage means moves along a third path of travel being defined as a generally vertical direction generally corresponding to the height of an aircraft positioned between said pair of mounting tracks. 5. An apparatus as defined in claim 3, wherein said second carriage means moves along a third path of travel being defined as a generally vertical direction generally corresponding to the height of an aircraft. 6. An apparatus as defined in claim 2, wherein said first carriage means includes either an aircraft fuselage cleaning tool or an aircraft tail cleaning tool mounted thereto. 7. An apparatus as defined in claim 2, wherein said second carriage means includes a carriage track, and wherein said first carriage means further includes a carriage yoke following member connected to said carriage track of said second carriage means for following said carriage track, pivoting means connected to said carriage yoke member for pivoting the at least one maintenance tool in a generally horizontal plane, an arm connected to said pivoting means for extending outwardly away from and inwardly toward said yoke member and said pivoting means, and a tool holding fixture connected to said extendable arm, the at least one maintenance tool being connected to said tool holding fixture. 8. An apparatus as defined in claim 7, wherein said tool holding fixture of said first carriage means includes tool pivoting means for pivoting the at least one maintenance tool along an arcuate contour of the outer surface of an aircraft and maintaining a predetermined pressure on an outer surface of the aircraft. 9. An apparatus as defined in claim 8, wherein the at least one maintenance tool comprises aircraft cleaning means connected to said tool pivoting means for cleaning an aircraft, said aircraft cleaning means having a tool base, a pair of spaced-apart cleaning brushes detachably connected to said tool base, and a cleaning fluid delivery head detachably connected to said tool base and positioned between said pair of spaced-apart cleaning brushes. 10. An apparatus for maintaining an aircraft, the apparatus comprising: a horizontally-extending mounting track; a track follower connected to said mounting track for following said mounting track; a maintenance tool support base connected to said track follower for supporting a maintenance tool thereon; support base driving means connected to said support base and to said track follower for driving said support base outwardly from said track follower and toward a portion of an aircraft and for driving said support base inwardly from a portion of an aircraft and toward said track follower; and aircraft contour following means rotatably mounted to said support base and adapted for positioning adjacent an aircraft for following the contour of an aircraft to perform a maintenance procedure thereto, said aircraft contour following means including at least one maintenance tool, a vertically-extending track rotatably mounted to said support base, and maintenance tool positioning means movably mounted to said vertically-extending track for positioning the at least one maintenance tool closely adjacent a portion of an aircraft. 11. An apparatus as defined in claim 10, wherein said maintenance tool positioning means comprises: first carriage means for carrying the at least one maintenance tool thereon; and second carriage means movably mounted to the vertically-extending track for carrying said first carriage means along a generally vertical path of travel. 12. An apparatus as defined in claim 11, wherein said support base extends and retracts in a first path of travel being defined as transverse to a main body of an aircraft positioned adjacent thereto, and wherein said track follower moves along a second path of travel being defined as generally parallel to the main body of the aircraft. 13. An apparatus as defined in claim 11, wherein said first carriage means includes either an aircraft fuselage cleaning tool or an aircraft tail cleaning tool mounted thereto. 14. An apparatus as defined in claim 11, wherein said second carriage means includes a carriage track, and wherein said first carriage means further includes a carriage yoke following member connected to said carriage track of said second carriage means for following said carriage track, pivoting means connected to said carriage holding fixture for pivoting the at least one maintenance tool in a generally horizontal plane, an arm connected to said pivoting means for extending outwardly away from and inwardly toward said holding fixture and said pivoting means, and a tool holding fixture connected to said extendable arm, the at least one maintenance tool being connected to said tool holding fixture. 15. An apparatus as defined in claim 14, wherein said tool holding fixture of said first carriage means includes tool pivoting means for pivoting the at least one maintenance tool along an arcuate contour of the outer surface of an aircraft. 16. An apparatus as defined in claim 15, wherein the at least one maintenance tool comprises aircraft cleaning means connected to said tool pivoting means for cleaning an aircraft, said aircraft cleaning means having a tool base, a pair of spaced-apart cleaning brushes detachably connected to said tool base, and a cleaning fluid delivery head detachably connected to said tool base and positioned between said pair of spaced-apart cleaning brushes. 17. An apparatus as defined in claim 15, wherein said tool base includes a pair of spaced-apart cleaning brush yokes respectively adapted to receive said pair of cleaning brushes and a cleaning fluid delivery yoke adapted to receive said cleaning fluid delivery head. 