A part tracking system comprised of an array of photoelectric sensors positioned at various angles with respect to a conveyor transporting parts such as pieces of poultry to create a field of detection. The angle arrangements of the array of photoelectric sensors circumscribes the parts with lines of varying angles to approximate the part outline or closed line integral with a polygon. As a part is conveyed through the array of photoelectric sensors each transition of the sensors provide a side of the polygon that circumscribes the part. From this the vertices of the polygon can be determined which allows the centroid and angle of the major axis of the part to be calculated thereby providing the coordinates for the part's location on the conveyor. The coordinates are then conveyed to a robotic controller which manipulates an end effector to grasp the part.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A tracking system for locating parts moving upon a conveyor and providing location coordinates for said part to a positioning apparatus, comprising: an array of sensors arranged adjacent to said conveyor to provide a field of detection in an area along a predetermined portion of the surface of said conveyor, wherein said array of sensors are arranged at varying angles and directed across said conveyor to describe said part as a polygon; at least one conveyor position sensor coupled to said conveyor to determine the location of said conveyor with respect to a predetermined reference; and a sensor interface coupled to said array of sensors, said at least one conveyor position sensor and said positioning apparatus, where said sensor interface receives data from said array of sensors and said conveyor position sensor, operates upon said data and provides said data to said positioning apparatus which in turn manipulates said part. 2. A part tracking system as recited in claim 1, wherein said array of sensors are a plurality of photoelectric sensors which describe said part as a polygon containing 2n sides from the transitions of said plurality of photoelectric sensors, where n is the number of said photoelectric sensors. 3. A part tracking system as recited in claim 2, wherein said array of sensors is made up of five photoelectric sensors located along one side of said conveyor with one of said photoelectric sensors directed perpendicular to the direction of travel of said conveyor and designated as being positioned at zero degrees with said remaining photoelectric sensors each aligned at a different predetermined angle from either side of said zero degree sensor. 4. A part tracking system as recited in claim 3, wherein said remaining photoelectric sensors are each aligned at approximately +72.degree., +36.degree., -36.degree. or -72.degree. with respect to said photoelectric sensor positioned perpendicular to the direction of travel of said conveyor which is designated as zero degrees. 5. A part tracking system as recited in claim 2, wherein said sensor interface is a computer which receives said transitions from said array of sensors and the corresponding location of said conveyor from said at least one conveyor position sensor, calculates the vertices of said polygon that circumscribes said part upon said conveyor and from said vertices calculates the centroid and major axis of said part. 6. A part tracking system as recited in claim 5, wherein said computer communicates to said positioning apparatus the centroid and major axis and location coordinates of said part upon said conveyor from which said positioning apparatus can locate and grasp said part upon said conveyor. 7. A part tracking system as recited in claim 2, wherein said array of sensors includes: a plurality of photoelectric reflectors coupled at predetermined angles to the side of said conveyor opposite said photoelectric sensors with said plurality of photoelectric reflectors positioned to reflect the light beam of the corresponding photoelectric sensor, wherein said plurality of photoelectric sensors and said plurality of photoelectric reflectors are positioned to create a field of detection in the predetermined portion of said conveyor for detecting said part upon said conveyor. 8. A part tracking system as recited in claim 2, wherein said photoelectric sensors are water resistant to allow them to be cleaned without damage resulting to said photoelectric sensors. 9. A calibration fixture for use with a part tracking system as recited in claim 2, comprising, a planar base with at least two dowels extending vertically from said planar base, said at least two dowels spaced 2.sqroot.2 inches along a 45.degree. diagonal of said planar base. 10. A calibration fixture as recited in claim 9, further comprising, a third dowel extending vertically from said planar base in a predetermined relationship to said at least two dowels. 11. A method of detecting and determining the coordinates of the location of a part moving upon a conveyor, consisting of the steps of: arranging an array of sensors at predetermined angles along said conveyor to create a field of detection in a predetermined portion of said conveyor; passing said part moving upon said conveyor through said array of sensors wherein each transition of each of said sensors represents one side of a polygon that circumscribes said part; measuring the location of said part upon said conveyor which corresponds with each transition of each of said sensors as said part passes through said array of sensors; calculating the vertices of said polygon circumscribing said part; and calculating the centroid and major axis of said part moving upon said conveyor. 12. A method of detecting and determining the coordinates of the location of a part moving upon a conveyor as recited in claim 11, wherein said polygon which circumscribes said part is formed by the intersection of the blocking and unblocking lines formed as said part moves through said array of sensors. 13. A method of detecting and determining the coordinates of the location of a part moving upon a conveyor as recited in claim 11, further including the step of transferring the location coordinates, centroid and major axis of said part to a positioning apparatus which uses the information to grasp and manipulate said part upon said conveyor. 14. An automated part manipulating system for grasping and moving parts comprising: a pick-and-place robot; a control system coupled to said pick-and-place robot, wherein said control system directs the functions of said pick-and-place robot; and a part tracking system coupled to said control system, wherein said part tracking system determines the location coordinates and an approximation of the centroid and major axis for said part by providing a field of detection in which said part is described as a polygon, and wherein said part tracking system then transfers the location coordinates, centroid and major axis of said part to said control system which in turn directs said pick-and-place robot to grasp and manipulate said part. 15. An automated part manipulating system as recited in claim 14, wherein said pick-and-place robot has three degrees of freedom consisting of horizontal, vertical and 360.degree. rotation about the vertical axis, said pick-and-place robot further comprises a compliant end effector having a plurality of extending appendages for grasping parts. 16. An automated part manipulating system as recited in claim 14, wherein said control system comprises: a computer running a multi-tasking operating systems; and a pneumatic system coupled to said computer, said pneumatic system also coupled to said pick-and-place robot to inflate and deflate said plurality of appendages which are comprised of bellows, said inflation and deflation of said bellows is controlled by said computer and causes said plurality of appendages to curl simulating the movement of a human hand. 17. An automated part manipulating system as recited in claim 14, wherein said part tracking system comprises: an array of sensors physically arranged to provide a field of detection in the planar area parallel to a predetermined location, wherein said array of sensors consists of a plurality of photoelectric sensors and photoelectric reflectors arranged at varying angles to describe a part passing through said field of detection as a polygon from the transitions of said plurality of photoelectric sensors. 18. A part tracking system as recited in claim 1, wherein said sensor interface receives data from said array of sensors and said conveyor position sensor, said sensor interface calculates a physical characteristic of said part, and said sensor interface provides said positioning apparatus with instructions for manipulating said part. 19. A part tracking system as recited in claim 18, wherein said physical characteristic of said part which said sensor interface calculates is a characteristic selected from the group consisting of area, angular orientation, center of gravity and moment of inertia. 