A robotic transport apparatus is capable of providing an effective waterproofing function of working components without using mechanical seals. The robotic transport apparatus includes a robot body, an arm assembly extendably attached to the robot body, and a workpiece holding section attached to the arm assembly. A pan member for waterproofing of the robot body is provided above the robot body and has an area not smaller than the workpiece holding section.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic transport apparatus for transporting workpieces between processing sites, said apparatus comprising: a robot body; a workpiece holding section connected to said robot body; and a pan member positioned above said robot body, said pan member having an area at least as large as an area of said workpiece holding section. 2. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1, further comprising an arm assembly extendably attached to said robot body, and wherein said workpiece holding section is attached to said arm assembly. 3. An apparatus as claimed in claim 2, wherein said arm assembly includes a connection member connected to said workpiece holding section and bypassing said pan member. 4. An apparatus as claimed in claim 2, wherein said area of said pan member is greater than an area of an upper surface of said robot body. 5. An apparatus as claimed in claim 2, further comprising a joint section connecting said arm assembly to said robot body, and wherein said pan member is positioned vertically above and covers said joint section. 6. An apparatus as claimed in claim 5, wherein said arm assembly includes two arms connected by a further joint section, and wherein said pan member is positioned vertically above and covers said further joint section. 7. An apparatus as claimed in claim 5, wherein said workpiece holding section is connected to said arm assembly by a further joint section. 8. An apparatus as claimed in claim 2, comprising two arm assemblies attached to said robot body. 9. An apparatus as claimed in claim 2, wherein said pan member has extending therefrom a drain pipe. 10. An apparatus as claimed in claim 9, wherein said pan member is supported above an upper surface of said robot body, and further comprising a second pan member positioned about a periphery of said robot body, said drain pipe extending into said second pan member. 11. An apparatus as claimed in claim 9, wherein said pan member includes a drainage surface inclined downwardly toward said drain pipe. 12. An apparatus as claimed in claim 2, wherein said robot body is movable along a transport path. 13. An apparatus as claimed in claim 12, wherein said pan member is elongated in a direction orthogonal to said transport path. 14. An apparatus as claimed in claim 12, further comprising a drainage trench extending along said transport path, said drainage trench having extending therefrom a drain pipe. 15. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said pan member comprises a liquid reservoir. 16. A polishing apparatus comprising: a polishing section for polishing workpieces; a cleaning section for cleaning the polished workpieces; a storage section for storing the workpieces; and a robotic transport apparatus for transporting workpieces between at least two of said polishing section, said cleaning section and said storage section, said robotic transport apparatus comprising: a robot body; a workpiece holding section connected to said robot body; and a pan member positioned above said robot body, said pan member having an area at least as large as an area of said workpiece holding section. 17. An apparatus as claimed in claim 16, further comprising an arm assembly extendably attached to said robot body, and wherein said workpiece holding section is attached to said arm assembly. 18. An apparatus as claimed in claim 17, wherein said arm assembly includes a connection member connected to said workpiece holding section and bypassing said pan member. 19. An apparatus as claimed in claim 17, wherein said area of said pan member is greater than an area of an upper surface of said robot body. 20. An apparatus as claimed in claim 17, further comprising a joint section connecting said arm assembly to said robot body, and wherein said pan member is positioned vertically above and covers said joint section. 21. An apparatus as claimed in claim 20, wherein said arm assembly includes two arms connected by a further joint section, and wherein said pan member is positioned vertically above and covers said further joint section. 22. An apparatus as claimed in claim 20, wherein said workpiece holding section is connected to said arm assembly by a further joint section. 23. An apparatus as claimed in claim 17, comprising two arm assemblies attached to said robot body. 24. An apparatus as claimed in claim 17, wherein said pan member has extending therefrom a drain pipe. 25. An apparatus as claimed in claim 24, wherein said pan member is supported above an upper surface of said robot body, and further comprising a second pan member positioned about a periphery of said robot body, said drain pipe extending into said second pan member. 26. An apparatus as claimed in claim 24, wherein said pan member includes a drainage surface inclined downwardly toward said drain pipe. 27. An apparatus as claimed in claim 17, wherein said robot body is movable along a transport path. 28. An apparatus as claimed in claim 27, wherein said pan member is elongated in a direction orthogonal to said transport path. 29. An apparatus as claimed in claim 27, further comprising a drainage trench extending along said transport path, said drainage trench having extending therefrom a drain pipe. 30. An apparatus as claimed in claim 29, further comprising a second pan member positioned about a periphery of said robot body and having a drain pipe extending into said drainage trench. 31. An apparatus as claimed in claim 30, further comprising a third pan member extending orthogonal to said transport path and having a drain pipe extending into said drainage trench. 32. An apparatus as claimed in claim 31, further comprising a fourth pan member extending along said transport path on a side thereof opposite said drainage trench. 33. An apparatus as claimed in claim 32, further comprising a fifth pan member beneath said robot body and extending along said transport path. 34. An apparatus as claimed in claim 16, wherein said pan member comprises a liquid reservoir. 