A toy vehicle playset includes a trackway having a vehicle launcher coupled to a looped track portion and a dual tank unit positioned within the travel path of the toy vehicle through the trackway. The trackway further includes an exit ramp on the opposite side of the dual tank unit from the track loop which is coupled to a toy vehicle catcher and a display area. The dual tank unit includes a pair of tank portions separated by an intervening wall. The dual tank unit is supported within the trackway travel path such that either tank portion is alternatively positionable within the travel path of the toy vehicle. The playset further includes a multiply articulated robot arm supporting one or more thermally conductive tools or stamps which are immersible within the proximate one of the dual water tanks and appliable to the surface of the toy vehicle when resting in the toy vehicle catcher. The toy vehicle when launched down the trackway traverses the track loop and passes through the aligned one of the tank portions of the dual tank unit to receive a hot or cold water bath. The toy vehicle is at least partially covered with a thermochromic paint or coating and undergoes a thermochromic appearance change in the bath. Ideally, each of the tank portions is filled with a different temperature water supply.
Claims That is claimed is: 1. A toy vehicle playset comprising: a trackway having an entrance gate and an exit gate for guiding a thermochromic toy vehicle; a dual tank unit supporting a hot liquid reservoir and a cold liquid reservoir and defining first and second ramps through said hot liquid reservoir and said cold liquid reservoir respectively; a base supporting said dual tank unit so as to align a selected one of said ramps to extend between said entrance gate and said exit gate; a thermochromic toy vehicle receiving station for receiving and holding a thermochromic toy vehicle following its having been guided through one of said liquids via the aligned one of said ramps; and a robot arm coupled to said base having means for supporting a thermally conductive tool and for moving said tool between the liquid reservoir having the non-aligned one of said ramps and said receiving station. 2. A toy vehicle playset as set forth in claim 1 wherein said robot arm includes: a platform rotatably supported upon said base; a first arm pivotally coupled to said platform; and a second arm pivotally coupled to said first arm. 3. A toy vehicle playset as set forth in claim 2 wherein said means for supporting a thermally conductive tool includes a releasible clasp coupled to said second arm. 4. A toy vehicle playset as set forth in claim 3 wherein said dual tank unit is rotatable to interchange the relative positions of said liquids. 5. A toy vehicle playset comprising: a dual tank unit supporting first and second liquid filled tanks having respective first and second ramps therethrough; a track set having a toy vehicle travel path for guiding a toy vehicle through said first tank via said first ramp; a toy vehicle receiving station for receiving a toy vehicle after it traverses said first ramp; and a robot arm supported between said second tank and said toy vehicle receiving station having a thermally conductive tool secured thereto, said robot arm being movable to immerse a portion of said tool into said second tank and move it to said toy vehicle receiving station to touch a toy vehicle thereon. 6. A toy vehicle playset as set forth in claim 5 wherein said robot arm further includes attachment means for releasibly grasping a thermally conductive tool. 7. A toy vehicle as set forth in claim 6 wherein said dual tank unit includes means for interchanging said first and second tanks whereby said toy vehicle travel path guides a toy vehicle through said second tank and said robot arm is movable between said first tank and said toy vehicle receiving station. 8. A toy vehicle playset comprising: a dual tank unit having first and second liquid tanks and first and second toy vehicle trackways therethrough; a first track segment for guiding a toy vehicle to enter said first tank and traverse said first toy vehicle trackway; a second track segment for guiding a toy vehicle emerging from said first tank and having a vehicle receiving portion; and a robot arm supporting a thermally conductive tool and for moving said thermally conductive tool between a first position partially immersed in said second tank and a second position overlying said vehicle receiving portion. 9. A toy vehicle playset as set forth in claim 8 wherein said dual tank unit is rotatable with respect to said robot arm to interchange the relative positions of said first and second liquid tanks with respect to said robot arm. 10. A toy vehicle playset as set forth in claim 8 further including a releasible tool clasp supported by said robot arm for releasibly supporting said thermally conductive tool. 