A reactant gas ejector head enables a process gas mixture of a uniform concentration and composition to be delivered to the surface of a substrate in a stable and uniform thermodynamic state by preventing premature reactions to occur along the gas delivery route. The reactant gas ejector head comprises an ejection head body having a back plate and a nozzle plate for defining a gas mixing space therebetween. The nozzle plate has numerous gas ejection nozzles. A gas supply pipe is communicated with the ejection head body through a center region of the back plate so as to separately introduce at least two types of gaseous substances into the mixing space. Gas distribution passages are formed between the back plate and the nozzle plate in such a way as to guide the at least two types of gaseous substances from the gas supply pipe to be directed separately towards peripheral regions of the gas mixing space.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A reactant gas ejector head for use in a vapor deposition apparatus, said head comprising: an ejector head body having a back plate and a nozzle plate for defining a gas mixing space therebetween, said nozzle plate having numerous gas ejection nozzles; a gas supply communicating with said ejector head body through a center region of said back plate so as to separately introduce at least two gaseous substances into said mixing space; and gas distribution passages formed between said back plate and said nozzle plate to guide said at least two types of gaseous substances from said gas supply separately towards peripheral regions of said gas mixing space. 2. A reactant gas ejector head according to claim 1, wherein at least two distribution plates are disposed between said back plate and said nozzle plate so as to form said gas distribution passages between said back plate and said nozzle plate. 3. A reactant gas ejector head according to claim 1, wherein a dispersion plate having numerous gas dispersion holes is provided in said gas mixing space formed between said back plate and said nozzle plate. 4. A reactant gas ejector head according to claim 3, wherein a sum of cross sectional areas of said gas ejection nozzles is smaller than a sum of cross sectional areas of said gas dispersion holes. 5. A reactant gas ejector head according to claim 1, wherein a peripheral wall defining said mixing space comprises an inclined surface inclining towards a center region of said mixing space. 6. A reactant gas ejector head according to claim 1, further comprising temperature control means to maintain said gas distribution passages and said nozzle plate at required temperatures. 7. A reactant gas ejector head according to claim 1, wherein a total cross sectional area of said gas distribution passages is smaller than a total cross sectional area of said gas supply. 8. A reactant gas ejector head according to claim 1, wherein an annular narrowed passage portion is provided between a peripheral area and a center region of said mixing space. 