The invention provides a method of testing a machine vision system of the type that inspects a feature (e.g., an electronic component) using object-oriented constructs that instantiate an inspection object from an inspection class that is associated with a type of the feature (e.g., the rectilinear component) and that invoke a method member of that object to inspect the feature to determine its characteristics (e.g., position, angular orientation, and shape conformance). The method of the invention includes the steps of instantiating a test object from a test class that corresponds to the inspection class, invoking a method member of that test object to generate one or more test images representing the feature, inspecting the test images to determine characteristics of the features therein, and reporting results of those inspections.
Claims In view of the foregoing, what I claim is: 1. A method of testing a machine vision inspection system of the type that inspects a feature in an image using digital data processing object-oriented constructs that instantiate an inspection object for the feature from an inspection class associated with a type of the feature; invoke a method member of that inspection object to inspect the feature to determine a characteristic thereof, that method member being referred to herein as an inspection method, the method comprising the steps of: instantiating a test object from a test class that inherits from the inspection class; invoking a method member of the test object for generating one or more test images representing the feature; invoking the inspection method to inspect the test images to determine characteristics of the features therein; and reporting a result of such inspection. 2. A method according to claim 1, wherein the step of generating one or more test images includes the step of generating the test image representing the feature with a characteristic having a value selected from multiple potential values. 3. A method according to claim 2, wherein the step of generating one or more test images includes the step of generating the test image representing the feature with a characteristic having a value selected from multiple potential values, the characteristic being any of position, angular orientation, size, and color. 4. A method according to claim 2, wherein the step of generating one or more test images includes the step of generating the test image representing the feature with a characteristic having a value that is selected randomly from among multiple potential values. 5. A method according to claim 4, wherein the step of generating one or more test images includes the step of generating the test image representing the feature with multiple characteristics, each having a value which is selected randomly from among multiple potential values. 6. A method according to claim 2, wherein the step of generating one or more test images includes generating multiple test images, each representing the feature with a characteristic having a value that is selected randomly from among multiple potential values. 7. A method according to claim 6, wherein the step of generating one or more test images includes generating multiple test images, each representing the feature having multiple characteristics, each of which has a value that is selected randomly from among multiple potential values. 8. A method according to claim 1, wherein the step of generating one or more test images includes the step of generating multiple test images, each representing the feature with a characteristic having a value that is fixed. 9. A method according to claim 1, wherein the step of generating one or more test images includes the step of generating multiple test images, each representing the feature with a first characteristic having a value that is selected in random from among multiple potential values, and having a second characteristic having a value that is fixed. 10. A method according to claim 9, wherein the step of generating multiple test images includes the steps of selecting as the first characteristic a characteristic from the set of characteristics including position, angular orientation, size, and color; and selecting as the second characteristic a different characteristic from that set. 11. A method for testing a machine vision inspection system of the type that inspects a feature in an image using digital data processing object-oriented constructs that instantiate an inspection object for the feature from an inspection class associated with a type of the feature; invoke a method member of that inspection object to inspect the feature to determine a characteristic thereof, that method member being referred to herein as an inspection method, the method comprising the steps of: instantiating a test object from a test class corresponding to the inspection class, the test class inheriting from that inspection class, as well as from a test harness class; invoking a method member of the test object for generating one or more test images representing the feature; invoking the inspection method of that inspection object to inspect the test images to determine characteristic of the features therein; and reporting a result of such inspection. 12. A method according to claim 11, wherein the step of instantiating the inspection object includes the step of instantiating that object from the test class. 13. A method according to claim 11, wherein the step of reporting a result of the inspection includes the step of using members of the test object inherited from the test harness class to report a result of the inspection. 14. A method according to claim 11, wherein the test class inherits from the inspection class a definition of one or more characteristics of the feature and expected values thereof, and wherein the step of generating one or more test images includes the step of generating a test image representing the feature with a characteristic having a value selected from any of the expected values defined by the inspection class. 15. A method according to claim 14, wherein the step of generating one or more test images includes the step of generating the test image representing the feature with a characteristic having a value that is at least one of fixed, selected randomly from among the expected values defined by the inspection class, and selected in a predetermined sequence from among the expected values defined by the inspection class. 16. A method according to claim 14, wherein the step of generating one or more test images includes generating multiple test images, each representing the feature with a characteristic having a value that is at least one of fixed, selected randomly from among the expected values defined by the inspection class, and selected in a predetermined sequence from among the expected values defined by the inspection class. 17. A method for testing a machine vision inspection system of the type that inspects a feature in an image using digital data processing object-oriented constructs that instantiate an inspection object for the feature from an inspection class associated with a type of the feature; invoke a method member of that inspection object to inspect the feature to determine a characteristic thereof, that method member being referred to herein as an inspection method, the method comprising the steps of: instantiating a test object from a test class corresponding to the inspection class, the test class inheriting from that inspection class, as well as from a test harness class; invoking a method member of the test object for generating multiple test images of the feature, each test image representing a feature with a characteristic having a value selected from multiple expected values defined by the inspection class; invoking the inspection method of the inspection object to inspect the test images to determine characteristics of the features therein; comparing results of those inspections with results expected in accord with the selection of values, and tracking results of those comparisons to evaluate the inspection model. 18. A method generating images for testing a machine vision inspection system of the type that inspects a feature in an image using digital data processing object-oriented constructs that instantiate an inspection object for the feature from an inspection class associated with a type of the feature; invoke a method member of that inspection object to inspect the feature to determine a characteristic thereof, that method member being referred to herein as an inspection method, the method comprising the steps of: instantiating a test object from a test class that inherits from the inspection class; invoking a method member of the test object for generating one or more test images of the feature; invoking the inspection method to inspect the test images to determine characteristics of the features therein. 19. A method for generating images for testing a machine vision inspection system of the type that inspects a feature in an image using digital data processing object-oriented constructs that instantiate an inspection object for the feature from an inspection class associated with a type of the feature; invoke a method member of that inspection object to inspect the feature to determine a characteristic thereof, that method member being referred to herein as an inspection method, the method comprising the steps of: instantiating a test object from a test class corresponding to the inspection class, the test class inheriting from that inspection class, as well as from a test harness class; invoking a method member of the test object for generating multiple test images of the feature, each test image representing the feature with a characteristic having a value selected from multiple expected values defined by the inspection class; invoking the inspection method of the inspection object to inspect the test images to determine characteristics of the features therein. 20. A method for testing a machine vision surface mounted device inspection system of the type that inspects a surface mounted device in an image using digital data processing object-oriented constructs that instantiate an inspection object for the surface mounted device from an inspection class associated with a type of the surface mounted device; invoke a method member of that inspection object to inspect the surface mounted device to determine a characteristic thereof, that method member being referred to herein as an inspection method, the method comprising the steps of: instantiating a test object from a test class corresponding to the inspection class; invoking a method member of the test object for generating one or more test images of the surface mounted device; invoking its inspection method to inspect each of the test images to determine a characteristic of the surface mounted devices therein; and reporting a result of such inspection. 