A data cartridge handling and storage caddy for removing and handling more than one data cartridge outside of an autochanger and for installing more than one data cartridge into an autochanger. The data cartridge handling and storage caddy has two different leaf springs. The first is a lock spring and locks data cartridges into the caddy and does not permit the data cartridges to be removed unless the lock spring is disabled. The second is a detent spring and secures the data cartridges within the caddy whenever the lock spring is disabled. The detent spring is strong enough to hold the data cartridges within the caddy against gravity and vibration, yet slight enough to permit a user or the autochanger to pull a cartridge out of the caddy when the lock spring is disabled. The detent spring is not disabled when the lock spring is disabled. The detent spring holds other data cartridges securely within the caddy when the lock spring is disabled and the user or autochanger installs or removes one of the data cartridges.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A data cartridge caddy for installing and removing more than one data cartridge into an autochanger, said more than one data cartridge having a top, a bottom and four sides, said data cartridge caddy comprising: a data cartridge magazine; more than one slot in said data cartridge magazine, each of said more than one slot having a back wall, a first side wall and a second side wall, each of said more than one slot being capable of receiving a data cartridge; locking means on said first side wall within each of said more than one slot, said locking means being capable of catching a feature of said more than one data cartridge and preventing said data cartridge from being removed from said more than one slot unless said locking means is disabled; detent means on said first side wall within each of said more than one slot, said detent means being capable of catching said feature of said more than one data cartridge and providing a light holding force to said more than one data cartridge when said locking means is disabled, said detent means providing sufficient holding force to hold said data cartridge within said more than one slot against gravity and vibration, said detent means being slight enough to allow a user or said autochanger to overcome said detent means by pulling said data cartridge from said data cartridge caddy slot; and a lock release member within said data cartridge caddy, said lock release member releases all locking means substantially simultaneously within each more than one slot when said lock release member is activated. 2. The data cartridge caddy according to claim 1, wherein said locking means is a lock spring. 3. The data cartridge caddy according to claim 1, wherein said detent means is a detent spring. 4. The data cartridge caddy according to claim 1, wherein said data cartridge is a DLT data cartridge. 5. The data cartridge caddy according to claim 1, wherein said detent means is not disabled when said locking means is disabled. 6. The data cartridge caddy according to claim 1, wherein said detent means holds other data cartridges within said data cartridge caddy when one data cartridge is being installed or removed from said data cartridge caddy. 7. A data cartridge caddy for installing and removing more than one data cartridge into an autochanger, said more than one data cartridge having a top, a bottom and four sides, said data cartridge caddy comprising: a data cartridge magazine; more than one slot in said data cartridge magazine, each of said more than one slot having a back wall, a first side wall and a second side wall, each of said more than one slot being capable of receiving a data cartridge; a locking spring on said first side wall within each of said more than one slot, said locking spring being capable of catching a feature of said more than one data cartridge and preventing said data cartridge from being removed from said more than one slot unless said locking spring is disabled; a detent spring on said first side wall within each of said more than one slot, said detent spring being capable of catching said feature of said more than one data cartridge and providing a light holding force to said more than one data cartridge when said locking spring is disabled, said detent spring providing sufficient holding force to hold said data cartridge within said more than one slot against gravity and vibration, said detent spring being slight enough to allow a user or said autochanger to overcome said detent spring by pulling said data cartridge from said data cartridge caddy slot, said detent spring is not disabled when said lock spring is disabled, said detent spring is capable of holding other data cartridges within said data cartridge caddy when one data cartridge is being installed into or removed from said data cartridge caddy; and a lock release member within said data cartridge caddy, said lock release member releases all locking springs substantially simultaneously within each more than one slot when said lock release member is activated. 