An apparatus for performing automated testing of infections biological specimens is disclosed. The apparatus comprise a process controller for translating user commands into test instrument suite commands, and a test instrument suite comprising a means to treat the specimen to manifest an observable result, and a detector for measuring the observable result to generate specimen test results.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automated apparatus for treating a biological specimen with reagents for infectivity assays to manifest an observable test result, comprising: an automated inoculation instrument module for exposing the specimen to a viral assay; an automated specimen preparation instrument module for applying the treated specimen to a surface so adapted to permit detecting the observable result, for applying indicator cells, and for applying liquid reagents; an automated support module for transporting the biological specimen between the automated inoculation instrument module and the automated specimen preparation instrument module including means for effecting multiple assays on the same specimen, at least two of which assays are an infectivity assay, a cytotoxicity assay, or a biochemical assay; and means for controlling at least some of the modules by a remote client, the remote client communicating with the modules through an Internet link to control the performance of multiple assays on the same specimen. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising an automated incubation test instrument module for storing the treated specimens at a substantially constant designated temperature. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a means for removing extracellular material from the treated specimens. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the automated inoculation instrument module comprises: means for applying specimens in centrifuge tubes, the centrifuge tubes having a volumetric capacity of at least approximately 2 milliliters; and means for applying the viral assay to the centrifuge tubes. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the means for removing extracellular material from the treated specimens comprises an automated cell washing test instrument module for centrifuging the treated specimens. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the automated specimen preparation instrument module comprises a microtiter plate preparation automated test module having means for applying indicator cells to the microtiter plate and means for applying washed target cells to the microtiter plate. 7. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein the remote client is located geographically on a continent different from the continent on which the automated apparatus is located. 8. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein the remote client is located geographically removed from the automated apparatus such that the remote client delivers the specimen to the automated apparatus at least partly through the services of a common delivery carrier. 9. An automated apparatus for treating a biological specimen with reagents for infectivity assays to manifest an observable test result, comprising: an automated inoculation instrument module for exposing the specimen to a viral assay; an automated specimen preparation instrument module for applying the treated specimen to a surface adapted to permit detecting an observable result, for applying indicator cells, and for applying liquid reagents; an automated support module for transporting biological specimens between the automated inoculation instrument module and the automated specimen preparation instrument module; wherein the automated inoculation instrument module comprises means for applying specimens in centrifuge tubes, the centrifuge tubes having a volumetric capacity of at least approximately 2 ml; means for applying the viral assay to the centrifuge tubes; and wherein the automated inoculation instrument module further comprises means for applying reagents to the centrifuge tubes for the specimen the reagents selected to be at least two of the group consisting of fresh culture media, immunoglobulins, antivirals, and lymphokines, such that different reagents are applied to different centrifuge tubes; and means for controlling at least some of the modules by remote client, the remote client communicating with the modules through an Internet link to control the application of the reagents to the specimen. 10. An apparatus as claimed in claim 9 wherein the remote client is located geographically on a continent different from the continent on which the automated apparatus is located. 11. An apparatus as claimed in claim 9 wherein the remote client is located geographically removed from the automated apparatus such that the remote client delivers the specimen to the automated apparatus at least partly through the services of a common delivery carrier. 12. An apparatus for performing quantitative analysis of a treated biological specimen with a plurality of detection modes comprising: an automated immunolabeling test instrument module for fixing and staining the treated biological specimen; an automated image acquisition and analysis test instrument module for performing image analysis of the treated specimen; the automated image acquisition and analysis test instrument module comprising multiple detector instruments which are selectable for the same biological specimen, and which are at least two of a digitized microscope, a colorimeter, a flow cytometer, and a scintillation detector; and means for controlling at least some of the modules by remote client, the remote client communicating with the modules through an Internet link to control the selection of the detector instruments. 13. The apparatus of claim 12, further comprising a means for applying reagents to the treated biological specimens. 14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the biological specimen comprises HIV-infected target cells, and the means for applying reagents to the treated biological specimens comprises means for staining monolayers of the biological specimen with anti-HIV immunoglobins to identify HIV expressing cells. 15. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the biological specimen comprises HIV infected cells, and the means for applying reagents to the treated biological specimen comprises means for lysing HIV cell monolayers with detergents, thereby producing cell lysates. 16. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the automated image acquisition and analysis test instrument module comprises instruments selected from the group comprising a digitized microscope, a calorimeter, a flow cytometer, and a scintillation detector. 17. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the calorimeter measures the supernatants by an HIV enzyme-linked immuno-sorbent assay. 18. An apparatus as claimed in claim 12 when the remote client is located geographically on a continent different from the continent on which the automated apparatus is located. 19. An apparatus as claimed in claim 12 wherein the remote client is located geographically removed from the automated apparatus such that the remote client delivers the specimen to the automated apparatus at least partly through the services of a common delivery carrier. 20. A method for treating a biological specimen in an automated apparatus with agents for infectivity assays to manifest an observable test result, comprising: physically delivering a specimen from a remote client located in a place geographically removed from the automated apparatus, the physical delivery including handling by a common carrier physical delivery system; exposing the specimen to a viral assay in an automated inoculation instrument module; in an automated specimen preparation instrument module, applying the treated specimen to a surface so adapted to permit detecting of the observable result, applying indicator cells, and applying liquid reagents; in an automated support module, transporting the specimen between the automated inoculation instrument module and the automated specimen preparation instrument module including effecting multiple assays on the same specimen, at least two of which assays are an infectivity assay, a cytotoxicity assay, or a biochemical assay; and controlling at least some of the modules by the remote client, the control by the remote client being through communication with the modules through an Internet link to control the performance of multiple assays on the same specimen. 21. The method of claim 20, further comprising removing extracellular material from the treated specimen through an automated cell washing test instrument module for centrifuging the treated specimen. 22. A method for treating a biological specimen in an automated apparatus with reagents for infectivity assays to manifest an observable test result, comprising: physically delivering a specimen from a remote client located in a place geographically remote from the automated apparatus, the physical delivery including handling by a common carrier physical delivery system; in an automated inoculation instrument module, exposing the specimen to a viral assay; in an automated specimen preparation instrument module, applying the treated specimen to a surface so adapted to permit detecting the observable result, applying indicator cells, and applying liquid reagents; in an automated support module, transporting the specimen between the automated inoculation instrument module and the automated specimen preparation instrument module; wherein the automated inoculation instrument module comprises means for applying specimens in centrifuge tubes, the centrifuge tubes having a volumetric capacity of at least approximately 2 ml and means for applying the viral assay to the centrifuge tubes; and wherein the automated inoculation instrument module further comprises means for applying reagents to the centrifuge tubes; in the automated instrument module, applying reagents to the centrifuge tubes for the specimen, the reagents selected to be at least two of the group consisting of fresh culture media, immunoglobulins, antivirals, and lymphokines, such that different reagents are applied to different centrifuge tubes; and controlling at least some of the modules by the remote client, the control by the remote client being through communication with the modules through an Internet link to control the application of the reagents to the specimen. 23. A method for performing quantitative analysis of a treated biological specimen in an automated apparatus with a plurality of detection modes, comprising: physically delivering a specimen from a remote client located in a place geographically removed from the automated apparatus, the physical delivery including handling by a common carrier physical delivery system; in an automated immunolabeling test instrument module, fixing and staining the treated biological specimen; in an automated image acquisition and analysis test instrument module, performing image analysis of the treated specimen; the automated image acquisition and analysis test instrument module comprising multiple detector instruments which are selectable for the same biological specimen, and which are at least two of a digitized microscope, a colorimeter, a flow cytometer, and a scintillation detector; and controlling at least some of the modules by the remote client, the control by the remote client being through communication with the modules through an Internet link to control the selection of the detector instruments. 24. The method of claim 23, further including measuring the supernatants by an HIV enzyme-linked immuno-sorbent assay in the colorimeter. 