A robot drive has operating and configuration parameters at an installation location stored in an easily removable storage device on the drive, or nearby, so that special data, such as that associated with arm design and system layout, including taught stations, can remain associated with the drive and installation whereby the drive system can be installed or replaced in minimal time since the storage device does not need reprogramming. This removable storage device, in the form of a static memory or Master Key, e.g., a Dallas Key or E Prom or the like, may be affixed to the robot body or off board nearby, and may store arm design parameters, programmed while on the robot body or off-line, and becomes a unique part structured for manufacturing with respect to the arm set design. Further, nominal system layout parameters can be prestored in the Key, and when this Key is affixed to the robot drive, the robot automatically has the information regarding both arm design and system layout, which will help avoid collisions and provide a starting point for the fine teaching of the transfer stations. Additionally, the fine location parameters for each transfer station may be stored in the Key when the robot is installed. Thus, the Key will contain all the information needed to make a robot unique to a unique system, and when a robot drive is replaced, by affixing the original Key to the new robot or nearby, it will assume all of the parameters of the initial robot.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for controlling the operation of a robot tool having a body for mounting a drive mechanism and at least one arm driven thereby, comprising: memory means for prestoring nominal system layout parameters for said robot tool and storing operating information relating to said drive mechanism and said at least one arm of said robot tool at a tool installation location; mounting means for removably mounting said memory means in association with said body, whereby when any of said body, drive mechanism, and at least one arm is removed and re-installed or replaced, said memory means may remain associated with said body and installation location to avoid having to be reprogrammed; and wherein said robot tool has associated placement stations having reach, height, and theta positions, and wherein said nominal system layout parameters comprise: the nominal reach, height, and theta position of each placement station associated with said robot tool, whereby a maximum deviation may be defined to prevent said at least one arm from inadvertently crashing into objects due to malfunction or operator error; and the exact transfer positions in reach, height, and theta for all of said placement stations. 2. Apparatus as in claim 1 wherein said memory means comprises means for storing fine location parameters for a placement station at which said at least one arm is installed. 3. Apparatus as in claim 1 wherein said memory means comprises a static memory device. 4. Apparatus as in claim 1 wherein said memory means comprises a Master Key selected from the group consisting of a Dallas Key, an E Prom, and the like. 5. Apparatus as in claim 1 wherein said mounting means comprises means for removably affixing said memory means to said robot body. 6. Apparatus as in claim 1 wherein said mounting means comprises means for removably affixing said memory means to said drive mechanism. 7. Apparatus as in claim 1 wherein said mounting means comprises means for removably affixing said memory means to an off-board element located near said robot tool. 8. A method for controlling the operation of a robot tool having a body mounting a drive mechanism and at least one arm driven by said drive mechanism, comprising the steps of: storing operating information, relating to said drive mechanism and said at least one arm of said robot tool at a tool installation location, in a storage device; removably affixing said storage device in association with said body; when any of said body, drive mechanism, and at least one arm is removed and re-installed or replaced at said installation location, retaining said storage device in association with said body and installation location to avoid the need for reprogramming said storage device; and wherein said robot tool has a mounting flange and said drive mechanism comprises coaxial shafts and said step of storing operating information comprises, at the time of manufacturing said drive mechanism, calibrating and setting the nominal Z height of said coaxial shafts to a fixed dimension measured from the flange for mounting said robot, and storing said fixed dimension in said storage device. 9. The method of claim 8 comprising the further step of prestoring nominal system layout parameters for said robot tool in said storage device. 10. The method of claim 8 comprising the further step of storing fine location parameters, for a transfer station at which said at least one arm is installed, in said storage device. 11. The method of claim 8 wherein said storage device comprises a Master Key selected from the group consisting of a Dallas Key, an E Prom, and the like. 12. The method of claim 8 wherein said step of removably affixing said storage device comprises affixing said storage device to said body. 13. The method of claim 8 wherein said step of removably affixing said storage device comprises affixing said storage device to said drive mechanism. 14. The method of claim 8 wherein said step of removably affixing said storage device comprises affixing said storage device to an off-board element located near said robot tool. 15. Apparatus for controlling the operation of a robot tool having a body for mounting a drive mechanism and at least one arm driven thereby, comprising: memory means for storing operating information relating to said drive mechanism and said at least one arm of said robot tool at a tool installation location; mounting means for removably mounting said memory means in association with said body, whereby when any of said body, drive mechanism, and at least one arm is removed and re-installed or replaced, said memory means may remain associated with said body and installation location to avoid having to be reprogrammed; and wherein said robot tool has a mounting flange and said memory means comprises means for storing parameters for said drive mechanism, said parameters relating to said at least one arm and comprising: the nominal (home) Z height of said drive mechanism from said robot body mounting flange; the nominal (home) theta, typically the mounting position of said at least one arm; and the calibration offsets of said mounting position of said at least one arm, which offsets are determined after said at least one arm is mounted to account for any deviation due to mounting, and comprise: the nominal reach offset (in degrees); the nominal theta offset (in degrees); and the nominal Z offset. 16. Apparatus as in claim 15 wherein said robot tool has associated placement stations and said memory means comprises means for storing fine location parameters for a placement station at which said at least one arm is installed. 17. Apparatus as in claim 15 wherein said memory means comprises a static memory device. 18. Apparatus as in claim 15 wherein said memory means comprises a Master Key selected from the group consisting of a Dallas Key, an E Prom, and the like. 19. Apparatus as in claim 15 wherein said mounting means comprises means for removably affixing said memory means to said robot body. 20. Apparatus as in claim 15 wherein said mounting means comprises means for removably affixing said memory means to said drive mechanism. 21. Apparatus as in claim 15 wherein said mounting means comprises means for removably affixing said memory means to an off-board element located near said robot tool. 22. Apparatus for controlling the operation of a robot tool having a body for mounting a drive mechanism and at least one arm driven thereby, comprising: memory means for storing operating information relating to said drive mechanism and said at least one arm of said robot tool at a tool installation location; mounting means for removably mounting said memory means in association with said body, whereby when any of said body, drive mechanism, and at least one arm is removed and re-installed or replaced, said memory means may remain associated with said body and installation location to avoid having to be reprogrammed; and wherein said at least one arm is mounted in a cluster tool and comprises end effector means for frictionally holding a workpiece thereon, and said memory means stores arm design parameters comprising: the arm segment lengths; the arm segment masses; the length of said end effector means; the workpiece/end effector means coefficient of friction; the maximum arm retract position; and the maximum arm extend position. 23. Apparatus as in claim 22 wherein said robot tool has associated placement stations and said memory means comprises means for storing fine location parameters for a placement station at which said at least one arm is installed. 24. Apparatus as in claim 22 wherein said memory means comprises a static memory device. 25. Apparatus as in claim 22 wherein said memory means comprises a Master Key selected from the group consisting of a Dallas Key, an E Prom, and the like. 26. Apparatus as in claim 22 wherein said mounting means comprises means for removably affixing said memory means to said robot body. 27. Apparatus as in claim 22 wherein paid mounting means comprises means for removably affixing said memory means to said drive mechanism. 28. Apparatus as in claim 22 wherein said mounting means comprises means for removably affixing said memory means to an off-board element located near said robot tool. 29. A method for controlling the operation of a robot tool having a body mounting a drive mechanism and at least one arm driven by said drive mechanism, comprising the steps of: storing operating information, relating to said drive mechanism and said at least one arm of said robot tool at a tool installation location, in a storage device; removably affixing said storage device in association with said body; when any of said body, drive mechanism, and at least one arm is removed and re-installed or replaced at said installation location, retaining said storage device in association with said body and installation location to avoid the need for reprogramming said storage device; and wherein said drive mechanism comprises a first theta shaft and a second theta shaft defining nominal arm theta and nominal retract position, and said step of storing operating information comprises, at the time of manufacturing said drive mechanism, calibrating and setting the nominal angle of the first theta shaft and the second theta shaft, and storing said nominal angles in said storage device. 30. The method of claim 29 comprising the further step of prestoring nominal system layout parameters for said robot tool in said storage device. 31. The method of claim 29 comprising the further step of storing fine location parameters, for a transfer station at which said at least one arm is installed, in said storage device. 32. The method of claim 29 wherein said storage device comprises a Master Key selected from the group consisting of a Dallas Key, an E Prom, and the like. 33. The method of claim 29 wherein said step of removably affixing said storage device comprises affixing said storage device to said body. 34. The method of claim 29 wherein said step of removably affixing said storage device comprises affixing said storage device to said drive mechanism. 35. The method of claim 29 wherein said step of removably affixing said storage device comprises affixing said storage device to an off-board element located near said robot tool. 