The present invention generally provides a cassette-to-cassette vacuum processing system which concurrently processes multiple wafers and combines the advantages of single wafer process chambers and multiple wafer handling for high quality wafer processing, high wafer throughput and reduced footprint. In accordance with one aspect of the invention, the system is preferably a staged vacuum system which generally includes a loadlock chamber for introducing wafers into the system and which also provides wafer cooling following processing, a transfer chamber for housing a wafer handler, and one or more processing chambers each having two or more processing regions which are isolatable from each other and preferably share a common gas supply and a common exhaust pump. The processing regions also preferably include separate gas distribution assemblies and RF power sources to provide a uniform plasma density over a wafer surface in each processing region. The processing chambers are configured to allow multiple, isolated processes to be performed concurrently in at least two processing regions so that at least two wafers can be processed simultaneously in a chamber with a high degree of process control provided by shared gas sources, shared exhaust systems, separate gas distribution assemblies, separate RF power sources, and separate temperature control systems.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for processing wafers, comprising: (a) a loadlock chamber; (b) a transfer chamber; (c) one or more processing chambers, each chamber defining a plurality of isolated processing regions therein, each processing region connected to the transfer chamber; and (d) a first wafer handling member disposed in the transfer chamber. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a wafer staging area. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the staging area includes one or more wafer cassette turntables disposed thereon. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 further comprising a second wafer handling member disposed in the staging area to load wafers into the loadlock chamber. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein the second wafer handling member includes a wafer mapping device. 6. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein the second wafer handling member is positioned between a first and a second wafer cassette turntable. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 further comprising a wafer center finding device disposed adjacent to the wafer cassette turntables. 8. The apparatus of claim 2 further comprising a wafer pedestal disposed in each processing region. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein each wafer pedestal includes a heating member disposed therein. 10. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein the heating member is a resistive heating element. 11. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein the heating member is a lamp. 12. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the first wafer handling member comprises a plurality of wafer handling blades for concurrently transporting a plurality of wafers between the loadlock chamber and the one or more processing chambers. 13. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein the plurality of wafer handling blades are coplanar. 14. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein each processing region includes a gas distribution assembly disposed therein. 15. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein a remote plasma system is connected to the gas distribution assembly. 16. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein the remote plasma system comprises: (a) a chamber; (b) an applicator tube disposed through the plasma chamber having a gas inlet and a gas outlet; and (c) a power source connected to the chamber. 17. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein the power source is a microwave generator. 18. The apparatus of claim 17 wherein the microwave generator is connected to the chamber by a wave guide. 19. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein each processing region includes a gas distribution assembly disposed therein and each gas distribution assembly shares process gases from one or more gas sources. 20. The apparatus of claim 19 wherein each gas distribution assembly is connected to a power supply. 21. The apparatus of claim 20 wherein each gas distribution assembly is connected to a separate power supply. 22. The apparatus of claim 21 wherein each wafer pedestal includes a heating member. 23. The apparatus of claim 22 wherein the heating member comprises a resistive heating element disposed in the pedestal. 24. The apparatus of claim 22 wherein the heating member comprises a lamp. 25. The apparatus of claim 20 further comprising a wafer pedestal disposed in each processing region. 26. The apparatus of claim 25 wherein each processing region includes independent temperature and power controls connected to the pedestal and the gas distribution assembly. 27. The apparatus of claim 20 wherein the system comprises a front end staging apparatus, a loadlock chamber, a transfer chamber, a process chamber and a utilities support rack disposed on a support frame. 28. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising one or more RF generators and one or more gas sources connected to the chambers. 29. A method for processing wafers, comprising: (a) loading two wafers into a first chamber; (b) moving the wafers concurrently from the first chamber into isolated processing regions of one or more process chambers; and (c) introducing one or more process gases into each isolated processing region. 30. The method of claim 29 further comprising exhausting the gases from each isolated processing region. 31. The method of claim 30 wherein the gases are exhausted using a single pump. 32. The method of claim 31 wherein the one or more process gases are delivered from a common gas line. 33. The method of claim 32 further comprising positioning the wafers in the first chamber to align with the isolated processing regions. 34. The method of claim 31 further comprising cleaning the isolated processing regions by flowing one or more cleaning gases into each isolated processing region. 35. The method of claim 34 wherein the cleaning gases are introduced into the isolated processing regions from a remote plasma system. 36. The method of claim 35 wherein the cleaning gases are excited in the remote plasma system using microwaves. 37. The method of claim 29 further comprising striking a plasma in each isolated processing region by inductively or capacitively coupling power into each isolated processing region. 38. The method of claim 37 wherein power is coupled into each isolated processing region from a separate power source. 39. An apparatus for processing wafers, comprising: (a) a transfer chamber; (b) one or more processing chambers, each chamber defining a plurality of isolated processing regions therein, each processing region connected to the transfer chamber; (c) a first wafer handling member disposed in the transfer chamber; and (d) a vacuum pump in fluid communication with each processing region in one or more of the processing chambers. 40. The apparatus of claim 39 further comprising a wafer staging area comprising one or more wafer cassette turntables disposed thereon. 41. The apparatus of claim 39 wherein a remote plasma system is in fluid communication with each processing region in one or more of the processing chambers. 42. The apparatus of claim 39 further comprising one or more sources of process gases in fluid communication with each processing region in one or more of the processing chambers. 43. An apparatus for processing wafers, comprising: (a) a transfer chamber; (b) one or more processing chambers, each chamber defining a plurality of isolated processing regions therein, each processing region connected to the transfer chamber; (c) a first wafer handling member disposed in the transfer chamber; and (d) one or more sources of process gases in fluid communication with each processing region in one or more of the processing chambers. 44. The apparatus of claim 43 further comprising a wafer staging area comprising one or more wafer cassette turntables disposed thereon. 45. The apparatus of claim 43 wherein a remote plasma system is in fluid communication with each processing region in one or more of the processing chambers. 46. The apparatus of claim 43 further comprising a vacuum pump in fluid communication with each processing region in one or more of the processing chambers. 47. An apparatus for processing wafers, comprising: (a) a transfer chamber; (b) two or more processing chambers, each chamber defining two isolated processing regions therein, each processing region connected to the transfer chamber; (c) a first wafer handling member disposed in the transfer chamber; (d) one or more sources of process gases in fluid communication with each processing region in each processing chamber; and (e) a vacuum pump in fluid communication with each processing region in each processing chamber. 48. The apparatus of claim 47 further comprising a wafer staging area comprising one or more wafer cassette turntables disposed thereon. 49. The apparatus of claim 47 wherein a remote plasma system is in fluid communication with each processing region in one or more of the processing chambers. 50. The apparatus of claim 47 wherein each processing region includes independent temperature and power controls. 