An optoelectronic module is disclosed in which an optoelectronic device is precisely aligned with an optical fiber. The optoelectronic module comprises a first member, a second member for supporting an end of the optical fiber in a fixed position relative the first member along an axis, and a third member for mounting at least one optoelectronic device. A plurality of positioning members are adjustably positioned on the first member for supporting the third member to maintain aligned relation of the optoelectronic device with the axis.
Claims We claim: 1. An optoelctronic module having an optoelectronic device optically aligned with an optical fiber, the optoelectronic module comprising: a first member having a top major surface; a second member for supporting the optical fiber and having top and bottom major surfaces, the bottom surface thereof being fixed to the top surface of the first member, the second member including a longitudinal groove formed along the top major surface of the second member for receiving an end of the optical fiber in a fixed position aligned with a predetermined axis; a plurality of positioning members supported on the top surface of the first member; a third member having top and bottom major surfaces for mounting the optoelectronic device on the top major surface thereof in aligned relation with the axis, the third member being supported by the positioning members to maintain the aligned relation of the optoelectronic device with the axis and the third member being fixed to the top surface of the first member. 2. The optoelectronic module according to claim 1, further comprising a solder cavity formed within the top surface of the first member for receiving a solder preform used to bond the third member to the first member. 3. The optoelectronic module according to claim 2, wherein a first metalization layer is disposed on the top surface of the first member and a second metalization layer is disposed on the bottom surface of the third member to facilitate bonding of the third member to the first member. 4. The optoelectronic device according to claim 3, wherein the first and second metalization layers comprise titanium, platinum and gold. 5. The optoelectronic module according to claim 2, further comprising a cavity formed through the third member through which the solder preform may be heated to reflow the solder. 6. The optoelectronic module according to claim 2, wherein the solder preform comprises a tin-gold combination. 7. The optoelectronic module according to claim 1, wherein the positioning members are generally of wedge-shaped configuration. 8. The optoelectronic module according to claim 7, wherein a plurality of trenches are formed in the top surface of the first member for receiving the positioning members. 9. The optoelectronic module according to claim 8, wherein at least two of the trenches are parallel to each other. 10. The optoelectronic module according to claim 8, wherein at least two of the trenches are perpendicular to one another. 11. The optoelectronic module according to claim 1, wherein the second member is bonded to the top surface of the first member. 12. The optoelectronic module according to claim 11, wherein at least one adhesive trench is formed within the top surface of the first member for receiving adhesive to bond the second member to the first member. 13. The optoelectronic module according to claim 12, wherein the adhesive is a high temperature adhesive. 14. The optoelectronic module according to claim 1, wherein the optical fiber is bonded to the second member. 15. The optoelctronic module according to claim 14, wherein at least one adhesive trench is formed within the top surface of the second member for receiving an adhesive used to bond the optical fiber to the second member. 16. The optoelectronic module according to claim 14, wherein the optical fiber is bonded to the second member using a high temperature adhesive. 17. The optoelectronic module according to claim 1, wherein the first, second and third members are made from the same material. 18. The optoelectronic module according to claim 17, wherein the first, second and third members are made from silicon. 19. The optoelectronic module according to claim 1, wherein a metalization layer is disposed on the top surface of the third member for establishing electrical contact to the optoelectronic device. 20. The optoelectronic module according to claim 19, wherein the metalization layer comprises titanium, platinum and gold. 21. The optoelectronic module according to claim 1, wherein, prior to affixing the third member to the first member, the positioning members are incrementally adjustable relative the first and third members to align the optoelectronic device with the axis. 22. The optoelectronic module according to claim 1, wherein an end stop is formed on the top surface of the first member for positioning the second member on the top surface of the first member. 23. The optoelectronic module according to claim 1, wherein the second member is formed integrally with the first member. 24. The optoelectronic module according to claim 1, wherein the longitudinally extending groove formed in the second member is of a generally V-shaped configuration. 25. The optoelectronic module according to claim 1, further comprising a fourth member disposed to cover at least a portion of the top surface of the second member supporting the optical fiber, the fourth member having a longitudinally extending groove formed within a bottom major surface thereof for receiving the optical fiber, and the bottom surface of the fourth member being supported by and fixed to the top surface of the second member. 26. A method of optically aligning an optoelectronic device to an optical fiber, the method comprising the steps of: (a) providing a substrate; (b) positioning an end of the optical fiber in a fixed position relative a top surface of the substrate; (c) mounting the optoelectronic device on a top surface of a header; (d) positioning a plurality of positioning members on the top surface of the substrate for supporting the header; (e) energizing the optoelectronic device and detecting light passing through the optical fiber; and (f) incrementally adjusting one or more of the positioning members until the light detected through the optical fiber is maximized. 27. The method according to claim 26, wherein the step of positioning the optical fiber comprises the steps of: positioning the optical fiber within a longitudinally extending groove formed within a top surface of a base; positioning the base against an end stop formed in the top surface of the substrate; and affixing the base to the top surface of the substrate. 28. The method according to claim 27, further comprising the steps of bonding the optical fiber to the base and bonding the base to the substrate. 29. The method according to claim 28, wherein the optical fiber is bonded to the base and the base is bonded to the substrate using a high temperature adhesive. 30. The method according to claim 27, further comprising the step of positioning a cover over the top surface of the base supporting the optical fiber, the cover having a longitudinally extending groove formed within a bottom major surface thereof for receiving the optical fiber, and the bottom surface of the cover being supported by and fixed to the top surface of the base. 31. The method according to claim 26, further comprising the steps of: depositing a first metalization layer on the top surface of the substrate; disposing solder over the first metalization layer; depositing a second metalization layer on a bottom surface of the header; and heating, melting and thereafter cooling the solder to bond the header to the substrate after the detected light is maximized. 32. The method according to claim 31, further comprising the step of providing a cavity through the header to facilitate heating of the solder. 33. The method according to claim 31, further comprising the step of providing a solder cavity in the top surface of the substrate for receiving the first metalization layer and the solder. 34. The method according to claim 26, further comprising the step of bonding the header to the substrate after the light detected through the optical fiber is maximized. 35. The method according to claim 26, further comprising the step of depositing a metalization layer on the top surface of the header for establishing electrical contact to the optoelectronic device. 36. The method according to claim 26, wherein the positioning members are generally of wedge-shaped configuration. 37. The method according to claim 26, further comprising the step of providing a plurality of trenches in the top surface of the substrate in which the positioning members are received and adapted to be incrementally adjusted. 38. An optoelectronic module having at least one optoelectronic device optically aligned with at least one optical fiber, the optoelectronic module comprising: a substrate having a top major surface; means for supporting an end of at least one optical fiber in a fixed position relative the top surface of the substrate with the end being in coaxial relation with an axis; a header having top and bottom major surfaces for mounting at least one optoelectronic device on the top major surface thereof; and means for adjusting the header relative the top surface of the substrate to actively align the at least one optoelectronic device with the axis. 39. The optoelectronic module according to claim 38, further comprising a solder cavity formed within the top surface of the substrate for receiving a solder preform used to bond the header to the substrate. 40. The optoelectronic module according to claim 39, wherein a first metalization layer is disposed on the top surface of the substrate and a second metalization layer is disposed on the bottom surface of the header to facilitate bonding of the header to the substrate. 41. The optoelectronic module according to claim 39, further comprising a cavity formed through the header through which the solder preform may be heated to reflow the solder. 42. The optoelectronic module according to claim 38, wherein the adjusting means comprise a plurality of generally of wedge-shaped members. 43. The optoelectronic module according to claim 38, wherein a metalization layer is disposed on the top surface of the header for establishing electrical contact to at least one optoelectronic device. 44. An optoelectronic module having at least one optoelectronic device optically aligned with at least one optical fiber, the optoelectronic module comprising: a substrate having a top major surface; means for supporting an end of at least one optical fiber in a fixed position relative the top surface of the substrate with the end being in coaxial relation with an axis; a header having top and bottom major surfaces for mounting at least one optoelectronic device on the top major surface thereof; and means for positioning the header relative the top surface of the substrate to align the at least one optoelectronic device with the axis, wherein the means for supporting the optical fiber comprise a base having top and bottom major surfaces, the bottom surface thereof being fixed to the top surface of the substrate, the base comprising a longitudinally extending V-shaped groove formed along the top major surface thereof for receiving an end of at least one optical fiber. 45. The optoelectronic module according to claim 44, wherein at least one adhesive trench is formed within the top surface of the substrate for receiving adhesive to bond the base to the substrate. 46. The optoelectronic module according to claim 44, wherein the optical fiber is bonded to the base. 47. The optoelectronic module according to claim 44, further comprising a cover member disposed to cover at least a portion of the top surface of the base supporting the optical fiber, the cover member having a longitudinally extending V-shaped groove formed within a bottom major surface thereof for receiving the optical fiber, and the bottom surface of the cover member being supported by and fixed to the top surface of the base. 48. The optoelectronic module according to claim 44, wherein an end stop is formed on the top surface of the substrate for locating the base on the top surface of the substrate and wherein the base is bonded to the top surface of the substrate. 