A sample holder for receiving, containing and storing multiple samples for delivery to an electrophoretic gel; and a method of preparing a gel for electrophoresis such that samples are first loaded onto a separate holder which can then be positioned at an edge of a gel bed surface while the electrophoretic gel is poured, whereby after solidifcation thereof the sample holder is removed leaving the samples adhered in a position for delivery to the electrophoretic gel after current is applied to the system.
Claims What I claim is: 1. A sample holder for receiving a presolidified electrophoretic sample and for containing said electrophoretic gel sample after solidification for delivery to an electrophoretic gel, said sample holder comprising: a plate having a front face and a flat back face, said front face having at least one sample well therein, said sample well extending into said plate and terminating prior to said back face; and a backing for facilitating placement of the sample holder within an electrophoretic chamber in proximity to an electrophoretic gel bed, wherein said backing is attached to the back face of said plate, wherein said backing extends in a downward vertical direction beyond a bottom edge of the plate, and further wherein upon placement of said sample holder within the electrophoretic chamber of a horizontal electrophoretic unit said plate is positioned inset from an edge and over a top surface of the electrophoretic gel bed. 2. The sample holder as recited in claim 1, wherein said plate and said backing comprise one piece of material. 3. A sample holder as recited in claim 1, wherein the plate is substantially planar and rectangular and comprises a plurality of sample wells longitudinally aligned along the front face of said plate. 4. The sample holder as recited in claim 1, wherein said plate comprises material for facilitating removal of said sample holder from the solidified gel samples contained in the sample wells. 5. The sample holder as recited in claim 1, wherein said sample holder comprises an electrically conductive material. 6. A process for loading an electrophoretic gel sample onto an electrophoretic gel, comprising the steps of: (a) delivering the sample and a molten first gel medium to a sample well formed within a sample holder, said sample holder comprising: a plate having at least one sample well formed in the front face thereof; (b) allowing the sample and the molten first gel medium to solidify within the sample well; (c) positioning said sample holder in an electrophoretic chamber in a manner sufficient to place the solidified first gel medium contained in the sample well in proximity to a bed within the electrophoretic chamber; (d) adding a molten second gel medium onto the bed within the electrophoretic chamber so that the molten second gel medium is contacted with the solidified first gel medium contained in the sample well recited in step (c); and (e) allowing the molten second gel medium to solidify in the bed. 7. The process of claim 6, further comprising the step of: (a) removing said sample holder leaving the sample and first gel medium adhered to the solidified second gel medium, whereby the sample contained in the solidified first gel medium migrates to the solidified second gel medium when electrophoretic current is applied. 8. The process of claim 6, wherein said positioning step (c) places the sample and first gel medium in a position inset from the edge of the bed over the top surface of the bed. 9. The process of claim 6 wherein both the first and second gel medium are agarose and electrophoresis is performed in a horizontal electrophoresis unit. 10. The process of claim 6 wherein in step (a) the delivery of sample and molten first gel medium to the sample holder is accomplished using automatic means. 11. The process of claim 6, further comprising after step (b), storing the sample holder containing the solidified sample and first gel medium for a period prior to performing step (c). 12. An apparatus for performing gel electrophoresis, comprising: (a) an electrophoretic chamber having an electrophoretic bed, said bed being positioned between two buffer/electrode compartments and extending from one side wall of the electrophoretic chamber to an opposite side wall of the electrophoretic chamber; (b) a sample holder comprising a plate having a front face and a flat back face, said front face having a plurality of sample wells, said sample wells extending into said plate and terminating prior to said back face; and a backing for facilitating placement of the sample holder within an electrophoretic chamber in Proximity to an electrophoretic unit bed, wherein said backing is attached to the back face of said plate, and said backing extends in a downward vertical direction beyond a bottom edge of the plate, and further wherein upon placement of said sample holder within the electrophoretic chamber of a horizontal electrophoretic unit said plate is positioned inset from an edge and over a top surface of the electrophoretic gel bed; and (c) automatic means to deliver multiple electrophoretic samples and molten first gel medium to the sample wells of the sample holder prior to positioning said sample holder within said electrophoretic chamber. 13. The system as recited in claim 12 wherein in step (c) the first gel medium is agarose, and in step (a) further comprising a second gel medium made of agarose contained in the electrophoretic chamber on the surface of the bed. 14. A sample holder for receiving a pre-solidified electrophoretic sample and for containing said electrophoretic gel sample after solidification for delivery to an electrophoretic gel, said sample holder comprising: a plate extending in a first plane and having a front face and a flat back face and a first side face and a second side face, said front face having at least one sample well therein extending generally perpendicular to the plane of the plate and proximate the first side face; and a backing for facilitating placement of the sample holder, wherein said backing is disposed in contact with said plate, said backing extending in a second plane generally parallel to the first plane of the plate and having a portion extending beyond the first side face of the plate. 15. The sample holder of claim 14, wherein the plate and the backing are one piece. 16. The sample holder of claim 14, wherein the plate and the backing are two separate pieces. 