A method and apparatus for stacking flat articles into a cartridge. The method and apparatus are adapted for use in connection with output compartments of a sorting machine, robotically transferring filled cartridges from the output compartments to a buffer shelf; and from the buffer shelf to a docking station of a cartridge unloader and automatic feeder to the input of the sorting machine, and for transferring empty cartridges from the docking station to either the buffer or the output compartments of the sorter.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for transferring flat articles of mail from a mail sorting article processing machine to a cartridge in an output compartment, comprising the steps of: sorting flat articles of mail in accordance with destination codes recorded on each article of mail; transporting sorted articles of mail from the article processing machine toward and into an open end of a first cartridge docked at a designated output compartment of the mail sorting article processing machine, said cartridge including a door and having a longitudinally slidable rear stack support; guiding the sorted flat articles of mail into said first cartridge to form a stack of articles of mail in the cartridge; monitoring the formation of the stack of articles to determine a time for removal of the first cartridge from the output compartment; disabling the transporting of flat articles of mail to the first cartridge at the time for removal thereof from the output compartment; closing the door of the first cartridge for removal of the cartridge from the output compartment; and redirecting the sorted articles of mail from the article processing machine toward and into an open end of a second cartridge docked at a designated output compartment in response to disabling the transporting of flat articles of mail to the first cartridge. 2. The method for transferring flat articles as set forth in claim 1 including the step of establishing a front end position of the stack of flat articles of mail in said cartridge prior to closing the door of the cartridge. 3. The method for transferring flat articles as set forth in claim 2 including the step of inserting a front stack support at the front of the stack of articles prior to closing the door of the cartridge. 4. The method for transporting flat articles as set forth in claim 1 including the step of removing the first cartridge from the output compartment following closing the door of the cartridge. 5. The method for transporting flat articles as set forth in claim 1 including the step of locking the rear stack support in position prior to closing the door of the cartridge. 6. A method for transferring flat articles of mail as set forth in claim 1, further comprising the steps of: monitoring the formation of the stack of articles in the second cartridge to determine a time for removal of the second cartridge from the output compartment; disabling the transporting of flat articles of mail to the second cartridge at the time for removal thereof from the output compartment; and redirecting the sorted articles of mail from the article processing machine toward and into an open end of a third cartridge docked at a designated output compartment in response to disabling the transporting of flat articles of mail to the second cartridge. 7. A method for transferring flat articles of mail as set forth in claim 6, further comprising the steps of: repeating the steps of monitoring the formation of a stack of articles to determine a time for removal of a cartridge, disabling the transporting of flat articles of mail to a cartridge at a time for removal thereof, and redirecting the sorted articles of mail from the article processing machine toward and into an open end of an empty cartridge docket at a designated output compartment. 8. A method for transporting flat articles from an article processing machine to a cartridge in an output compartment, comprising the steps of: docking a first cartridge having a door and including a longitudinally movable rear stack support in a designated output compartment of the article processing machine; transporting articles in the article processing machine toward and into an open end of the first cartridge docked in the designated output compartment; guiding the articles into said first cartridge to form a stack of articles in the cartridge; monitoring the formation of the stack of articles to determine a time for removal of the cartridge from the output compartment; disabling the transporting of articles to the first cartridge at the time for removal thereof from the output compartment; removing the first cartridge from the designated output compartment; and redirecting the sorted articles in the article processing machine toward and into an open end of a second cartridge docked at a designated output compartment in response to disabling the transportation of articles to the first cartridge. 9. The method for transferring as set forth in claim 8, further comprising the steps of: monitoring the formation of the stack of articles in the second cartridge to determine a time for removal of the second cartridge from the output compartment; disabling the transporting of flat articles to the second cartridge at the time for removal thereof from the output compartment; and redirecting the sorted flat articles from the article processing machine toward and into an open end of a third cartridge docked at a designated output compartment in response to disabling the transporting to the second cartridge. 10. A method for transferring as set forth in claim 9, further comprising the steps of: repeating the steps of monitoring the formation to determine a time for removal of a cartridge, disabling the transporting to a cartridge at a time for removal thereof, and redirecting from the article processing machine toward and into an open end of an empty cartridge docket at a designated output compartment. 11. The method for transferring flat articles as set forth in claim 8 including the step of sensing the docking of a cartridge in an output compartment prior to transporting articles thereto. 12. The method for transferring flat articles as set forth in claim 8 including the step of closing the door of the cartridge for removal of the cartridge from the output compartment. 13. The method for transferring flat articles as set forth in claim 8 including the step of redesignating another output compartment of the article processing machine for docking of an empty cartridge prior to the disabling of the transporting of articles to the first cartridge. 14. The method for transferring flat articles as set forth in claim 8 including the step of locking the rear stack support in position prior to removal of a cartridge from the output compartment. 15. The method for transferring flat articles as set forth in claim 8 including the steps of: establishing a front end position for the stack of articles in said cartridge; and inserting a front stack support at the front of the stack of articles following the disabling of the transporting of articles to the cartridge. 16. Apparatus for transporting flat articles from an article processing machine to a cartridge docked in an output compartment, comprising: an output compartment having a receiving dock for receiving and holding a cartridge during loading thereof with flat articles an article transport for transporting articles toward an open end of a cartridge docked in the receiving dock of the output compartment of the article processing machine, said cartridge having a door and a longitudinally slidable rear stack support; said receiving dock including a cam surface for unlatching the cartridge door during insertion of the cartridge into the receiving dock; a guide gate for guiding articles transported into the cartridge to form a stack of articles in said cartridge; a sensor for monitoring the forming of the stack of articles in the cartridge to determine a time for removal of the cartridge from the output compartment; means responsive to the sensor for monitoring to disable the article transport in response to a determination to remove the cartridge from the output compartment; means for closing the door of the cartridge in response to disabling the article transport; and a cartridge remover for disengaging and removing the cartridge from the output compartment. 17. Apparatus for transferring flat articles as set forth in claim 16 wherein said receiving dock further includes means for unlocking the rear stack support as a cartridge enters the receiving dock. 18. Apparatus for transferring flat articles as set forth in claim 17 wherein said receiving dock includes cams for opening the cartridge door in response to the means for unlocking. 19. Apparatus for transferring flat articles as set forth in claim 16 including means for establishing a front for the stack of articles formed in said cartridge in response to disabling the article transport. 20. Apparatus for transferring flat articles as set forth in claim 19 including a front stack support positioned at the front of the stack of articles to maintain the stack to enable closing of the cartridge door. 21. Apparatus for transferring flat articles as set forth in claim 16 including a sensor for sensing the placement of the cartridge in the output compartment. 22. Apparatus for transferring flat articles from an article processing machine to a cartridge docked in an output compartment, comprising: a receiving dock for receiving and holding a cartridge in the output compartment during loading of the cartridge; an article transport for moving articles through the article processing machine toward an open end of a cartridge docked at the receiving dock, said cartridge having a cartridge door and a longitudinally slidable rear stack support; a sweep gate for guiding the articles into said cartridge to form a stack of articles therein; a sensor for monitoring the forming of the stack of articles to determine a time for removal of the cartridge from the receiving dock; means for disabling the article transport in response to the sensor for monitoring for removal of the cartridge from the receiving dock; means for establishing a front for the stack of articles in the cartridge in response to disabling the article transport; a front stack support for positioning a front of the stack to maintain the stack in position during closing of the cartridge door; a cam mounted to the output compartment for closing the cartridge door in response to the relative movement between said cam and the cartridge during removal thereof from the receiving dock; and an arm movable into the output compartment for engaging and removing the cartridge from the receiving dock. 23. Apparatus for transferring flat articles as set forth in claim 22 wherein said means for establishing a front of the stack comprises said sweep gate and further including an actuator for moving said sweep gate in engagement with the front of the stack of articles to position the front of the stack in said cartridge. 24. Apparatus for transporting flat articles as set forth in claim 22 including means for locking the rear stack support in position in response to disabling the article transport. 25. Apparatus for transferring flat articles as set forth in claim 22 including means for sensing the docking of the cartridge in the receiving dock of the output compartment. 