A remotely operated steerable vehicle especially usable as a teleooperated mobile robot system is disclosed. The vehicle carries a videocamera which shows the field of view directly ahead. A remote control station has a videomonitor showing said field of view with left and right upwardly converging guidelines on the monitors screen representing the left and right edges of the area traversed by the vehicle if it moves straight into the field of view. The guidelines provide an excellent and inexpensive assistance to the operator who steers the vehicle from a remote location as the operator knows everything outside the guidelines will be missed and everything inside the guidelines will be impacted. The guidelines are further enhanced by traverse markers on the monitor screen representing fixed distances in front of the vehicle so as to provide a depth of field.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A remotely operated steerable vehicle comprising: a vehicle for traversing a surface; a propulsion system for propelling said vehicle along a surface carried by said vehicle; a camera carried by said vehicle showing the field of view of the direction in which the vehicle is to travel; a remote station separated from said vehicle; a control system at said remote station for directing the movements of said vehicle; a viewing screen at said remote station representing said field of view as seen by said camera; and a left guideline and a right guideline on said screen which converge upwardly toward one another representing the outermost boundaries of the approximate width of the area traversed by said vehicle if it moves in a straight line directly forward in the direction of said field of view. 2. The remotely operated steerable vehicle of claim 1, wherein said camera is a forward looking video camera showing a forward field of view and said screen is a video monitor showing said forward field of view when said vehicle is traveling in a forward direction. 3. The remotely operated steerable vehicle of claim 2, wherein said vehicle has a reverse looking video camera which shows the reverse field of view of said vehicle if it moves straight to the rear of its normal forward direction of travel. 4. The remotely operated steerable vehicle of claim 3, wherein said vehicle has a reverse looking videomonitor located at said remote station which represents said reverse field of view of said reverse looking video camera. 5. The remotely operated steerable vehicle of claim 4, wherein both said video monitor showing said forward view and said reverse looking second videomonitor further comprises: a set of left and right upwardly converging guidelines on each of said screens with the space between one set of said guidelines representing the area traversed by the width of said vehicle if it moves straight ahead into the field of view of said video monitor showing said forward view and the space between the other set of guidelines representing the area traversed by the width of said vehicle if it moves straight to the rear into the field of view of said reverse looking monitor. 6. The remotely operated steerable vehicle of claim 1, wherein said left guideline and said right guideline are physical lines attached to said viewing screen. 7. The remotely operated steerable vehicle of claim 5, wherein said left and right guidelines are physical lines attached to the outside of said videomonitor. 8. The remotely operated steerable vehicle of claim 1, wherein a robotic manipulator is carried by said vehicle which is controllable from said remote station. 9. The remotely operated steerable vehicle of claim 5, wherein a robotic manipulator is carried by said vehicle which is controllable from said remote station. 10. The remotely operated steerable vehicle of claim 1, wherein depth of field indicators are on said screen to represent fixed distances in front of said vehicle. 11. The remotely operated steerable vehicle of claim 10, wherein said depth of field indicators are short transversal physical lines attached to said viewing screen. 12. A process for defining to an operator the pathway to be traversed over a surface by a remotely operated steerable vehicle having a video camera on the vehicle showing the field of view of the vehicle if it moves straight ahead and a videomonitor showing said field of view utilized by an operator in remotely steering the vehicle comprising the steps of: providing a template with an extended left line and extended right line which are parallel to one another and separated by a distance slightly greater than the maximum width of the vehicle; placing the vehicle between said lines aligned therewith so if it moves straight ahead the area between the lines define the area that will be traversed by the vehicle; and placing on said video monitor lines representing said extended left and right lines of said template. 