A robotic chain assembly which uses two clamps, a robot gripper and a computer with auxiliary stations. The assembly both measures and cuts the chain, secures fasteners to the ends of the chain and secures the fasteners one to the other.
Claims Having described our invention, what we now claim is: 1. An apparatus for securing fasteners to the ends of a chain or strand which comprises: (a) a housing having one end and another end; (b) a first gripper assembly moveably joined to the housing to engage one end of the chain and a second gripper assembly moveably joined to the housing to engage the chain; (c) the gripper assemblies each including means to move said assemblies through at least three degrees of freedom, two in translation and one in rotation, one of the degrees of movement in translation being from the one end of the housing to the other end; (d) a shearing station to sever the chain disposed at the one end of the housing, the chain when severed forming another end held by the second gripper assembly; (e) a robot gripper disposed at the other end of the housing adapted to acquire a fastener; (f) an assembly station disposed at the other end of the housing, said station including means to feed a fastener to the robot gripper and means to secure a fastener to said one end of the chain; and (g) means to control the movement of the first gripper assembly to carry the one end of the chain to the assembly station and to control the robot gripper, said means to control in communication with said gripper assemblies and the robot gripper, the means to feed the robot gripper, the robot gripper and the gripper assembly spatially arrayed at said other end of the housing whereby the robot gripper may acquire a fastener and in combination with the gripper assembly place the one end of the chain and the fastener into engagement at the assembly station where the fastener is secured to the chain. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the means to control includes: means to control the movement of the second gripper assembly to bring the other end of the chain to the assembly station whereby a fastener may be secured to said other end of the chain. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein a fastener is adapted to be opened and closed to be joined to another fastener and the assembly station includes: means to open and close said fastener, said means to open and close in communication with the robot gripper. 4. The apparatus of claim 2 which further includes: means at said assembly station to secure the fasteners one to the other to form a loop. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein one of said fasteners is a spring ring, the robot gripper and the first gripper assembly both engage the spring ring, the second gripper assembly holds the other fastener and wherein the control means includes: means to translate the robot gripper in conjunction with the first gripping assembly to open the bolt of the spring ring as the opening of the spring ring is fitted into an opening of the other fastener. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the gripper assemblies each include jaws having opposed planar facing surfaces and which includes means to move the surfaces in parallel relationship. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein the housing is longitudinal and the gripper assemblies include: means to move the jaws in a direction orthogonal to the longitudinal axis of the housing. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 which further includes: means on said gripper assemblies to rotate the jaws. 9. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein the housing includes: paired rails on either side of the gripper assemblies, each include tracks which engage the rails whereby the gripper assemblies may move from one end of the housing to the other. 10. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein the shearing station includes: means to cut the chain intermediate the ends of the rails. 11. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the means to secure the fasteners comprises: a soldering platform adapted to move from a lower to an upper supporting position; and means to solder the end of the chain to the fastener. 12. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the means to feed comprises: means to feed a quality tag, said means to feed in communication with the robot gripper. 13. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the means to feed comprises: means to feed a spring ring said means to feed in communication with the robot gripper. 14. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein the means to feed the spring ring includes: means to orient the spring ring whereby the positions of the bail and the bolt are established. 15. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the means to feed comprises: means to feed an end cap, the robot gripper in acquiring relationship with said means. 16. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the means to feed comprises: means to feed a D-cap, the robot gripper in acquiring relationship with said means to feed. 