There is provided a rotator bearing shock and vibration dampener for the rotator bearing of a robotic manipulator, with such shock dampener including a stationary robot base and a rotary turntable, and a large rotary turntable bearing having its inner race bolted to the stationary base and its outer race bolted to the rotary turntable. An oil damp well space having a relatively thin, predetermined depth squared relative its surface area is formed in the base below the outer race and in the turntable above the inner race. A predetermined volume of damping oil is located adjacent the turntable bearing in the base and fills the oil damp well space, whereby the damping oil normally resides in the well space to provide an oil film therewithin. The well space is formed with relatively limited inlets and outlets for the damping oil such that the oil film tends to resist compression and displacement, thereby damping vibrations, mechanical shocks and jolts encountered by the robotic manipulator in use, and increasing the effective dynamic stiffness of the turntable relative to the base.
Claims We claim: 1. A rotator bearing shock and vibration dampener for a rotator bearing of a robotic manipulator comprising: (a) a robotic manipulator base having a bearing race formed therein, and an oil damp well space having a relatively thin predetermined depth squared relative its surface area formed within said base adjacent said bearing race; (b) a bearing being fitted within said bearing race; (c) a robotic manipulator turntable mounted for rotation relative said base on said main bearing; and (d) a predetermined volume of damping oil adjacent said bearing in said base and filling said oil damp well space, whereby said damping oil normally resides in said well space to provide an oil film therewithin, and said well space is formed with relatively limited inlets and outlets for said damping oil such that said oil film tends to resist compression and displacement, thereby damping vibrations, mechanical shocks and jolts encountered by said robotic manipulator in use and increasing the effective dynamic stiffness of said turntable relative said base. 2. The shock dampener of claim 1, wherein said oil damp well space has upper and lower portions located respectively above and below said bearing race and turntable such that said oil film normally resides above said main bearing and below a portion of said turntable, said well space having a relatively thin predetermined depth squared relative its surface area with relatively limited oil inlets and outlets placing said upper and lower portions in fluid communication. 3. The shock dampener of claim 2, wherein said limited oil inlets and outlets comprise the inherent clearances within said bearing located therewithin and the spaces between gear teeth of the rotator gear of said turntable. 4. The shock dampener of claim 3, wherein the effective availability of said oil inlets and outlets is matched with the viscosity of said damping oil within said well space to achieve a predetermined effective stiffness of said turntable relative said base. 5. The shock dampener of claim 4, wherein said predetermined depth of said oil film within said well space is in a range of between approximately 0.076 mm and about 3.8 mm for a surface area of about 117 cm.sup.2. 6. A bearing shock dampener for use in the base of a robotic manipulator, said shock dampener comprising: (a) a robotic manipulator base having a main bearing race formed therein, and an oil damp well space formed within said base adjacent said bearing race; (b) a main bearing for said robotic manipulator fitted within said bearing race; (c) a robotic manipulator turntable mounted for rotation relative said base on said main bearing; (d) a predetermined volume of damping oil adjacent said main bearing and filling said oil damp well space to provide an annular oil film therewithin; and (e) said well space having an upper portion and a lower portion located respectively above said bearing race and below a portion of said turntable and each having a relatively thin predetermined depth squared relative its surface area, said oil normally residing in said well space and said well space having relatively limited inlets and outlets for said oil placing said upper and lower portions in fluid communication such that said oil film tends to resist compression and displacement, thereby damping vibrations and jolts encountered by said robotic manipulator in use and increasing the effective dynamic stiffness of said turntable relative said base. 7. The shock dampener of claim 6, wherein said limited oil inlets and outlets comprise the inherent clearances within said main bearing located therewithin and the spaces between gear teeth of the rotator gear of said turntable. 8. The shock dampener of claim 7, wherein the effective availability of said oil inlets and outlets is matched with the viscosity of said damping oil within said well space to achieve a predetermined effective stiffness of said turntable relative said base. 9. The shock dampener of claim 8, wherein said predetermined depth of said oil film within said well space is in a range of between approximately 0.076 mm and about 3.8 mm for a surface area of about 117 cm.sup.2. 10. A rotator bearing shock and vibration dampener for a rotator bearing of a robotic manipulator comprising: (a) a robotic manipulator base having a bearing race formed therein, and an oil damp well space formed within said base adjacent said bearing race; (b) a bearing being fitted within said bearing race; (c) a robotic manipulator turntable mounted for rotation relative said base on said main bearings; (d) a predetermined volume of damping oil adjacent said bearing in said base and filling said oil damp well space to provide an annular oil film therewithin; and (e) said well space having an upper portion and a lower portion located respectively above said bearing race and below a portion of said turntable, and each having a relatively thin predetermined depth squared relative its surface area with relatively limited oil inlets and outlets placing said upper and lower portions in fluid communication, whereby said damping oil normally resides in said well space, and wherein the number, size and location of said inlets and outlets for said damping oil are matched with the viscosity of said oil to achieve a predetermined damping system such that said oil film tends to resist compression and displacement, thereby damping vibrations, mechanical shocks and jolts encountered by said robotic manipulator in use and increasing the effective dynamic stiffness of said turntable relative said base. 