The invention relates to a remote electrical connector which is particularly adapted for use in hostile environments, such as nuclear reactor plants. The connector comprises a static assembly and a removable assembly which can be connected and disconnected by means of a remotely-operated hook. One of the assemblies is provided with a guide rail at the bottom thereof which extends forwardly from the assembly, while the other assembly has a glide at the bottom thereof for sliding on the rail during connection or disconnection of the assemblies. The static assembly includes a male receptacle mounted thereon and a first cylindrical section which surrounds the receptacle. The removable assembly has a female socket mounted thereon with a second cylindrical section surrounding the female socket. The second cylindrical section is proportioned to fit within the first cylindrical section and is provided with a particular sealing ring for sealing and aligning with the first cylindrical section. The male receptacle and female socket are positioned to interengage one another and the assembly which slides on the rail is provided with a lanyard for disconnecting the electrical connector. The electrical connector is further protected against seismic shocks and explosions from movement in the horizontal and vertical directions by means of locking means. Top covers are provided for the assemblies to protect against contamination.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An electrical connector particularly adapted for remotely operated use and alignment of male and female parts of the connector in hostile environments, comprising, in combination, a static assembly and a removable assembly, one assembly having a first cylindrical section, the other assembly having a second cylindrical section, said cylindrical sections being juxtaposed for alignment and interengagement with one another, one of said assemblies being attached to an open guide rail at the bottom thereof which extends from said one assembly, the other of said assemblies having a glide at the bottom thereof for sliding on said rail, the guide rail having a longitudinal axis and being adapted for engagement with the glide from a direction generally normal to the longitudinal axis of the guide rail for sliding interengagement of the guide rail with the glide and the assemblies for coarse alignment of said cylindrical sections, one of said assemblies having a male receptacle mounted thereon and one of said assemblies having a female receptacle mounted thereon, said first cylindrical section surrounding said male receptacle and said second cylindrical section surrounding said female receptacle, one of said cylindrical sections being proportioned to fit within the other to provide a second alignment to align the male and female receptacles subsequent to the coarse alignment, and a sealing ring on one of said cylindrical sections, said sealing ring proportioned to further align the receptacles after the second alignment and to sealingly engage the other cylindrical section. 2. An electrical connector in accordance with claim 1 further including a lanyard on said other assembly for connecting said assemblies and wherein said static assembly has said male receptacle mounted thereon with said first cylindrical section surrounding said male receptacle, said removable assembly has said glide and said female receptacle with said second cylindrical section surrounding said female receptacle, said female receptacle comprising a female socket, said second cylindrical section having a beveled edge around its circumference to align the cylindrical sections and receptacles and to facilitate a sealing engagement of the first cylindrical section with second cylindrical section. 3. An electrical connector in accordance with claim 1 further including a lanyard on said other assembly for connecting said assemblies and a locking means to restrict movement of said other assembly having a glide on said rail, said locking means comprising a vertically movable locking pin carried on said other assembly and engageable with a hole in said rail when said assemblies are interconnected, thereby restricting horzontal movement of said other assembly. 4. An electrical connector in accordance with claim 1 further including locking means to restrict movement of said other assembly on said rail, said locking means comprising a removable clip connected between said other assembly and said rail to restrict movement in the vertical direction. 5. An electrical connector in accordance with claim 1 further including locking means to restrict movement of said movable assembly on said rail in the vertical and horizontal directions, said locking means comprising a vertically movable locking pin carried on said other assembly and engageable with a hole in said rail when said assemblies are interconnected, and a clip connected between said other assembly and said rail to restrain vertical movement of said other assembly. 6. An electrical connector in accordance with claim 1 wherein said guide rail is vertical, the static assembly having a vertically extending cylindrical section, wherein said removal assembly includes said glide and a lanyard, said lanyard being affixed to the removable assembly such that the weight of the removable assembly tips the glide on the removable assembly for interengagement with said vertical rail and the cylindrical section on the removable section being positioned to move downwardly and interengage the vertically extending cylindrical section. 7. An electrical connector in accordance with claim 1 further comprising a cover for one of said cylindrical sections. 8. An electrical connector in accordance with claim 1 wherein said sealing ring is fabricated from a soft synthetic rubber, said sealing ring having a V-shaped cross-section with converging sides and a head pointing toward the juxtaposed assembly, said sides bending toward one another as the head moves toward the juxtaposed assembly. 9. An electrical connector in accordance with claim 8 wherein one of said cylindrical sections surrounds the other cylindrical section, said surrounding cylindrical section having an interior wall with a slot, said surrounded cylindrical section having an exterior wall fitted with the sealing ring, said slot permitting an escape of air during the sealing engagement of the cylindrical sections. 10. An electrical connector in accordance with claim 1 further including a locking means to restrict movement of said other assembly having a glide on said rail, said locking means comprising: a bolt having threads at one end thereof and at least one collar affixed thereto; at least one slider guide affixed to said other assembly said guide having a hole therethrough said bolt extending through said hole; a nut adapted to threadably engage said bolt, said nut being held in a fixed location relative to said other assembly so that when the bolt threadably engages the nut said assemblies are held in fixed relation in respect to one another. 11. An electrical connector in accordance with claim 10 further including a lanyard on said other assembly. 12. An electrical connector in accordance with claim 10 further including a lanyard on said other assembly. 13. An electrical connector in accordance with claim 10 wherein said other assembly is said removable assembly with two slider guides mounted thereon and said nut is mounted on said static assembly. 14. An electrical connector in accordance with claim 13 wherein said bolt has two collars affixed thereto between said slider guides such that the collars abuttingly engage the slider guides when the bolt is moved axially along said rail. 15. An electrical connector in accordance with claim 10 wherein said other assembly is said removable assembly with two slider guides mounted thereon and said nut is mounted on said rail. 16. An electrical connector in accordance with claim 15 wherein said bolt has two collars affixed thereto between said slider guides such that the collars abuttingly engage the slider guides when the bolt is moved axially along said rail. 17. An electrical connector in accordance with claim 16 further comprising a cover for one of said cylindrical sections. 