Feed process control is accomplished using an optical profiler to determine the height, width, and cross sectional area of a bead produced by a bead producing tool. Feedback control of the height, width, and/or area is obtained by modifying various parameters of the bead producing tool. If the bead producing tool is a welding torch, the parameters may include the weld torch voltage, weld torch current, wire feed rate, and the speed of travel of the torch across the workpiece or workpieces. If the bead producing tool is a sealant or glue gun, the parameters may include the pressure of the sealant or the glue supplied to the sealant or the glue gun, the size of an adjustable nozzle orifice of the sealant or the glue gun, and the speed of travel of the sealant or the glue gun along the surface of the workpiece.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of automatically controlling a bead producing process in real time comprising the steps of: producing a bead by moving a bead producing tool along the surface of one or more workpieces; generating dimensional profile information on said bead immediately after its formation with an optical profiler that tracks said bead; deriving from said profile information bead variables which are the height and width and cross sectional area of said bead above the workpiece level; comparing said bead variables to respective reference values and determining which are unsatisfactory; calculating process parameters that affect at least first and second unsatisfactory bead variables and compensate for any deviation; and controlling said bead producing tool for feedback control of said first and second bead variables. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said bead producing tool is a welding torch and said process parameters are selected from the group of welding torch voltage, welding torch current, speed of travel of said torch, and wire feed rate to said torch. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein said bead producing tool is a sealant gun and said process parameters are selected from the group of sealant pressure, nozzle orifice size, and speed of travel of said sealant gun. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein said bead producing tool is a glue gun and said process parameters are selected from the group of glue pressure, nozzle orifice size, and speed of travel of said glue gun. 5. The system for controlling bead production comprising: a bead producing tool operable to produce a bead upon one or more workpieces; an optical profiler to track said bead immediately after said bead producing tool and generate bead profile data; means for processing said profile data and deriving bead variables which are the height and width and cross sectional area of said bead above the workpiece level; calculation means for comparing said bead variables to respective reference values and determining which are unsatisfactory, and for calculating system parameters that affect at least a first unsatisfactory bead variable and compensate for any deviation; and control means responsive to said calculation means and operable to control said bead producing tool for feedback control of said first bead variable. 6. The system of claim 5 wherein said bead producing tool is a welding torch and said control means is operable to change at least one system parameter which is selected from the group of welding torch voltage, welding torch current, speed of travel of said torch, and wire feed rate to said torch. 7. The system of claim 5 wherein said bead producing tool is a sealant gun and said control means is operable to change at least one system parameter which is selected from the group of sealant pressure, nozzle orifice size, and speed of travel of said sealant gun. 8. The system of claim 5 wherein said bead producing tool is a glue gun and said control means is operable to change at least one system paraemter which is selected from the group of glue pressure, nozzle orifice size and speed of travel of said glue gun. 