A robotic pick up head for use in picking up electrical connectors (25 and 27) having top actuated rivets (176) and being of different lengths, placing them on a circuit board (19) and setting the rivets (176) to secure the connectors (25 or 27) to the board (19), comprises a body (28) having a top plate (30) for connection to the Z axis shaft (18) of a pick and place robot (2). Opposed piston and cylinder drive units (70 and 72) in the body (28) drive a toggle linkage (50, 54) to drive plungers (142) of riveting tools (26), first to cause the tools (26) to grip the rivets (176) when a connector (25 or 27) is to be picked up and then to set the rivets (176) when they have been inserted into holes (H) in the board (19), to secure the connector thereto. The riveting tools (26) are carried by tool holders (90 96) one of which is slidable along a rail (88) on the body (28), by a further piston and cylinder drive unit (103), between two end positions to adjust the spacing between the riveting tools (26) for connector length.
Claims We claim: 1. A pick up head for use in picking up a workpiece having a pair of hollow rivets depending in spaced relationship from a lower surface thereof and opening into an upper surface thereof, and moving the workpiece towards a board to place said lower surface thereon thereby to insert said rivets into predetermined holes in the board, the pick up head comprising: a body having a vertical central axis and an upper face; means on said upper face for attaching said body to a longitudinally movable shaft with said central axis coincident with the axis of the shaft; first and second tool holders mounted to said body for relative movement towards and away from each other at right angles to said central vertical axis; a first drive unit on the body for bringing about said relative movement relatively to position said tool holders; a riveting tool depending from each tool holder in a direction parallel to said central axis and having an actuating plunger; and oppositely acting second and third drive units on said body commonly coupled to both of said riveting tools for sequentially driving the plungers thereof each through a first portion of a working stroke to secure each tool to a rivet in which said tool has been inserted, a second portion of said working stroke to set said rivet so as to secure it in said predetermined hole in said board, and through a return stroke to release said tool from said rivet. 2. A pick up head as claimed in claim 1, wherein said second and third drive units are piston and cylinder units, having piston rods connected to a toggle linkage coupling said plungers to said drive units, said second drive unit being arranged to move said toggle linkage from a broken position towards a straightened position to drive each plunger through the first portion of its working stroke, and said third drive unit being arranged to drive each plunger through the second portion of its working stroke. 3. A pick up head as claimed in claim 2, wherein the piston rod of said second drive unit is coupled to a first clevis, the piston rod of said third drive unit being fixed to a second clevis receiving the first clevis, a central pivot pin of the toggle linkage extending through slots in both of said clevises, which slots extend axially of said piston rods, the slots in the first clevis being substantially shorter than the slots in the second clevis. 4. A pick up head as claimed in claim 3, wherein one link of the toggle linkage is pivotally attached to said body and to said pivot pin, the other link of the toggle linkage being pivotally attached to said pivot pin and to a slide which is mounted in the body for reciprocating movement in the direction of said central axis and which is connected to said plungers to drive them. 5. A pick up head as claimed in claim 4, wherein the first tool holder is movable along a slideway in said body by means of the first drive unit, the second tool holder being fixed to said body at one end of the slideway, stop means being provided to delimit end positions of the first tool holder lengthwise of the slideway. 6. A pick up head as claimed in claim 5, wherein the first drive unit is a piston and cylinder unit having a piston rod pivotally connected to a link one end of which is pivotally connected to the body and the other end of which is pivotally connected to the first tool holder, the cylinder of the first drive unit being pivotally connected to the body. 7. A pick up head as claimed in claim 1, wherein the first tool holder is slidable along a slideway on said body extending at right angles to said central axis, the second tool holder being fixed to said body at one end of said slideway, the first drive unit being coupled to the first tool holder for driving it along the slideway and stops being provided on said body and said second tool holder to delimit end positions of the first tool holder along the slideway. 8. A pick up head as claimed in claim 1, wherein said upper surface of the body is provided by a plate from which extend means for attaching the body to the longitudinally movable shaft, the plate being movable towards and away from the remainder of the body against the action of resilient means and sensor means being provided to detect movement of the plate towards the remainder of the body. 9. A pick up head as claimed in claim 8, wherein the plate is provided with vertical rods for keying to the vertical shaft, the rods being fixed to the platform and being slidably engaged in bushings in said remainder of the body. 10. A pick up head as claimed in claim 1, wherein each tool comprises a collet slidably receiving the plunger of the tool, the collet being longitudinally divided and terminating in an expansible, axially divided collar, the plunger having a camming portion for expanding the collet to cause the collar to grip the rivet. 11. A pick up head for use in picking up an electrical connector having a pair of hollow rivets depending in spaced relationship from a lower surface thereof and opening into an upper surface thereof and moving the connector towards a circuit board to place said lower surface thereon thereby to insert said rivets into predetermined holes in the board, the pick up head comprising: a body having a vertical central axis and an upper face; means on said upper face for attaching said body to a longitudinally movable shaft with said central axis coincident with the axis of the shaft; a pair of tool holders mounted on said body, one of said tool holders being fixed to the body and the other being slidable along the body in a direction at right angles to said central axis; a riveting tool depending from each tool holder in a direction parallel to said central axis, each tool having an actuating plunger; a first drive unit attached to said body and being connected to said one tool holder to move it between predetermined positions lengthwise of said slideway; a pair of oppositely positioned and oppositely acting piston and cylinder units mounted on said body above said tool holders and each having a piston rod; a toggle linkage coupling said piston rods to said plungers, one of said drive units being arranged to push said toggle linkage from a broken position towards a straightened position to drive each plunger through a first portion of a working stroke to secure said tool to a rivet into which said tool has been inserted, and the other drive unit being arranged to pull said toggle linkage to its straightened position to drive said tools through a second portion of said working stroke to set said rivets and thereby to secure them in said predetermined holes in said circuit board. 12. A pick up head as claimed in claim 10, wherein each tool comprises a collet extending parallel to said central axis and depending from the tool holder, said collet slidably receiving the plunger of one of said riveting tools, said collet being longitudinally divided and terminating in an extensible collar, the tool having a camming portion for engaging a reduced diameter portion of the collet as the plunger is driven through the first portion of its working stroke, to expand said collar to grip the internal surface of a rivet into which said collet has been inserted. 