A dual-drive system compensates for the effects of drive system nonlinearities for micro-manipulation of direct-drive robotic systems. The dual-drive system uses two actuators to drive a single manipulator joint. The extra actuator compensates for undesirable effects of the nonlinearities in the drive system by providing a correctional biasing force such as torque to the primary actuator. In a preferred embodiment, both actuators are DC motors and the biasing torque is modulated by monitoring the current in the primary motor winding. This torque monitoring can also be achieved by direct measurement, such as using a strain sensing element. The dual-drive system is capable of eliminating the effects of electromagnetic hysteresis and other nonlinearities in the amplifier-motor portion of a direct-drive robot arm. This system can be used to improve not only positioning performance, but also the dynamic manipulation of a robot manipulator.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for direct-drive micro-manipulation of a robotic system having a link, comprising: a primary DC electric motor having a primary rotor, means for directly coupling said primary rotor to the link, a secondary DC electric motor having a secondary rotor, means for coupling said secondary rotor to said primary rotor, means for driving said primary DC electrical motor in a first direction, and means for selectively modulating said secondary DC electric motor to apply a bias force to said primary DC electric motor. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said first direction is rotational. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said secondary to primary rotor coupling means is compliant. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said secondary to primary rotor coupling means is relatively rigid. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said modulating means includes means for monitoring changes in the electrical current in the winding of the primary motor, and wherein said modulating means causes said secondary motor to apply a bias force to said primary motor when the current is increasing. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said modulating means causes said secondary motor to apply a substantially constant bias force to said primary motor. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said modulating means causes said secondary motor to apply a time-varying bias force to said primary motor according to a predetermined time-dependent forcing function. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said modulating means includes means for sensing the position of the link, and wherein said modulating means causes said motor actuator to apply a bias force when the positon of the link does not coincide with the position of said secondary motor. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the capacity of said secondary motor is less than or equal to the capacitor of said primary motor. 10. A method for precisely manipulating a robotic system having a link, a primary DC electric motor having a primary rotor, and a secondary DC electric motor having a secondary rotor, comprising: coupling said primary rotor directly to the link, coupling said secondary rotor to said primary rotor, driving said primary motor in a first rotational direction, and modulating said secondary motor to selectively apply a bias torque to said primary motor. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein said bias torque has a substantially constant magnitude. 12. The method of claim 10 wherein said bias torque has a time-varying magnitude. 13. The method of claim 10 further comprising monitoring the electrical current in the winding of said primary motor, and wherein said bias torque is applied to said primary motor when the current is increasing. 14. The method of claim 10 further comprising sensing the position of the link, and wherein said bias torque is applied to said primary motor when the position of the link does not coincide with the position of said secondary motor. 15. In a direct-drive, micro-manipulation robotic system having a link, the drive system being of the type wherein a primary DC electric motor having a primary rotor is directly coupled to the link being micro-manipulated, the improvement comprising: a secondary DC electric motor having a secondary rotor directly coupled to the primary rotor, and means for selectively modulating said secondary motor to apply a bias torque to the primary motor. 16. The robotic system of claim 15 wherein said modulating means causes said secondary motor to apply a substantially constant bias torque to the primary motor. 17. The robotic system of claim 15 wherein said modulating means causes said secondary motor to apply a time-varying bias torque to the primary motor. 18. The robotic system of claim 15 wherein said modulating means includes means for monitoring changes in the electrical current in the winding of the primary motor, and wherein said modulating means causes said secondary motor to apply a bias torque to the primary motor when the current is increasing. 19. The robotic system of claim 15 wherein said modulating means includes means for sensing the position of the link, and wherein said modulating means causes said secondary motor to apply a bias torque to the primary motor when the position of the link does not coincide with the position of said secondary motor. 