An electric robot having a base unit which is rotatable about a vertical first axis is provided with a horizontal second axis to which is pivotally mounted a vertical arm. At the other end of the vertical arm, a horizontal arm is mounted which has at the end thereof a wrist for carrying a tool such as a spray gun. Motors for operation of the wrist are placed coaxially with the second axis and are placed inside the shafts for the horizontal and vertical arms. The counterbalancing mechanisms have an axis of motion which is parallel to the second axis, pulleys being used to change the direction of the tensioning cables from tangential to the second axis to parallel to the second axis.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic work unit comprising: a base unit rotatable about a vertical first axis relative to a support surface; a vertical arm pivotably mounted to said base along a horizontal second axis; a shaft on which said vertical arm is mounted and which rotates in said base unit about said second axis; a horizontal arm pivotably mounted to said vertical arm along a horizontal third axis, said third axis being generally parallel to said second axis; a wrist mounted on said horizontal arm and movable along at least a fourth axis; and at least one motor for moving said wrist, each said motor being mounted in said base unit and having a rotational output coaxial with said second axis, each said wrist motor being mounted with in said shaft. 2. The robotic work unit of claim 1 further comprising: means in said base unit for varying the distance between said first and second axis so as to vary the envelope of said robotic work unit. 3. The robotic work unit of claim 2 wherein said first axis is positionable at a number of positions along a horizontal line normal said second axis. 4. The robotic work unit of claim 1 wherein said horizontal arm is mounted to said vertical arm so as to be substantially capable of 360.degree. rotational movement relative thereto. 5. A robotic work unit comprising: a base unit rotatable about a vertical first axis relative to a support surface; a vertical arm pivotably mounted to said base along a horizontal second axis; a horizontal arm pivotably mounted to said vertical arm along a horizontal third axis, said third axis being generally parallel to said second axis; and a wrist movable along at least a fourth axis mounted on said horizontal arm; a first shaft attached to said vertical arm rotatable in said base along said second axis; a second shaft coaxial with and rotatable in said first shaft and being operatively connected to said horizontal arm; at least two wrist motors located in and coaxial with said second shaft; third and fourth motors attached to said two wrist motors, said second, third and fourth shafts extending into said vertical arm; and means for transferring the motion of said second, third and fourth shafts into said horizontal arm. 6. A robotic work unit comprising: a base unit rotatable about a vertical first axis relative to a support surface; a vertical arm pivotably mounted to said base along a horizontal second axis; a horizontal arm pivotably mounted to said vertical arm along a horizontal third axis, said third axis being generally parallel to said second axis; a wrist movable along at least a fourth axis mounted on said horizontal arm; and means for counterbalancing said arms, said counterbalancing means having axes of movement parallel to said second axis and being connected to said arms tangential to said second axis. 7. The robotic work unit of claim 6 wherein said counterbalancing means comprises a flexible connecting means running over roller means the distance of which is variable relative to said second axis. 8. The robotic work unit of claim 7 wherein said flexible connecting means runs over a second pulley means changing the direction of said connecting means from normal to said second axis to parallel to said second axis. 