An induced vibration dynamic touch sensor comprises a compliant membrane adapted for sliding contact with an object so as to induce vibrations in the membrane, and a transducer assembly for converting the vibrations into electrical signals. The electrical signals are processed to produce a normalized spectral signature characteristic of the size and shape of the object, and the sizes and shapes and nature of its surface features. A pattern vector is extracted from the spectral signature and subjected to discriminant analysis to classify and recognize the object. The invention is capable of discriminating between objects differing in diameter by as little as 1/32 inches and differing in spacing by as little as 0.01 inches.
Claims We claim: 1. Sensor apparatus comprising a membrane having a plurality of protrusions on a surface thereof; means for producing sliding contact between the membrane surface and an object to induce vibrations in the membrane; transducer means for sensing the vibrations and for producing an electrical signal corresponding to the vibrations; and means for deriving from the electrical signal a pattern characteristic of a surface area of the object contacted by the membrane, and wherein said membrane and said transducer means are commonly supported, and said membrane is supported at peripheral portions such that most of said membrane may vibrate unobstructedly. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising means responsive to the pattern for identifying the object. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the identifying means comprises means for comparing the pattern to stored patterns of known objects. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the pattern comprises a multiple variable pattern vector characteristic of the object. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein said electrical signal comprises a spectral density signature corresponding to the vibrations, and each variable of the pattern vector corresponds to the energy contained in the signature in a different frequency increment. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein said deriving means comprises means for performing a discriminant analysis on the pattern vector. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein said performing means comprises a computer. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said transducer means comprises means for sensing vibrations primarily in a predetermined direction. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the transducer means comprises first and second transducers, each having a greater sensitivity to vibrations in a predetermined direction than in other directions, and wherein the first and second transducers are oriented with respect to one another such that their directions of maximum sensitivity extend in different directions. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the first transducer is affixed to the membrane, and the second transducer is affixed to the first transducer, and wherein each transducer produces an electrical signal. 11. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein said transducers comprise piezoelectric polymers of PVDF. 12. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said protrusions comprise regularly spaced parallel ridges. 13. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said membrane comprises silicone rubber. 14. Sensor apparatus comprising a membrane having a plurality of protrusions on a first surface thereof; means for producing sliding contact between the membrane first surface and an object to induce vibrations in the membrane; and first and second transducers, each transducer comprising a thin film of uniaxially oriented piezoelectric material having a greater sensitivity to strains applied in one direction than in other directions, the first and second transducers being disposed on a second surface of the membrane opposite from the first surface of the membrane such that the directions of maximum sensitivity of the two transducers extend in different directions, and such that each transducer produces an electrical signal corresponding to vibrations applied to the transducer, the electrical signal being characteristic of a surface area of contact between the membrane and the object in the direction of maximum sensitivity of the transducer. 15. The sensor apparatus of claim 14, wherein the membrane is mounted on a plate having a centrally disposed aperture therein such that the membrane covers the aperture and is supported by the plate at the peripheral edges of the membrane. 16. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein said protrusions comprise a plurality of regular, prism-shaped ridges. 17. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein said membrane comprises silicone rubber. 18. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein said piezoelectric material comprises PVDF. 19. A sensing method comprising producing sliding contact between a membrane having protrusions thereon and an object so as to induce vibrations in the membrane; sensing the vibrations by a transducer means further from the object than the membrane is and producing an electrical signal corresponding to the vibrations; and deriving from the electrical signal a pattern characteristic of a surface area of the object contacted by the membrane to determine unknown characteristics of the surface area. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein said sensing comprises sensing the vibrations in first and second directions and producing first and second electrical signals corresponding thereto. 21. The method of claim 20, wherein said first and second electrical signals comprise a spectral signature corresponding to the character of the object, and wherein said deriving comprises producing a multiple variable pattern vector from said spectral signature. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein said deriving comprises subjecting said pattern vector to a discriminant analysis, and identifying the character of the object by assigning the pattern vector to one of a plurality of groups having known pattern vectors, said assigning comprising selecting a group having a known pattern vector that best matches the pattern vector of the object. 23. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said transducer means is mounted such that it is further away from the object than the membrane is. 24. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said transducer means is mounted to a surface of said membrane opposite said surface having the plurality of protrusions. 25. The method of claim 19 wherein the step of sensing the vibrations is accomplished by a transducer means mounted to a surface of the membrane opposite the protrusions. 