This invention comprises a driveable, steerable platform for industrial, domestic, entertainment and related uses. A frame member travels on a plurality of wheels which can be turned 360.degree. to steer the platform in a desired direction. Separate endless drive means in the form of gear-driven concentric shafts drive and steer the wheels. The platform travels substantially parallel to the terrain traversed. The entire platform may be housed in a hollow sphere to cause the sphere to selectively roll, providing the platform the ability to move about on radically uneven terrain including the ability to climb steps of height equal to approximately one-half the sphere's diameter. The wheels engage the inner surface of the rolling sphere to drive and steer the rolling sphere.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A drivable, steerable platform comprising: a frame member disposed essentially in a frame member plane; a first shaft rotatably mounted on said frame member and essentially normal to said frame member plane; a first drive gear attached to said first shaft and disposed essentially parallel to said frame member plane; a second shaft rotatably and concentrically mounted relative to said first shaft; a second drive gear attached to said second shaft and disposed essentially parallel to said frame member plane; each of said first and second drive gears comprising fixedly attached drive teeth that lie generally normal to the frame member plane and fixedly attached control teeth that extend outward in generally the same plane as each of said first and second drive gears; a first driving mechanism in meshed relation with the drive teeth of said first drive gear and operable to drive said first drive gear; a second driving mechanism in meshed relation with the drive teeth of said second drive gear and operable to drive said second drive gear; and at least three wheel assemblies which each include a wheel steering control shaft in rotatable relation to and extending normally downward from said frame member, a wheel drive control shaft rotatably and concentrically mounted relative to said wheel steering control shaft, a steering control gear co-rotatably attached to said wheel steering control shaft and in meshed relation with the control teeth of one of said drive gears, a drive control gear attached in co-rotatable relation to the wheel drive control shaft and in meshed relation with the control teeth of the other said drive gear, a wheel axle, means for coupling said wheel steering control shaft to said wheel axle, means for coupling said wheel drive control shaft to said wheel axle, and at least one wheel mounted on said wheel axle. 2. The platform according to claim 1 wherein at least one of said first and second driving mechanisms comprises an internal combustion type engine. 3. The platform according to claim 1 further comprising an implement and means for supporting and rotating said implement in synchronism with said wheel steering control shaft. 4. The platform according to claim 1 further comprising an implement fixedly attached to said frame member. 5. A drivable, steerable platform comprising: a frame member disposed essentially in a frame member plane; a first shaft rotatably mounted on said frame member and essentially normal to said frame member plane; a first drive gear attached to said first shaft and disposed essentially parallel to said first member plane; a second shaft rotatably and concentrically mounted relative to said first shaft; a second drive gear attached to said second shaft and disposed essentially parallel to said frame member plane; each of said first and second drive gears comprising fixedly attached drive teeth and fixedly attached control teeth; a first driving mechanism in meshed relation with the drive teeth of said first drive gear and operable to drive said first drive gear; a second driving mechanism in meshed relation with the drive teeth of said second drive gear and operable to drive said second drive gear; and at least three wheel assemblies which each include a wheel steering control shaft in rotatably relation to and extending normally downward from said frame member, a wheel drive control shaft rotatably and concentrically mounted relative to said wheel steering control shaft, a steering control gear co-rotatably attached to said wheel steering control shaft and in meshed relation with the control teeth of one of said drive gears, a drive control gear attached in co-rotatable relation to the wheel drive control shaft and in meshed relation with the control teeth of the other said drive gear, a wheel axle, means for coupling said wheel steering control shaft to said wheel axle, means for coupling said wheel drive control shaft to said wheel axle, and at least one wheel mounted on said wheel axle. 6. The platform according to claim 1 or claim 5 wherein at least one of said first and second driving mechanism comprises a battery powered electric motor. 7. The platform according to claim 1 or claim 5 wherein the means for coupling the wheel drive control shaft to the wheel axle comprises a pinion gear arrangement which has a wheel drive shaft pinion gear fixedly attached to the coupling end of the wheel drive control shaft, and a wheel axle pinion gear fixedly attached to the wheel axle that couples with the wheel drive shaft pinion gear. 8. The platform according to claim 7 wherein at least one of said pinion gears comprises a bevel gear. 9. The platform according to claim 1 or claim 5 wherein the means for coupling the wheel drive control shaft to the wheel axle comprises a worm gear arrangement which has a wheel drive shaft worm gear fixedly attached to the coupling end of the wheel drive control shaft, and a wheel axle worm gear fixedly attached to the wheel axle that couples with the wheel drive shaft worm gear. 10. The platform according to claim 1 or claim 5 wherein the means for coupling the wheel drive control shaft to the wheel axle comprises a differential gear arrangement. 