The present invention provides an apparatus and method of utilization thereof of a robot with a floating arm. The floating arm aspect of the robot allows the robot to align its associated tooling with the workpiece in situations where the workpiece may be in a variety at different locations. By use of the present invention the requirement for use of a vision system to accomplish alignment between the robot and the workpiece is eliminated.
Claims The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follow: 1. A robot with an extended arm for positioning an attached tool to perform a given operation on a workpiece, said robot in combination comprising: base means to support said arm; transverse motion means to move said arm in a first horizontal plane; vertical motion means to move said arm perpendicular to said first horizontal plane; float means for supporting an attached tool including a first bearing block slidably mounted on a first shaft, and a second shaft transverse with said first shaft and attached with said first bearing block, and a second bearing block slidably mounted on said second shaft and connected with said tool allowing said tool to float only in a plane fixed with respect to said first horizontal plane, whereby to facilitate the alignment of said tool with a workpiece; and tapered pins connected with said arm having a tapered surface for contact with guide means associated with said tool to fix the location of said tool in relation to said arm. 2. A robot as described in claim 1 wherein said tapered pins are vertically retractable. 3. A robot as described in claim 1 further including biasing means biasing said first and second bearing blocks to a preset position. 4. A method of utilizing a robot with an arm with an attached tool which is extended from a robotic base support to position the robot in a desired location in relationship to a workpiece to perform an operation on said workpiece, said method including in combination: supporting a robot arm from a robot base; displacing said robot arm in a first plane; displacing said robot arm along a fixed line at a predetermined angle with said manner first plane; floating said tool only in a fixed second plane at a predetermined angle with said fixed line to align said tool with said workpiece by translational sliding motion of two members which support the tool relative to each other and the arm; and locking the location of said tool by locking said two members in relation to said arm subsequent to floating said tool to align said tool with said workpiece. 5. A method as described in claim 4 further projecting tapered pins connected with said arm into guide cam surfaces of said tool. 