A wire container for use with a robot-arm-manipulated wire routing tool in the fabrication of wire harnesses. The container includes a protective shroud having a plurality of lever arms which facilitate the raising of the shroud above the drum of the container.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Wire container apparatus comprising: a base member and a shroud member; said base member comprising a cylindrical drum with a base plate at a first end thereof, container mounting and registration means formed through said base plate in alignment with the longitudinal axis of said drum, wire clamping means recessed within said base plate, and a plurality of lever arm pivot slots in a second end of said drum; said shroud member comprising a cylindrical rim having a plurality of lever arms projecting inwardly from an end of said rim and extending a part way towards the longitudinal axis of said rim, each of said plurality of lever arms having pivot means disposed in one of said plurality of pivot slots in said drum to secure said shroud member to said base member in a manner to permit axial movement therebetween upon the application of force to at least one of said plurality of lever arms. 2. Wire container apparatus as defined in claim 1 wherein said pivot means on each of said plurality of lever arms comprise a pair of axially aligned pins projecting from opposite sides thereof. 3. Wire container apparatus as defined in claim 2 wherein said pins on each of said plurality of lever arms are located substantially midway along the length thereof. 4. Wire container apparatus as defined in claim 3 wherein said plurality of pivot slots in said drum of said base member comprise four of said slots symmetrically disposed about said second end of said drum, and wherein said plurality of lever arms comprise four of said lever arms symmetrically disposed about the periphery of said rim of said shroud member. 5. Wire container apparatus as defined in claim 4 and further comprising bracket means affixed to said drum of said base member for retaining said pivot pins of said lever arms in said pivot slots of said drum of said base member. 6. Wire container apparatus as defined in claim 5 wherein said shroud member further comprises a plurality of end shield members extending from said rim and disposed between said plurality of lever arms. 