A laser-materials processing system including means for determining an incident diameter of a laser beam at a point of laser beam-material interaction on a workpiece, is disclosed. A filtered image of the interaction point is transmitted, via an imaging fiber bundle, to a video camera. The analog video signal generated thereby is digitized and provided to a computer which evaluates the pixel magnitudes along a beam image diameter line to determine therefrom the incident laser beam diameter.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus, for use in a laser-materials processing system, for determining the diameter of a laser beam at a point of laser beam-material interaction on a workpiece, said beam diameter determination apparatus comprising: means for providing an image of the laser beam-material interaction point; and means for processing said image to determine the diameter of said laser beam at the laser beam-material interaction point. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, said processing means comprising: means for representing said image as a plurality of pixes each having an intensity magnitude and a pixel address; and means for evaluating the magnitudes of a selected group of said pixels at corresponding selected pixel addresses along a predetermined beam image diameter line to determine said laser beam diameter. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the pixel address of a beam center pixel is predetermined, said evaluating means determining the intensity magnitude of said beam center pixel to compute a beam perimeter pixel intensity magnitude as a predetermined fraction of the beam center pixel magnitude; and said pixel group comprising at least one row of pixels along said beam diameter line, said evaluating means determining the pixel addresses of a first and a second beam perimeter pixel located along the pixel row and respectively on opposite sides of said center pixel, such that the magnitude of each said first and second beam perimeter pixel is less than that of the pixels both along the row and successively closer to said center pixel and is equal to or less than said perimeter pixel magnitude, said laser beam diameter being proportional to the distance between said first and second beam perimeter pixels. 4. The apparatus of claim 2, said evaluating means determining the pixel address of a beam center pixel having a maximum pixel magnitude within said pixel group and computing a beam perimeter pixel intensity magnitude as a predetermined fraction of the maximum pixel magnitude; and said pixel group comprising at least one row of pixels along said beam diameter line, said evaluating means determining the pixel addresses of a first and a second beam perimeter pixel located along the pixel row and respectively on opposite sides of said center pixel, such that the magnitude of each said first and second beam perimeter pixel is smaller than that of the pixels both along the row and successively closer to said center pixel and is equal to or less than said perimeter pixel magnitude, said laser beam diameter being proportional to the distance between said first and second beam perimeter pixels. 5. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said representing means comprises a video camera; and said image receiving means comprising an imaging optical fiber for transmitting the laser beam-material interaction point image to a focusing lens of said camera. 6. A laser-materials processing system comprising: means for subjecting a workpiece to a laser beam generated by a materials processing laser; means for providing an image of a laser beam-material interacting point on the workpiece; and means for processing said image to determine the diameter of said laser beam at the laser beam-material interaction point. 7. The laser-materials processing system of claim 6 further including: controller means for receiving the determined laser beam diameter and controlling the operation of said materials processing laser in accordance therewith. 8. The laser-materials processing system of claim 7, said processing means comprising: means for representing said image as a plurality of pixels each having an intensity magnitude and a pixel address; and means for evaluating the magnitudes of a selected group of said pixels at corresponding selected pixel addresses along a predetermined beam image diameter line to determine said laser beam diameter. 9. The laser-materials processing system of claim 8 wherein the pixel address of a beam center pixel is predetermined, said evaluating means determining the pixel intensity magnitude of said beam center pixel and computing a beam perimeter pixel intensity magnitude as a predetermined fraction of said beam center pixel magnitude; and said pixel group comprising at least one row of pixels along said beam diameter line, said evaluating means determining the pixel addresses of a first and a second beam perimeter pixel located along the pixel row and respectively on opposite sides of said center pixel, such that the magnitude of each said first and second beam perimeter pixel is less than that of the pixels along the row and successively closer to the center pixel and is equal to or less than said perimeter pixel magnitude, said laser beam diameter being proportional to the distance between said first and second beam perimeter pixels. 10. The laser-materials processing system of claim 8, said evaluating means determining the pixel address of a beam center pixel having a maximum pixel intensity magnitude within said pixel group and computing a beam perimeter pixel intensity magnitude as a predetermined fraction of said maximum pixel magnitude; and said pixel group comprising at least one row of pixels along said beam diameter line, said evaluating means determining the pixel addresses of a first and second beam perimeter pixel located along the pixel row and respectively on opposite sides of said center pixel, such that the magnitude of each said first and second beam perimeter pixel is less than that of the pixels both along the row and successively closer to the center pixel and is equal to or less than said perimeter pixel magnitude, said laser beam diameter being proportional to the distance between said first and second beam perimeter pixels. 11. The laser-materials processing system of claim 8, said representing means comprising: a video camera for providing an analog video signal representative of said image; and camera interface means for digitizing the camera analog video signal to provide a digital representation of the pixel address and pixel intensity magnitude of at least each said pixel in said pixel group; and said evaluating means comprising computing apparatus coupled to receive the digital representations of at least said pixel group. 12. The laser-materials processing system of claim 8 wherein said materials processing laser generates said laser beam as a sequence of beam pulses; said representing means providing the intensity magnitudes of said pixel group corresponding to images of predetermined ones of said beam pulses; and said evaluating means single pixel averaging the pixel group intensity magnitudes corresponding to said predetermined beam pulses and determining said beam diameter from the last recited averaged pixel magnitudes. 13. A method for determining an incident diameter of a laser beam at a point of laser beam-material interaction on a workpiece in a laser-materials processing system, comprising the steps of: providing an image of said laser beam-material interaction point; representing said image as a plurality of pixels each having an intensity magnitude and a pixel address; and evaluating the magnitudes of a selected group of said pixels at corresponding selected pixel addresses along a predetermined beam image diameter line to determine said laser beam diameter therefrom. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein the pixel address of a beam center pixel is predetermined, said pixel group comprising at least one row of pixels along said beam diameter line, said evaluating step comprising the substeps of: determining the pixel intensity magnitude of said beam center pixel; computing a beam perimeter pixel intensity magnitude as a predetermined fraction of said beam center pixel magnitude; and determining the pixel addresses of a first and a second beam perimeter pixel located along the pixel row and respectively on opposite sides of said center pixel, such that the magnitude of each said first and second beam perimeter pixel is less than that of the pixels both along the row and successively closer to the center pixel and is equal to or less than said perimeter pixel magnitude, said laser beam diameter being proportional to the distance between said first and second beam perimeter pixels. 15. The method of claim 13 wherein said pixel group comprises at least one row of pixels along said beam diameter line, said evaluating step comprising the substeps of: determining the pixel address of a beam center pixel having a maximum pixel intensity magnitude within said pixel group; computing a beam perimeter pixel intensity magnitude as a predetermined fraction of said beam center pixel magnitude; and determining the pixel addresses of a first and a second beam perimeter pixel located along the pixel row and respectively on opposite sides of said center pixel, such that the magnitude of each said first and second beam perimeter pixel is less than that of the pixels both along the row and successively closer to the center pixel and is equal to or less than said perimeter pixel magnitude, said laser beam diameter being proportional to the distance between said first and second beam perimeter pixels. 