An exchangeable end effector tool includes, in combination; an engaging machanism, accessible to the extending fingers of a cooperating end effector disposed on the distal end of a robotic arm. The tool includes an indexing structure for mating and cooperating with the indexing device provided on the distal end of the end effector extending fingers and structure for cooperating with the mating locking device provided in the distal end of the end effector extending fingers which retains or releases the tool upon the end effector extending fingers responsive to a computer command signal coupled to the end effector locking device. The tool has the engaging mechanism affixed thereon, and includes a device for performing a prescribed function.
Claims Having thus set forth the nature of the invention, what is claimed is: 1. An exchangeable end effector tool, suitable for attachment upon a robotic end effector disposed on the distal end of a robotic arm, comprising in combination: I. a robotic end effector having; (A) at least two extending linear moving fingers including; (a) finger indexing means disposed proximate the distal end of each said fingers, and (b) a locking device disposed internally within each said fingers, said locking device having a first affixing position and a second releasing positions; and (c) remote means for moving said locking device from said first to said second position; and II. an exchangeable tool having; (A) tool engaging means accessible to the distal end of said end effector extending fingers including; (a) tool indexing means for mating and cooperating with said finger indexing means, said tool indexing means including; (i) at least one protruding portion having a geometerical arrangement that permits only one position for positive engagement with a mating portion provided proximate the distal end of each said end effector fingers, having; 1. tool alignment means for maintaining the dimensional integrity of said robotic arm when engaged in said robotic fingers, and 2. tool receiving means for receiving a portion of said finger locking device for affixing or releasing said end effector tool to each said end effector fingers upon movement of said end effector locking device from said first position to said second position; and (B) tool means haivng said engaging means affixed thereon, said tool means being selected to perform a prescribed function. 2. An exchangeable end effector tool according to claim 1 wherein said tool alignment means includes a plurality of rectangularly-shaped protruing portions adapted to be received into cooperating apertures proximate the distal end of each said fingers, each said protruding portion having a V-shaped groove adapted to cooperate with said portion of said end effector finger locking device when engaged. 3. An exchangeable end effector tool, suitable for attachment upon a robotic end effector disposed on the distal end of a robotic arm, comprising in combination: I. a robotic end effector having: (A) at least two extending linear moving fingers including; (a) finger indexing means disposed proximate the distal end of each said fingers, and (b) a locking device disposed internally within each said fingers, said locking device having a first affixing position and a second releasing position; and (c) remote means for moving said locking device from said first to said second postion; and (II) an exchangeable tool having; (A) tool engaging means accessible to the distal end of said end effector extending fingers including; (a) tool indexing means having an upwardly extending U-shaped portion so that said tool indexing means is accessible for engagement by said end effector fingers when said fingers are moving linearly for mating and cooperating with said finger indexing means, said tool indexing means including; (i) at least one protruding portion having a geometerical arrangement that permits only one portion for positive engagement with a mating portion provided proximate the distal end of each said end effector fingers having; 1. tool alignment means for maintaining the dimensional integrity of said robotic arm when engaged in said robotic fingers, and 2. tool receiving means for receiving a portion of sadi finger locking device affixing or releasing said end effector tool to each said end effector finger upon movement of said end effector locking device from said first position to said second position; and (B) tool means having said engaging means affixed thereon, said tool means being selected to perform a prescribed function. 4. An exchangable end effector tool according to claim 1 wherein said tool engaging means includes an upwardly extending U-shaped portion containing said tool indexing means so that said tool indexing means is accessible for engagement by each said end effector fingers when said fingers are moving linearly in an opening direction. 5. An exchangeable end effector tool according to claim 1 wherein said tool engaging means includes an upwardly extending U-shaped portion containing said tool indexing means so that said tool indexing means is accessible for engagement by each said end effector fingers when said fingers are moving linearly in a closing direction. 6. An exchangeable end effector tool according to claim 1, wherein said end effector tool further includes means for sensing when said tool encompasses an object. 7. An exchangeable end effector tool according to claim 1, wherein said end effector tool further includes means for sensing when said tool comes into contact with an object. 8. An exchangable end effector tool according to claim 1, wherein said tool comprises: (a) first and second generally flat and parallel surfaces having disposed thereon said tool engaging means; and (b) a third surface disposed transversely to said parallel surfaces, said third surface having said tool means disposed thereon. 9. An exchangeable end effector tool according to claim 3, wherein said tool receiving means includes a V-shaped groove provided in at least one protruding portion adapted to cooperate with pins provided on said end effector finger locking device when activated. 10. An exchangeable end effector tool according to claim 3, wherein said tool indexing means is accessible for engagement by each said effector fingers when said fingers are moving linearly in an opening direction. 11. An exchangeable end effector tool according to claim 3, wherein said tool indexing means is accessible for engagement by each said effector fingers when said fingers are moving linearly in a closing direction. 12. An exchangeable end effector tool according to claim 3, wherein said tool means further includes means for sensing when said tool means encompasses an object. 13. An exchangeable end effector tool according to claim 3, wherein said tool means further includes means for sensing when said tool means comes into contact with an object. 14. An exchangeable end effector tool, suitable for attachment upon a robotic end effector disposed on the distal end of a robotic arm, comprising in combination: I. a robotic end effector having; (A) at least two extending linear moving fingers for engaging an exchangeable tool when moving in a closing direction or a opening direction, said linear moving fingers including; (a) finger indexing means disposing proximate the distal end of each said fingers, and (b) a locking device disposed internally within each said fingers, said locking device having a first affixing position and a second releasing position; and (c) remote means for moving said locking device from said first to said second position; and II. an exchangeable tool having; (A) tool engaging means accessible to the distal end of each said end effector extending fingers when said end effector fingers are moving outwardly or inwardly said extending fingers including; (a) tool indexing means for mating and cooperating with said finger indexing means, (b) means for cooperating with said finger locking device; and (B) tool means having said engaging means affixing thereon, said tool means being selected to perform a prescribed function. 15. An exchangeable end effector tool, suitable for attachment upon a robitic end effector disposed on the distal end of a robotic arm, said end effector having at least a pair of linearly moving extending fingers with finger indexing means disposed proximate the distal end thereof, each said fingers including an internally disposed locking device activated in response to a remote activation means, said exchangeable end effector tool comprising: (a) tool engaging means, said engaging means being accessible to the distal end of said end effector fingers and including; (i) tool indexing means having a plurality of protrusions for extending into and cooperating with said finger indexing means provided proximate the distal end of each said end effector fingers, and (ii) means for receiving and cooperating with a portion of said end effector locking device for retaining said tool or releasing sai tool from said extending fingers upon said end effector locking device being activated by said remote activation means; and (b) tool means having said engaging means affixed thereon, said tool means being selected to perform a prescribed function or grasp an object. 16. An exchangeable end effector tool, according to claim 15 wherein said tool means includes two separate identical pieces. 17. An exchangeable end effector tool, according to claim 15 wherein said tool means includes two separate dissimilar pieces, each piece having identical tool engaging means disposed thereon. 