A robotic manipulator provides three degrees of freedom of movement of an end effector or gripper using only motors which are mounted on a frame. Included is a first actuator assembly providing rotation of a first input link about first and second axes. A compound motor provides this rotation about two axes through a differential gear mechanism. A second actuator provides rotation of a second input link about a third axis. The two input links are each connected to an output link, which in turn are connected, with an end effector being disposed on the end of one of the output links.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic manipulator comprising: a frame; a first input link; a first actuator assembly coupled at a first joint to one end of said first input link for manipulating said first link with two degrees of freedom; a second input link; a second actuator assembly coupled at a second joint to one end of said second link for manipulating said second link with one degree of freedom; means for mounting said first and second actuator assemblies on said frame; a first output link coupled at a third joint adjacent one of its ends to the other end of said first input link; a second output link coupled at a fourth joint at one of its ends to the other end of said second input link and coupled at a fifth joint at its other end to the other end of the first output link; where the mounting of said actuator assemblies on said frame, and said first through fifth joints allow manipulation of said one end of said first output link by said first and second actuator assemblies with three degrees of freedom. 2. A manipulator according to claim 1 wherein said third joint provides three degrees of freedom of relative movement, said fifth joint provides two degrees of freedom of relative movement, and said fourth joint provides one degree of freedom of relative movement. 3. A manipulator according to claim 2 wherein said first actuator assembly rotates said first input link about first and second relatively transverse axes, and said second actuator assembly rotates said second input link about a third axis. 4. A manipulator according to claim 1 wherein said first actuator assembly comprises a pair of coaxial motors with drive shafts and bevel gears attached to said motor drive shafts and to said first input link for rotating this link about said first axis when said pair of motors rotate about said first axis in the same direction and at the same speed, and for rotating this link about said second axis when said pair of motors rotate about said first axis in opposite directions at the same speed. 5. A manipulator according to claim 1 wherein said mounting means mounts said first and second actuator assemblies fixedly to said frame at spaced apart locations thereon. 6. A robot manipulator having three degrees of freedom comprising: a frame; a first actuator assembly fixedly mounted relative to said frame for providing rotational drive relative to said frame about a first axis and about a second axis disposed transverse to and intersecting said first axis whereby rotational drive about said first axis changes the location of said second axis relative to said first axis; a second actuator assembly fixedly mounted relative to said frame for providing rotational drive relative to said frame about a third axis; a first output link; a first input link fixedly coupled at one end to said first actuator assembly for rotation about said first and second axes, and at the other end said first output link in a manner allowing at least one degree of freedom of movement between said first output and first input links; a second input link fixedly connected at one end to said second drive means for relative rotation about said third axis; a second output link coupled at one end to the other end of said second input link, and coupled at its other end to said first output link, the junctions between said second input and first and second output links each allowing at least one degree of freedom of movement, with the three junctions between said first and second input and first and second output links allowing an average of two degrees of freedom of movement at each of said junctions. 7. A manipulator according to claim 6 wherein said first and second actuator assemblies are spaced apart from each other on said frame. 8. A manipulator according to claim 6 wherein the junction between said second input and second output links allows one degree of freedom of relative movement, the junction between said first and second output links allows two degrees of freedom of relative movement, and the junction between said first input and first output links allows three degrees of freedom of relative movement. 9. A manipulator according to claim 8 wherein said second actuator assembly is coupled to said second input link for rotating said second input link in a plane perpendicular to said first axis. 10. A manipulator according to claim 6 wherein said first actuator assembly comprises a pair of coaxial motors with motor drive shafts and bevel gears attached to said motor drive shafts and to said first input link for rotating said first input link about said first axis when said pair of motors rotate said drive shafts about said first axis, in the same direction and at the same speed, and for rotating said first input link about said second axis when said motor shafts are rotated about said first axis in opposite directions at the same speed. 11. A robotic manipulator having three degrees of freedom comprising: a frame; a first actuator assembly fixedly mounted on said frame for providing rotational drive relative to said frame about a first axis and about a second axis disposed in a plane perpendicular to and intersecting said first axis, whereby rotational drive about said first axis changes the location of said second axis in said plane; a second actuator assembly also fixedly mounted on said frame for providing rotational drive relative to said frame about a third axis parallel to said first axis; a first input link joined at one end to said first actuator assembly for rotation about said first and second axis; a second input link coupled to said second actuator assembly for rotation about said third axis; first and second output links; a one-degree-of-freedom joint joining one end of said second output link to the other end of said second input link; a three-degree-of-freedom joint joining said first output link to the other end of said first input link; and a two-degree-of-freedom joint joining the other end of said second output link to an end of said first output link providing two degrees of freedom between said first and second output links. 12. A manipulator according to claim 11, wherein said first actuator assembly comprises a pair of coaxial motors with motor drive shafts and bevel gears attached to said motor drive shafts and to said first input link for rotating said first input link about said first axis when said pair of motors rotate said drive shafts about said first axis, in the same direction and at the same speed, and for rotating said first input link about said second axis when said motor shafts are rotated about said first axis in opposite directions at the same speed. 