A robotic game apparatus comprises a CRT display. A robot has a photo detector which faces a screen of the CRT display and detects an image on the screen. On the screen of the CRT display, images which differ, for example, in brightness or the like are formed in response to different codes. The photo detector of the robot generates a code signal responding to a change in image brightness or the like. This code signal is decoded, and motors or the like are controlled to cause corresponding movements of the arms and body of the robot.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic gaming apparatus comprising: a displaying means, an image signal producing means for producing an image signal for forming an image of a predetermined aspect on said displaying means, a robot, an image receiving means which is installed in said robot and is for receiving an image on said displaying means, and a controlling means which is installed in said robot and is for controlling motion of said robot based on a signal from said image receiving means. 2. A robotic gaming apparatus in accordance with claim 1, wherein said image signal producing means includes a code signal generating means for generating a code signal and an image signal generating means for generating an image signal in response to a code from said code signal generating means. 3. A robotic gaming apparatus in accordance with claim 2, wherein said image signal generating means includes a means for varying the brightness component of a display on said displaying means in response to a code, and said image receiving means includes means for detecting variation of said brightness component. 4. A robotic gaming apparatus in accordance with claim 3, wherein said means for varying the brightness component includes means for selectively generating a white or black character signal in response to a code. 5. A robotic gaming apparatus in accordance with claim 2, wherein said image signal generating means includes a means for varying the color component of a display on said displaying means in response to a code, and said image receiving means includes a means for detecting sad color component. 6. A robotic gaming apparatus in accordance with claim 2, wherein said image signal generating means includes a means for varying the shape of a display on said displaying means in response to a code, and said image receiving means includes a means for detecting said shape. 7. A robotic gaming apparatus in accordance with claim 2, which further comprises a means for forming a trigger bit between said codes. 8. A robotic gaming apparatus in accordance with claim 2, which further comprises a means for forming a start bit before said code. 9. A robotic gaming apparatus in accordance with claim 1, which further comprises a means for forming a character image for a game on said displaying means. 10. A robotic gaming apparatus in accordance with claim 9, which further comprises a means for moving a game character displayed on said displaying means. 11. A game apparatus used with a display that is capable of displaying variable images in response to electrical signals, comprising: a game mechanism adapted to be positioned in spaced apart relation to said display, said game mechanism having a movable portion, image signal producing means for producing an electrical image signal to form an image on said display, including means for causing said image to change with time, image receiving means provided on said game mechanism for receiving the image formed on said display and for outputting a signal in accordance with the change of said image, and mechanism control means for controlling movement of said movable portion of said game mechanism in response to the signal output from said image receiving means. 12. A game apparatus in accordance with claim 11, said display is a raster scanning type CRT display which is scanned based on a predetermined frame frequency, and said image signal producing means includes means for producing the electrical image signal in synchronism with said frame frequency. 13. A game apparatus in accordance with claim 12, said image signal producing means includes means for generating at least one mechanism movement command, and means for converting said command into electrical image signals to form command images on said display. 14. A game apparatus in accordance with claim 13, said image signal producing means includes means for producing another electrical image signal to form a game image other than said command images on said display. 15. A game apparatus used with a raster scan type video display, comprising: image signal producing means for producing an electrical image signal to form a command image on said raster scan type video display, an amusement device for responding to a command image formed on said raster scan type video display, image receiving means provided on said amusement device for receiving the command image formed on said raster scan type video display and including means for producing an output signal in accordance with said command image, said amusement device having a controllable component, and controlling means for controlling said component in accordance with a command associated with the output signal from said image receiving means. 16. A game apparatus in accordance with claim 15, wherein said controllable component includes a movable portion of said amusement device. 17. A game apparatus in accordance with claim 15, wherein said controllable component includes means on said amusement device for exhibiting a changed condition in response to said output signal. 