There is provided a position error sensing and feedback apparatus and method for a positioning device having a working piece which is moved along a rectilinear triordinate system. The apparatus comprises a laser source for providing a highly polarized laser beam which is directed substantially parallel to a first of the axes of the triordinate system. In a preferred embodiment, a first laser beam processing package is located along such first axis for receiving the laser beam and splitting such beam into a first portion which is directed outwardly along a path substantially parallel to a second axis of the triordinate system, with the remaining portion directed to at least one error detector means for measuring positional and orientational errors of the first processing package relative the laser beam. A second laser beam processing package is located along the second axis for receiving the first portion of the laser beam and further splitting it into a second portion which is directed outwardly along a path substantially parallel to the third axis of the triordinate system, and directing the remaining portions of the beam to at least one error detector for measuring positional and orientational errors of the second processing package relative the laser beam. A third laser beam processing package is located along the third axis of the triordinate system for receiving the second portion of the laser beam and directing portions thereof to a plurality of error detectors for measuring positional and orientational errors of the third processing package relative the second portion of the laser beam. A feedback processor is provided for communicating the detected translational, angular and rotational deviations to a control unit of the rectilinear positioning device to enable selective correction thereof.
Claims I claim: 1. A position error sensing and feedback apparatus for a positioning device having a working piece which is moved along a rectilinear multi-ordinate system, said apparatus comprising: (a) a laser source for providing a highly polarized laser beam of a predetermined wavelength, said laser source being supported at a predetermined position relative said rectilinear positioning device, and said beam being fixedly directed substantially parallel to one of the axes of said rectilinear system; (b) means for measuring positional errors of said working piece by receiving and processing said laser beam, said error measuring means comprising means for splitting the highly polarized laser beam to direct portions thereof to a plurality of error detecting devices, said error detecting devices including a first detector for measuring translational deviation of said measuring means relative to said polarized beam and, therefore, relative one or more of the individual axes of said rectilinear system, a second detector for measuring angular deviation of said measuring means polarized beam and, therefore, relative one or more of said axes, and a third detector for measuring roll deviation of said measuring means relative said polarized beam about said beam along the axis of transmission; (c) feedback means for communicating detected translational, angular and rotational deviations to a control unit of said rectilinear positioning device to enable selective correction of said deviations and to thereby provide improved positional accuracy of said working piece. 2. The position error sensing and feedback apparatus of claim 1, wherein said rectilinear multi-ordinate system comprises a three axis triordinate system, wherein said three axes are mutually perpendicular to one another. 3. The position error sensing and feedback apparatus of claim 2, wherein said error measuring means further comprises a plurality of laser beam processing packages for receiving and measuring said highly polarized laser beam, each of said processing packages being located on said positioning device along one of the mutually perpendicular axes of said triordinate system, whereby said laser beam is directed to one of said processing packages from said laser source substantially parallel to one of said axes, and thereafter transmitted to successive processing packages along successive paths substantially parallel to said other axes, respectively. 4. The position error sensing and feedback apparatus of claim 3, wherein some of said processing packages include means for directing an incoming laser beam outwardly along a beam axis which is oriented 90.degree. from the incoming beam transmission axis toward a subsequent processing package. 5. The position error sensing and feedback apparatus of claim 4, wherein said beam directing means comprises a single reflecting surface device. 6. The position error sensing and feedback apparatus of claim 4, wherein said beam directing means comprises a pentaprism structure. 7. The position error sensing and feedback apparatus of claim 1, wherein said laser source provides a highly polarized beam of the He-Ne type at a predetermined stable wavelength. 8. The position error sensing and feedback apparatus of claim 1, further comprising means for monitoring the position, orientation and polarization of said laser beam provided by said laser source. 9. The position error sensing and feedback apparatus of claim 1, wherein said positioning device comprises a gantry-type robot for manipulating a working piece along a rectilinear three axis system. 10. The position error sensing and feedback apparatus of claim 1, wherein said positioning device comprises a coordinate measuring system. 11. The position error sensing and feedback apparatus of claim 1, wherein the path along which said laser beam is directed is substantially enclosed along its entire length. 12. The position error sensing and feedback apparatus of claim 1, wherein said apparatus is integrated into said positioning device such that its structure does not substantially interfere with the ordinary operation of said device, and wherein said apparatus can be selectively utilized in conjunction with the operation of said device. 13. The position error sensing and feedback apparatus of claim 1, wherein said feedback means can be interfaced with the standard controls of said positioning device to provide error correction capabilities thereto. 14. The position error sensing and feedback apparatus of claim 3, wherein a first laser beam processing package is located along a first axis of said triordinate system, said first processing package comprising means for splitting said laser beam in order to permit the direction of a first portion thereof along a path substantially parallel to a second axis of said triordinate system, and to direct the remaining portion of said laser beam to error detector means for measuring positional and orientational errors of said first processing package relative said laser beam. 15. The position error sensing and feedback apparatus of claim 14, wherein a second laser beam processing package is located along said second axis of said triordinate system for receiving the first portion of said laser beam directed from said first processing package, said second processing package comprising means for further splitting said first portion of said laser beam in order to permit the direction of a second portion thereof along a path substantially parallel to the third axis of said triordinate system, and to enable direction of the remaining portions thereof to error detector means for measuring positional and orientational errors of said second processing package relative said first portion of said laser beam. 16. The position error sensing and feedback apparatus of claim 15, wherein a third laser beam processing package is located along said third axis of said triordinate system for receiving the second portion of said laser beam directed from said second processing package, said third processing package comprising means for directing portions of the second portion of said laser beam to a plurality of error detector means for measuring positional and orientational errors of said third processing package relative said second portion of said laser beam. 17. A position error sensing and feedback apparatus for a positioning device having a working piece which is moved along a rectilinear triordinate system of three mutually perpendicular axes, said apparatus comprising: (a) a reference laser source providing a highly polarized laser beam of a predetermined wavelength, said laser source being supported at a predetermined position relative said rectilinear positioning device, and said beam being directed substantially parallel to a first one of the axes of said triordinate system; (b) a first laser beam processing package located along said first axis for receiving said laser beam and comprising means for splitting said laser beam in order to permit the direction of a first portion thereof along a path substantially parallel to a second axis of said triordinate system, and to direct the remaining portion of said laser beam to at least one error detector means for measuring positional and orientational errors of said first processing package relative said laser beam; (c) a second laser beam processing package located along said second axis for receiving the first portion of said laser beam directed from said first processing package, said second processing package comprising means for further splitting said first portion of said laser beam in order to permit the direction of a second portion thereof along a path substantially parallel to the third axis of said triordinate system, and to direct the remaining portions thereof to at least one error detector means for measuring positional and orientational errors of said second processing package relative said first portion of said laser beam; (d) a third laser beam processing package located along said third axis of said triordinate system for receiving the second portion of said laser beam directed from said second processing package, said third processing package comprising means for directing portions of the second portion of said laser beam to a plurality of error detector means for measuring positional and orientational errors of said third processing package relative said second portion of said laser beam; and (e) feedback means for communicating the detected positional and orientational errors to a control unit of said rectilinear positioning device to enable correction of said deviation and to thereby provide improved positional accuracy of said working piece. 18. The positional and orientational error sensing and feedback apparatus of claim 17, wherein said first and second processing packages include means for directing an incoming laser beam outwardly along a beam axis which is oriented 90.degree. from the incoming beam axis and toward a subsequent processing package. 19. The positional and orientational error sensing and feedback apparatus of claim 18, wherein said beam directing means comprises a single reflecting surface device. 20. The positional and orientational error sensing and feedback apparatus of claim 18, wherein said beam directing means comprises a pentaprism structure. 21. The positional and orientational error sensing and feedback apparatus of claim 18, wherein said error detector means of said processing packages further measure deviations of said reference laser beam and its first and second portions caused by said beam directing means, whereby such beam deviations can be compensated for. 22. The positional and orientational error sensing and feedback apparatus of claim 17, wherein said laser source provides a highly polarized beam of He-Ne type at a predetermined stable wavelength. 23. The positional and orientational error sensing and feedback apparatus of claim 17, wherein said means for splitting the highly polarized laser beam comprises at least one neutral density filter. 24. The positional and orientational error sensing and feedback apparatus of claim 17, wherein said error detector means comprises optical structures for measuring angular and translational deviations relative said polarized laser beam, as well as rotational deviations relative the transmission axes of said polarized beam. 25. A positional and orientational error sensing and feedback apparatus for a positioning device having a working piece which is moved along a rectilinear triordinate system of three mutually perpendicular axes, said apparatus comprising: (a) a reference laser source for providing a highly polarized laser beam of a predetermined wavelength, said laser source supported at a predetermined position relative to and independent of said rectilinear positioning device, and said laser beam being directed substantially parallel to a first one of said mutually perpendicular axes; (b) a first laser beam processing package located on said positioning device along said first axis for receiving said laser beam, said first processing package comprising means for splitting said laser beam to enable direction of a first portion thereof along a path substantially parallel to a second one of said mutually perpendicular axes, another portion toward first detector means for measuring angular deviation and translation deviation of said first processing package relative said polarized beam, and another portion toward second detector means for measuring rotational deviation of said first processing package relative said polarized beam about the laser beam axis parallel to said first axis; (c) a second laser beam processing package located on said positioning device along said second axis perpendicular to said first axis for receiving the first portion of said laser beam directed from said first processing package, said second processing package comprising means for splitting said first portion of said laser beam to enable direction of a second portion of the beam along a path substantially parallel to the third of said mutually perpendicular axes, another portion toward third detector means for measuring angular deviation and translational deviation of said second processing package relative said first portion of the polarized beam, and another portion toward fourth detector means for measuring rotational deviation of said second processing package relative said first portion of said laser beam about its beam axis parallel to said second axis; (d) a third laser beam processing package located on said positioning device adjacent said working piece along said third axis perpendicular to said second axis for receiving the second portion of said laser beam directed from said second processing package, said third processing package comprising means for splitting said second portion of said laser beam to direct a portion thereof toward a fifth detector means for measuring angular deviations of said third processing package relative said second portion of said laser beam, a portion toward a sixth detector means for measuring translational deviations of said third processing package relative said second portion of said laser beam, and a portion toward a seventh detector means for measuring rotational deviation of said third processing package relative said second portion of said laser beam about its beam axis parallel to said third axis; and (e) feedback means for communicating the detected translational, angular and rotational deviations to a control unit of said rectilinear positioning device to enable correction of said deviations and to thereby provide improved positional and orientational accuracy of said working piece. 26. A method for detecting and correcting positional and orientational errors in a positioning device having a working piece which is moved along a rectilinear triordinate system, said method comprising the following steps: (a) directing a highly polarized reference laser beam of predetermined wavelength along a first beam axis substantially parallel to a first one of the axes of said triordindate system; (b) receiving said laser beam in a first laser beam processing package located along said first axis of said triordinate system, and processing said laser beam by splitting the same into a first portion which is to be directed outwardly from said first processing package along a path substantially parallel to a second axis of said triordinate system, and by directing the balance of said laser beam to error detector means for measuring positional and orientational errors of said first processing package relative said laser beam; (c) receiving said first portion of said laser beam directing from said first processing package in a second laser beam processing package located along said second axis of said triordinate system, and processing said first portion by splitting the same into a second portion which is to be directed outwardly from said second processing package along a path substantially parallel to the third axis of said triordinate system, and by directing the balance of said first portion to error detector means for measuring positional and orientational errors of said second processing package relative said first portion of said laser beam; (d) receiving said second portion of said laser beam directed from said second processing package in a third laser beam processing package located along said third axis of said triordinate system, and processing said second portion by directing the same to error detector means for measuring positional and orientational errors of said third processing package relative said second portion of said laser beam; and (e) feeding all of the positional and orientational errors detected at said first, second and third processing packages to a positioning device control unit to enable offsetting corrections to be made to said working piece. 27. The method of claim 26, wherein said second portion of said laser beam directed from said second processing package is processed by splitting said second portion into a plurality of subportions, and directing said subportions to a plurality of error detector means for measuring positional and orientational errors of said second processing package relative said second portion of said laser beam. 28. The method of claim 26, wherein said first and second portions of said laser beam are directed from said first and second processing packages, respectively, by passing said portions through first and second pentaprism structures, respectively, to change the direction of such beam portions by 90.degree., thereby directing such beam portions toward the second and third laser beam processing packages, respectively. 29. The method of claim 26, including the additional step of utilizing the positional and orientational errors detected at said processing packages to determine the deviations of the first and second portions of the reference laser beam caused by the optics utilized to direct the beam from one processing package to another along the axes of the triordinate system, whereby such beam deviations can be compensated for by offsetting corrections. 30. The method of claim 26, including the additional step of monitoring the position and orientation of said polarized reference laser beam as it is directed from its source, whereby positional and orientational deviations of said beam can be determined and factored into said positional and orientational errors detected at said first, second and third processing packages and into the offsetting corrections therefor. 31. The method of claim 26, further comprising the step of making offsetting corrections for the positional and orientational errors detected to thereby improve the positional and orientational accuracy of said working piece in said triordinate system 