A digital control is provided for a robot having a plurality of arm joints. The control includes an electric motor for driving each of the robot arm joints and a power amplifier supplies drive current to each motor. Each joint motor has feedback control loop means including at least digital position, velocity and torque control loops operable at a predetermined sampling rate to control the associated power amplifier. Digital motor position, velocity and drive current feedback signals are generated for the control loop means for all of the robot axes. Paired system microprocessors or paired position/velocity microprocessors generate position commands for the feedback control loop means in accordance with predefined moves set forth in a robot program. A planning program generates a time profile including acceleration, slew and deceleration time segments for each commanded robot program move. A trajectory program generates position commands for each of the feedback control loop means in accordance with a curved path trajectory and in accordance with the time profile applicable to the current move segment. The trajectory program employs stored third order polynomial equations and arc equations each having predetermined variable parameters operative to particularize that equation to a commanded curved path segment. The trajectory program responds to parameters specified by the robot program and implements the stored equations corresponding to the specified parameters to generate the position commands and define a tool tip trajectory corresponding to the curved path defined by the robot program.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A digital control for a robot having a plurality of arm joints, said control comprising: an electric motor for driving each of the robot arm joints; a power amplifier operable to supply drive current to each motor; feedback control loop means for each joint motor including at least digital position, velocity and torque control looops operable at a predetermined sampling rate to control the associated power amplifier; means for generating digital motor position, velocity and drive current feedback signals for said control loop means for all of the robot axes; digital control means for generating position commands for said feedback control loop means in accordance with predefined moves set forth in a robot program; said position command generating means including planning program means having means for generating a time profile including acceleration, slew and deceleration time segments for each commanded robot program move; said position command generating means further including trajectory program means for generating position commands for each of said feedback control loop means in accordance with a curved path trajectory and in accordance with the time profile applicable to the current move segment; said trajectory program generating means including stored curve defining equations each having predetermined variable parameters operative to particularize that equation to a commanded curved path segment; said trajectory program generating means further having means for responding to parameters specified by the robot program and for implementing the stored equations corresponding to the specified parameters to generate said position commands and define a tool tip trajectory corresponding to the curved path defined by the robot program. 2. A robot control as set forth in claim 1 wherein said equations include a polynomial equation having an order above one and the specified parameters include coefficients specified for the polynomial equation to fit it to the commanded curved path. 3. A robot control as set forth in claim 2 wherein said polynomial equation has an order above two. 4. A robot control as set forth in claim 2 wherein said polynomial equation has an order of three. 5. A robot control as set forth in claim 2 wherein said equations include an arc equation and the specified parameters include at least two points on the commanded arc path to fit the arc equation to it. 6. A robot control as set forth in claim 5 wherein said polynomial equation has an order above two. 7. A robot control as set forth in claim 2 wherein means are provided for responding to tool orientation commands from the robot program to control the tool orientation as the tool is moved through its curved path trajectory. 8. A robot control as set forth in claim 5 wherein a position/velocity microprocessor servo means is provided for operating the position/velocity control loops and for executing said planning and trajectory program means to generate said position commands for the position/velocity control loops. 9. A robot control as set forth in claim 8 wherein said microprocessor servo means includes calculating microprocessor means and a data processing microprocessor, and means for coupling said data processing microprocessor and said calculating microprocessor means so as to enable said data processing microprocessor to manage the flow of input/output data to and from said calculating microprocessor means during execution of said planning and trajectory program means and during execution of position/velocity control loop programming. 10. A robot control as set forth in claim 9 wherein torque microprocessor servo means is provided for operating the torque control loops. 11. A robot control as set forth in claim 5 wherein said planning and trajectory means includes continuous path program means for smoothing the command trajectory between curved path segments. 12. A robot control as set forth in claim 5 wherein a position/velocity microprocessor servo means is provided for operating the position and velocity control loops and system microprocessor means are provided for executing said planning and trajectory program means, said microprocessor servo means including a calculating microprocessor for executing position/velocity control calculations and further including a data processing microprocessor, and means for coupling said data processing microprocessor and said calculating microprocessor to enable said data processing microprocessor to manage the flow of input/output data to and from said calculating microprocessor. 13. A robot comprising: an arm having a plurality of joints; each of said joints having an electric motor drive; a power amplifier operable to supply drive current to each motor; feedback control loop means for each joint motor including at least digital position, velocity and torque control loops operable at a predetermined sampling rate to control the associated power amplifier; means for generating digital motor position, velocity and drive current feedback signals for said control loop means for all of the robot axes; digital control means for generating position commands for said feedback control loop means in accordance with predefined moves set forth in a robot program; said position command generating means including planning program means having means for generating a time profile including acceleration, slew and deceleration time segments for each commanded robot program move; said position command generating means further including trajectory program means for generating position commands for each of said feedback control loop means in accordance with a curved trajectory and in accordance with the time profile applicable to the current move segment; said trajectory program generating means including stored curve defining equations each having predetermined variable parameters operative to particularize that equation to a commanded curved path segment; said trajectory program generating means further having means for responding to parameters specified by the robot program and for implementing the stored equations corresponding to the specified parameters to generate said position commands and define a tool tip trajectory corresponding to the curved path defined by the robot program. 14. A robot as set forth in claim 13 wherein said equations include a polynomial equation having an order above one and the specified parameters include coefficients specified for the polynomial equation to fit it to the commanded curved path. 15. A robot as set forth in claim 14 wherein said equations include an arc equation and the specified parameters include at least two points on the commanded arc path to fit the arc equation to it. 16. A robot as set forth in claim 15 wherein said polynomial equation has an order above two. 17. A robot as set forth in claim 15 wherein a position/velocity microprocessor servo means is provided for operating the position/velocity control loops and for executing said planning and trajectory program means to generate said position commands for the position/velocity control loops. 