An apparatus for holding and transporting semiconductor material cassettes during processing of the semiconductor material. There is a tray having at least one cassette station thereon. This cassette station comprises a cassette supporting surface, a first pair of substantially parallel cassette guides on the supporting surface, and a second pair of substantially parallel cassette guides on the supporting surface located between and substantially at right angles to the first pair. The first and second pairs of parallel cassette guides form a generally rectangular boundary. A handle neck extends upwardly from the same side of the tray as the cassette guides. A handle crosspiece is connected to the handle neck and has a bearing surface oriented substantially parallel to the plane of the tray. A picker is also disclosed for engaging the handle neck and handle crosspiece, and can be used as the end effector of a robot arm that provides lifting power and transport motion.
Claims What is claimed as new and desired to be protected by Letters Patent is: 1. Apparatus for transporting semiconductor material cassettes during processing, comprising: (a) a tray having two wafer cassette stations thereon, said cassette station comprising: a cassette supporting surface; a first pair of substantially parallel cassette guides on said supporting surface; and, a second pair of substantially parallel cassette guides on said supporting surface located between and substantially at right angles to said first pair to form a generally rectangular boundary, said stations are approximately equal in size; b. a handle neck extending upwardly from the same side of the tray as the cassette guides and between said stations, and located in a plane that intersects and is perpendicular to said tray; c. a handle crosspiece connected to the handle neck and having a bearing surface oriented substantially parallel to the plane of said parallel wafer cassette guides and said tray and, d. picker means for engaging the handle neck and handle crosspiece, said picker means having a pair of substantially parallel fingers separated by a distance slightly larger than the width of said neck and said fingers having in them substantially parallel transverse grooves slightly wider than the width of said handle crosspiece; and, at least one fillet located between the handle neck and handle crosspiece, whereby when the fingers of the picker means straddle the handle neck and approach the handle crosspiece for engaging and lifting the apparatus, the fillet guides the picker means and the handle neck and handle crosspiece into the desired engagement relationship with each other. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said tray further comprises a third pair of parallel wafer cassette guides on said tray located parallel to and between one of said first and second pairs. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the parallel grooves of the fingers have sloped, parallel sides that slope outward and upward from the groove bottom surfaces, whereby when the fingers of the picker means straddle the handle neck and the grooves approach the handle crosspiece, the sloped parallel sides guide the picker means and the crosspiece into the desired engagement relationship with each other. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the supporting surface of each wafer cassette station is large enough to accommodate wafer cassettes of more than one standard size. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the tray has one or more openings therethrough for drainage of liquids introduced in processing the semiconductor material with liquids. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the handle neck is rigidly connected to the tray by means of buttresses at the connection point between the handle neck and the tray. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein each guide of one of said first or second pair of cassette guides is oriented parallel to the plane of the handle neck and its buttresses and the guide nearest to the handle neck and its buttresses is in spaced relation to the plane of the handle neck and its buttresses. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the cassette supporting surface is large enough to accommodate wafer cassettes of more than one standard size. 