A modular robotic remote manipulator is disclosed. The manipulator utilizes a base module, any number of generally identical but appropriately sized articulating modules, extender modules as may be needed, and an end effector module to accommodate the task assigned to the manipulator. The articulating modules are constructed to afford three different motions about three different axes which intersect at a common point lying between the input end and the output end of the module to effect a range of possible motion for the module output which defines an imaginary sphere. This module is also constructed to provide a separate rotary torque through the output coupling to the next module. The couplers for interconnecting the modules utilize toggle operated spool shaped locks. An end effector or gripper employs a rotating shaft and follower connected through a cable and pulley arrangement to operate the gripper jaws.
Claims Having thus described the invention, I claim: 1. A module for a remote manipulator and having a driven input end and a driving output end spaced from the input end, said module comprising: structure at the input end adapted to be operably coupled in driven relationship with said manipulator for rotating said structure about a first axis; a component pivotally carried by said structure for pivoting movement about a second axis intersecting with said first axis, said component being adapted to be operably coupled with said manipulator for pivoting the component; an ouptut element rotatably carried by the component for movement therewith and for rotation about a third axis, said element extending to the module output end; motor means carried by the module and operably coupled with the element for rotating the latter; said first, second and third axes all intersecting between the module input and output ends whereby to maximize the range of movement of the element which may be effected at the module output end within the spacing afforded between said module ends; and a second motor means secured to the element for rotation therewith, the output shaft of said second motor means being rotatable on said third axis to provide a rotary drive at the module output end concentric with but independently rotatable with respect to the rotation of said element, said rotary drive being adapted for coupling with another module for rotating the latter. 2. A module as set forth in claim 1, wherein the axis of pivoting movement of the component extends perpendicularly to the axis of rotation of said structure. 3. A module as set forth in claim 1, wherein said first, second and third axes all intersect at a common point. 4. A module as set forth in claim 1, wherein said rotary drive and said element rotate on a common axis, and wherein said common axis intersects said first and second axes of rotation at a common point. 5. Apparatus for interconnecting two adjacent structures for movement together as a unit, said apparatus including: a pair of annular members having mutually abutting peripheral margins, each member being secured to a corresponding one of said structures, each member having a shoulder on the edge thereof remote from the other member, said shoulder extending radially inwardly from the outer periphery of the member, the shoulders of each member being beveled to incline in the direction of the other member as the outer margins of the members are approached; a plurality of locking spools disposed in spaced apart relationship around the periphery of the members, each spool having a pair of spaced apart, enlarged annular ends interconnected by a section of reduced cross-sectional diameter to present generally U-shaped recesses between the enlarged spool ends, the inner surfaces of the spools being provided with bevels complemental to the bevels of the members and disposed to engage the shoulders of the members for locking the members together when the spools are moved to positions with the outer margins of the members extending into the recesses of the spools; and means operably coupled with said spools for moving the latter as a unit into and away from said member locking positions to permit selective intercoupling and separation of said structures. 6. Apparatus as set forth in claim 5, wherein said spool moving means includes an annular housing, a ring received in the housing for limited relative rotation with respect to the housing, toggle means mounting the spools to the ring, and means operably coupled with the toggle means and with the housing for operating the toggle means to move the spools into and out of their clamping positions as a unit responsive to relative rotation of the housing and the ring. 7. Apparatus as set forth in claim 6, wherein said ring includes a cam surface for each spool respectively, each cam surface being disposed to engage its corresponding spool to prevent the latter from moving away from locking engagement with the structures when the housing is rotated beyond the limits of said limited relative rotation with respect to the ring resulting in rotation of the ring with respect to said spools. 