A system for locating a feature of an object disposed in a frame includes a spot projector for projecting a spot in the general vicinity of the feature and an imaging device with a limited field of view. The spot projector is a precision device which projects the spot towards a preselected location on the frame. When the spot and the feature are in the field of view of the imaging device, the absolute location of the feature is determined from its selective distance to the spot. Provisions are also made for determining depth or relief information about the object.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of determining the position of a feature on an object disposed in a frame comprising the steps of: directing an imaging device with a field of vision towards the feature; projecting a relative reference light pattern into the field of vision, said reference light pattern being disposed at a known location with respect to a fixed reference; and measuring the distance between said relative reference light pattern and said feature as indicated by said imaging device. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising providing calibrating targets on said frame, for calibrating said reference light pattern. 3. A device for determining the position of a feature on an object comprising: a frame for holding the object; imaging means having a field of view; light pattern projecting means for projecting a pattern or spot to a known location on said field of view; and control means for directing said imaging means towards said field of view and simultaneously directing said light pattern projecting means to project said light pattern within said field of view; whereby the position of the feature with respect to the frame is determined by the position of the light pattern and the position of the feature relative to said light pattern. 4. The device of claim 3 wherein said imaging means comprises a video camera. 5. The device of claim 3 wherein said light pattern projecting means comprises a laser and means for directing the laser beam along two axes across the frame. 6. The device of claim 5 wherein the frame comprises a plurality of targets disposed at a preselected distance, and said control means is further provided to calibrate the laser by directing said laser beam to said targets. 7. The device of claim 6 wherein said targets comprise an array of photosensitive elements coupled to said control means said elements being activated by said light pattern when the laser beam is directed toward the corresponding target. 8. The device of claim 5 wherein said light pattern generating means comprises a second laser for generating a laser beam, and second means for directing said second laser beam toward said frame. 9. The device of claim 5 wherein said means for directing the laser beam comprises two mirrors for directing the beam in two orthogical directions. 10. The device of claim 5, wherein said means for directing the laser beam comprises one mirror mounted on two orthogonal axes for directing the beam in two orthogical directions. 