A pair of locating washers are applied over the holes in the bottom mounting lugs of the kinescope. The washers have apertures which are precisely referenced with respect to the position of the kinescope screen by using a pair of oppositely-disposed screen locating marks. The TV cabinet, on the other hand, is equipped with a pair of tapered guiding posts on the inside front surfaces thereof, which are similarly referenced relative to the rectangular opening of the cabinet. When the kinescope is loaded into the cabinet, the cabinet guiding posts are received into the kinescope-mounted locating washers to assure registration between the kinescope screen and the cabinet opening. The kinescope is fixedly secured to the cabinet by a plurality of screws.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for positioning a kinescope having a display screen; said display screen being provided with a pair of oppositely-disposed yoke alignment slots; said method comprising the steps of: illuminating said display screen to produce a raster thereon; optically detecting the respective locations of said oppositely-disposed yoke alignment slots of said lit-up screen to generate a position-indicative control signal representative of the position of said display screen with reference to a pair of mutually perpendicular directions respectively parallel to and perpendicular to an axis joining said oppositely-disposed yoke alignment slots; and providing said kinescope with a mechanical locating feature having a certain relationship with respect to said display screen in response to said control signal. 2. The method defined in claim 1 wherein said step of optically detecting said yoke alignment slots comprises locating said slots by means of a pair of optical sensors having their viewing fields respectively focussed on the regions surrounding the nominal positions of said slots. 3. The method defined in claim 1 for use with a television cabinet for housing said kinescope; said cabinet having an opening for exposing said display screen; said cabinet being further equipped with a mechanical locating feature bearing the same relationship with respect to said screen opening as said relationship of said kinescope locating feature with respect to said display screen; wherein said steps of generating said raster, optically detecting said yoke alignment slots and providing said kinescope with said mechanical locating feature are all performed prior to assembly of said kinescope to said cabinet. 4. The method defined in claim 3 further including the steps of: mating said kinescope with said cabinet in a manner causing engagement between said locating features to assure registration between said display screen and said cabinet opening; and fixedly attaching said kinescope to said cabinet while said locating features remain in engagement with each other. 5. The method defined in claim 4 wherein said cabinet locating feature is in the form of a pair of guiding posts disposed on the front inner walls of said cabinet and having said relationship with respect to said screen opening; wherein said step of providing said kinescope with said locating feature comprises the steps of: positioning a pair of apertured washers with respect to said kinescope in response to said control signal such that the apertures in said washers, dimensioned to snugly receive said guiding posts in said cabinet, bear said relationship relative to said kinescope screen; and affixing said apertured washers to said kinescope at the respective positions determined by said control signal so that when said kinescope is mated with said cabinet, said guiding posts in said cabinet closely fit into said apertures in said kinescope-mounted washers to center said display screen with respect to said cabinet opening. 6. The method defined in claim 5, wherein said cabinet guiding posts define a circular in cross-section; wherein one of said washers is provided with a circular aperture dimensioned to snugly receive the respective one of said guiding posts; wherein the other of said washers is provided with an oblong aperture having respective short and long dimensions that are slightly and substantially greater than the diameter of the other of said guiding posts; wherein said step of positioning said washers consists of: positioning said one washer having said circular aperture with respect to said kinescope along both of said mutually perpendicular directions in response to said control signal; positioning said other washer having said oblong aperture with respect to said kinescope such that the long dimension of said oblong aperture is substantially parallel to one of said mutually perpendicular directions; and further positioning said other washer with respect to said kinescope only along the other of said mutually-perpendicular directions in response to said control signal. 7. The method defined in claim 5 further including the step of providing said kinescope with a plurality of mounting brackets having holes through which fasteners are driven into said cabinet walls during said kinescope/cabinet assembly; wherein said mounting bracket holes are made substantially larger than said cabinet guiding posts; wherein said apertured washers are aligned and affixed over the respective ones of said mounting bracket holes, so that said apertures in said washers engage respective guiding posts to the exclusion of said mounting bracket holes to center said display screen with respect to said cabinet opening. 8. The method defined in claim 5 wherein said step of affixing said apertured washers to said kinescope comprises gluing said washers to said mounting brackets disposed on said kinescope. 9. The method defined in claim 5 wherein said step of affixing said apertured washers to said kinescope comprises welding said washers to said mounting brackets disposed on said kinescope. 10. The method defined in claim 5 wherein said step of affixing said washers to said kinescope comprises the steps of: feeding washers in a strip form from a pair of reels; severing the leading washers from the respective strips; transporting said severed washers to said respective positions relative to said kinescope; and attaching said washers to said kinescope at said respective positions. 11. The method defined in claim 5 for use with a non-plastic cabinet having an injection-molded plastic kinescope mounting frame provided with integrally-molded kinescope guiding posts. 12. The method defined in claim 5 for use with an injection-molded plastic cabinet having integrally-molded kinescope guiding posts. 13. In a kinescope provided with a display screen having a pair of oppositely-disposed yoke alignment slot marks (YAS marks); said kinescope further including a postioning device comprising: a locating feature; and means for fixedly securing said locating feature to said kinescope such that said locating feature is precisely located with respect to said YAS marks of said display screen. 14. The kinescope positioning device defined in claim 13 for use with a kinescope having a mounting lug disposed at each corner thereof; said mounting lugs having holes for kinescope mounting screws; said locating feature comprises a pair of washers disposed over said kinescope mounting holes such that the apertures in said washers are precisely positioned with respect to said YAS marks of said kinescope display screen. 15. The kinescope positioning device defined in claim 14 wherein said fixedly securing means comprises adhesive material disposed between said locating washers and the respective ones of said mounting lugs. 16. A method for positioning a kinescope having a display screen; said display screen being provided with a yoke alignment mark; said method comprising the steps of: optically detecting the location of said yoke alignment mark to generate a position-indicative control signal representative of the position of said display screen; and providing said kinescope with a mechanical locating feature having a certain relationship with respect to said display screen in response to said control signal. 17. In a kinescope provided with a display screen having a yoke alignment mark; said kinescope further including a positioning device comprising: a locating feature; and means for fixedly securing said locating feature to said kinescope such that said locating feature is precisely located with respect to said yoke alignment mark of said display screen. 