Apparatus to prevent the formation of welding material about the outlet end of a welding nozzle comprising valve units activated upon contact by engagement thereby of the welding nozzle, a pneumatic system connected with the valve units, and reciprocal hammer device proximate the valve units and fluid connected to the pneumatic system, the hammer device operable by the pneumatic system upon activation of the valve units to repeatedly strike the welding nozzle, thereby dislodging any material build-up thereon. The apparatus further includes a spraying unit connected with the valve units and pneumatic system to spray an anti-welding spatter compound toward and into the outlet of the welding nozzle.
Claims We claim: 1. Apparatus to prevent the formation of welding material about a welding nozzle outlet end comprising: a pneumatic system for supplying fluid under pressure; a first valve means fluidly connected within said pneumatic system; reciprocal hammer means operable in response to the application of fluid pressure thereto, said reciprocal hammer means fluidly connected with said first valve means for receiving fluid pressure upon activation of said first valve means; said first valve means activated upon contact by engagement therewith of the welding nozzle, whereby said hammer means is operable to repeatedly strike the welding nozzle thereby dislodging any material build-up thereon. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, and further wherein said first valve means includes a limit-operated valve engageable by the welding nozzle. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, and further wherein said pneumatic system includes a flow control valve operable to adjustably control the striking frequency of said hammer means. 4. The apparatus of claim 2, and further comprising spraying means connected in said pneumatic system, said spraying means comprising second valve means activated upon contact therewith of the welding nozzle, and comprising further a spray nozzle external the welding nozzle and fluid connected to said second valve means and operable in response to activation of said second valve means to spray an anti-spatter compound toward the outlet end of the welding nozzle; and further comprising a reservoir containing an anti-spatter compound fluid connected in said pneumatic system, and wherein said spray nozzle is a siphon-type fluid connected to simultaneously receive separate sources of air under pressure from said pneumatic system and from said reservoir, said reservoir air under pressure carrying the anti-welding spatter compound, a misting-type spray of air and anti-spatter compound thereby emanating under a predetermined pressure from said spray nozzle. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, and further with said pneumatic system including an air flow control device fluidly connected therein and adjustable to control the pressure with which the spray is delivered and a fluid flow control device fluidly connected in said pneumatic system and adjustable to control the amount of compound siphoned from said reservoir and contained within the spray. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, and further wherein a choke element is mounted on said spray nozzle to provide manual adjustment of the pattern of spray delivered. 