A robot arm with a vision system affixed thereto. A gripper acquires and object at an acquisition site and carries the object to a target site. During travel the position of the object is determined by the vision system viewing the object in two positions.
Claims Having described our invention what we now claim is: 1. A method of determining the location of an object in space said object having at least two identifiable features which includes: (a) holding the object in a first position; (b) recording a first image of the object by a vision system; (c) rotating the object by a predetermined angle about a known axis; (d) recording a second image of the object by the vision system, the vision system remaining fixed with reference to the rotation of the object from its first to its second position; (e) determining which feature in the first image corresponds to the same feature in the second image in the image plane; (f) calculating a vector, V.sub.p, which describes the location of a point in the image plane corresponding to the feature with respect to a known frame of a robot; which robot has a coordinate system; and (g) expressing said location as a tool transform. 2. The method of claim 1 which includes: determining the location of said feature with respect to the robot coordinate system after calculating the vector V.sub.p. 3. The method of claim 1 which includes: moving the object from an acquisition site to a target site while steps (a)-(g) are executed. 4. The method of claim 1 which includes: recording the images using binary processing after recording said first and second images. 5. The method of claim 1 which includes: establishing an inverse camera transform for a first camera; reading the inverse camera transform from a memory; and calculating the center of the vision system in reference to its recording the first image subsequent to calculating the vector V.sub.p. 6. The method of claim 5 which includes: calculating the forward transform of a second camera by manipulation of the appropriate transformation multiplier; calculating subsequently the center of the vision system in reference to its recording the second image; and determining the baseline vector V. 7. The method of claim 6 which includes: determining the length of a ray, a, to an object point from a first image plane; determining the length of a ray, b, to the object point from a second image plane; and determining subsequently V.sub.o the object point in space. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein the calculation of the vector V is effected with respect to a third frame of the robot. 9. A robot, having a robot coordinate system, for determining the location of an object in space, said object having at least two identifiable features which comprises: means to hold the object in a first position; means to record a first image of the object by a vision system; means to rotate the object by a predetermined angle about a known axis; means to record a second image of the object by the vision system, the vision system being fixed with reference to the rotation of the object from its first to its second position; means to determine which feature in the first image corresponds to the same feature in the secon dimage in the image plane; means to calculate a vector V.sub.p which describes the location of the point in the image plane corresponding to the feature; and means to express the feature as a tool transform. 10. The system of claim 9 which comprises: means to determine the location of the feature with reference to the robot coordinate system. 11. The system of claim 9 which comprises: means to move the object from an acquisition site to a target site while the object is held and rotated. 12. The system of claim 9 wherein the vision system comprises: a housing; a lens secured to the housing; a sensor secured to the housing in optical communication with the lens, the element adapted to produce a binary image. 