A counterbalance assembly for use with a rotatable arm in a robotic manipulator, wherein such arm is rotated about a rotation axis. The assembly further includes one or more compression springs for providing resistance to compressive forces, and converting apparatus for translating the rotational movement of the rotatable arm about the rotation axis into linear deflection of such compression spring, whereby resistance of the compression spring to linear deflection in either direction along its longitudinal axis establishes an effective counterbalancing force which reduces the load bearing on the arm drive regardless of the direction in which the rotatable arm is rotated.
Claims We claim: 1. A counterbalance assembly for use with a rotatable arm and the like in a robotic manipulator, wherein such arm is rotated about a rotation axis by a torque producing device or similar means, said assembly comprising: (a) compression spring means for providing resistance to compressive forces in response to linear deflection imposed thereon from either direction along a longitudinal axis of said compression spring means; and (b) converting means for translating rotational movement of a rotatable arm of said robotic manipulator about said rotation axis into linear deflection of said compression spring means, whereby resistance of said compression spring means to linear deflection from said converting means in either direction along said longitudinal axis establishes an effective counterbalancing force which reduces the load bearing on the torque producing device at the rotation axis regardless of the direction in which the rotatable arm is rotated. 2. The counterbalance assembly of claim 1, wherein said longitudinal axis of said compression spring means is oriented substantially parallel to the line along which said linear deflection is imposed thereon, said compression spring means capable of equally resisting such compressive forces from either end along its longitudinal axis. 3. The counterbalance assembly of claim 1, wherein said compression spring means provides resistance to compressive forces which is substantially proportional to linear deflection imposed thereon. 4. The counterbalance assembly of claim 2, said assembly further comprising centering means for constantly tending to automatically return the rotatable arm to its unrotated position. 5. The counterbalance assembly of claim 1, wherein said means for converting rotational movement of the rotatable arm into linear deflection further comprises a rack and pinion arrangement, said pinion interacting with said rack to translate rotation of said arm about said rotation axis into linear movement of said rack. 6. The counterbalance assembly of claims 3, 4, or 5, wherein said compression spring means further comprises one or more linear transfer links for transferring said linear deflection from said converting means to deflection means for imposing linear deflection on said compression spring means, said deflection means being capable of providing compressive forces to said compression spring means from either end along its longitudinal axis depending on the direction of said linear deflection parallel to said longitudinal axis. 7. The counterbalance assembly of claim 6, wherein said compression spring means comprises one or more compression springs. 8. The counterbalance assembly of claim 6, wherein the counterbalance force established by said assembly is substantially equal to the load bearing on the torque producing device at the rotation axis for any given position of said arm. 9. The counterbalance assembly of claim 1, wherein said compression spring means is preloaded such that the counterbalance force established by said assembly is normally greater than the load bearing on the torque producing device at the rotation axis for any given position of said arm. 10. A counterbalance assembly for use with a rotatable arm and the like in a robotic manipulator, wherein such arm is rotated about a rotation axis by a torque producing device or similar means, said assembly comprising: (a) compression spring means for providing resistance to compressive forces, said spring means having a longitudinal axis, and said resistance being substantially proportional to linear deflection of said spring means by said compressive forces from either direction along said longitudinal axis; and (b) converting means for translating rotational movement of the rotatable arm about its rotation axis into linear deflection of said compression spring means along said longitudinal axis, whereby resistance of said compression spring means to linear deflection in either direction along said longitudinal axis establishes an effective counterbalancing force which reduces the load bearing on the torque producing device at the rotation axis regardless of the direction in which the rotatable arm is rotated. 11. The counterbalance assembly of claim 10, said assembly further comprising centering means for constantly tending to automatically return the rotatable arm to its unrotated position. 12. The counterbalance assembly of claim 10, wherein said means for converting rotational movement of the rotatable arm into linear deflection further comprises a rack and pinion arrangement, said pinion interacting with said rack to translate rotation of said arm about said rotation axis into linear movement of said rack. 13. The counterbalance assembly of claims 11 or 12, wherein said compression spring means further comprises one or more linear transfer links which transfer said linear deflection from said converting means to deflection means for imposing linear deflection on said compression spring means, said deflection means being capable of providing compressive force to said compression spring means from either end along its longitudinal axis depending upon the direction of said linear deflection parallel to said longitudinal axis. 14. The counterbalance assembly of claim 13, wherein said compression spring means comprises one or more compression springs. 15. The counterbalance of claim 13, wherein the counterbalance force established by said assembly is substantially equal to the load bearing on the torque producing device at the rotation axis for any given position of said arm. 16. A counterbalance assembly for use with a rotatable arm and the like in a robotic manipulator, wherein such arm is rotated about a rotation axis by a torque producing device or similar means, said assembly comprising: (a) compression spring means for providing resistance to compressive forces, said spring means further comprising a plurality of compression springs having substantially parallel longitudinal axes, said compression springs providing said resistance to compressive forces, and said resistance being substantially proportional to linear deflection of such springs by said compressive forces from either direction along said longitudinal axes; (b) converting means for translating rotational movement of the rotatable arm about its rotation axis into linear movement, and (c) one or more linear transfer links which transfer said linear movement from said converting means to said compression springs, whereby said linear movement causes linear deflection of said springs along their longitudinal axes, and resistance of said springs to linear deflection from either direction along said longitudinal axes establishes an effective counterbalancing force which reduces the load bearing on the torque producing device at the rotation axis regardless of the direction in which the rotatable arm is rotated. 17. The counterbalance assembly of claim 16, wherein said linear transfer link further comprises a pair of spaced distribution plates which are located at opposite ends of said springs and reciprocated in a direction substantially parallel to the longitudinal axes of said compression springs, and wherein said distribution plates impose compressive force on said compression springs by means of a pair of spaced compression plates, one of said compression plates corresponding to each of said spaced distribution plates, whereby said plates are designed for alternate engagement by its corresponding distribution plate during reciprocation. 