A speaker having a slotted flange is attached by a robot to printed circuit board mounting posts. The posts are slotted and dimensioned so the post slots are slid into engagement with the flange slots in interlocking arrangement. The posts and flange are dimensioned so that a robot hand can slide the flange between the posts in interference fit such that the relatively rigid posts are torqued apart flexing the board. When the flange and post slots engage, the board flex forces snap the posts and flange in locked engagement.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A construction for attaching a component to a substrate, said component including a component mounting support having a first dimension between spaced mounting portions, said construction comprising: a sheet material substrate; and a plurality of spaced relatively rigid component support members secured to the substrate, said members including lock means spaced and adapted to receive, engage and secure said component support mounting portions in interlocking engagement, said lock means having a second dimension different then the first dimension tending to interfere with the securing of the component to the support members, said substrate being sufficiently flexible such that it tends to displace in response to flexing an amount and in a direction sufficient to substantially alleviate said interference to permit said lock means to engage said component support mounting portions at said first dimension, said component being interlocked with said members upon said substrate returning to said given state after said engagement. 2. The construction of claim 1 wherein said substrate is a printed circuit board. 3. The construction of claim 1 wherein said support members comprise a plurality of stanchions spaced said second dimension, each stanchion lock means including a slot for securing one of said mounting portions, at least two of said stanchions forming a component receiving pair. 4. The construction of claim 1 wherein said support members comprise two spaced mating pairs, each pair having a slot for engaging said component mounting support, said slot of each pair being oriented to mate with said mounting support in the same directions. 5. The construction of claim 4 wherein one support member of each pair are precluded from rotating by a connecting rib which stiffens said sheet material between said one support member. 6. A snap-in construction for securing a component to a substrate, said component having a first dimension, said construction comprising: a sheet substrate tending to return to a given state when bent from that state; and a pair of rigid spaced members secured to the substrate, each member including a slot having a base wall and a rim wall, at least one of the rim walls of the each of the members facing each other in spaced relation a second dimension smaller than said first dimension, said substrate being sufficiently flexible so that said rim walls can be resiliently spaced apart a distance at least as great as said first dimension for slideably receiving said component at said first dimension therebetween until said said component at said first dimension engages said slots at which time said members tend to snap together and permit the substrate to return substantially to said given state thereby locking said component in said slots. 7. The construction of claim 6 wherein said members each comprise a base portion tapering toward an annular shoulder for receiving said component and a central cylindrical portion upstanding from said shoulder forming said at least one rim wall and adapted to receive a component locking nut. 8. The construction of claim 6 wherein said members include at least two pairs of spaced members, each pair including a slot, the slots of each pair cooperating to secure the component therebetween. 9. The construction of claim 8 wherein one member of each pair are secured to one another by a connecting rib 10. The construction of claim 6 wherein said substrate is adapted to receive a second component, said second component including a projection dimensioned to mate with one of said members and including means adapted to be secured so that the second component is between said first mentioned component and that one member. 11. A printed circuit board component securing structure, said component including a plurality of locking portions in fixed spaced relation, said structure comprising: a resilient printed circuit board that tends to return to the flat state when bent from that state; and a set of substantially rigid posts upstanding from the board in spaced relation, said posts each including a component receiving and locking slot, each slot adapted to receive and mate with a locking portion, said posts being arranged to lock said component thereto in post pairs, each post of a pair cooperating with the other post of that pair to lock the board thereto, the slots of each pair facing each other, said slots having a rim portion and a base portion, said rim portions of said facing slot pair being spaced a distance smaller than the spacing of said component locking portions mating with that slot pair, said board being sufficiently flexible so that said component locking portions tend to flex said board an amount sufficient for said locking portions to engage said facing mating slots. 12. A printed circuit board assembly comprising: a component having a flange, said flange including a plurality of aligned spaced slots in a first set; a planar printed circuit board substrate; and a plurality of upstanding posts secured in spaced relation to the substrate, said posts each having a tapered end portion distal said substrate and tapering to a narrower region away from the substrate, each post having a slot therein such that the slots thereof are aligned in a second set adapted to mate with the first set of said component slots, the end portions being dimensioned such that translation of the component toward the substrate with the first and second slot sets aligned tends to flex the substrate-post assembly until the second set of slots engage the first set and lock the flange thereto. 13. The assembly of claim 12 wherein said posts each have a shoulder, said shoulder being spaced from the slot of its post such that said flange abuts the shoulder when the first and second sets of slots engage. 14. The assembly of claim 12 wherein a first plurality of the posts each have a shoulder forming a side wall of the slot of that post, at least one other post having a shoulder spaced from the slot of its post, said assembly further including at least one component member secured to said at least one other post between the flange and shoulder of that at least one other post. 