A method and apparatus is disclosed for setting up fixed and robotic systems by using a robot programmed by design data for a part of structure to simulate a master of same. Envisioned primarily for use in auto body fabrication processes, the invention is generally useable with smaller parts and assemblies. It is considered vitally useful for programmable assembly of bodies or other larger objects where a variety of styles or other considerations virtually preclude effective master parts. The invention sequentially creates, point by point, a master in space, using programmable placement of master surfaces, target points, or cameras capable of evaluating location of assembly robots and other items, generally from target points thereon.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for accurately positioning an object movably mounted on a base relative to a predetermined point in space adjacent the base, comprising the steps of: providing a surface on an end of a multiple degree of freedom robot, which robot end is highly accurately positionable; locating the robot adjacent the base at a position known relative to the base; actuating the robot to move the end so that the surface is moved to the predetermined point in space; determining the position of the object relative to the surface; and moving the object as needed to bring the object into the desired accurate position relative to the surface. 2. A method for positioning an object as claimed in claim 1 wherein the object is a TV camera having a line of sight and wherein the moving step includes the step of aligning the line of sight of the TV camera directly toward the surface. 3. A method for positioning an object as claimed in claim 1 wherein the object is a TV camera and wherein the moving step includes the step of changing the location of the object relative to the base. 4. A method for positioning an object as claimed in claim 1 wherein the object is a TV camera; wherein the providing step includes the locating of targets on the surface; and wherein the determining step includes the step of imaging the targets with the TV camera. 5. A method for positioning an object as claimed in claim 1 wherein the robot is programmable to move the surface to a desired position, and wherein the actuating step includes the programming of the robot to move the surface to the predetermined point. 6. A method for positioning an object as claimed in claim 1 wherein the providing step includes the step of contouring the surface to resemble a surface of a test part at the location of the point in space. 7. A method for positioning an object as claimed in claim 6 wherein the robot is provided with a plurality of differently contoured surfaces which are indexable to the end of the robot, and wherein the providing step further includes the indexing of a desired one of the differently contoured surfaces to the end. 8. A method for positioning an object as claimed in claim 1 wherein there are a plurality of objects on the base to be positioned relative to a plurality of predetermined points in space, which points in space represent different locations on a test part; and further including the step of repeating the steps of actuation, determining and moving for each of the objects to be positioned. 9. A method for positioning an object as claimed in claim 1 wherein the robot is located on a conveyance mechanism and the base is located at a station along the conveyance mechanism; and wherein the locating step includes the conveying of the robot along the conveyance mechanism to the station. 10. A method for positioning an object as claimed in claim 9 wherein other bases and associated objects are provided at different stations; and further including the steps of sequentially moving the robot to different stations and then repeating the actuating, determining and moving steps as needed for each object. 11. A method for positioning an object as claimed in claim 1 wherein the object is movably mounted to the base by use of a positionable arm of a second robot to which arm the object is attached, and wherein the moving step includes the step of actuating the second robot to move the object. 12. A method for accurately determining the position of an object mounted to a base relative to a predetermined point in space adjacent the base, comprising the steps of: providing a surface on an end of a multiple degree of freedom robot, which robot end is highly accurately positionable; locating the robot adjacent the base at a position known relative to the base; actuating the robot to move the end so that the surface is moved to the predetermined point in space; determining the position of the object relative to the surface; and calibrating the position of the object based upon the determined position of the object relative to the surface. 13. A method for determining the position of an object as claimed in claim 12 wherein the object is a TV camera; wherein the providing step includes the locating of targets on the surface; and wherein the determining step includes the step of imaging the targets with the TV camera. 14. A method for determining the position of an object as claimed in claim 12 wherein the robot is programmable to move the surface to a desired position, and wherein the actuating step includes the programming of the robot to move the surface to the predetermined point. 15. A method for determining the position of an object as claimed in claim 12 wherein the providing step includes the step of contouring the surface to resemble a surface portion of a part which is to be brought to the location of the point in space. 16. A method for determining the position of an object as claimed in claim 15 wherein the robot is provided with a plurality of differently contoured surfaces which are indexable to the end of the robot, and wherein the providing step further includes the indexing of a desired one of the differently contoured surfaces to the end. 17. A method for determining the position of an object as claimed in claim 12 wherein there are a plurality of objects on the base to be calibrated relative to a plurality of predetermined points in space, which points in space represent different locations on a part; and further including the step of repeating the steps of actuation, determining, and calibrating for each of the objects to be calibrated. 18. A method for determining the position of an object as claimed in claim 12 wherein the robot is located on a conveyance mechanism and the base is located at a station along the conveyance mechanism; and wherein the locatng step includes the conveying of the robot along the conveyance mechanism to the station. 19. A method for determining the position of an object as claimed in claim 18 wherein other bases and associated objects are provided at different stations; and further including the steps of sequentially calibrating the robot to different stations and then repeatng the actuating, determining and calibrating steps as needed for each object. 20. A method for creating a test surface for use in operatively associating a plurality of work elements such as sensors, manipulators and working tools provided at a work station with an article to be worked on at the station, comprising the steps of: providing a surface on an end of a multiple degree of freedom robot, which robot end is highly accurately positionable; locating the robot adjacent to the work station; actuating the robot to move the end so that the surface is moved to a predetermined point in space which corresponds to the position to be occupied by a particular surface portion of the article; determining the position of the surface relative to the work element operatively associated with the surface portion of the article; operatively assocating the work element with the surface such that the work element is consequently accurately operatively associated with the surface portion of the article to be worked on; and repeatign the actuating step, determining step, and associating step at the work station for each work element and corressponding surface portion of the article whereby a test surface of relevant points is sequentially created. 21. A method for creating a test surface as claimed in claim 20 wherein the robot is programmable to move the surface to the desired positions, wherein a CAD database contains the relevant positions of the surface portions of the article, and wherein the actuating step includes the programming of the robot to move the surface to the desired positions using the information contained in the CAD database. 22. A method for creating a test surface as claimed in claim 20 wherein the robot is provided with a plurality of differently contoured surfaces which are indexable to the end of the robot, and wherein the providing step further includes the indexing of a desired one of the differently contoured surfaces to the end. 23. A method for creating a test surface as claimed in claim 20 wherein the robot is located on a conveyance mechanism and wherein the locating step includes the conveying of the robot along the conveying mechanism to the station. 24. A method for accurately determining the position of an object mounted to a base relative to a predetermined point in space adjacent the base, comprising the steps of: providing targets on the object; providing a target sensor on an end of a multiple degree of freedom robot, which robot end is highly accurately positionable; locating the robot adjacent the base at a position known relative to the base; actuating the robot to move the end so that the sensor is moved to the predetermined point in space; imaging the targets with the sensor; and determining the position of the targets with the sensed image and hence the position of the object relative to the sensor. 25. A method for determining the position of an object as claimed in claim 24 wherein the robot is programmable to move the sensor to a desired position, and wherein the actuating step includes the programming of the robot to move the sensor to the predetermined point. 