An improved joint for connecting an end effector to a robotic arm is described. The joint includes a spring for supporting the weight of the end effector, a plurality of ball and socket locating members, and a plurality of ball plungers. The ball plungers are located adjacent a platform connected to the robotic arm to effect a snap-like trip point when struck.
Claims I claim: 1. A mechanical joint comprising: a cylindrical member having a cylindrical sidewall and upper and lower walls which define a chamber therein; A platform moveable and rotatable within said chamber, said platform defining at least one socket on an upper surface thereof; ball means attached to the upper wall and extending into said chamber for engaging said socket; resilient means connected between said cylindrical member and said platform for urging said platform away from said upper wall; and a plurality of ball plungers extending through the sidewall of said cylindrical member for retaining said platform member within said cylindrical member. 2. The joint as set forth in claim 1 wherein said platform comprises a plurality of sockets on the upper surface thereof and wherein said ball means engages said plurality of sockets. 3. The joint as set forth in claim 2 wherein said ball means are located in respective ones of said sockets when said platform is located at a predetermined position within said chamber. 4. The joint as set forth in claim 3 and further comprising: optical means for detecting the position of said platform member within said chamber. 5. The joint as set forth in claim 4 wherein said optical means comprises an optical emitter and an optical detector defining an optical path therebetween, and said platform contains a feature aligned with siad optical path in said predetermined position. 6. The joint as set forth in claim 1 and further comprising: first means for attaching said cylindrical member to an article; and second means for attaching said platform to a support. 7. The joint as set forth in claim 6 wherein said upper wall has a central aperture through which said second means extends. 