A walking beam conveyor (54) delivers drill bits (B), one at a time, into a feed position. A pushrod (52) moves a drill bit (B) from the feed position into the nosepiece (36) of a robot arm (28). The drill bit (B) enters the nosepiece (36) shank end first. The shank (84) enters into and is gripped by a collet (38) in the nosepiece (36). A stylus (66) is then lowered down onto the point end portion of the drill bit (B) and the drill bit (B) is rotated about its axis until the stylus (66) drops down to the bottom of the drill bit flute (70). Rotation is immediately stopped and the robot arm (28) is retracted and swung into a position of alignment with a drill bit holder (18) of a sharpening machine. The robot arm (28) is then extended to place the drill bit (B) into a collet (C) in the holder (18). The collet (C) is operated to grasp the drill bit (B) and the collet (38) in the nosepiece (36) is operated to release the drill bit (B). The holder (18) then moves in position to in turn move the point of the drill bit (B) into contact with a surface of a rotating grinding wheel (14). The drill bit (B) was rotated while in the nosepiece (36) to in that manner orient the point surfaces of the drill bit for proper contact with the grinding wheel (14). Oversized and undersized drill bits (B), and drill bits (B) with excessive material buildup, are detected and rejected.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of sharpening the point of a drill bit, comprising: providing a drill bit sharpener of a type which includes a grinding wheel and a drill bit holder which serves to position the drill bit against the grinding wheel during grinding; providing a drill bit carrier which is swingable in position between a drill bit receiving position and a drill bit inserting position; providing said drill bit carrier with a carrier collet for receiving the shank end of a drill bit; positioning the carrier in a drill bit receiving position; inserting a drill bit into the carrier collet, shank end first; closing the carrier collet to securely grip the drill bit; swinging the carrier from its drill bit receiving position into its drill bit inserting position, said drill bit being aligned with the drill bit holder of the drill bit sharpener when the carrier collet is in its drill bit inserting position; moving the carrier collet and the drill bit endwise an amount sufficient to insert the drill bit into the drill bit holder; operating the drill bit holder to grip the drill bit; opening the carrier collet to release the drill bit from the carrier; moving the carrier away from the drill bit and back into its drill bit receiving position, for receiving another drill bit; and operating the drill bit sharpener to sharpen the drill bit that is in the drill bit holder of the drill bit sharpener. 2. A method according to claim 1, further comprising rotating the carrier collet when the drill bit is in said carrier collet, an amount sufficient to position the point of the drill bit for proper contact with the grinding wheel, prior to insertion of the drill bit into the drill bit holder of the drill bit sharpener. 3. A method according to claim 1, comprising inspecting the drill bit while it is in the carrier collet for excessive buildup of material in the flutes of the drill bit, and in response to the presence of an excessive build-up of material, moving the carrier and drill bit vertically upwardly, prior to swinging the carrier from its drill bit receiving position into its drill bit inserting position, positioning a gripper in a position to receive the drill bit when the drill bit carrier and drill bit are raised, operating the gripper to grasp the drill bit after the carrier and drill bit have been raised, opening the carrier collet to release the drill bit from the carrier collet, moving the drill bit carrier and the carrier collet away from the drill bit, opening the gripper to release the drill bit, and moving the carrier and carrier collet back into the drill bit receiving position, for receiving another drill bit. 4. A method according to claim 1, comprising inspecting a drill bit for an oversized condition at the time that the drill bit is being inserted into the drill bit holder of the drill bit sharpener, and in response to the presence of an oversized drill bit, retaining the drill bit in the carrier collet, so that it moves with the carrier when the carrier is moved back to its drill bit receiving position, and removing the oversized drill bit from the carrier collet. 5. A method according to claim 4, comprising locating a reject gripper above a position occupied by a drill bit in the carrier collet, when the drill bit carrier is in its drill bit receiving position, and removing the oversized drill bit from such carrier collet by first moving the carrier, the carrier collet and the oversized drill bit back into the drill bit receiving position, then raising the carrier to position the drill bit in the reject gripper, operating the reject gripper to grasp the drill bit, opening the carrier collet, for releasing its hold on the drill bit, moving said carrier collet away from the drill bit, opening the reject gripper, to discharge the oversized drill bit, and then positioning the carrier collet to receive another drill bit. 6. A method according to claim 1, comprising inspecting a drill bit for an undersized condition at the time that the drill bit is being inserted into the drill bit holder of the drill bit sharpener, and in response to the presence of an undersized drill bit, retaining the drill bit in the carrier collet, so that it moves with the carrier when the carrier is moved back to its drill bit receiving position, and removing the undersized drill bit from the carrier collet. 7. A method according to claim 6, comprising locating a reject gripper above a position occupied by a drill bit in the carrier collet, when the drill bit carrier is in its drill bit receiving position, and removing the undersized drill bit from such carrier collet by first moving the carrier, the collet and the undersized drill bit back into the drill bit receiving position, then raising the carrier to position the drill bit in the reject gripper, operating the reject gripper to grab onto the drill bit, opening the carrier collet, for releasing its hold on the drill bit, and moving such carrier collet away from the drill bit, opening the reject gripper, to discharge the undersized drill bit, and then positioning the carrier collet to receive another drill bit. 8. A method according to claim 1, comprising using a carrier collet which is of such a size that it frictionally engages the shank of a drill bit when the carrier collet is opened, and providing the drill bit holder with a normally open holder collet having a drill bit receiving opening and means for squeezing the holder collet to reduce the size of the opening, said holder collet having a fixed minimum size position, and using such holder collet to inspect a drill bit for an undersized condition at the time that the drill bit is being inserted into the opening of such holder collet, by squeezing the holder collet to reduce the size of its center opening, and wherein a drill bit is undersized if it has not been firmly grasped by the holder collet when or before when the center opening reaches its minimum size, and in response to the presence of such undersized drill bit, retaining the drill bit in the carrier collet, by use of the frictional fit of the drill bit in the carrier collet, and moving the carrier back to the drill bit receiving position, and removing the undersized drill bit from the carrier collet. 9. A method according to claim 8, comprising locating a sensor in the path of movement of an undersized drill bit in the carrier collet when the carrier is moving from the drill bit inserting position to its drill bit receiving position, and using such sensor to sense the presence of the undersized drill bit is in the carrier collet, and in response to the presence of an undersized drill bit in the carrier collet, activating a reject cycle in which the undersized drill bit is placed into a gripper, the gripper is tightened about the drill bit, and the carrier is retracted away from the drill bit. 10. A method according to claim 1, comprising using a drill bit holder which includes a holder bushing having a drill bit receiving opening which is normally slightly larger in diameter than a particular size of drill bit that is being sharpened, using the bushing to prevent a complete entry into the drill bit holder of any drill bit that is larger in diameter than the opening in the bushing, and in response to the drill bit not being accepted by the bushing, moving the carrier and the oversized drill bit back to the drill bit receiving position carrier, and removing the oversized drill bit from the carrier collet. 11. A method according to claim 10, comprising furnishing a sensor for determining a predetermined fully extended position of the drill bit carrier when a drill bit carried thereby has been received by the drill bit bushing of the drill bit holder, and in response to a failure of the carrier to reach its fully extended position within a predetermined amount of time following extension of the drill bit carrier, causing the carrier to be retracted and moved back to its drill bit receiving position, and further causing the removal of the drill bit from the carrier collet. 