An article manipulator for use with an industrial robot includes an upper frame adapted for fastening to the industrial robot and a lower frame coupled to the upper frame. A pair of lifting members operable for lifting an article are connected to the lower frame. At least one vacuum cup is coupled to the frame and is restrained to move in a plane substantially parallel to the lifting members. Sensing mechanisms are provided for sensing the position of an article relative to the manipulator and for generating electrical signals which are utilized by a controller to enable the vacuum cups to grip the article at one side and move the article onto the lifting members. Subsequently, the manipulator transfers the articles to a second position. The manipulator is suited for depalletizing and/or palletizing parallelepiped shape articles.
Claims Having described our invention, what we claim and desire to secure as Letters Patent is as follows: 1. A pneumatic article manipulating device for use with a robot to unload single boxes from a stack of boxes comprising: a frame operable for coupling said device to the robot; a lifting means fixedly connected to said frame and operable for supporting an article thereon; a linear actuator fixedly mounted on the lifting means, said linear actuator including an air cylinder means driving an elongated piston constrained to move in a linear path; a vacuum gripping means fixedly coupled to said piston; said gripping means moving in a linear path substantially parallel to the lifting means to grip the article on one of its sides and placing said article on the lifting means and to maintain the stability of the article as it is transported by the manipulating device. 2. The article manipulating device of claim 1 further including control means coupled to the frame and operable for sensing the position of the device relative to the article and for providing electrical signals for enabling operation of said device. 3. The article manipulating device of claim 1 wherein the frame includes a top section, an adjustable mounting plate being coupled to the top section; a lower section and adjustable means for mounting the lower section to the top section. 4. The article manipulating device of claim 3 further including optical sensor means operable for sensing relative motion between the frame sections and to output an electrical signal representative of said motion. 5. The article manipulating device of claim 1 wherein the lifting means includes a pair of spaced elongated flat members and a flat cross member interconnecting the extremities of the elongated flat members thereby forming a unified structure. 6. The article manipulating device of claim 5 wherein the non-interconnecting extremities of the flat elongated members are being beveled. 7. The article manipulating device of claim 6 further including hinged means, one of each being fabricated in one of the spaced elongated flat members. 8. The article manipulating device of claim 1 wherein the gripping means includes; a vacuum gripping mechanism mounted on one extremity of said piston; a vacuum/air supply means operable for providing negative pressure to the gripping mechanism and for providing appropriate air flow to the air cylinder means; and means for coupling said vacuum/air supply means to the lifting means. 9. The article manipulating device of claim 8 wherein the gripping mechanism includes a vacuum manifold; a conveying means for supplying negative pressure to the manifold; and at least one suction cup coupled to said manifold. 10. The article manipulating device of claim 8 wherein the vacuum/air supply means includes a vacuum generator; an air supply means and control means operable for controlling air flow from the air supply into the vacuum generator. 11. The article manipulating device of claim 2 wherein the control means includes a first sensing device adapted for sensing the presence of articles along a horizontal plane and a second sensing device adapted for sensing the presence of an article along a vertical plane. 12. A pneumatic article handling apparatus for use with a robot comprising: a mounting plate for coupling the handling apparatus to the robot; a frame having spaced members connected to said plate; a lifting mechanism fixedly connected to the frame; and means for separating an article from a stack fixedly mounted on the lifting mechanism; said means including an air cylinder positioning an elongated piston and a vacuum picking device fixedly connected to the piston and being constrained to move in a linear path substantially parallel to the lifting mechanism to pick and place the article on said lifting mechanism and to maintain the stability of said article as it is transported from one place to another. 13. The article handling apparatus of claim 12 further including a first sensing means mounted on the frame and operable for sensing the article in a vertical plane; and a second sensing means mounted on the frame and operable for sensing the article in a horizontal plane. 14. A manipulating device for use with a robot for unloading single parallelepiped articles from pallets carrying a stack of said articles onto a conveyor system of an automated manufacturing assembly line and to remove said articles from the assembly line onto pallets comprising: a frame for connecting the device to the robot; a lifting means fixedly connected to the frame, said lifting means being operable for contacting and supporting the article on one of its sides; a linear actuator fixedly mounted on the lifting means and including an air cylinder means for positioning an elongated piston constrained to reciprocate along a linear path; a vacuum gripping means fixedly coupled to one end of the piston said vacuum gripping means being mounted and constrained to reciprocate in spaced and parallel relationship to the lifting means to grip the article on another side and to maintain the stability as it is transported by the manipulating device. 15. An article manipulating device for use with a robot comprising: a frame operable for coupling said device to the robot; a lifting means fixedly connected to the frame and operable for supporting an article thereon; a linear positioning means including an air cylinder and an elongated member fixedly mounted on the frame with the air cylinder operable for reciprocating said elongated member in a linear trajectory substantially parallel to the lifting means; and a vacuum gripping means fixedly coupled to said, elongated member and in spaced relationship to the lifting means, said gripping means being operable to contact the article on one side and placing said article on the lifting means and to maintain the stability of the article as it is transported by the manipulating device. 