A new robotic system is provided in which the robotic tool is mounted for movement on a gantry above the work piece upon which the work is to be performed. The tool is supported on two carriages each of which is movable with respect to each other and with respect to the gantry so that the tool has the capacity to move through five degrees of freedom and permit a more accurate response to a sensing system which determines the position of the work piece relative to a master and then moves the tool to a working position in substantial operational compliance with the master position.
Claims What is claimed: 1. For use in a robotic assembly system, means for moving a tool mount through five axes, said means comprising: first motor means operably connected to said tool mount for rotating said mount about a first axis; second motor means operably connected to said tool mount for rotating said mount about a second axis normal to said first axis; third motor means for moving said tool mount along a third axis normal to said first axis; a first movable carriage on which said first, and said second motor means and said tool mount are carried; a second movable carriage, said first carriage being carried on said second carriage and movable relative thereto; means for moving said first carriage relative to said second carriage along a fourth axis inclined to said first axis; second carriage motor means operably connected to said second carriage for moving said second carriage along a fifth axis, said fifth axis being inclined to said first and said fourth axes; said first motor means being connected in driving relation with a first shaft, gear means connecting said first shaft to said tool mount, to drive said tool mount about an axis inclined to said first shaft; said second motor means being connected in driving relation with an elongate cylindrical member having a main axis, and surrounding said first shaft and connected in supporting relation with said tool mount, to rotate said tool mount about said cylindrical member main axis. 2. Means for moving a tool mount as claimed in claim 1 wherein said means for moving said first carriage relative to said second carriage comprises a fourth motor means mounted on said first carriage, said motor means being operatively connected to a ball screw drive extending parallel to said third axis. 3. Means for moving a tool mount as claimed in claim 1 wherein said first and second motor means are mounted on a moveable platform carriage by said first carriage and said third motor means is mounted on said first carriage, and ball screw drive means operably connecting said third motor means and said moveable platform to move said platform in response to actuation of said third motor means. 4. Means for moving a tool as claimed in claim 1 wherein said second movable carriage has a pair of opposite ends and is mounted on an elevated frame above a work piece upon which work is to be performed. 5. Means for moving a tool mount as claimed in claim 4 wherein said elevated frame includes a pair of rigid parallel members, a pair of ball screws mounted one one each of said parallel members, a pair of motor means one adjacent each end of said second movable carriage, and a pair of ball nuts being operable connected between an adjacent one of said motor means and said ball screws to move said second carriage along said screws in response to actuation of said motor means. 6. Means for moving a tool mount as claimed in claim 1 wherein said second movable carriage carries at least one of said first movable carriages. 7. Means for moving a tool mount as claimed in claim 1 wherein said second movable carriage carries a plurality of said first movable carriages each of said first movable carriages being movably independent of each of said remaining first movable carriages. 8. Means for moving a tool mount as claimed in claim 1 wherein said first movable carriage is movable vertically relative to said second carriage, said elongate cylidnrical member being rotatably supported by said first carriage for rotation about said main axis. 9. Means for moving a tool mount as claimed in claim 8 said third motor means being connected by a ball nut and screw to said first movable carriage, in vertical positioning relation therewith. 10. Means for moving a tool mount as claimed in claim 1, said gear means connecting said first shaft to said tool mount being supported at the end of said elongate cylindrical member and comprising a worm gear, connected in driven relation with said first shaft to drive said tool mount about an axis extending normally to said first shaft. 