An arrangement for aligning a first object relative to a second object, in which a light pattern is projected from the first object onto the second object. An image of the pattern on the second object is recorded with a camera mounted on the first object. From the camera image it is possible to determine the relative position and orientation of the second object relative to the first object. In an alternate arrangement, a first light pattern is projected from the first object onto the second object, and a second light pattern is projected from the first object onto the second object, so that the second patten and the first pattern form a uniquely identifiable overlap pattern when the second object is in predetermined alignment with respect to the first object. From a camera image which has recorded the overlapping patterns, the position and orientation of the second object may be determined relative to the first object.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for aligning a first object relative to a second object comprising the steps of: projecting a non-planar light pattern from said first object onto said second object; recording an image of said pattern on said second object with a camera mounted on said first object; and determining from said camera image the position and orientation of said second object relative to said first object. 2. A method for aligning a first object relative to a second object comprising the steps of: projecting a first light pattern from said first object onto said second object; projecting a second light pattern from said first object onto said second object such that said second pattern and said first pattern form a uniquely identifiable overlap pattern when said second object is in predetermined alignment with respect to said first object; recording an image of said overlapping patterns with a camera; and determining from said camera image the position and orientation of said second object relative to said first object. 3. Apparatus for aligning a first object relative to a second object comprising: means for projecting a non-planar light pattern from said first object onto said second object; a camera mounted on said first object; means for recording an image of said pattern on said second object with said camera mounted on said first object; and means for determining from said camera image the position and orientation of said second object relative to said first object. 4. Apparatus for aligning a first object relative to a second object comprising: means for projecting a first light pattern from said first object onto said second object; means for projecting a second light pattern from said first object onto said second object such that said second pattern and said first pattern form a uniquely identifiable overlap pattern when said second object is in predetermined alignment with respect to said first object; a camera; means for recording an image of said overlapping patterns with said camera; and means for determining from said camera image the position and orientation of said second object relative to said first object. 5. A method for aligning a first object relative to a second object comprising the steps of: projecting a non-planar light pattern from said first object onto said second object; recording a first image of said pattern on said second object with a first camera mounted on said first object; recording a second image of said pattern on said second object with a second camera mounted on said first object; and determining from the comparison of said first and second images the position and orientation corrections required to align said first object relative to said second object at a predetermined distance and orientation. 6. Apparatus for aligning a first object relative to a second object comprising: means for projecting a non-planar light pattern from said first object onto said second object; means for recording a first image of said pattern on said second object with a first camera mounted on said first object; means for recording a second image of said pattern on said second object with a second camera mounted on said first object; and means for determining from the comparison of said first and second images the position and orientation corrections required to align said first object relative to said second object at a predetermined distance and orientation. 