An automated assembly facility includes a random storage facility for each assembly line conveyor and associated series of assembly stations. The assembly line conveyor is located between the random storage facility and the series of assembly stations. A first conveyor is coupled between plural sources of carriers and the random storage facility. The random storage facility is coupled to the assembly stations by a transfer conveyor so that carriers can be transferred directly from random storage to an appropriate assembly station, obviating the need for the assembly line conveyor to cooperate in this transfer. The layout leaves the assembly station accessible from three sides. Efficient space use is achieved by providing one access aisle for each pair of assembly lines; random storage facilities of two lines are directly adjacent each other.
Claims Having thus described our invention, what we claim as new, and desire to secure by Letters Patent is: 1. A facility for automated assembly of a product comprising: a random storage facility having a plurality of individual storage locations and a plurality of ready locations, said ready locations being spatially separated along a line; assembly line conveyor means, including an assembly line conveyor, for transporting pallets and parts carriers in a single direction, said assembly line conveyor being positioned adjacent to said random storage facility and extending along said line of ready locations; first conveyor means for receiving parts carriers and transporting parts carriers to said random storage facility and for delivering assembled products, received from said assembly line conveyor, to a packaging and shipping area; a plurality of assembly stations positioned along said assembly line conveyor opposite to said storage facility, said assembly stations having a parts carrier receiving area for receiving parts carriers from said ready locations of said random storage facility, said assembly stations further having a work area for performing an assembly operation on work-in-process, said work-in-process comprised of said pallet and a partially assembled product; a plurality of work-in-process receiving areas for receiving said work-in-process, each of said work-in-process receiving areas associated with an assembly station and comprising one of said ready locations of said random storage facility; trnasporting means associated with said random storage facility for moving said parts carriers from said first conveyor means into one of said individual storage locations and for moving said parts carriers from one of said individual storage locations to one of said ready locations; and a plurality of transfer means, each of said transfer means associated with one of said assembly stations for moving said parts carriers from one of said ready locations to a parts carrier receiving area and for moving said work-in-process from said assembly line conveyor to one of said ready locations and for moving said work-in-process from said one of said ready locations to one of said work areas. 2. The facility of claim 1 in which one or more of said parts carrier receiving areas include eject means for placing a parts carrier located at said parts carrier receiving area onto said assembly line conveyor. 3. The facility of claim 1 in which one or more of said assembly stations includes means for extracting a component from a parts carrier located in said parts carrier receiving area and for assembling said component on a work-in-process located in said work area and for thereafter ejecting said work-in-process onto said assembly line conveyor. 4. The facility of claim 1 in which one or more of said work areas of said assembly stations includes lift means for elevating a partially assembled product off said pallet. 5. The facility of claim 1 in which there are one or more different source locations providing parts carriers to said first conveyor means, said parts carriers carrying parts for assembly at said assembly stations into a partially assembled product. 6. The facility of claim 1 in which said assembly line conveyor includes an inlet end and an outlet end so that work-in-process conveyed on said assembly line conveyor travels in a direction from said inlet end to said outlet end and wherein said outlet end is associated with a lift means for coupling the outlet end of said assembly line conveyor to said first conveyor means. 7. The facility of claim 1 in which said first and assembly line conveyors are displaced from one another in a generally vertical direction. 8. The facility of claim 1 which further includes: a duplicate assembly line conveyor means coupled to said first conveyor means, a duplicate random storage facility and a duplicate series of assembly stations, both said duplicate assembly line conveyor means and duplicate series of assembly stations are parallel to and spaced from said assembly line conveyor means and series of assembly stations, said random and duplicate random storage facilities directly adjacent one another. 9. The facility of claim 8 in which both said assembly line conveyor means and said duplicate assembly line conveyor means include inlet and outlet ends so that articles on each line travel in a direction from inlet to outle and wherein said directions for said lines are opposite to each other. 10. The facility of claim 1 which further includes: a duplicate random storage facility coupled to said first conveyor means, duplicate assembly line conveyor means and a duplicate series of assembly stations, all said duplicate asembly line conveyor means, duplicate random storage facility and duplicate series of assembly stations are parallel to and spaced from said assembly line conveyor means, random storage facility and series of assembly stations and adjacent to an aisle located between said assembly line conveyor means and said duplicate assembly line conveyor means. 11. The facility of claim 10 in which both said assembly line conveyor means and said duplicate assembly line conveyor means includes inlet and outlet ends so that articles on each line travel in a direction from inlet to outlet and wherein said directions for said lines are opposite to each other. 12. The facility of claim 1 in which said first conveyor means transports parts carriers from at least two different parts sources to said random storage facility. 13. The facility of claim 12 in which one of said source locations supplies pallets. 14. The facility of claim 1 in which said first conveyor means is located vertically above said assembly line conveyor and said assembly stations, and said assembly stations are spaced apart along said assembly line conveyor to provide access to each of said assembly stations from a plurality of first regions, each of said first regions lying between pairs of said assembly stations, and a second region located directly adjacent to an assembly station and on a side opposite from said assembly line conveyor. 15. The facility of claim 1 wherein one or more of said work areas include eject means for placing said work-in-process, located at said work area, onto said assembly line conveyor. 16. The facility of claim 6 wherein said assembly stations include a first station associated with said inlet end of said assembly line conveyor in which an empty pallet carrier loaded with empty pallets is located in a parts carrier receiving area, and said first station further comprising means for placing an empty pallet on said work area and means for extracting an initial component from a parts carrier and placing said component on said empty pallet located in said work area. 17. The facility of claim 1 wherein said assembly stations include a first station in which a pallet carrier loaded with empty pallets is located in a parts carrier receiving area, and said first station further comprising means for placing an empty pallet on said work area nd means for extracting an initial component from a parts carrier and placing said component on said empty pallet located in said work area. 18. The facility of claim 1 further including a source of empty pallets coupled to said first conveyor means. 