A system for allowing a robot to be moved and set up quickly to perform a variety of work tasks at different work locations is disclosed. Once roughly positioned at a work location, the robot uses position sensors to establish in its computer memory a set of coordinate axes which match precisely the intersections of the three planes of a reference structure which is in a fixed position relative to the work location. All robot movements required to carry out the work task are made with respect to this set of coordinate axes so that the work task program remains the same independent of the exact position of the robot. A sensor holder and sensor storage bracket which uses the straight line horizontal and vertical movement capability of the robot to permit a programmed pickup and storage of the sensor is disclosed.
Claims I claim as my invention: 1. A method for defining an intangible robotic memory frame in a robotic memory of a mobile robot to match a tangible reference structure at each of separate workstations for the robot or each time the robot is newly positioned at a workstation, said method including the steps of; newly positioning the mobile robot at one of said workstations; using a position sensor on a robotic arm of said mobile robot to establish a first intangible robotic memory frame matching a first plane of said tangible reference structure; using said position sensor and the first intangible robotic memory frame to establish a second intangible robotic memory frame which matches the first tangible plane and a second tangible plane perpendicular to said first plane of said tangible reference structure, said second intangible robotic memory frame includes said first intangible robotic memory plane and; using said position sensor and said second intangible robotic memory frame to establish a third intangible robotic memory frame which matches the first and second tangible planes and a third tangible plane perpendicular to said first plane and said second plane of said tangible reference structure, said third intangible robotic memory frame includes said second intangible robotic memory frame. 2. A method for defining an intangible robotic memory frame in a robotic memory of a mobile robot to match a tangible reference structure at each of separate workstations for the robot or each time the robot is newly positioned at a workstation, said method including the steps of; newly positioning the mobile robot at one of said workstations; using a position sensor held by a robotic arm of said mobile robot to establish a first intangible robotic memory frame in the robotic memory which matches an XY base plane of said tangible structure; using said position sensor held by a robotic arm of said mobile robot to establish a second intangible robotic member frame which matches both the XY and XZ planes of the said tangible reference structure and; using a position sensor held by the robotic arm of said mobile robot to establish a third intangible robotic memory frame which matches the XY, XZ, YZ planes of said tangible reference structure. 3. The method according to claim 2 wherein said position sensor is a momentary type switch which operates to stop the movement of the robotic arm when the switch is actuated by contact with one of planar surfaces of said tangible reference structure. 4. The method of claim 2 wherein said position sensor includes three momentary type switches, having their operating axes mutually perpendicular to each other and connected in series electrically so that any one of the switches will stop the movement of the robot arm when the switch is actuated by contact with said tangible reference structure. 5. Apparatus to define a desired intangible robotic memory reference frame in terms of absolute points in a robotic memory of a mobile robot, said apparatus including the combination of: means for moving said mobile robot at one of separate workstations or newly positioning the robot at a workstation; a tangible reference structure having a plurality of reference planes for defining absolute reference points of a desired intangible robotic memory frame in said robotic memory; means for producing a plurality of signals to generate a first intangible robotic memory frame matching a first plane of said tangible reference structure; and a second intangible robotic memory frame which includes said first intangible robotic memory frame and a second intangible robotic memory frame, and a third intangible robotic memory frame which includes said first and second intangible robotic memory frames. 6. The apparatus according to claim 5 wherein said tangible reference structure for defining a plurality of reference planes includes three mutually perpendicular planar surfaces supported within the robot work envelope. 7. The apparatus according to claim 5 wherein said tangible reference structure for producing a plurality of signals includes at least one which having a moveable activator button. 8. The apparatus according to claim 5 wherein said tangible reference for producing a plurality of signals includes three switches each having a moveable actuation button, and a support for said switches to direct each switch toward one of the three mutually perpendicular reference planes of said tangible reference structure. 9. The apparatus according to claim 5 wherein said tangible reference structure for defining a plurality of reference planes includes three mutually perpendicular planar surfaces supported within a work envelope of said robot. 10. The apparatus according to claim 5 wherein said means for allowing includes a wheeled vehicle. 11. The apparatus according to claim 10 wherein said wheeled vehicle is motorized. 12. The apparatus according to claim 5 wherein said means includes a pallet upon which said robot is fixedly mounted and a fork lift means for transporting said pallet and the robot mounted thereupon. 13. The apparatus according to claim 5 wherein said tangible reference structure is fixedly positioned relative to a work location, and wherein said means for producing a plurality of signals includes a position sensor held by the robot, and an orientation program contained in the robotic memory to allow the robot to orient the memory with respect to the reference structure and therefore to the work location. 14. The apparatus according to claim 13 wherein said tangible reference structure includes a first planar surface, a second planar surface, and a third planar surface, each of said planar surfaces being mutually perpendicular to one another. 15. The apparatus according to claim 5 further including storage means including a sensor tool and a storage bracket to support said tool for straight line mutually perpendicular movement of the tool to allow the programmed pickup and storage of tools and sensors. 16. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein the tangible reference structure is located at a fixed location relative to the work location and wherein said means for producing a plurality of signals includes running an orientation program contained in the robotic memory to allow the robot to orient its memory with respect to the reference structure and therefore to the work location. 