A tool changer including male and female flanges for respectively connecting end effectors to robot arms and the like. A male flange assembly having a tapered projection is inserted into a tapered female flange member having a rod aligned along the diameter of the tapered opening. A rotatably mounted locking stud is aligned within an opening in the male tapered projection and is machined to provide a slot having locking grooves as its lower end. The stud is rotated through a 35 degree angle causing the male and female flanges to be drawn together until the cooperating tapers are seated together. A spring retains the flanges in the locked position. A cooperating pin and pin receiving socket respectively provided on the male and female flanges at locations displaced from the male and female tapers are utilized to assure the proper orientation between flanges and to prevent rotation of the flanges. Spring loaded electrical terminals provided on the male connecting flange firmly engage cooperating conductive terminals fixedly mounted upon the female flange to complete an electrical path between electrical sources and load utilization devices forming part of the end effectors. Pneumatic couplings are provided by means of tapered projections arranged on the male flange and cooperating tapered openings provided on the female flange. O-rings arranged on grooves on each of the tapered projections provide air-tight seals between the coupling.
Claims We claim: 1. Tool changing means for automatically coupling and decoupling first and second members comprising a first flange adapted to be coupled to one of said first and second members and a second flange adapted to be coupled to the remaining one of said first and second members; said first flange having a tapered opening and stationary coupling means extending across said tapered opening; said second flange having a tapered projection adapted to be inserted into said tapered opening; said tapered projection having radially aligned slots for receiving said coupling means; locking means arranged for movement within said tapered projection and having a receiving portion for receiving said coupling means; and said locking means being movable to a first position causing said coupling means to draw said tapers into intimate contact and a second position for releasing said coupling means. 2. The changing means of claim 1 wherein said coupling means comprises a rod positioned within said tapered opening. 3. The changing means of claim 2 wherein the longitudinal axis of said rod is substantially perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of said tapered opening. 4. The changing means of claim 3 wherein said rod extends substantially along a diameter of said tapered opening. 5. The changing means of claim 1 further comprising an operating handle coupled to said locking means and extending through a slot in said second flange for swingable movement between first and second positions to respectively move said locking means to its first and second positions. 6. The changing means of claim 5 further comprising a bushing positioned within the opening in said second flange for rotatably supporting said locking means. 7. The changing means of claim 6 wherein the opening in said second flange is provided with a bushing support shoulder; said bushing having a flange resting against said bushing support shoulder; said locking means comprising a stud having a locking end, a supporting end, and an intermediate flange resting against said bushing; said bushing surrounding a portion of said stud adjacent to said stud flange. 8. The changing means of claim 7 further comprising a thrust bushing having a central opening for slidably receiving a projection on the supporting end of said stud opposite said locking end; a resilient C-clip being inserted within an annular recess provided in the opening of said second flange for retaining said thrust bushing in slidable engagement with said stud. 9. The changing means of claim 5 wherein said tapered projection is provided with a pair of slots aligned with said locking means enabling said locking means and engaging means to enter said slot and to thereby be received by said locking means. 10. The changing means of claim 1 wherein said locking means comprises an elongated rod-shaped member rotatably mounted within an opening in said tapered projection, said tapered projection terminating in a free end extending outwardly from said first flange, said opening extending through the center of said tapered projection; said rod-shaped member having a first end positioned adjacent to the free end of said tapered projection; said first end of said rod-shaped member being provided with a slot extending inwardly from said first end for receiving said coupling means; and said slot being provided with at least one offset slot portion extending diagonally downwardly and outwardly from said axially aligned slot for drawing said coupling means and hence said first flange downwardly toward said second flange when said locking means is moved to its first position. 11. The changing means of claim 10 wherein said slot is further provided with an end slot portion communicating with said offset slot for receiving said locking pin as the locking pin leaves the offset slot. 12. The changing means of claim 1 wherein the tapered projection conforms to the tapered opening to properly align the first and second flange when the tapered projection and the tapered opening are in firm engagement. 13. The changing means of claim 12 further including bias means arranged within said second flange for retaining said locking means in its present position. 14. The changing means of claim 13 wherein said bias means comprises a torsion spring arranged within said tapered opening and said second flange and encircling said locking means; a first end of said torsion spring engaging said locking means; a second end of said torsion spring defining a tang extending outwardly and aligned substantially in a radial direction; said second flange being further provided with a recess communicating with said tapered opening enabling said torsion spring and tang to move within said recess; said tang engaging one surface of said recess when said locking means is in its first position to prevent rotation of said locking means. 15. The changing means of claim 13 wherein said bias means comprises a wave spring encircling said locking means; said locking means having an enlarged diameter portion arranged within a part of said opening in said second flange having an increased diameter for receiving said large diameter portion of said locking means; said locking means having a shoulder adjacent to said enlarged diameter portion; said wave spring being positioned between said shoulder on said locking means and a shoulder provided in said opening in said second flange for biasing said locking means in a direction away from said coupling means. 16. The changing means of claim 15 further comprising bushing means arranged in said second flange, said bushing means having a flange resting against the shoulder provided in said second flange, said bushing means providing for rotatable mounting of said locking means in said second flange opening, said bias means being arranged between said bushing flange and said locking means shoulder. 17. The changing means of claim 16 further comprising a washer arranged between said bias means and the flange of said bushing means to reduce wearing of said bushing means. 18. The changing means of claim 1 wherein said locking means comprises an elongated rod-shaped member rotatably mounted within an opening in said second flange, said opening extending through the center of said tapered projection, said tapered projection terminating in a free end extending outwardly from said first flange; said rod-shaped member having a first end positioned adjacent to the free end of said tapered projection; said first end being provided with an axially aligned slot extending inwardly from said first end for receiving said coupling means; and said slot being provided with at least one offset slot portion extending diagonally downward and outward from said axially aligned slot for drawing said coupling means and hence said first flange toward said second flange when said locking means is moved to its first position. 19. The changing means of claim 18 wherein said slot is further provided with an end slot portion communicating with said offset slot for receiving said locking pin as the locking pin leaves the offset slot. 20. The changing means of claim 1 wherein said locking means comprises an elongated rod-shaped member rotatably mounted within an opening in said second flange, said opening extending through the center of said tapered projection, said tapered projection terminating in a free end extending outwardly from said first flange; said rod-shaped member having a first end positioned adjacent to the free end of said tapered projection; said first end being provided with an axially aligned slot extending inwardly from said first end for receiving said coupling means; and said slot being provided with a pair of offset slot portions extending diagonally downward and outward from said axially aligned slot for drawing said coupling means and hence said first flange toward said second flange when said locking means is moved to its first position. 21. The changing means of claim 1 wherein one of said first and second flanges is provided with an alignment pin extending from one surface thereof; said pin being displaced in a radial direction from said tapered projection; the remaining one of said first and second flanges being provided with a cooperating opening provided in one surface of said remaining one of said first and said second flanges arranged to lie adjacent to the surface containing said alignment pin for slidably receiving said alignment pin when said tapered projection is seated in said tapered opening. 22. The changing means of claim 21 wherein a gap space is provided between the aforementioned adjacent surfaces of said first and second flanges to maintain said adjacent surfaces in spaced parallel fashion when the tapered projection is seated in the tapered opening. 23. The changing means of claim 22 wherein said spacing is of the order of 0.010 inches. 24. The changing means of claim 22 wherein said first flange is provided with power delivery lines extending therethrough; said power delivery lines terminating in coupling terminals; said second flange being provided with power coupling lines terminating in coupling terminals at the face of the second flange carrying said tapered projection; the coupling terminals of said first and second flanges being in alignment and adapted to convey power through said first and second flanges. 25. The changing means of claim 1 wherein the periphery of said second flange is provided with a plurality of removable identification contacts extending at spaced intervals about the periphery of said second flange; holding means for holding said second flange in position preparatory for coupling to said first flange; said holding means including a recess for receiving at least a portion of said second flange; said holding means including sensing means for sensing the identification contacts arranged along said second when it is positioned in said holding means for identifying said second flange. 26. The changing means of claim 25 wherein said second flange is provided with a substantially cylindrical-shaped periphery having at least one surface irregularity; the recess in said second flange holding means conforming to the shape of the periphery of said second flange for properly orienting said second flange in said holding means and for preventing said second flange from rotating in said holding means. 27. The changing means of claim 26 wherein said surface irregularity comprises a flat planar surface. 28. The changing means of claim 26 wherein said surface irregularity comprises a pair of planar surfaces displaced at angular positions about the cylindrical periphery of said second flange. 29. The changing means of claim 25 wherein said holding means is provided with an elongated recess communicating with said second flange for slidably receiving said operating arm and a horizontally aligned recess communicating with said second flange receiving opening and said vertically aligned recess to permit movement of said operating arm; and means on said holding means for moving said operating arm to operate said locking means between said first and second positions. 