A measuring device measures the torsional rigidity of a motor vehicle weatherstrip of the type which tends to twist upon bending about its longitudinal axis as experienced during installation of the weatherstrip around a corner of a vehicle body opening. The measuring device includes a pair of a rotatably mounted arms carrying mounting shoes for gripping the weatherstrip at spaced apart points along the length of the weatherstrip. Pivot means mount the arms for movement to swing the mounting shoes in an arcuate path and thereby bend the weatherstrip about its longitudinal axis so that the weatherstrip tends to twist. An indicator clip is removably mounted on the weatherstrip intermediate the mounting shoes and twists with the twisting of the weatherstrip to indicate that the weatherstrip has experienced a predetermined degree of twisting during the arcuate bending of the weatherstrip. A readout gauge indicates the degree of bending which causes the weatherstrip to twist, thereby providing a measure of the torsional rigidity of the weatherstrip.
Claims The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows: 1. A device for measuring the torsional rigidity of a motor vehicle weatherstrip of the type which tends to twist upon bending about its longitudinal axis, comprising: means gripping the weatherstrip at spaced apart points along the longitudinal axis of the weatherstrip and operable to bend the weatherstrip about its longitudinal axis so that the weatherstrip tends to twist; indicator means indicating that the weatherstrip has experienced a predetermined degree of twist; and read out means readable to identify the extent of bending of the weatherstrip causing the predetermined degree of twist to provide a measure of the torsional rigidity of the weatherstrip. 2. A device for measuring the torsional rigidity of a motor vehicle weatherstrip of the type which tends to twist upon bending about its longitudinal axis, comprising: a base; first and second arms having mounting shoes for gripping the weatherstrip at spaced apart points along the longitudinal axis of the weatherstrip; pivot means pivotally mounting the arms for movement to swing the mounting shoes in an arcuate path to bend the weatherstrip about its longitudinal axis so that the weatherstrip tends to twist; an indicator mounted upon the weatherstrip and indicating that the weatherstrip has experienced a predetermined degree of twist during the bending of the weatherstrip; and read out means readable to identify the extent of bending of the weatherstrip causing the predetermined degree of twist to provide a measure of the torsional rigidity of the weatherstrip. 3. The device of claim 2 further characterized by gear means acting between the arms to coordinate the pivoting of the arms. 4. The device of claim 3 further characterized by rack means associated with the gear means acting between the arms to coordinate the pivoting of the arms and said rack means being operably associated with the read out means. 5. The device of claim 2 further characterized by the indicator mounted upon the weatherstrip being a pointer clip removably clipped onto the weatherstrip and twisting with the weatherstrip so that the degree of movement of the pointer clip indicates that the weatherstrip has experienced a predetermined degree of twist during the bending of the weatherstrip. 6. A device for measuring the torsional rigidity of a motor vehicle weatherstrip of the type which tends to twist upon bending about its longitudinal axis, comprising: a base; first and second arms having mounting shoes for gripping the weatherstrip at spaced apart points along the length of the weatherstrip; pivot means pivotally mounting the arms for movement to swing the mounting shoes in an arcuate path to progressively bend the weatherstrip about length so that the weatherstrip tends to twist; a pointer clip adapted to be removably clipped onto the weather strip intermediate the mounting shoes and twisting with the weatherstrip to provide and indication that the weatherstrip has experienced a predetermined degree of twist during the bending of the weatherstrip; and first and second pinion gears attached respectively to the first and second arms and having teeth meshing with a toothed rack so that the pivoting of the arms is coordinated and the toothed rack moves in proportion to the arms and the arcuate swinging of the mounting shoes; and a pointer attached to the toothed rack and having an associated scale which may be read to provide a quantitative measure of the torsion rigidity and resistance to twisting of the weatherstrip. 