A gripper mechanism for sampling nuclear fuel pellets at a predetermined depth in a stack of pellets includes a housing and gripping fingers movably mounted to the housing. The fingers are preferably three relatively thin, arcuate-shaped, blade-like fingers angularly displaced from one another for grasping the pellet at spaced locations about its circumference. The fingers have lower facing surfaces which are brought adjacent to one another for engaging and grasping a pellet when the fingers are moved toward their closed position and retracted remote from one another for disengaging and releasing the pellet when the fingers are moved toward their opened position. Guide members interconnecting the housing with a movable support structure, together with coil springs received about the guide members and extending between the housing and support structure, resiliently and yieldably mount the housing and fingers for movement toward the stack of pellets along a generally linear path ahead of the support structure as the support structure is moved toward the stack. Concurrently the yieldable mounting permits the housing to rock slightly about an axis extending transverse to the linear path for facilitating a burrowing-type movement of the gripping fingers into the stack of pellets to be sampled. Also, a proximity switch detects when the fingers are closed and a load transducer senses when an overload condition has been reached.
Claims We claim: 1. A gripper mechanism for locating and grasping a nuclear fuel pellet at a predetermined depth in a stack thereof, comprising: (a) a housing; (b) a plurality of arcuate-shaped gripping fingers mounted to said housing and being movable toward and away from respective closed and opened positions for respectively engaging and disengaging the grasped pellet to correspondingly grasp and release the same, said gripping fingers having respective lower pellet engaging surface portions for grasping said pellet therebetween when said fingers are moved toward their closed positions, the curvature of said arcuate fingers being sufficient such that other pellets in said stack will not be grasped therebetween when said gripping fingers engage said grasped pellet; (c) actuating means mounted to said housing and coupled to said gripping fingers, sand actuating means being operable for moving said gripping fingers between their closed and opened positions; (d) means, responsive to the movement of the actuating means for detecting when said gripping fingers are disposed at their closed position; and (e) means supporting said housing and said gripping fingers mounted thereto for movement toward and away from the stack of pellets to be sampled for moving said gripping fingers into and from the stack, said supporting means also resiliently and yieldably mounting said housing so as to allow concurrent lateral rocking of said housing means as said gripping fingers are moved into and from the stack of pellets. 2. The gripper mechanism according to claim 1 wherein said arcuate-shaped gripping fingers are relatively thin and blade-like and said pellet engaging portions have a length less than the length of said pellets. 3. The gripper mechanism as recited in claim 1, wherein said detecting means is a proximity switch. 4. The gripper mechanism as recited in claim 1, further comprising: fingers for sensing the load applied to the stack of pellets by said gripping means and being capable of generating a signal indicating that an overload condition has been reached. 5. The gripper mechanism as recited in claim 4, wherein said sensing means is a load-sensing transducer. 6. The gripper mechanism as recited in claim 1, wherein said means resiliently mounting said housing includes: a support structure being movable toward and away from the stack of pellets; a plurality of guide members connected to one of said housing and said support structure and slidable relative to the other thereof; and a plurality of coil springs, each coil spring received about one of said guide members and extending between said housing and said support structure, said springs being resiliently yieldable for moving said housing and said gripping fingers toward the stack of pellets along a generally linear path ahead of said support structure as said support structure is moved toward the stack, while concurrectly permitting said housing to rock about an axis extending transverse to said linear path for facilitating burrowing-type movement of said gripping fingers into the stack of pellets to be sampled. 7. The gripper mechanism as recited in claim 6, further comprising: a generally planar transducer mounted to one of said housing and said support structure and extending in generally transverse relation to the direction of movement thereof for sensing the load applied to said pellets of said stack by said gripping fingers as the same move within and from said pellet stack, said transducer capable of generating a signal indicating that an overload condition has been reached. 8. The gripper mechanism as recited in claim 7, further comprising: a generally planar pad mounted to the other of said housing and said support structure and extending in generally transverse relation to the direction of movement thereof for engaging with said planar transducer. 9. The gripper mechanism as recited in claim 1, wherein said actuating means is a power transmitting cylinder mounted to said housing having an extendible and retractible piston rod and a spindle mounted to its terminal end and coupled to said gripping fingers for moving said gripping fingers toward their closed and opened positions upon retraction and extension of said piston rod into and from said cylinder. 10. The gripper mechanism as recited in claim 9, wherein said detecting means is a proximity switch mounted on said housing for detecting the position of said piston rod. 11. A gripper mechanism for gently burrowing into a compact stack of nuclear fuel pellets contained in a boat and grasping a pellet located at a predetermined depth in the boat, comprising: (a) a housing; (b) a plurality of relatively thin, arcuately-shaped gripping fingers movably mounted at their upper ends to and depending from said housing, said fingers being movable between closed and opened positions and having respective lower ends with engaging surfaces facing toward one another, said surfaces being brought adjacent to one another for engaging and grasping said pellet therebetween when said fingers are moved toward their closed position and retracted remote from one another for disengaging and releasing said pellet when said fingers are moved toward their opened position, the curvature of said arcuate fingers being sufficient such that other pellets in said stack will not be grasped therebetween when said gripping fingers engage said grasped pellet; (c) actuating means mounted to said housing and coupled to said upper ends of said gripping fingers, said actuating means being operable for moving said gripping fingers between closed and opened positions and a detecting means responsive to the movement of the actuating means for detecting when said gripping fingers are disposed at their closed positions (d) a support structure being movable toward and away from the stack pellets to be sampled; (e) a plurality of guide members connected to one of said housing and said support structure an movable relative to the other thereof; and (f) a plurality of coil springs, each coil spring received about one of said guide members and extending between said housing and said support structure, said springs being resiliently yieldable for moving said housing and said gripping fingers toward the stack of pellets along a generally linear path ahead of said support structure as said support structure is moved toward te stack, while concurrently permitting said housing to rock slightly about an axis extending transverse to said linear path for facilitating a burrowing-type movement of said gripping fingers into the stack of pellets to be sampled. 12. The gripper mechanism as recited in claim 11, further comprising: said detecting means being mounted on said housing. 13. The gripper mechanism as recited in claim 12, wherein said detecting means is a proximity switch. 14. The gripper mechanism as recited in claim 11, further comprising: means mounted on said support structure for sensing the load applied to the stack of pellets by said fingers and being capable of generating a signal indicating that an overload condition has been reached. 15. The gripper mechanism as recited in claim 14, wherein said sensing means is a load-sensing transducer. 16. The gripper mechanism as recited in claim 15, wherein said transducer has a generally planar shape and is mounted to said support structure and extends in generally transverse relation to the direction of movement thereof. 17. The gripper mechanism as recited in claim 16, wherein said housing has a generally planar pad mounted thereto and extending in generally transverse relation to the direction of movement thereof for engaging with said planar transducer. 18. The gripper mechanism as recited in claim 11, wherein said actuating means is a power transmitting cylinder mounted to said housing having an extendible and retractible piston rod and a spindle mounted to its terminal end and coupled to said upper ends of said gripping fingers for moving said gripping fingers toward and away from their closed and opened positions upon movement of said piston rod into and from said cylinder between retracted and extended positions. 19. The gripper mechanism as recited in claim 18, further comprising: said detecting means being in the form of a proximity switch mounted on said housing for detecting the presence of said piston rod at its retracted position and thereby the presence of said gripping fingers at their closed position. 20. The gripper mechanism as recited in claim 11, wherein said plurality of gripping fingers are composed of three blade-like fingers being angularly displaced generally equally from one another for grasping the pellet at three equidistantly spaced locations about its circumference. 