An assembly station (10) is used to align termini or leads of components (16) with attachment pads on circuit boards (20) to enable the component and circuit board pads to be precisely aligned and coupled together. A dual port probe (22), which is secured to an x-y table, is provided with upper and lower viewing ports (30, 32) which respectively view the component and the circuit board. Images from the two are directed to video cameras (34, 36) and the signals therefrom are processed by a vision system (38) which compares the alignment of the pads and provides error correction signals (x, y, .theta.) to a robotic arm (12) to move component (16) and its pad or termini into alignment with the pads on the circuit board. Thereafter, the robotic arm brings the component into contact with the circuit board for soldering of the respective leads together.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for aligning termini of components with attachment pads on circuit boards to enable coupling together of the termini and the pads, comprising: a holder for holding one of the components; a shuttle track for supporting the circuit boards and for moving one of the circuit boards with respect to the one component to position the pads thereof and the termini in general alignment with respect to one another; viewers respectively for individually viewing each of the termini and the pads and for obtaining position information thereof; and a system for processing the position information and for comparing the alignment of the termini and the pads and for orienting the termini with exact alignment to the pads. 2. Apparatus according to claim 1 in which said system includes robot means for moving the one component and its termini orthogonally and angularly in a plane parallel to that of the pads. 3. Apparatus according to claim 1 in which said viewers include two bundles of an equal number of coherent optical fiber imaging conduits having first ends respectively positioned to view the termini and the pads and second ends optically coupled to said system. 4. Apparatus according to claim 3 wherein said system includes a pair of video cameras, at which said optical fiber conduit second ends respectively terminate. 5. Apparatus for aligning termini of components with attachment pads on circuit boards to enable coupling together of the termini and the pads, comprising: a holder for holding one of the components; a shuttle track for supporting the circuit boards and for moving one of the circuit boards with respect to the one component to position the pads and the termini in general alignment with respect to one another; viewers respectively for individually viewing the termini and the pads and for obtaining position information thereof, and including two bundles of an equal number of coherent optical fiber imaging conduits having first ends respectively positioned to view the termini and the pads and second ends; a system including a pair of video cameras, at which said optical fiber conduit second ends respectively terminate, for processing the position information and for comparing the alignment of the termini and the pads and for orienting the termini with exact alignment to the pads; and means defining a field of view including a plurality of windows which are equal in number to the number of said optical fiber conduits in each said bundle and which are arranged to view corresponding portions of the termini and the pads which are to be coupled together, for transmission through said optical fiber conduit bundles and said second ends thereof respectively to said cameras. 6. Apparatus according to claim 5 in which the equal number of the windows and of said optical fiber conduits increase in number as the number of the termini and the pads increase. 7. Apparatus according to claim 6 in which the windows are arranged in a pattern according to the arrangement of the termini and the pads. 8. Apparatus according to claim 7 in which said system includes robot means for moving the one component and its termini orthogonally and angularly in a plane parallel to that of the pads. 9. Apparatus according to claim 5 in which said field of view means includes a face plate having openings therein numbered and arranged in accordance with those of the windows, and further including lenses respectively in said openings and movable with respect to said optical fiber first ends, for focusing of the respective termini and pads, and means for illuminating the respective termini and pads. 10. Apparatus according to claim 1 in which said viewers each includes an optical element for respectively transmitting a collective image of the termini and a collective image of the pads to respective ones of said cameras. 11. Apparatus according to claim 10 in which each said optical element comprises a right prism having a silvered hypotenuse. 12. Apparatus according to claim 10 in which each said optical element comprises a mirror. 13. Apparatus according to claim 10 in which each said optical element comprises a totally internally reflecting prism. 14. Apparatus according to claim 10 further including means for illuminating the termini and the pads. 15. Apparatus according to claim 10 in which each said optical element comprises an electro-optical sensor for direct viewing of the termini and the pads. 16. Apparatus according to claim 15 in which said system includes robot means for moving the one component and its termini orthogonally and angularly in a plane parallel to that of the pads. 17. Apparatus for aligning termini of components with attachment pads on circuit boards to enable coupling together of the termini and the pads, comprising: a holder for holding one of the components; means for supporting the circuit boards and for moving one of the circuit boards with respect to the one component to position the pads thereof and the termini in general alignment with respect to one another; viewers respectively for individually viewing the termini and the pads and for obtaining position information thereof; a system for processing the position information and for comparing the alignment of the termini and the pads and for orienting the termini with exact alignment to the pads; and means defining a field of view including a plurality of windows which are equal in number to the number of said viewers and which are arranged to view corresponding portions of the termini and the pads which are to be coupled together, for transmission respectively to said viewers. 18. Apparatus according to claim 17 wherein said viewers includes a pair of video cameras coupled to said field of view means for receiving the transmission. 