The device has primary and secondary frame members interconnected by extensible and retractable positioning members connected by fluid circuits that cause extension of the member at either end of a circuit in response to retraction of the member at the other end of the circuit. Relative movements of the positioning members occur in response to the imposition of forces and moments at the projected center of compliance upon a pin or the like supported by the secondary frame member, and so adjust the position of the secondary frame member as to cause translatory and rotative movement of the supported pin.
Claims I claim: 1. In a remote center compliance device for use with a supporting member and a supported member, said device including a primary frame member adapted to be supported by said supporting member, a secondary frame member having support means for supporting said supported member, and interconnecting means interconnecting said primary and secondary members for gross movement of said primary member in unison with said secondary member and for limited adjustive movement of said secondary member relative to said primary member, the improvement comprising: said interconnecting means including a plurality of extensible and retractable positioning members carried by said secondary frame member and projecting from a plurality of sides thereof into engagement with said primary frame member, each of sides of said secondary frame member having first and second ones of said positioning members projecting therefrom at spaced locations thereon; a plurality of fluid circuit means, each interconnecting a therewith associated one of said first positioning members upon one side of said secondary support member and a therewith associated nonaligned one of said second positioning members upon another side of said secondary member, for effecting extension of either of said members in response to retraction of the other of said members. 2. A device as in claim 1, wherein each of said first and second positioning members associated with each of said circuit means has a surface exposed to the hydraulic fluid within said circuit means, the area of said surface of said first positioning member being different from the area of said surface of said second positioning member whereby said extension undergone by either of said members in response to said retraction of said other of said members differs in extent from said retraction. 3. A device as in claim 1, wherein said one and said another sides of said secondary frame member are opposite each other, and said first and second positioning members are located approximately centrally of one dimension of the respective one of said secondary frame member sides from which said positioning members project. 4. A device as in claim 3, wherein said first and second positioning members projecting from said one side of said secondary frame member are substantially aligned with respective ones of said first and second positioning members upon the opposite side of said secondary frame member. 5. A device as in claim 1, wherein said positioning members are slidably movable with respect to said primary and secondary frame members. 6. A device as in claim 1, wherein said positioning members are slidably movable relative to said primary frame member. 7. A device as in claim 1, wherein each of said positioning members includes a resilient flexible elastomeric element exposed to the fluid pressure within the therewith associated one of said fluid circuit means. 8. A device as in claim 1, wherein said interconnecting means further includes at least one compliant member connected to said frame members. 9. A device as in claim 1, and further including compliant means between the main body of said secondary frame member and said support means. 10. A device as in claim 1, and further including compliant means associated with said fluid circuit means for varying the compliance thereof. 11. A device as in claim 10, and further including adjustable means engageable with said compliant means for varying the compliance thereof. 12. A device as in claim 1, and further including other fluid circuit means within said primary frame member. 13. A remote center compliance device for use with a supporting member and a supported member, comprising: a primary frame member adapted to be supported by said supporting member; a secondary frame member having support means for supporting said supported member; interconnecting means interconnecting said primary and secondary frame members for gross movement of said secondary frame member in unison with said primary frame member and for limited adjustive movement of said secondary frame member relative to said primary member in response to movement of said supported member; said interconnecting means including first extensible and retractable positioning members and second extensible and retractable positioning members extending between said first and second frame members at opposite sides thereof, said first positioning members being spaced in the length direction of said frame members from said second positioning members; a plurality of passive fluid circuits each interconnecting a therewith associated one of said first positioning members and a therewith associated one of said second positioning members. 