A robotic element for lifting and moving semi-conductor wafer carriers and detecting collisions and correctness of engagement of the carrier to a robotic transport device. The element has a pair of spaced, parallel plates, a pair of rotary solenoids each fixed to one plate, and mounted between said plates and extending through the holes in said first plate for rotation therein. An engagement member is fixed to each of said rotary solenoids and extends outwardly from said first plate. The element also has a plurality of collision sensors and collision rebound means mounted between said plates.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic element for engagement with a semiconductor carrier cassette to be carried and detecting collisions and correctness of engagement which comprises: a. first and second spaced, substantially planar, parallel plates, said first plate having a pair of holes therethrough; said first and second plates being spaced at a fixed distance from one another except during a collision; and b. workpiece gripping means comprising: i. a pair of grip driving means each fixed directly to said second plate, and mounted between said plates and extending through the holes in said first plate for free rotary motion therein without engagement with said first plate; and ii. a pair of workpiece engagement members, one of each member directly fixed to one of said grip driving means and extending outwardly from said first plate; and c. a plurality of collision sensors mounted between said plates; and d. a plurality of collision rebound means mounted between said plates which only engage in the event of a collision. 2. The element of claim 1 further comprising workpiece position sensing means. 3. The element of claim 1 wherein said rebound means comprises a plurality of springs capable of compression upon the collision of the robotic element and subsequent restoration of the plate spacing. 4. The element of claim 1 wherein said collision sensors comprise microswitches. 5. The element of claim 1 wherein said collision sensors comprise vacuum switches. 6. The element of claim 1 wherein said collision sensors comprise: a. a plurality of rods each mounted on only one of either of said plates, said rods positioned within said space perpendicular to both of said plates; and b. a mating receptacle for each of said rods mounted opposite said rods on the opposing plate and adapted to receive said rods therein; and c. signaling means adapted for the generation of a signal upon the penetration of said rods into said receptacles at a predetermined distance therein. 7. The element of claim 1 wherein said grip driving means are rotary solenoids. 8. The element of claim 7 wherein said rotary solenoids are capable of axial motion. 9. The element of claim 1 wherein said workpiece gripping means further comprises a lift member capable of clutching a workpiece in cooperation with said engagement members. 10. The elements of claim 1 wherein said grip driving means comprise components selected from the group consisting of air cylinders, motors, spring levers, linear solenoids, and vacuum cylinders. 11. A robotic element for engagement with an article to be carried and detecting collisions and correctness of engagement and which comprises: a. first and second spaced, substantially planar, parallel plates, said first plate having a pair of holes therethrough; and b. workpiece gripping means comprising: i. a pair of rotary solenoids each capable of rotary and axial motion, fixed to said second plate, and mounted between said plates and extending through the holes in said first plate for motion therein; and ii. a pair of engagement members, one fixed to each of said rotary solenoids and extending outwardly from said first plate; and iii. a lift member capable of clutching a workpiece in cooperation with said engagement members; and iv. workpiece position sensing means on said lift member; and c. a plurality of collision sensors mounted between said plates; said collision sensors comprising vacuum switches; and d. collision rebound means mounted between said plates; and rebound means comprising a plurality of springs capable of compression upon the collision of the robotic element and subsequent restoration of the plate spacing. 