Method and system for the automated assembly of power train components along a plurality of interconnected, closed loops within cells of the system wherein parts and/or subassemblies of the components are assembled on the same assembly pallet on which they were robotically kitted. Along some of the loops, the assembly pallets are automatically transferred from kitting stations to assembly stations and from the assembly stations to an unload station where the components or subassemblies are robotically unloaded. The unloaded assembly pallets are then automatically transferred from the unload station to the kitting stations to repeat the assembly process. A mechanical guided vehicle system (MGVS) asynchronously conveys the assembly pallets along the closed loops which form guide tracks between the different stations. An automated guided vehicle system (AGVS) preferably transports part storage pallets to the system from a receiving area. Automated stacking cranes transfer the part storage pallets to and from predetermined part positions within queuing rack structures adjacent the kitting and assembly stations. The queuing rack structures and the automatic stacking cranes form part of an automated storage and retrieval system (AS/RS) which interconnect the different closed loop guide tracks. The queuing rack structure also stores subassemblies loaded on assembly pallets. Manual kitting and assembly areas are also provided. Fastening robots are provided at fastening stations located along selected ones of the guide tracks. A distributed or hierarchial control system controls each of the elements of the system. When finally assembled, the power train components are robotically unloaded from their assembly pallets and transported by the AGVS to a vehicle assembly area.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for the automated assembly of parts on an assembly pallet in an assembly area, the method comprising: (a) automatically transferring the assembly pallet to a knitting station in the assembly area including a kitting robot having a work envelope; (b) storing a first set of parts at the kitting station within the work envelope of the kitting robot; (c) utilizing the kitting robot to pick and place the first set of the parts on the assembly pallet at a first set of predetermined positions thereon; (d) automatically transferring the assembly pallet loaded with the parts to an assembly station in the assembly area to assemble the parts on the assembly pallet into at least one assembly; (e) automatically transferring the assembly on the assembly pallet to an unload station for unloading the assembly from the assembly pallet wherein the assembly area includes first and second kitting stations including first and second kitting robots, respectively, each of the kitting robots having a work envelope and wherein the method further comprising the steps of: (f) storing a second set of the parts at the second kitting station within the work envelope; (g) automatically transferring the assembly pallet from the first kitting station to the second kitting station; (h) utilizing the second kitting robot to pick and place the second set of the parts on the assembly pallet at a second set of predetermined positions thereon; (i) automatically monitoring and coordinating operation of the first and second kitting robots with the automatic transferring of the assembly pallet to and from the kitting stations to control the flow of parts and the pallet in the assembly area; and repeating steps (a) through (i) for each assembly. 2. The method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the assembly station includes an assembly robot having a work envelope and wherein the method further comprises the step of utilizing the assembly robot to at least partially assemble the parts on the assembly pallet, the assembly pallet being located within the work envelope of the assembly robot during the step of utilizing the assembly robot. 3. The method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the assembly area includes first and second assembly stations including first and second assembly robots, respectively, each of the assembly robots having a work envelope and the first assembly robot partially assembling the parts on the assembly pallet and wherein the method further comprises the steps of: (j) automatically transferring the assembly pallet from the first assembly station to the second assembly station; (k) utilizing the second assembly robot to assemble the parts on the assembly pallet into the assembly, the assembly pallet being located within the work envelope of the second assembly robot during the step of utilizing the second assembly robot; and repeating steps (j) through (k) for each assembly. 4. The method as claimed in claim 3 further comprising the steps of: storing a third set of the parts within the work envelope of at least one of the first and second assembly robots; and utilizing the one of the first and second assembly robots to pick and place at least one of the third set of parts into the assembly. 5. The method as claimed in claim 3 wherein the assembly pallet is transferred along a guide track and wherein the first and second assembly robots are located on opposite sides of the guide track to assemble first and second assemblies at predetermined locations on the assembly pallet from the parts on the assembly pallet. 6. The method as claimed in claim 4 wherein the first and second assembly robots are utilized to assemble first and second assemblies at predetermined locations on the assembly pallet from the parts on the assembly pallet. 7. The method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the assembly pallet is transferred along a guide track and wherein the kitting robot is mobile to move parallel to the guide track. 8. The method as claimed in claim 1 or claim 8 wherein the assembly pallet is transferred along a loop-shaped guide track, each of the stations being located along the guide track. 9. The method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the assembly pallet is transferred along a guide track by a pallet-supporting carrier and by means for selectively controlling movement of the carrier to permit the assembly pallet to stop at selected stations while passing through other stations along the guide track without stopping. 10. The method as claimed in claim 1 further comprising the step of automatically unloading the assembly from the assembly pallet at the unload station. 11. The method as claimed in claim 11 wherein the step of automatically unloading includes the step of utilizing an unloading robot to pick the assembly from the assembly pallet. 12. The method as claimed in claim 1 further comprising the steps of: unloading the assembly from the assembly pallet at the unload station; and storing the assembly at a predetermined assembly position in a storage area. 13. The method as claimed in claim 13 wherein the storage area includes a queuing rack structure and wherein the assembly is located on a storage pallet at the predetermined assembly position within the queuing rack structure. 14. A method for the automated assembly of parts and at least one subassembly on an assembly pallet in an assembly area, the method comprising: (a) automatically transferring the assembly pallet to a kitting station in the assembly area including at least one kitting robot having a work envelope; (b) storing a first set of parts and the subassembly at the kitting station within the work envelope of the kitting robot; (c) utilizing the kitting robot to pick and place a first set of the parts on the assembly pallet at a first set of predetermined positions thereon and to pick and place the subassembly on the assembly pallet at a second predetermined positions thereon; (d) automatically transferring the assembly pallet loaded with the parts to an assembly station in the assembly area to assemble the parts and the subassembly on the assembly pallet into at least one assembly; (e) automatically transferring the assembly on the assembly pallet to an unload station for unloading the assembly from the assembly pallet wherein the assembly area includes first and second kiting stations including first and second kitting robots, respectively, each of the kitting robots having a work envelope and wherein the method further comprises the steps of: (f) storing a second set of the parts at the second kitting station within the work envelope of the second kitting robot; (g) automatically transferring the assembly pallet from the first kitting station to the second kitting station; (h) utilizing the second kitting robot to pick and place the second set of the parts on the assembly pallet at a second set of predetermined positions thereon; (i) automatically monitoring and coordinating operation of the first and second kitting robots with the automatic transferring of the assembly pallet to and from the kitting stations to control the flow of parts and the pallet in the assembly area; and repeating steps (a) through (i) for each assembly. 15. The method as claimed in claim 14 wherein the assembly station includes an assembly robot having a work envelope and wherein the method further comprises the step of utilizing the assembly robot to at least partially assembly the parts with the subassembly on the assembly pallet, the assembly pallet being located within the work envelope of the assembly robot during the step of utilizing the assembly robot. 16. The method as claimed in claim 14 wherein the assembly area includes first and second assembly stations including first and second assembly robots, respectively, each of the assembly robots having a work envelope and the first assembly robot partially assembling the parts on the assembly pallet and wherein the method further comprises the steps of: (j) automatically transferring the assembly pallet from the first assembly station to the second assembly station; (k) utilizing the second assembly robot to assemble the parts and the subassembly on the assembly pallet into the assembly, the assembly pallet being located within the work envelope of the second assembly robot during the step of utilizing the second assembly robot; and repeating steps (j) through (k) for each assembly. 17. The method as claimed in claim 16 further comprising the steps of: storing a third set of the parts within the work envelope of at least one of the first and second assembly robots; and utilizing the one of the first and second assembly robots to pick and place at least one of the third set of parts into the assembly. 18. The method as claimed in claim 16 wherein the assembly pallet is transferred along a guide track and wherein the first and second assembly robots are located on opposite sides of the guide track to assembly first and second assemblies at predetermined locations on the assembly pallet from the parts and the subassembly on the assembly pallet. 19. A method for the automated assembly of parts and a subassembly on an assembly pallet in an assembly area, the method comprising: (a) automatically transferring a first assembly pallet to a first kitting station in the assembly area including a first kitting robot having a work envelope; (b) storing a first set of parts at the first kitting station within the work envelope of the first kitting robot; (c) utilizing the first kitting robot to pick and place the first set of the parts on the first assembly pallet at a first set of predetermined positions thereon; (d) automatically transferring the first assembly pallet loaded with the parts to a first assembly station in the assembly area to assemble the parts on the assembly pallet into at least one subassembly; (e) automatically transferring the subassembly on the first assembly pallet to a first unload station; (f) unloading the subassembly from the first assembly pallet at the first unload station; (g) storing the subassembly at a predetermined subassembly position in a storage area; (h) storing a second set of the parts at predetermined part positions within the storage area; (i) automatically transferring a second assembly pallet to a second kitting station in the assembly area including a second kitting robot having a work envelope; (j) automatically transferring the second set of parts and the subassembly from the storage area to the second kitting station within the work envelope of the second kitting robot; (k) utilizing the second kiting robot to pick and place the second set of parts and the subassembly on the second assembly pallet at a second set of predetermined positions thereon; (l) automatically transferring the second assembly pallet loaded with the second set of parts and the subassembly to a second assembly station in the assembly area to assemble the parts and the subassembly on the second assembly pallet into an assembly; (m) automatically transferring the assembly on the second assembly pallet to a second unload station for unloading the assembly from the second assembly pallet; (n) automatically monitoring and coordinating operation of the first and second kitting robots with the automatic transferring of the assembly pallet to and from the kitting stations to control the flow of parts and the pallet in the assembly area; and repeating steps (a) through (n) for each assembly. 20. The method as claimed in claim 19 wherein the first assembly station includes an assembly robot having a work envelope and wherein the method further comprises the step of utilizing the assembly robot to at least partially assemble the parts on the first assembly pallet, the first assembly pallet being located within the work envelope of the first assembly robot during the step of utilizing the first assembly robot. 21. The assembly as claimed in claim 19 or claim 20 wherein the assembly area includes a third kitting station including a third kitting robot, the third kitting robot having a work envelope and wherein the method further comprises the steps of: (o) storing a third set of the parts at the third kitting station within the work envelope of the third kitting; (p) automatically transferring the first assembly pallet from the first kitting station to the third kitting station; (q) utilizing the third kitting robot to pick and place the third set of the parts on the first assembly pallet at a third set of predetermined positions thereon; and repeating steps (o) through (q) for each assembly. 22. The method as claimed in claim 21 wherein the assembly area includes a third assembly station including a second assembly robot, the second assembly robot having a work envelope, the first assembly robot partially assembling the parts on the first assembly pallet and wherein the method further comprises the steps of: (r) automatically transferring the first assembly pallet from the first assembly station to the third assembly station; (s) utilizing the second assembly robot to assemble the parts on the first assembly pallet into the subassembly, the first assembly pallet being located within the work envelope of the second assembly robot during the step of utilizing the second assembly robot; and repeating steps (r) through (s) for each assembly. 23. The method as claimed in claim 22 further comprising the steps of: storing a fourth set of the parts within the work envelope of one of the first and second assembly robots; and utilizing the one of the first and second assembly robots to pick and place at least one of the fourth set of parts into the subassembly. 24. The method as claimed in claim 22 wherein the first assembly pallet is transferred along a guide track and wherein the first and second assembly robots are located on opposite sides of the guide track to assembly first and second subassemblies at predetermined locations on the first assembly pallet from the parts on the first assembly pallet. 25. A method for the automated assembly of parts and first and second subassemblies on an assembly pallet in an assembly area, the method comprising: (a) automatically transferring a first assembly pallet to a first kitting station in the assembly area including a first kitting robot having a working envelope; (b) storing a first set of parts at the first kitting station within the work envelope of the first kitting robot; (c) utilizing the first kitting robot to pick and place the first set of the parts on the first assembly pallet at a first set of predetermined positions thereon; (d) automatically transferring the first assembly pallet loaded with the parts of a first assembly station in the assembly area to assemble the parts on the assembly pallet into a first subassembly; (e) automatically transferring the first subassembly on the first assembly pallet to a first unload station; (f) unloading the first subassembly from the first assembly pallet at the first unload station; (g) storing the first subassembly at a first predetermined subassembly position in a first storage area; (h) storing a second set of the parts at predetermined part positions and a second subassembly at a second predetermined subassembly position within the first storage area; (i) automatically transferring a second assembly pallet to a second kitting station in the assembly area including a second kitting robot having a work envelope; (j) automatically transferring the second set of parts and the first subassembly from the storage area to the second kitting station within the work envelope of the second kitting robot; (k) utilizing the second kiting robot to pick and place the second set of parts and the first subassembly on the second set of parts and the first subassembly on the second assembly pallet at a second set of predetermined positions thereon; (l) automatically transferring the second assembly pallet from the second kitting station to a third kitting station in the assembly area including a third kitting robot having a work envelope; (m) automatically transferring the second subassembly from the first storage area to the third kitting station within the work envelope of the third kitting robot; (n) utilizing the third kitting robot to pick and place the second subassembly on the second assembly pallet at a predetermined position thereon; (o) automatically transferring the second assembly pallet loaded with the second set of parts and the first and second subassemblies to a second assembly station in the assembly area to assemble the parts and the first and second subassemblies on the second assembly pallet into an assembly; (p) automatically transferring the assembly on the second assembly pallet to a second unload station for unloading the assembly from the second assembly pallet; (q) automatically monitoring and coordinating operation of the first and second kitting robots with the automatic transferring of the assembly pallet to and from the kitting stations to control, the flow of parts and the pallet in the assembly area; and repeating steps (a) through (q) for each assembly. 26. The method as claimed in claim 25 wherein the first assembly station includes a first assembly robot having a work envelope and wherein the method further comprises the step of utilizing the first assembly robot to at least partially assemble the parts on the first assembly pallet, the first assembly pallet being located within the work envelope of the first assembly robot during the step of utilizing the first assembly robot. 27. The method as claimed in claim 26 wherein the assembly area includes a third assembly station including a second assembly robot, the second assembly robot having a work envelope, the first assembly robot partially assembling the parts on the first assembly pallet and wherein the method further comprises the steps of: (r) automatically transferring the first assembly pallet from the first assembly station to the third assembly station; (s) utilizing the second assembly robot to assemble the parts on the first assembly pallet into the first subassembly, the first assembly pallet being located within the work envelope of the second assembly robot during the step of utilizing the second assembly robot; and repeating steps (r) through (s) for each assembly. 28. The method as claimed in claim 27 further comprising the steps of: storing a third set of the parts within the work envelope of one of the first and second assembly robots; and utilizing the one of the first and second assembly robots to pick and place at least one of the third set of parts into the first subassembly. 29. The method as claimed in claim 27 wherein the first assembly pallet is transferred along a guide track and wherein the first and second assembly robots are located on opposite sides of the guide track to assemble first and third subassemblies at predetermined locations on the first assembly pallet from the parts on the first assembly pallet. 30. The method as claimed in claim 25 further comprising the steps of: unloading the assembly from the second assembly pallet at the unload station; and storing the assembly at a predetermined location in a second storage area. 