A component insertion tool having an electric motor which is connected to a drive shaft having an orbitally vibrating head. The component is placed in the head and positioned over the correct location on a printed circuit board. The tool is turned on and the head orbitally moves the component slightly as the component and tool are pressed toward the circuit board to insert the component properly in the board. A spring allows the head to retract while the component is pressed into contract with the board.
Claims I claim: 1. A component insertion tool comprising a housing, retainer means carried by said housing for holding a component having legs during insertion of the component legs through accommodated holes in a board member, means for oscillating said retainer means relative to said housing to cause vibratory movement of said component and corresponding legs, release means for releasing said component from said holder after insertion of said components legs into said holes, a guide means within said housing for accommodating a shaft shiftable between an inward and an outward position, said shaft carrying said retainer means, and a lock mechanism engageable with said shaft to secure said shaft in said outward position. 2. The insertion tool of claim 1 including a means for activating said oscillating means simultaneously with the disengagement of said lock mechanism to permit said shaft to shift into its incurred position. 3. The insertion tool of claim 2 wherein said means for activating said oscillating means includes a switch having its actuating lever in shiftable contact with said lock mechanism, said oscillating means being an electric motor. 4. A component insertion tool comprising a housing, retainer means carried by said housing for holding a component during insertion of the component's legs through accommodating holes in a printed circuit board, means for oscillating said retainer means relative to said housing to cause movement of said component and corresponding legs, release means for releasing said component from said holder after insertion of said legs into said holes, said release means includes a platform carried by said housing and means for accommodating shiftable movement of said retaining means toward said housing to release said component from said retainer means upon contacting said platform, said retainer means including parallel bars spaced so as to frictionally hold said component between said bars by slightly compressing said component legs as said retainer is pressed onto said component, a guide means within said housing for accommodating a shaft shiftable between an inward and an outward position, said shaft carrying said retainer means, and a lock mechanism engageable with said shaft to secure said shaft in its outward position. 5. The insertion tool of claim 4 including a means for activating said oscillating means simultaneously with the disengagement of said lock mechanism to permit said shaft to shift into its inward position. 6. The insertion tool of claim 4 wherein said means for activating said oscillating means includes a switch having its actuating lever in shiftable contact with said lock mechanism. 