In a robotic assembly system including a robotic device composed of a base member, a plurality of movable members and joint mechanisms coupling the members in a sequence extending from the base member such that a first one of the movable members is supported by the base member and is rotatable relative to the base member about a respective axis and each of the other movable members is supported by, and rotatable about a respective axis relative to, a respective preceding movable member in the sequence, with the last movable member in the sequence being an end member for supporting a workpiece which is to be brought to a selected position relative to a fixed body by movement along a reference plane associated with the body, the selected position corresponding to a set of reference angular positions each of which defines an angular position of a respective movable member about the respective axis thereof, the joint mechanisms are controlled by a computer system coupled thereto in such a manner that one of the movable members is rotated in direct response to the force with which the workpiece is being pressed against the reference plane while each of the other movable members is rotated about is respective axis in a manner to bring the workpiece to the selected position while displacing the workpiece generally along the reference plane and pressing the workpiece against the reference plane with a force approaching a selected value.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. In a robotic assembly system including a robotic device composed of a base member, a plurality of movable members and joint means coupling the members in a sequence extending from the base member such that a first one of the movable members is supported by the base member and is rotatable relative to the base member about a respective axis and each of the other movable members is supported by, and rotatable about a respective axis relative to, a respective preceding movable member in the sequence, with the last movable member in the sequence being an end member for supporting a workpiece which is to be brought to a selected position relative to a fixed body by movement along a surface defining a reference plane associated with the body, the selected position corresponding to a set of reference angular positions each of which defines an angular position of a respective movable member about the respective axis thereof; computer driven displacement means coupled to the joint means for rotating each movable member about the respective axis thereof in a manner to bring the workpiece to the selected position while displacing the workpiece generally along the reference plane and pressing the workpiece against the surface defining the reference plane with a force approaching a selected value; first monitoring means associated with the end member and coupled to the displacement means for producing a signal representative of the force with which the workpiece is being pressed against the reference plane; and second monitoring means coupled to the joint means and the displacement means for providing signals indicating the current angular position of each movable member about the respective axis thereof, the improvement wherein said displacement means comprise means coupled to said joint means for effecting rotation of only one of said movable members in direct response to the signal produced by said first monitoring means. 2. A system as defined in claim 1 wherein said displacement means comprise speed limiting means associated with said one of said movable members for limiting the speed of rotation of said one movable member. 3. A system as defined in claim 1 wherein said displacement means further comprise means coupled to said joint means for effecting rotation of each said movable member other than said one movable member in response to a respective signal from said second monitoring means. 4. A system as defined in claim 3 wherein said displacement means further comprise control means for decoupling the response of each of said other movable members to an associated signal produced by said second monitoring means from the response of said one movable member to the signal produced by said first monitoring means. 5. A system as defined in claim 4 wherein said control means comprise means for supplying to said joint means of each of said other movable members a movement control signal dependent on a bias signal proportional to the difference between the actual angular position and the reference angular position of said one movable member. 6. A system as defined in claim 5 wherein the movement control signal is a second order function of the bias signal. 7. A system as defined in claim 1 wherein said displacement means comprise circuit components having respectively different functions and respectively different signal bandwidth capabilities adapted to the respective functions. 8. A system as defined in claim 1 wherein said displacement means comprise selection means coupled for selecting said one movable member from among said plurality of movable members. 9. A system as defined in claim 8 wherein said selection means are coupled in said displacement means for selecting as said one movable member that movable member whose rotation causes said workpiece to trace an arc which conforms most closely to the normal to said reference plane at said selected position. 10. A system as defined in claim 9 wherein said selection means are coupled for selecting said one movable member from among those of said plurality of movable members whose axes of rotation are furthest removed from said selection position. 