A capacitance liquid sensor for a filtration station for a robotic liquid analyzer detects conclusion of the fluid filtration step by return of the capacitance in the station to its original value.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A sensor for a filtration station for sensing when filtration of a liquid has completed, independently of the time required for the liquid to be filtered, by detecting when the liquid has finished passing through the filter in the filtration station, comprising: (a) a first electrode supportable substantially adjacent the filter in such a station; (b) a second electrode positioned substantially adjacent said first electrode; and (c) monitoring means including capacitance electronics means connected to said electrodes for determining the base inter-electrode capacitance of said electrodes before such liquid is present at said electrodes, and for subsequently indicating when substantially all of the liquid being filtered has passed through the filter by detecting when the inter-electrode capacitance has returned substantially to said original base capacitance, independently of the time required for the liquid to pass through the filter. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said second electrode is positioned just below the filter. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising means between said electronics for supporting such a filter substantially therebetween for filtering the liquid as it flows past said electrodes through the filter. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said first electrode is configured for removably supporting a filter-containing vessel therein. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said first electrode is configured for removably supporting a filter-containing crucible therein. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said filtration station further comprises means for supporting an inverted container of liquid therein above the filter in the station. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said filtration station further comprises means for applying a vacuum beneath the filter in the station for accelerating the filtration of the liquid through the filter. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 further comprising means for terminating said vacuum substantially when said monitoring means indicates that the liquid filtered has passed through the filter. 9. For use in a robotic analyzer, a capacitative liquid sensor for a filtration station for automatically sensing when filtration of a liquid has completed, independently of the time required for the liquid to be filtered, by detecting when the liquid has finished passing through the filter in the filtration station, comprising: (a) an upper electrode supportable substantially adjacent and with at least a portion thereof just above the filter in such a station; (b) a lower electrode positioned substantially adjacent the bottom of said upper electrode and just below the filter; (c) means incorporated in said upper electrode for removably supporting a filter-containing crucible therein; (d) means for supporting an inverted container of liquid in the station above such a crucible; (e) means for applying a vacuum beneath the filter in the station for accelerating the filtration of the liquid through the filter; (f) monitoring means including capacitance electronics means connected to said electrodes for determining the base inter-electrode capacitance of said electrodes before such liquid is present at said electrodes, and for subsequently indicating when substantially all of the liquid being filtered has passed through the filter by detecting when the inter-electrode capacitance has returned substantially to said original base capacitance, independently of the time required for the liquid to pass through the filter; and (g) means for terminating said vacuum substantially when said monitoring means indicates that the liquid being filtered has passed through the filter. 10. A method for sensing when filtration of a liquid has completed in a filtration station, independently of the time required for the liquid to be filtered, by detecting when the liquid has finished passing through the filter in the filtration station, comprising: (a) determining the base inter-electrode capacitance of first and second electrodes supportable substantially adjacent the filter, before such liquid is present at the electrodes, the second electrode being positioned substantially adjacent the first electrode; and (b) after such liquid is present at the electrodes, subsequently indicating when substantially all of the liquid being filtered has passed through the filter by detecting when the inter-electrode capacitance has returned substantially to the original base capacitance, independently of the time required for the liquid to pass through the filter. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein the second electrode is positioned just below the filter. + 12. The method of claim 10 further comprising removably supporting a filter-containing vessel in the first electrode. 13. The method of claim 10 further comprising removably supporting a filter-containing crucible in the first electrode. 14. The method of claim 10 further comprising supporting an inverted container of liquid above the filter in the station. 15. The method of claim 10 further comprising applying a vacuum beneath the filter in the station for accelerating the filtration of the liquid through the filter. 16. The method of claim 15 further comprising terminating the vacuum substantially when the liquid being filtered has passed through the filter. 17. A capacitative method for use in a robotic analyzer filtration station for automatically sensing when filtration of a liquid has completed, independently of the time required for the liquid to be filtered, by detecting when the liquid has finished passing through the filter in the filtration station, comprising: (a) with capacitance electronics means connected to upper and lower electrodes supportable substantially adjacent the filter, determining the base inter-electrode capacitance of the electrodes before such liquid is present at the electrodes, the upper electrode having at least a portion thereof just above the filter, and the lower electrode being positioned substantially adjacent the bottom of the upper electrode and just below the filter; (b) removably supporting a filter-containing crucible in the upper electrode; (c) supporting an inverted container of liquid in the station above the crucible; (d) applying a vacuum beneath the filter in the station for accelerating the filtration of the liquid through the filter; (e) after such liquid is present at the electrodes, subsequently indicating when substantially all of the liquid being filtered has passed through the filter by detecting when the inter-electrode capacitance has returned substantially to the original base capacitance, independently of the time required for the liquid to pass through the filter; and (f) terminating the vacuum after the inter-electrode capacitance has returned substantially to the original base capacitance. 