A paint or other protective coating removal method involving the use of reciprocal motion ultrasonic frequency mechanical energy applied to the coating by a variety of tool and abrasive substrate members in the company of surface preparation agents such as coolant, heating, softening, and/or abrasive agents. The invention is particularly applicable and disclosed in terms of, protective coating removal from aircraft such as is often necessary for replacement or in the reutilization of aircraft with different identification markings. The coating removal method is environmentally and human operator safe in comparison with presently used coating removal methods such as abrasive blasting and chemical solvent removal.
Claims I claim: 1. A method for safely removing the paint layer from a physical damage susceptible painted surface comprising the steps of: exciting a shaped edge scraping tool with reciprocal motion ultrasonic frequency kinetic energy; holding said scraping tool edge in pressured contact with said painted surface; and moving said ultrasonic energy excited scraping tool edge into successive areas of said paint layer while maintaining ultrasonic energy force transmitting contact between said tool and said paint layer and sliding contact between said tool and said damage susceptible surface. 2. The method of claim 1 further including the step of changing the hardness of said paint prior to the application of said shaped edge ultrasonic excited tool. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein said changing hardness step includes altering the temperature of said paint layer. 4. The method of claim 2 further including the step of communicating abrasive material with the interface of said paint and said scraping tool. 5. The method of claim 3 wherein said changing hardness step includes exposing said paint layer to heating fluid. 6. The method of claim 3 wherein said changing hardness step includes exposing said paint layer to cooling fluid. 7. The method for removing protecting coating material from the surface of an aircraft comprising the steps of: pretreating the aircraft coating material with a removal promoting agent; engaging a small region of the coating with a stress concentrating ultrasonic frequency vibratory motion energized tool member, said engaging including also sliding minimal energy transferring bearing of said tool member upon said aricraft surface; urging said tool member along said aircraft surface in continuing sliding motion relationship therewith and in persisting ultrasonic motion engaging relationship with the disintegrating and receding edge of said protective coating; and removing the disintegrated and loosened coating material from the field of coating engagement. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein said pretreating includes exposing the protective coating to a flow of pretreatment fluid. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein said pretreating step includes changing the hardness of said coating. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein said pretreating step includes changing the temperature of said coating. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein said pretreating step includes cooling the protecting coating. 12. The method of claim 10 wherein said pretreating step includes heating the protecting coating. 13. The method of claim 8 wherein said pretreatment fluid is a chemical reactant. 14. The method of claim 8 wherein said pretreatment step and said removing step employ the same fluid flow. 15. The method of claim 7 further including the step of supplying abrasive material to the field of coating engagement. 16. The method of claim 7 wherein said urging step includes moving said tool member and the locus of said engaging with mechanical movement apparatus. 17. The method for abrasive removal of protective coating material from the surface of an aircraft comprising the steps of: engaging a small region of the coating with ultrasonic frequency vibrating abrading material, said engagement including applying a force normal to the aircraft surface and urging said abrading material and said coating into intimate contact by way of said normal force; moving the region of abrading engagement over said aircraft surface in response to accomplished abrading; dispersing spent abrading material and removed coating material from the field of said engaging with a flowing fluid. 18. The method of claim 17 further including the step of adding additional abrading material during the course of said engaging step. 