A digital robot control includes a position/velocity microprocessor control and a torque microprocessor control for each of multiple robot axes. Digital position, velocity and motor current feedback signals are generated from motor sensor signals for use in making microprocessor control calculations. Another motor sensor generates an overlimit signal when motor temperature rises above a limit value to indicate excessive motor current. The torque microprocessor makes a backup motor energy calculation from the feedback motor current signal from each joint motor and compares the result to a stored motor energy limit. The robot is shut down if either limit is exceeded.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A digital control for a robot having a plurality of arm joints, said control comprising: an electric motor constituting a joint motor for driving each of the robot arm joints; a power amplifier operable to supply drive current to each joint motor; each joint motor having digital feedback control loop means operable at a predetermined sampling rate and including digital position and velocity control loops driving a digital torque control loop in accordance with digital position commands to generate digital motor voltage commands for controlling the associated power amplifier; means for sensing the motion of the each joint motor and for generating corresponding digital position and velocity feedback signals for control calculations in said position and velocity control loops; means for generating digital signals representative of the respective joint motor drive currents for control calculations in said torque control loop; means for sensing motor temperature and for generating an overtemperature signal when a predetermined motor temperature is exceeded indicating excessive motor current flow; energy monitoring and evaluating means independently determining the energy applied to each joint motor from the historical digital representation of motor current; means for comparing the calculated energy for each joint motor to a predetermined energy limit for that motor and for generating an overlimit signal when that limit is exceeded; and means for shutting down robot motor energization when said overtemperature or overlimit signal is generated. 2. A digital robot control as sets forth in claim 1 wherein the motor torque energy limit is based on motor capability. 3. A digital robot control as set forth in claim 1 wherein the motor torque energy limit is less than the motor capability limit and is based on a predetermined use condition. 4. A digital robot control as set forth in claim 3 wherein the predetermined use condition is based upon operating limitations specified for motor operation. 5. A digital robot control as set forth in claim 1 wherein said energy monitoring and evaluating means generates a scalar proportional to the electrical power from the squared value of each current feedback sample, averages the power scalar values over a predetermined time period, and filters the averaged scalar to generate as an output said calculated energy for each motor. 6. A digital robot control as set forth in claim 1 wherein the following algorithm is employed in the energy calculation: 7. A digital robot control as set forth in claim 1 wherein each of said motor torque control loops includes torque servo control means having microprocessor means for generating motor voltage commands from torque commands and motor current feedback signals; another servo control means having another microprocessor means included in each of said motor velocity control loops and generating torque commands in response to position and velocity commands and position and velocity feedback signals; and said torque microprocessor means including said energy monitoring means and said comparing means. 8. A robot comprising: an arm having a plurality of joints; an electric motor for driving each of the robot arm joints; a power amplifier operable to supply drive current to each motor; each motor having digital feedback control loop means operable at a predetermined sampling rate and including digital position and velocity control loops driving a digital torque control loop in accordance with digital position commands to generate digital motor voltage commands for controlling the associated power amplifier; means for sensing the motion of each motor and for generating corresponding digital position and velocity feedback signals for control calculations in said position and velocity control loops; means for generating digital signals representative of the respective motor drive currents for control calculations in said torque control loop; means for sensing motor temperature and for generating an overtemperature signal when a predetermined motor temperature is exceeded indicating excessive motor current flow; energy monitoring means, determining independently of the sampling rate, the energy applied to each motor from the digital representation of motor current; means for comparing the calculated energy for each motor to a predetermined energy limit for that motor and for generating an overlimit signal when that limit is exceeded; and means for shutting down robot motor energization when said overtemperature or overlimit signal is generated. 9. A robot as set forth in claim 8 wherein said energy monitoring means generates a scalar proportional to the electrical power from the squared value of each current feedback sample, averages the power scalar values over a predetermined time period, and filters the averaged scalar to generate as an output said calculated energy for each motor. 10. A robot as set forth in claim 8 wherein each of said motor torque control loops includes torque servo control means having microprocessor means for generating motor voltage commands from torque commands and motor current feedback signals; another servo control means having another microprocessor means included in each of said motor velocity control loops and generating torque commands in response to position and velocity commands and position and velocity feedback signals; and said torque microprocessor means including said energy monitoring means and said comparing means. 