In order to manipulate semiconductor wafers with high functional reliability, a tactile sensor based wafer handling apparatus designed to attach to a commercially available industrial robotic arm is herein described. The apparatus has three rod-like projections called fingers, one finger of which is extendable, the other which are fixed. All fingers are instrumented with strain gauge sensors in order to allow the monitoring of all forces applied to the fingers during wafer handling operations. All sensors provide proportional data. The wafer handling apparatus enables a monitoring computer to direct the motions of a satisfactorily equipped robot arm to operate in the following modes of operation. Force controlled grasping of the wafer can be provided to insure adequate grasp for transport and to limit forces exerted on the wafer. Force monitoring while releasing a wafer can be provided to insure safe hand off to another device or surface thus minimizing the likelihood of dropping a wafer. Proportional adaptive control of robot motions necessary can be provided to align wafers extremely closely to process carrier surfaces. Proportional adaptive control of robot motions necessary to guide the gripping apparatus can be provided for balanced contact with the edge of a wafer. Force monitoring can be provided for the purpose of detecting collisions with object or humans during transport of a wafer.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A semiconductor wafer gripping apparatus for use with a robotic arm and a monitoring computer for controlling the robotic arm and semiconductor wafer gripping apparatus, comprising: an extendable finger member having gripping means attached to the extensible end of said extendable finger member for engaging the outer peripheral edge of a semiconductor wafer; at least one nonextendable arm disposed substantially co-planar to said extendable finger member, each of said at least one nonextendable arm having gripping means for engaging the outer peripheral edge of a semiconductor wafer attached to the end of said nonextendable arm, said gripping means of said extendible finger member and said gripping means of said at least one nonextendable arm being substantially co-planar; a housing, said extendable finger member being operably mounted in and substantially co-planar with said housing and extensible therefrom; at least one deformable spring, said at least one deformable spring coupling said at least one nonextendable arm to said housing; and at least one strain gauge coupled to each of said at least one deformable spring, said strain gauge being coupled electrically to the monitoring computer used to control the extensible movement of said extendable finger member and directing the motions of the robotic arm. 2. The gripping apparatus of claim 1 further comprising at least one strain gauge coupled to said extendable member, said strain gauge providing an output signal when force is exerted on said finger member. 3. A gripping apparatus for engaging a generally circular planar material comprising: at least three gripping means, said at least three gripping means further comprising at least one extensible member and at least one fixed member disposed substantially co-planar therewith; structure means coupled to each of said gripping means for controlling contact with said material, said structure means being substantially co-planar for grasping a generally circular planar material; means for controlling motion of said gripping means to accommodate substantially planar materials of varying diameters; sensor means coupled to at least one of said at least three gripping means for controlling movement of at least one of said at least three gripping means in response to a force exerted on said generally circular planar material; and deformable spring means for coupling said at least one fixed member to said sensor means. 4. The gripping apparatus of claim 3 further including second sensor means coupled to at least one of said gripping means for detecting a force having a component perpendicular to a plane formed by said at least three gripping means. 5. Apparatus for use with a robotic arm for handling semiconductor wafer workpieces comprising: a housing structure; at least three members extending from said housing structure at least one of said at least three members being extensibly and operably secured in said housing and capable of co-planar movement therewith; coupling means for coupling each of said at least three members to said housing structure, said coupling means including deformable spring means coupled to each of said at least three members and sensing means, coupled to said deformable spring means, for determining a force exerted on at least one of said at least three members; and extension means for imparting extensible and co-planar movement to said at least one of said at least three members being extensibly and operably secured in said housing relative to said apparatus. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 when said apparatus has a predetermined position relative to a workpiece, said extension means causing said members to engage said workpiece. 7. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein said said sensing means includes a strain gauge coupled to said deformable spring means. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 further including control apparatus, said control apparatus stopping operation of said extension means when parameters of said strain gauge predetermined values. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 further including at least a second strain gauge coupled to said other member, parameters of said second strain gauge indicating when contact is made with a body. 10. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein a workpiece can be positioned, and placed in a predetermined position relative to a workpiece carrier in response to said second strain gauge parameters. 