A robotic pipe crawling device comprises two three-wheel modules pivotally connected at their centers, each having one idler wheel and two driven wheels. Each module comprises an idler yoke and a driveline yoke chassis with parallel laterally spaced rectangular side plates, the idler side plates being pinned at one end to the chassis and the idler wheel mounted on the other end. The driveline side plates are pinned to the chassis and the drive wheels are rotatably mounted one at each end. A motor at each end of the chassis pivots the wheeled modules independently into and out of a wheel engaging position on the interior of the pipe and a drive motor carried by the driveline yoke drives the two drive wheels in opposite directions to propel the device. A motor mounted within each idler yoke allows them to pivot independently of the driveline yokes. A swivel joint in the chassis midsection allows each end to rotate relative to the other. The chassis may be extended with additional driveline yokes. In addition to a straight traverse, the device is capable of executing a "role sequence" to change its orientation about its longitudinal axis, and "L" , "T", and "Y" cornering sequences. Connected with a computer the device can "learn" a series of axis control sequences after being driven through the maneuvers manually.
Claims We claim: 1. A self-propelled vehicle for movement along the interior surface of a pipe comprising; a wheeled lead module and a wheeled trailing module pivotally to form a linearly articulated structure, each wheeled module having one idler wheel and two drive wheels adapted for rolling engagement with the interior surface of the pipe, each of said wheeled modules being pivotable independently into and out of a wheel engaging position on the interior surface of the pipe, motor means carried for driving said drive wheels to move said vehicle linearly inside a pipe, and said idler wheels being operative to track the interior surface of the pipe ahead of and behind said modules to guide said vehicle around turns in the pipe. 2. A self-propelled vehicle according to claim 1 including a longitudinal chassis with said modules pivotally connected on opposite ends thereof, and means for securing said drive wheels at a position relative to said chassis to engage the interior surface of said pipe with sufficient pressure to assure adequate frictional contact with said interior surface for moving said vehicle inside the pipe. 3. A self-propelled vehicle according to claim 2 in which said chassis is of a non-articulated construction and maintains said modules in a fixed orientation relative to each other. 4. A self-propelled vehicle according to claim 2 in which said motor means carried by said chassis and rotates said two drive wheels in opposite directions. 5. A self-propelled vehicle according to claim 2 in which each said module comprise a generally rectangular driveline yoke pivotally connected intermediate its ends to one end of said chassis for pivotal movement relative thereto and said drive wheels rotatably mounted one at each end of the driveline yoke, and an idler yoke pivotally connected at one end to one end of said chassis and said idler wheel rotatably mounted at the opposite end of the idler yoke. 6. A self-propelled vehicle according to claim 5 in which said drive wheels each have a drive gear operatively secured thereto, said motor means comprises a drive motor mounted within said driveline yoke and having an output shaft with a gear thereon operatively engaging said drive gear to rotate said drive wheels in opposite directions. 7. A self-propelled vehicle according to claim 6 in which said motor is a reversible motor operative to move said vehicle into or out of said pipe. 8. A self-propelled vehicle according to claim 6 including an elongate rod rotatably mounted within said driveline yoke and operatively connected to said drive motor to be rotated thereby, a gear secured at each end of said rod and operatively engaged with a mating gear secured on each drive wheel such that said drive wheels will rotate in opposite direction upon operation of said drive motor. 9. A self-propelled vehicle according to claim 8 in which said gear at each end of said elongate rod comprises a worm gear, and said worm gear is operatively engaged with a worm wheel gear secured to each said drive wheel. 10. A self-propelled vehicle according to claim 8 in which said drive motor is operatively connected to said elongate rod through a gearbox. 11. A self-propelled vehicle according to claim 5 in which said idler yoke is adjustably secured to said driveline yoke at selective angles for pivotal movement therewith. 12. A self-propelled vehicle according to claim 5 in which said idler yoke is pivotally connected to said chassis for pivotal movement relative to said driveline yoke. 13. A self-propelled vehicle according to claim 5 in which said driveline yoke and said idler yoke are each formed of parallel laterally spaced rectangular plate members defining side walls thereof. 14. A self-propelled vehicle according to claim 5 in which said chassis, said driveline yoke and said driveline yoke each formed of parallel laterally spaced rectangular plate members defining side walls thereof. 15. A self-propelled vehicle according to claim 5 in which said drive wheels and said idler wheel have tires constructed of material having a low coefficient of friction, and low stiffness. 16. A self-propelled vehicle according to claim 5 in which said drive wheels and said idler wheel have tires constructed of material having a high coefficient of friction, high abrasion resistance, and high stiffness. 17. A self-propelled vehicle according to claim 5 in which the axial distance from the pivot connection to the axis of said idler wheel is greater than the axial distance between the axis of the said drive wheels such that the idler wheel stance is greater than the drive wheel stance in the wheel engaged position to reduce the tendency of the vehicle to corkscrew when traversing the pipe. 18. A self-propelled vehicle according to claim 1 including a longitudinal chassis with said modules pivotally connected on opposite ends thereof, said motor means being carried by said chassis for rotatably driving said two drive wheels in opposite directions, and second motor means carried by said chassis for pivoting said wheeled modules independently into and out of a wheel engaging position on the interior surface of the pipe. 19. A self-propelled vehicle according to claim 18 in which said second motor means comprises a pivot motor mounted within said chassis and having an output shaft with a drive gear thereon, and a gear secured at the' pivotal connection of each said module and operatively engaged with said pivot motor drive gear whereby said wheeled modules may be pivoted independently into and out of a wheel engaging position on the interior surface of the pipe upon operation of said pivot motor. 20. A self-propelled vehicle according to claim 19 in which said drive gear on the output shaft of said pivot motor comprises a worm gear, and said worm gear is operatively engaged with a worm wheel gear secured to each wheeled module about its pivot connection. 21. A self-propelled vehicle according to claim 19 in which said pivot motor is operatively connected to said gear secured at the pivotal connection through a gearbox. 22. A self-propelled vehicle according to claim 18 in which each said module comprise a generally rectangular driveline yoke pivotally connected intermediate its ends to one end of said chassis for pivotal movement relative thereto and said drive wheels rotatably mounted one at each end of the driveline yoke, and an idler yoke pivotally connected at one end to one end of said chassis and said idler wheel rotatably mounted at the opposite end of the idler yoke. 23. A self-propelled vehicle according to claim 22 in which said second motor means comprises a drive motor mounted within said driveline yoke and having a drive gear on its output shaft, an elongate rod rotatably mounted within said driveline yoke and operatively connected to said drive motor to be rotated thereby, a gear secured at each end of said rod and operatively engaged with a mating gear secured on each drive wheel such that said drive wheels will rotate in opposite direction upon operation of said drive motor. 24. A self-propelled vehicle according to claim 23 in which said gear at each end of said elongate rod comprises a worm gear, and said worm gear is operatively engaged with a worm wheel gear secured to each said drive wheel. 25. A self-propelled vehicle according to claim 23 in which said drive motor is operatively connected to said elongate rod through a gearbox. 26. A self-propelled vehicle according to claim 22 said idler yoke is adjustably secured to said driveline yoke at selective angles for pivotal movement therewith. 27. A self-propelled vehicle according to claim 22 in which said idler yoke is pivotally connected to said chassis for pivotal movement relative to said driveline yoke. 28. A self-propelled vehicle according to claim 27 in which said second motor means comprises a first pivot motor mounted within said chassis and having a drive gear on its output shaft, a gear secured at the pivotal connection of each said driveline yoke and operatively engaged with said pivot motor drive gear such that each driveline yoke will pivot independently into and out of a wheel engaging position on the interior surface of the pipe upon operation of said pivot motor, and a second pivot motor mounted within said idler yoke and having a drive gear on its output shaft operatively engaged with said gear at the pivotal connection of driveline yoke such that each idler yoke will pivot independently of said driveline yoke into and out of a wheel engaging position on the interior surface of the pipe upon operation of the second pivot motor. 29. A self-propelled vehicle according to claim 28 in which said drive gear on the output shaft of said first and second pivot motors comprise worm gears, and said worm gears are operatively engaged with a worm wheel gear secured to each driveline yoke about its pivot connection. 30. A self-propelled vehicle according to claim 28 in which said pivot motors are operatively connected to said gear secured at the pivotal connection through a gearbox. 31. A self-propelled vehicle according to claim 18 including; a swivel joint in said chassis intermediate the opposite ends to form a forward chassis section and a rearward chassis section whereby the forward and rearward chassis sections are capable of rotation about the longitudinal chassis axis relative to one another, and third motor means carried by said chassis for rotating said forward and rearward chassis sections about the longitudinal chassis axis relative to one another. 32. A self-propelled vehicle according to claim 31 in which said third motor means comprises a rotation motor mounted within one of said chassis section adjacent the swivel connection and having an output shaft extending through said swivel connection with a drive gear on the output shaft, a gear secured in the other one of said chassis sections adjacent said swivel connection and operatively engaged with said rotation motor drive gear such that each chassis section will rotate about the chassis longitudinal axis relative to one another upon operation of said rotation motor. 33. A self-propelled vehicle according to claim 31 in which said drive gear on the output shaft of said rotation motor comprises a spur gear, and said spur gear is operatively engaged with a ring gear secured to said other chassis section. 34. A self-propelled vehicle according to claim 31 in which said rotation motor is operatively connected to said gear secured to said other chassis section through a gearbox. 35. A self-propelled vehicle according to claim 18 in which said chassis comprises a generally rectangular open frame member. 36. A self-propelled vehicle according to claim 18 in which said driveline yoke and said idler yoke are each formed of parallel laterally spaced rectangular plate members defining side walls thereof. 37. A self-propelled vehicle according to claim 18 in which said chassis, said driveline yoke and said driveline yoke each formed of parallel laterally spaced rectangular plate members defining side walls thereof. 38. A self-propelled vehicle according to claim 18 in which said drive wheels and idler wheel have tires constructed of material having a low coefficient of friction. 39. A self-propelled vehicle according to claim 18 in which said drive wheels and said idler wheel have tires constructed of material having a high coefficient of friction. 40. A self-propelled vehicle according to claim 18 in which the axial distance from the pivot connection to the axis of said idler wheel is greater than the axial distance between the axis of the said drive wheels such that the idler wheel stance is greater than the drive wheel stance in the wheel engaged position to reduce the tendency of the vehicle to corkscrew when traversing the pipe. 