A method of assembling parts in which, before actual assembly of the parts, the forces associated with a good assembly of parts and the forces associated with a faulty assembly of parts are identified to train a pattern of recognition signature analysis system. During assembly, the forces required to actually assemble the parts are measured and a determination is made by the system as to whether these forces are associated with a good assembly or a faulty assembly to determine if the assembled part should be accepted or rejected.
Claims I claim: 1. A method of assembling parts, including the steps of: sensing, at discrete time intervals before actual assembly of the parts, forces exerted on the parts corresponding to a good assembly and a faulty assembly; processing statistically the sensed forces to determine waveforms corresponding to the forces associated with a good assembly and the forces associated with a faulty assembly; detecting, at discrete time intervals, forces exerted on the parts during the actual assembly of the parts; processing statistically the detected forces to determine waveforms of the forces used during actual assembly of the parts; comparing the waveforms of the forces used during actual assembly of the parts to the waveforms corresponding to the forces associated with a good assembly and a faulty assembly to classify the waveforms of the forces used during actual assembly of the parts as those associated with a good assembly or those associated with a faulty assembly. 2. A method according to claim 1, wherein said step of processing the sensed forces includes the step of employing a maximum likelihood statistical technique to form the waveforms corresponding to the forces associated with a good assembly and the forces associated with a faulty assembly. 3. A method according to claim 2, wherein said step of processing the detected forces includes the step of employing a maximum likelihood statistical technique to form the waveform of the actual forces used during assembly of the parts. 4. A method according to claim 3, further including the step of assembling the parts with an assembly robot having an end effector for holding the parts with a plurality of degrees of motion. 5. A method according to claim 4, wherein said step of processing statistically the sensed forces and said step of processing statistically the detected forces includes the step of using a computer to perform the required computations. 