A digital robot control employs planning and trajectory programs which generate the trajectory plan and trajectory position commands with the use of an acceleration profile and a deceleration profile selected from at least square wave and sine wave profiles.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A digital control for a robot having a plurality of arm joints, said control comprising: a plurality of electric motors, one motor for driving each of the plurality of robot arm joints; a power amplifier operable to supply drive current to each motor; feedback control loop means for ech joint motor including at least digital position and velocity control loops operable at a predetermined sampling rate to control the associated power amplifier; digital control means for generating position commands for said feedback control loops means in accordance with predefined moves set forth in a robot position command generating program means; said position command generating program means including planning progam means for generating for the position commands a time profile including acceleration, slew and deceleration time segments for implementing each robot program command; means for computing a slew time from a slew velocity; means for computing an acceleration time from equations for a preselected one of a plurality of acceleration profiles; means for computing a deceleration time from equations for a preselected one of a plurality of deceleration profiles; said position command generating program means further including trajectory program means for computing trajectory position commands for said feedback control loop means in accordance with the time profile applicable to the current move segment; said trajectory program means computing said position commands from the preselected acceleration profile equations during acceleration and from the preselected deceleration equations during deceleration. 2. A digital control as set forth in claim 1 wherein a sinusoidal profile is included as one of the acceleration profiles and as one of the deceleration profiles. 3. A digital control as set forth in claim 1 wherein a sinusoidal profile and a square wave profile are included in the acceleration profiles and in the deceleration profiles. 4. A digital control as set forth in claim 2 wherein the following equation is employed to compute said trajectory position commands during sine wave acceleration: sinusoidal profile ##EQU4## and the following equation is employed to compute said trajectory position commands during sine wave deceleration: sinusoidal profile ##EQU5## where: y=(t-tt+t.sub. d), tt=(ta+ts+td-t) and ta=acceleration time, t=current time, ts=slew time, td=deceleration time. 5. A digital control as set forth in claim 4 wherein a square wave profile is also included in the acceleration and deceleration profiles and the following equation is employed to compute said trajectory position commands during square wave acceleration: square wave and the following equation is employed to compute said trajectory position commands during square wave deceleration: 6. A robot comprising: an arm having a plurality of joints; an electric motor in a plurality of motors for respectively driving each of the plurality of robot arm joints; a power amplifier operable to supply drive current to each motor; feedback control loop means for each joint motor including at least digital position and velocity control loops operable at a predetermined sampling rate to control the associated power amplifier; digital control means for generating position commands for said feedback control loop means in accordance with predefined moves set forth in a robot position command generating program means; said position command generating program means including planning program means for generating a time profile including acceleration, slew and deceleration time segments for implementing each robot program command; means for computing a slew time from a slew velocity; means for computing an acceleration time from equations for a preselected one of a plurality of acceleration profiles; means for computing a deceleration time from equations for a preselected one of a plurality of deceleration profiles; said position command generating program means further including trajectory program means for generating trajectory position commands for said feedback control loop means in accordance with the time profile applicable to the current move segment; said trajectory program means computing position commands from the preselected acceleration profile equations during acceleration and from the preselected deceleration equations during deceleration. 7. A robot as set forth in claim 6 wherein a sinusoidal profile is included as one of the acceleration profiles and as one of the deceleration profiles. 8. A robot as set forth in claim 6 wherein a sinusoidal profile and a square wave profile are included in the acceleration profiles and in the deceleration profiles. 