The refurbishing process permits an overlay to be formed on a casting to repair cracks, distortions and the like as well as to build up undersized sections. During refurbishing, a plasma arc is established under an electric current of less than 30 amps to form a shallow pool of molten metal on a casting. Powdered metal is delivered slightly above the molten pool and, subsequently, the melted powder and molten pool solidify to an overlay having a high integrity, cast structure which is metallurgically bonded to the casting with minimal dilution.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A process of refurbishing a superalloy casting comprising the steps of generating a plasma arc between an electrode and a section of the casting to be refurbished under an electric current of less than 30 amps to melt a surface of said section into a shallow pool of molten metal without detrimentally heating the casting; delivering a controlled amount of welding powder of the same composition as the superalloy casting into said arc at a point slightly above said molten pool for heating and delivery to said molten pool; and subsequently solidifying the delivered powder and molten pool into an overlay, having a high integrity cast structure metallurgically bonded to said casting and being of the same composition as the casting. 2. A method as set forth in claim 1 which further comprises the step of entraining the welding powder in a carrier gas for delivery into said arc and shielding said arc with inert gas to protect said pool from contamination. 3. A method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the electric current is supplied by a constant current power supply with a frequency response of 500 Hz or greater. 4. A method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the electric current is pulsed between a main current level and a lower auxiliary current level with said main current level being sufficient to form said molten pool and to fuse the delivered powder and said auxiliary current level being sufficient to permit solidification of said pool and melted powder to form the overlay. 5. A method as set forth in claim 4 wherein said current pulses have a duration of from 10 to 40 milliseconds and the average current level in the range of from 3 to 20 amps. 6. A method as set forth in claim 1 wherein said amperage is in a range of from 0.5 to 30 amps. 7. A method as set forth in claim 1 wherein said section of the casting is characterized in being a crack. 8. A method as set forth in claim 1 wherein said section of the casting is characterized in being undersized relative to the remainder of the casting. 9. A process of refurbishing a superalloy casting comprising the steps of generating a plasma arc between an electrode and a section of a casting of nickel-base superalloy material primarily strengthened by precipitation of a gamma prime phase, Ni.sub.3 (Al, Ti) to be refurbished under a electric current to melt a surface of said section into a shallow pool of molten metal without detrimentally heating the casting; delivering a controlled amount of welding powder of the same composition as the casting into said arc at a point slightly above said molten pool for heating and delivery to said molten pool; and subsequently solidifying the delivered powder and molten pool into an overlay having a high integrity cast structure metallurgically bonded to said casting and a high temperature strength for use in hot section structural applications. 10. A process of refurbishing a superalloy casting comprising the steps of generating a plasma arc between an electrode and a section of casting made of IN713C under an electric current of less than 30 amps to melt a surface of said section into a shallow pool of molten metal without detrimentally heating the casting; delivering a controlled amount of welding powder selected from the group consisting of IN713C and IN713LC into said arc at a point slightly above said molten pool for heating and delivery to said molten pool; and subsequently solidifying the delivered powder and molten pool into an overlay, having a high integrity cast structure, metallurgically bonded to said casting. 11. A process of refurbishing a superalloy casting comprising the steps of generating a plasma arc between an electrode and a section of a casting made of one of IN713C, IN738LC, IN100 and Rene 77 under an electric current of less than 30 amps to melt a surface of said section into a shallow pool of molten metal without detrimentally heating the casting; delivering a controlled amount of welding powder of the same composition as the casting into said arc at a point slightly above said molten pool for heating and delivery to said molten pool; and subsequently solidifying the delivered powder and molten pool into an overlay, in having a high integrity cast structure, metallurgically bonded to said casting. 12. A process as set forth in claim 11 wherein said casting is made of IN713C and said powder is a modified version of IN713C with certain elements thereof that cause cracking sensitivity reduced to lower levels. 