A heat sink assembly to dissipate heat from electrical components to ambient surroundings is disclosed. The heat sink assembly of the present invention includes a housing having a mechanism for retaining electrical components within the housing. The electrical components include heat sink tabs. A mechanism is coupled with the housing and the heat sink tabs of the electrical components to dissipate heat from the electrical components to the ambient surroundings. Also, a mechanism is associated with the assembly to couple the assembly to a circuit board or the like.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A heat sink assembly comprising: a housing including a base adapted to be positioned adjacent to a circuit board and defining a plane, one or more walls unitary with said base, said oneor more walls movable from a first position to a second position wherein said one or more walls are substantially transverse to said base, one or more cavities in said one or more walls adapted to receive one or more electrical components when said one or more walls are in said first position, said one or more electrical components including heat sink tabs; means for dissipating heat from said one or more electrical components to ambient, said heat dissipating means coupled with said housing and said electrical components heat sink tabs such that said one or more electrical components are received in said one or more cavities when said one or more walls are in said second position so that said one or more electrical components are enclosed by said housing and said heat sink tabs transfer heat from said electrical components to said heat dissipating means; and means for coupling said assembly with the circuit board or the like. 2. The heat sink assembly according to claim 1 wherein said means for dissipating heat comprises a first portion inserted into said housing for contacting said heat sink tabs of said electrical components and a second portion including one or more fins for dissipating heat from said electrical components to ambient surroundings. 3. The heat sink assembly according to claim 2 wherein said one or more fins include a plurality of serrations for increasing the surface area of said fins which, in turn, increases heat dissipation. 4. The heat sink assembly according to claim 2 wherein a pair of pins project from said first portion for enabling insertion of said assembly into said circuit board. 5. The heat sink assembly according to claim 1 wherein said housing further comprises a pair of walls pivotally hinged to said base plate. 6. The heat sink assembly according to claim 5 wherein said pair of walls oppose one another in an assembled position such that a gap is formed between said members to enable said heat dissipating means to be positioned between said pair of members. 7. The heat sink assembly according to claim 6 further comprising means for clamping said walls and heat dissipating means together so that said heat sink tabs of said one or more electrical components are in intimate contact with said heat dissipating means, said clamping means positioned about said pair of walls. 8. The heat sink assembly according to claim 5 wherein said base plate includes a plurality of apertures for accepting leads from said electrical components for retaining and aligning said leads for insertion into said circuit board. 9. A heat sink assembly comprising: a housing formed from nonconductive material, said housing including a base plate adapted to be positioned adjacent to a circuit board and defining a plane, and one or more members extending from said base plate, said one or more members unitarily formed with said base plate and movable with respect to said base plate form a first position to a second position wherein said one or more members are substantially perpendicular to said base plate, said one or more members including one or more cavities for receiving one or more electrical components when said one or more members are in said first position, said electrical components including heat sink tabs; means for dissipating heat associated with said heat sink tabs of said electrical components and coupled with said housing such that said one or more electrical components are received in said one or more cavity and sandwiched between said one or more members and said heat dissipating means when said one or more members are in said second position so that said one or more electrical components are enclosed by said one or more members and said heat sink tabs transfer heat from said electrical components to said heat dissipating means; and means for coupling said assembly with the circuit board or the like. 10. The heat sink assembly according to claim 9, said heat dissipating means further comprising one or more fins for dissipating heat from said electrical components to ambient surroundings. 11. The heat sink assembly according to claim 10 wherein said one or more fins include a plurality of serrations for increasing surface area of the fins which, in turn, increases heat dissipation. 12. The heat sink assembly according to claim 9 wherein said housing further comprises hinge means securing a pair of members to said base plate. 13. The heat sink assembly according to claim 12 wherein said pair of members oppose one another in an assembled position such that a gap is formed between said members to enable said heat dissipating means to be positioned between said pair of members. 14. The heat sink assembly according to claim 13 further comprising means positioned about said pair of members for clamping said members and heat dissipating means together so that said heat sink tabs are in intimate contact with said heat dissipating means. 15. The heat sink assembly according to claim 12 wherein said base plate includes a plurality of conical apertures for accepting leads from said electrical components for aligning said leads for insertion into said circuit board. 16. The heat sink assembly according to claim 9 further comprising insulating material positioned between said heat sink tabs and said heat dissipating means for electrically insulating said electrical component from said heat dissipating means while conducting heat from said heat sink tabs to said heat dissipating means for dissipating heat from said electrical components to said heat dissipating means. 17. A heat sink assembly comprising: a housing including a base adapted to be positioned adjacent to a circuit board and in a plane substantially parallel to the circuit board and a pair of unitary walls pivotally connected to opposing sides of said base, said one or more walls pivoting from a first position to a second position wherein said pair of walls are substantially perpendicular to said base, one or more cavities in each of said walls adapted to receive one or more electrical components with heat sink tabs when said pair of walls are in said first position; a heat dissipating member coupled with said base and extending in a plane substantially transverse to the base between said walls in said second position; said one or more electrical components positioned within said housing such that said one or more electrical components are received in said one or more cavities of said walls when said walls are in said second position substantially parallel to said heat dissipating member and said heat sink tabs abutting said heat dissipating member so that heat transfers from said electrical components to said heat dissipating member; said walls including members for securing the walls with one another when parallel with said heat dissipating member in said second position; a mechanism for clamping said walls to said heat dissipating member; and a member for coupling said assembly with the circuit board or the like. 