An electronic pneumatic limb control system for a pneumatically actuated flexible limb is disclosed. The system includes a computer for providing signal data corresponding to a plurality of successive events of air introduction and non-air introduction, respectively, into the flexible limb during a predetermined limb movement. The computer signal data provides for time-varying the air introduction to the non-air introduction for the successive events thereof during the limb movement so as to minimize oscillation and overshoot. The system also provides for successive events of air exhaustion and non-air exhaustion to return the limb to a position of rest after the predetermined limb movement.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A controller for a pneumatically powered flexible limb characterized in that it provides for rapid movement of said limb from a first position to a second position with minimal overshooting of said second position, and comprising: computer means for providing signal data corresponding to a plurality of successive events of air introduction and non-air introduction, respectively, into said flexible limb for a predetermined limb movement from a first position to a second position, wherein duration of non-air introduction relative to air introduction permits the effects of inertia to dissipate, and further wherein said signal data provides for varying the air introduction time in relative to the non-air introduction time for said successive events and the time periods each consisting of an air introduction event and a non-air introduction event are variable during at least a portion of the flexible limb movement from said first position to said second position; means for converting said time-varying signal data from said computer means into corresponding time-varying electrical signals; and valve means pneumatically connected to said flexible limb and electrically connected to said converting means for successively opening to introduce pressurized air into said flexible limb and closing to prevent air introduction into said limb for said plurality of successive events according to said ime-varying electrical signals from said converting means. 2. A controller for a pneumatically-powered flexible limb according to claim 1 wherein said signal data from said computer means generally provides for a greater air introduction time in relation to non-air introduction time for said successive events at the beginning of the limb movement than said events at the end of the limb movement. 3. A controller for a pneumatically-powered flexible limb according to claim 1 wherein said computer means is a suitably programmed personal computer. 4. A controller for a pneumatically-powered flexible limb according to claim 1 wherein said converting means comprises a digital-to-discrete converter. 5. A controller for a pneumatically-powered flexible limb according to claim 1 wherein said valve means comprises a first solenoid valve for air introduction and a second solenoid valve for air exhaustion. 6. A controller for a pneumatically-powered flexible limb according to claim 1 wherein said valve means includes means to exhaust air from said limb, and said computer means provides signal data corresponding to a plurality of successive events of air exhaust and non-air exhaust, respectively, for a predetermined limb movement from said second position to a position of rest, and wherein said signal data provide for varying the air exhaustion time in relation to the nn-air exhaustion time for said successive events during said movement from said second position to said position of rest. 7. A controller for a pneumatically-powered flexible limb according to claims 3, 4 or 5 wherein a dedicated line extends from said computer through said converter and to each of said valves. 8. A method for controlling a pneumatically-powered flexible limb so as to provide for rapid movement of said limb from a first position to a second position with minimal overshooting of said second position, comprising the steps of: providing computer signal data corresponding to a plurality of successive events of air introduction and non-air introduction, respectively, into said flexible limb for a predetermined limb movement from a first position to a second position, wherein duration of non-air introduction relative to air introduction permits the effects of inertia to dissipate, and further wherein said signal data provide for varying the air introduction time in relation to the non-air introduction time for said successive events and the time periods each consisting of an air introduction event and a non-air introduction event are variable during at least a portion of the flexible limb movement from said first position to said second position; converting said time-varying computer signal data into corresponding time-varying electrical signals; and utilizing said time-varying electrical signals to control pneumatic valve means in order to successively open to introduce pressurized air into said flexible limb and to close to prevent air introduction into said flexible limb for said plurality of successive events according to said time-varying electrical signals. 9. A method for controlling a pneumatically-powered flexible limb according to claim 8 wherein said computer signal data generally provides for a greater air introduction time in relation to non-air introduction time for said successive events at the beginning of the limb movement than said events at the end of the limb movement. 10. A method for controlling a pneumatically-powered flexible limb according to claim 8 wherein said computer signal data is provided by a suitably programmed personal computer. 11. A method for controlling a pneumatically-powered flexible limb according to claim 8 wherein said computer signal data is converted into corresponding electrical signals by a digital-to-discrete converter. 12. A method for controlling a pneumatically-powered flexible limb according to claim 8 wherein said valve means include means to exhaust air from said limb, and said computer signal data are provided corresponding to a plurality of successive events of air exhaust and non-air exhaust, respectively, for a predetermined limb movement from said second position to a position of rest, and wherein said signal data provide for varying the air exhaustion time in relation to the non-air exhaustion time for said successive events during said movement from said second position to said position of rest. 