Ultrasonic apparatus for use in detecting an object having a transducer. The transducer has an array of at least one element coupled directly into air. The apparatus also includes a transmitter which may be multi-channel, a receiver which may be multi-channel, a transmit receive switch, and a computer for causing operation of said transmit receive switch to cause sequential supplying of pulses of energy from the transmitter to the element or elements of the transducer and for receiving energy received by the transducer. The element or elements of the transducer are provided with a roughened surface to produce high frequency ultrasonic energy.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. In a method for treating a metallic element for use in a capacitive-type transducer having first and second plates in ultrasonic apparatus for generating ultrasonic energy, providing the element with an optically shiny surface and chemically etching the surface so as to roughen the surface whereby that surface can be utilized for generating ultrasonic energy when said metallic element is used as one of the first and second plates of the capacitive-type transducer. 2. A method as in claim 1 wherein the element is formed of an aluminum alloy and wherein the etching is carried out by use of an etch of ferric chloride. 3. A method as in claim 2 wherein said aluminum alloy is 5086-T-116 and wherein said ferric chloride etch is formed of approximately two-thirds ferric chloride and approximately one-third water. 4. A method as in claim 3 wherein said elements are treated with said ferric chloride solution for periods ranging from 30 seconds to approximately three minutes. 5. A method as in claim 4 wherein said etching step is carried out at room temperature and at atmospheric pressure. 6. A method for treating a metallic element for use in a capacitive-type transducer having first and second plates in ultrasonic apparatus for generating ultrasonic energy comprising the steps of providing a planar surface on the element, and forming sandpaper-like grooves in said planar surface for producing ultrasonic energy when said element is used as one of the first and second plates of the capacitive-type transducer. 7. A method as in claim 6 wherein said element is formed of an aluminum alloy. 