A manipulative device capable of remote operation has a nozzle head having one or more nozzles adapted to eject a fluid stream having a component at right angles to the axis of the nozzle head. There is a flexible elongate hose for connecting the nozzle head to a source of remote operation, such as a joystick arrangement. Also valves capable of operation by tendons parallel to the flexible elongate hose enables spatial positioning of the nozzle head by remote differential operation of the tendons. The device may be used in various applications for example borehole mining, paint spraying etc.
Claims I claim: 1. A manipulative device capable of remote operation comprising in combination: a nozzle head having an axis and one or more nozzles adapted to eject a fluid stream having a component at right angles to said axis, a flexible elongate member connecting said nozzle head to a reference point, said nozzle having means for controlling said fluid streams through said nozzles, tendons operably connected to said fluid control means, said tendons being adapted to follow the curvature of said flexible elongate member so as to impart feedback of said nozzle head position, whereby in use, remote differential operation of said tendons enables spatial positioning of said nozzle head, by said one or more fluid streams. 2. A manipulative device according to claim 1 having a plurality of equally spaced nozzles. 3. A manipulative device according to claim 1 having a single circumferential nozzle. 4. A manipulative device according to claim 3 in which the single circumferential nozzle comprises a first cone shaped section and a second cone shaped section, the first section being capable of floating on the second section to form a circumferential fluid outlet. 5. A manipulative device according to claim 1 in which the nozzle or nozzles have a component of velocity enabling translational movement of the nozzle head. 6. A manipulative device according to claim 1 having separate means for translational movement. 7. A manipulative device according to claim 1 in which the flexible elongate member is a flexible inextensible hose, a system of bellows or convoluted tubing. 8. A manipulative device according to claim 7 in which the tendons are located by guide rings or a tube on the periphery of the flexible inextensible hose. 9. A manipulative device according to claim 7 in which the flexible elongate member comprises a plurality of flexible sections, each of which is capable of separate control by nozzles and tendons. 10. A manipulative device according to claim 1 having means for remote operation of the tendons comprising a joystick system. 11. A manipulative device according to claim 1 having means for remote operation comprising electric, hydraulic or pneumatic linear positioners controllable remotely from a joystick unit or a software driven control unit. 12. A manipulative device according to claim 1 in which the fluid controlling means are valves. 13. A manipulative device according to claim 1 having a cutting nozzle. 