A robotic system in which robot devices are assembled from an inventory of elements responsive to a work request. The robotic devices include robots incorporating two-dimensional, linear motors movable along a stationary platen and coupled to various power sources through flexible, extendible, umbilical cords. The robot devices are selectively connectible with manipulators for holding parts to be assembled and/or for performing operations on such parts and/or members to which such parts are mounted. The devices are automatically assembled by selecting elements capable of performing the tasks necessary to complete the work request as well as selecting those elements which result in optimization of the assembly time and avoid collisions and cord tangling in moving along the paths traversed by the robot devices during their assembly. A multiplicity of assembled robotic devices may perform the tasks associated with the work request under control of an electronic system permitting simultaneous operations while preventing collisions and cord tangling. Robotic device assembly, disassembly and job tasks based on work requests can be performed simultaneously in any combination.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for simultaneously performing a plurality of functions comprising: a work surface having a plurality of sites for supporting work pieces; a plurality of robots each being movable in mutually perpendicular directions along a common surface positioned adjacent to said work surface; a plurality of feeder stations for dispensing items at an outfeed location accessible to said robots; said robots including means for picking up an item from a feeder station and for releasing said item upon command; and means for controlling movement of said robots including means for selecting movement paths to avoid collisions between and among said robots. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein said controlling means for collision avoidance includes: means for mathematically generating a path of movement of a robot; means for storing data comprising mathematical representations of each object within the area of movement of said robots; and intersection determining means for determining if the perimeter portions of a path presently being generated intersects with any of the perimeter portions of any of the objects and for delaying movement of a robot whenever any of the perimeter portions of a path intersect with any of the perimeter portions of any of the objects. 3. The system of claim 2 wherein said path generating means comprises means for storing a request signal for the generation of a path and means for periodically energizing said path generating means to initiate a path generating operation until a non-colliding path is indicated. 4. The system of claim 3 further comprising means for concealing a request signal when a non-colliding path has been generated. 5. The system of claim 4 further comprising means for storing the mathematical representation of a path in said storing means responsive to determination of a non-colliding path by said intersection determining means. 6. The system of claim 2 further comprising means for preventing the storage of a generated path when the intersection determining indicates collision will occur between a path being generated and at least one of the stored paths. 7. The system of claim 1 wherein said controlling means further comprises: means for generating a movement request signal; means responsive to the request signal for generating a plurality of equations defining the perimeter of a region through which the robot is requested to move; means for comparing the generated equations with equations generated to represent the perimeters of regions in the work space previously allocated to other robots and to feeder stations to determine if the equations being compared intersect; and means for generating a moving signal for the robot when no intersections are present. 8. The system of claim 7 further including means to prevent generation of the moving signal responsive to the presence of an intersection of any of the compared equations. 9. The system of claim 7 further comprising means responsive to a moving signal for storing the equations of the robot for comparison with the equations representing regions to be occupied by another robot in the system. 10. A system for controlling a plurality of robots comprising: a work space; holder means arranged in close proximity to the work space for holding at least two elements, said elements including means for releasable coupling to a robot; means for storing data representing the work locations and the characteristics and location of said robots and said element; and selection means responsive to a job request for selecting from said data storing means the robot and an element to be releasably coupled thereto, said selection means including means for determining the distances between the robots and elements and means for selecting the robot and element to be coupled which will require the least travel time for moving the selected robot to the selected element and including means for controlling the selected robot and element to perform the requested job. 11. The system of claim 10 further comprising means for inserting data into said storing means to indicate those items which have been allocated to perform a jot to prevent consideration of the selected items for a requested job. 12. The system of claim 10 further comprising: each element having a coupling end and a manipulative end; job function performing devices provided at the manipulative end of each element; at least one power source for selectively powering the job function performing devices; a plurality of coupling lines in each of said robots for selectively coupling the power source to a variety of different elements; each element having a line for coupling to an associated line in a robot to which the element is coupled; each job function performing device being coupled to the line in its associated element; means for connecting the line in an element with one of said robot coupling lines when said element coupling end is coupled to the robot; and means for selectively coupling the power source to the line in said robot which is connected to the job function performing device through the line in said element. 13. A system of the type described in claim 10 wherein said storing means further includes stored data indicating the type of coupling for each element and the size of said elements and the type of coupling for each robot and the spatial location of each robot coupling; and means utilizing said stored information to determine the spatial location of a point on the element coupled to the robot. 14. A system of the type described in claim 10 having a plurality of work sites wherein said data storing means includes stored information relating to said work sites; means for selectively providing "convering" data for the stored information of selected ones of said work sites and means responsive to the stored information of work sites associated with covering data, and means responsive to said "covered" data for preventing selection of an element and a robot for performing an operation at predetermined "covered" work sites. 15. The system of claim 10 further comprising a plurality of work stations each having a plurality of interconnectable robots and elements associated with each work station; means for creating a record of the functions performed at each work station; means for generating a record request for each work station; and means at each work station for transferring the created record to the work stations requesting a record. 16. The system of claim 15 wherein said means for generating a record further includes means for indicating those activities capable of being performed but not completed at the work station generating the record. 17. The system of claim 15 wherein at least one of said work stations includes means responsive to said record for initially performing tasks not completed at the work station sending the record prior to the tasks normally performed at said receiving work station. 18. A method for operating a plurality of resources including robots selectively interconnectable with elements for respectively grasping and releasing items, and performing operations on items; feeders for feeding items; and including means for moving the robots over work stations; memory means for storing spatial information and characteristics of said robots, elements, feeders and items, said method including the steps of: examining the stored spatial information and characteristics for the resources to be interconnected responsive to a request indicating the type of job to be performed; creating perimeter portions of a path proposed for moving each robot to the elements and feeders; storing the path data of the proposed path in the memory means for each robot; and moving the robots along the associated stored paths. 19. The method of claim 18 further comprising the steps of comparing at least the perimeter portions of each path being determined with the perimeter portions representing objects and/or paths in the area of movement of said robots; and preventing a robot from moving along the path associated therewith when the last-mentioned path intersects with any previously stored path. 20. The method of claim 18 further comprising the steps of creating perimeter portions of an alternative proposed path when the previously proposed path intersects with previously stored data representing objects and paths. 21. A method for operating a plurality of resource including robots selectively interconnectable with elements for respectively grasping and releasing items for placement on a work surface including the sr of: generating a proposed path of movement for a robot which path comprises points identifying the perimeter of the area enclosed by said path; comparing perimeter portions of said proposed path with perimeter portions of other areas within the total area of movement of the robots which areas define the perimeters of objects and the perimeters of a path within which such objects are moved; and moving the robot along the proposed path in the event that none of the perimeter portions of the proposed path intersect with any of the perimeter portions of the occupied areas. 22. The method of claim 21 wherein the perimeter portions being compared comprise lines lying in a common plane which common plane corresponds to the work area over which the robots move. 23. The method of claim 21 further comparing data representing the position of an end of the robot closest to the work surface with data representing the height of the objects positioned within the area of movement of the robots to determine if a collision will occur and permitting movement of the robot along the proposed path in the event that the comparison indicates that no collision will occur. 24. The method of claim 23 further comprising the steps of comparing the position of the end of the robot closer to the work surface relative to the height of any objects located in the space within the area of movement of the robot at a point of intersection between the path perimeter portions of the proposed path with the perimeters of the areas occupied by said objects. 25. A method for performing operations at a work station by controlling two or more robots to perform said work substantially simultaneously wherein said work station is provided with a group of movable robots and a group of manipulators releasably attachable with said robots and arranged at predetermined locations accessible by said robots, said method comprising the steps of: selecting one of the robots and one of the manipulators from the group of robots and the group of manipulators responsive to a work request whereby the robot and manipulator selected are separated by the shortest distance relative to the other available robots and manipulators; creating a first proposed path of movement of the selected robot to the selected manipulator; comparing the first proposed path with previously selected paths for moving other robots and with regions occupied by objects within the range of movement of said robots; and moving the selected robot to the selected manipulator in the event that no collisions are indicated as a result of the comparison step. 26. The method of claim 25 further comprising the step of coupling the selected robot to the selected manipulator; generating a second proposed path for moving the selected robot now combined with the selected manipulator to initiate performance of a task; comparing the second proposed path with previously developed paths and with areas occupied by objects; and moving the combined selected robot and manipulator along said second proposed path when no collisions are indicated. 27. A system for simultaneously performing a plurality of functions comprising: a work surface having a plurality of sites for supporting work pieces; a plurality of robots each being movable in mutually perpendicular directions along a common surface position adjacent to said work surface; a plurality of tool cribs positioned adjacent said work surface, each crib including means for positioning and supporting a plurality of tools for performing a variety of different work activities; storage means for storing data identifying all of the robots and tools including the characteristics and work capabilities of each; means responsive to a work request for searching said storage means to locate robots and tools which are capable of being combined and which are further capable of performing the desired work activity; and means for allocating the selected components to prevent their subsequent selection upon the occurrence of a subsequent work request. 28. The system of claim 27 further comprising: means for generating a first group of equations representing the perimeter of a region which the allocated robot must move to obtain the allocated tool; said storage means including data corresponding to a second group of equations representing regions in the work surface occupied by elements; means for determining if said first group of equations intersect with said second group of equations; means for generating a moving signal in the absence of an intersection; and means for moving the robot to the location in the tool grip of the allocated tool responsive to said moving signal. 29. The system of claim 28 further comprising means for preventing movement of the robot to the allocated tool in the presence of any intersection of the compared equations. 30. The system of claim 28 further comprising: means for queuing a work request in the absence of available elements for creating a compound capable of performing the activities of the queued work request a compound being comprised of a robot and tool connectable therewith; and means responsive to the presence of a queued work request for disassembling a previously allocated compound responsive to completion of a work request, said means including further means for identifying the characteristics and location at which the tool is returned in the tool crib to thereby be available for a subsequent compound which is suitable for performing the activities called for by the queued work request. 31. A system for simultaneously performing a plurality of functions comprising: a work surface having a plurality of sites for supporting work pieces; a plurality of robots each being movable in mutually perpendicular directions along the common surface position adjacent to said work surface; a plurality of feeder stations for dispensing items at outfeed locations accessible to said robots; said robots including means for picking up an item from a feeder station and for releasing said item upon demand; means for controlling movement of said robots including means for selecting movement paths to avoid collisions between and among said robots; said path moving and selection means including means for generating positions along said path which constitute safe points; means responsive to a work request for generating equations representing a region through which a robot must move to perform a work function; means for determining if said equations intersects with previously stored equations representing presently occupied regions within the work surface; and means responsive to the presence of an intersection to permit movement of the robot to said safe point. 32. A system of the claim 31 further comprising means responsive to the absence of any comparison means for enabling movement of said robot to a final destination. 33. The system of claim 32 further comprising means responsive to completion of a work activity for returning the robot to an initial starting point including means for removing the equations stored in the memory means representing the previously occupied region. 34. A method for producing robotic devices each comprised of a plurality of interconnectable elements which may be assembled by a microprocessor-based operating system including memory means, said method comprising the steps of: (a) requesting the introduction of data associated with each of said elements including spatial data representing locations of connections and operating devices, physical data such as size, weight, operating speed and the like and logical data such as operating and control signals and the like; (b) supplying the data requested in step (a); (c) requesting the description of compounds which are composed of a plurality of interconnectable elements and the elements which may be used to create a compound when the data requested in step (a) has been supplied in step (b); (d) supplying the data requested in step (c); (e) requesting the description of the positional data identifying the locations of the product to be worked on by the compounds defined hereinabove when the data requested in step (c) has bee supplied in step (d); (f) requesting data representing the jobs to be performed on the product when the data requested in step (e) has been supplied in step (f); and (g) employing the data supplied during steps (b), (d) and (f) to allocate elements to a compound and the N assembling the allocated elements upon receipt of a first job request. 35. The method of claim 34 wherein step (g) further comprises the step of operating the assembled compound to perform the requested job. 36. The method of claim 34 further comprising the step of storing data in said memory means for identifying the elements allocated for the compound responsive to the first job request; and preventing the selection of elements identified in said memory means is being allocated responsive to a subsequent job request. 37. The method of claim 36 further comprising the step of deallocating previously allocated elements for use in creating a new compound when there are insufficient unallocated elements available to create the compound necessary to perform the requested job. 38. The method of claim 26 wherein, in the event that a collision is indicated in the step of comparing the first proposed path, the step of moving the selected robot to the selected manipulator comprises repeating the selecting, creating, comparing, and moving steps for a robot and a manipulator other than those previously selected. 39. The system of claim 1 wherein said robots are each comprised of two-dimension linear motors each movable along a common planar surface positioned a spaced distance from said work surface. 40. The system of claim 39 wherein said common substantially planar surface is defined by a ferromagnetic member. 41. The system of claim 40 wherein said ferromagnetic member has a substantially planar surface provided with a grid-like pattern of grooves, forming a stator cooperating with said two-dimension linear motors. 