An automatic lead sensing and fine-forming system is disclosed for preparing the leads of electronic components so that they are ready to be inserted by robots into holes on printed circuit boards. The positions of the lead tips and the positions of the holes are sensed and compared to determine if any leads need to be bent. These leads are then bent and the force on the leads and their displacement are sensed and recorded during the process. The data recorded in then used for subsequent bendings, where necessary, for bending the leads to the target locations so that all the leads fit simultaneously into the holes. To simplify image processing, the lead tips are illuminated by light originating from substantially isotropic directions from locations substantially coplanar with the region of the lead tips. A telecentric lens system is used in the optical sensing of the position of the lead tips so that measurement of the distances between leads is unaffected by variations in the separation between the lead tips and the sensing device.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A device for illuminating a planar region comprising means for providing a thin sheet of light in substantially isotropic directions towards said planar region from locations substantially coplanar with the planar region so that only the portion of an object in or near the plane of the planar region and the locations is illuminated without illuminating the remaining portion of the object and, wherein said light-providing means comprises three or more light sources, each providing a thin planar light beam. 2. The device of claim 1, wherein said light-providing means comprises: three or more mirrors each at one of the locations and each for reflecting a planar light beam from a light source towards the planar region, said sources and mirrors being located so that the directions of the three or more thin planar light beams towards the planar region are approximately the isotropic directions. 3. The device of claim 2, wherein the three or more mirrors are substantially evenly spaced angularly around the planar region. 4. A device for illuminating a region comprising means for providing light in substantially isotropic directions towards said region from locations substantially coplanar with the regions so that only the portion of an object in or near the plane of the region and the locations is illuminated without illuminating the remaining portion of the object, wherein said light-providing means comprises: three or more light sources, each providing a light beam; and three or more mirrors each at one of the locations and each for reflecting a light beam from a light source towards the region, said sources and mirrors being located so that the directions of the three or more light beams towards the region are approximately the isotropic directions, wherein the three or more light sources each provides a light beam in the shape of a narrow sheet, and wherein the mirrors are so located that the three or more beams reflected towards the region are in the shape of narrow sheets substantially in or near the plane of the region and the locations. 5. A method for illuminating a planar region comprising providing a thin sheet of light in substantially isotropic directions towards said planar region from locations substantially coplanar with the planar region so that only the portion of an object in or near the plane of the planar region and the locations is illuminated without illuminating the remaining portion of the object, wherein means for providing said thin sheet of light comprises three or more light sources, each providing a thin planar light beam. 