A wire harness assembly arrangement acquires, prepares and routes various sections of wire by means of a wiring tool apparatus attached to a robotic manipulator. The tool apparatus moves coincident with an arm of the process controlled robotic manipulator and acquires the wire section through a front end portion. The first end of the wire section is fed into the tool apparatus and through a tail end portion of the tool apparatus. The next portion is wound around a spool member disposed within the tool apparatus and rotatable in response to a controlled motor operation. The front end portion is movable in relation to a wire feeding unit so that the wire section wound around the spool member is wound in a helical manner. The wire harness assembly arrangement can also include a strip/crimp station to prepare the acquired wire section for termination. The process controlled robotic manipulator then routes the acquired wire section along a predetermined path to form a part of the wire harness assembly. During the wire routing operation, the motor exerts a reverse torque on the spool member to prevent the wire section from springing off of the spool member.
Claims We claim: 1. An automatic wiring arrangement for assembling wire harnesses having a plurality of wire segments included therein, said automatic wiring arrangement comprising: a process controlled robot manipulator; means for selectively controlling said robotic manipulator to a plurality of discrete positions within a predefined work area; tool means connected to said robotic manipulator for coincident movement therewith, said tool means being effective, during a first step, for receiving one of the wire segments, and during a second step, for routing the wire segment within said work area; said tool means further including a spool member and winding means for winding the wire segment around said spool member; said tool means further including a first end portion movable in a direction parallel to the axis of rotation of said spool member such that said wire segment is wound on said spool member in a helical manner; and a tail end portion through which a tail end of said wire segment extends, said tail end portion being disposed in said tool member at an angle perpendicular to said first end portion. 2. An automatic wiring arrangement as set forth in claim 1 further comprising a means for feeding wire to said tool means upon demand, said wire feeding means further being aligned with said first end portion of said tool means. 3. An automatic wiring arrangement as set forth in claim 1 further comprising motor means cooperatively engaging said spool member so as to rotate said spool member in a first direction during a wire acquiring condition, and to exert a reverse torque on said spool means during a wire routing condition. 4. An automatic wiring arrangement as set forth in claim 1 wherein said first end portion is disposed on a carriage member which movable along at least one guide rail disposed on an end of said tool means, said carriage member being movable along an axis parallel to the axis of rotation of said spool member. 5. An automatic wiring arrangement as set forth in claim 2 further comprising a clamping means disposed within said tool means for fixing a wiring segment in a predetermined position when said tool means is being moved relative to said wire feeding means. 6. An automatic wiring arrangement as set forth in claim 3 wherein said motor means exerts a greater force on said spool member during such wire routing condition than during such wire acquiring condition. 7. An automatic wiring arrangement as set forth in claim 1 wherein said tail end portion extends from the central axis of said spool member. 8. An automatic wiring tool apparatus operable in conjunction with a robotic manipulator for assembling wire harnesses having a plurality of wire segments included therein, said wiring tool apparatus comprising: a housing attachable to the robotic manipulator for coincident movement therewith; a first end portion having a first nozzle opening through which the wire segment enters said tool apparatus; spool means disposed within said housing for receiving the wire segments thereon, said spool means being aligned with said first nozzle opening so as to receive the wire segments therethrough; winding means cooperatively engaging said spool means for rotating said spool means in a first direction to wind said wire segment around said spool means during a wire acquiring condition: said first end portion being movable relative to said spool means such that the wire segment is wound around said spool means in a helical manner; and a tail end portion through which an end of one of said wire segments can extend, said tail end portion being disposed in said wiring tool apparatus at an angle perpendicular to said first end portion. 9. An automatic wiring tool apparatus as set forth in claim 8 wherein said tail end portion extends from the central axis of said spool member. 10. An automatic wiring tool apparatus as set forth in claim 9 further comprising an extension elbow disposed internally of said spool member and effective such that said tail end portion can be aligned with said first end portion over such perpendicular angle. 11. An automatic wiring tool apparatus as set forth in claim 8 further comprising a gap portion having a predetermined length and being disposed between an internal end of said first end portion and said spool member such that during a wire acquiring operation, a wire feed member can be extended substantially thereover. 12. An automatic wiring tool apparatus as set forth in claim 8 further comprising means for clamping the wire segments against movement during certain movements of said wiring tool apparatus. 13. An automatic wiring tool apparatus as set forth in claim 8 further comprising a carriage member movable along at least one rail member disposed on said housing, said carriage member having disposed thereon, said first end portion for coincident movement therewith. 14. An automatic wiring tool apparatus as set forth in claim 13 further comprising means for locking said carriage member against movement following operation of said winding means. 