A break or leak in an optical fiber transmitting high power laser energy, at average power levels sufficient for material processing, is detected promptly and the laser beam delivery system shut down when the optical fiber begins to fail. Photo detectors monitor the laser power out of the fiber and injection power into the fiber, in particular the light intensities in the fiber input and output couplers. A difference in detector outputs, larger than a set threshold to account for inherent fiber losses, is an indication that a break or leak has occurred.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A laser beam delivery system comprising a laser having a wavelength of 1.06 micrometers or less which generates a high power laser beam, a single clad quartz optical fiber, an input coupler to shape said beam and inject laser energy into one end of said optical fiber, an output coupler to collect laser energy emerging from the other end of said optical fiber and focus said beam at a power density sufficient to perform industrial material processing, and an improved fiber break and leak detection system comprised of: means for monitoring injection laser power and power out of said optical fiber including first and second photo detectors to respectively sense light intensities inside said input and output couplers; means for comparing injection and output laser power levels and detecting a decrease in the latter that exceeds a set threshold and indicates the beginning of a break or leak in said optical fiber; and means for triggering a laser system shutdown upon detection of such a decrease in the laser output power level. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein said first and second photo detectors are remotely located and sensing optical fibers on said input and output couplers transmit the light intensities therein to said photo detectors. 3. The system of claim 2 wherein said comparing means is comprised of a comparator having an output signal that varies with the difference between outputs of said first and second photo detectors. 4. The method of promptly detecting a break or leak in a power optical fiber transmitting laser energy exceeding 400 watts of average laser power which is supplied by a laser through an input coupler and injected into one end of said fiber and delivered through an output coupler at the other end of said fiber to a workpiece to perform industrial material processing, comprising: monitoring with first and second photo detectors, which respectively sense light intensities inside said input and output couplers, the laser powers injected into and exiting said optical fiber; continuously monitoring the difference between photo detector outputs to detect a decrease in the exiting laser power due to a break or leak in said optical fiber; and shutting down said laser when said difference exceeds a preset level and said optical fiber is beginning to fail. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein said preset level to trigger laser shutdown takes into account inherent fiber losses which are a function of fiber core and cladding materials, fiber length, and laser wavelength. 