A new method and apparatus for fabrication or alignment of fixtures, jigs and structures is disclosed. The invention uses target points on one or more details which are referenced to the overall structure via targets on the details. These targets are monitored by a TV camera unit which is alternatively interfaced to a display for the human operator or a robot to provide position data. The interface may include input from a CAD system which allows display on robot coordinates to be offset by design data of the structure or a part to be located on it. While mainly envisioned for assistance in constructing fixtures for automobile assembly, the disclosed invention is widely useable for all types of construction including aircraft, bridges, boats, buses, houses, buildings and the like. A means for improving resolution of automatically servoed camera based systems is also disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for reading an automatic theodolite on-the-fly comprising the steps of: rotating the theodolite on which a camera is provided; imaging at least one target with the camera during rotation; determining the position of the theodolite when the target is imaged; and determining the position of the target from the known position of the theodolite and the image position of the target in the camera including the steps of determining a start position of the theodolite when the target is first imaged and determining an end position of the theodolite when the target is last imaged, and determining a midpoint position of the theodolite between the start position and end position which corresponds to an image target location in the center of the TV camera. 2. A method for reading a theodolite as claimed in claim 1 wherein said imaging step includes the initial determining of the presence of a target image before the other determining steps. 3. A method for reading a theodolite as claimed in claim 1 and further including the step of illuminating the target with a strobed light source to eliminate blur in the image of the target. 4. A method for reading a theodolite as claimed in claim 1 wherein said rotating step includes rotation at a known speed; and wherein said theodolite position determining step includes the reading of theodolite position by encoders at discrete intervals and the interpolating of the actual theodolite position between the discrete intervals during which the target position is determined. 5. A method for reading a theodolite as claimed in claim 4 wherein the rotating step includes rotation at a constant speed. 6. A method for reading a theodolite as claimed in claim 1 wherein said imaging step includes the step of initially applying a retroreflective target to an object which target is then imaged. 7. A method for reading an automatic theodolite on-the-fly comprising the steps of: rotating the theodolite on which a camera is provided at a known speed; imaging at least one target with the camera during rotation; determining the position of the theodolite when the target is imaged including the step of reading of theodolite position by encoders at discrete intervals; and determining the position of the target from the known position of the theodolite and the image position of the target in the camera including the step of interpolating of the actual theodolite position between the discrete intervals during which the target position is determined. 8. A method for reading a theodolite as claimed in claim 7 wherein said imaging step includes the initial determining of the presence of a target image before the other determining steps. 9. A method for reading a theodolite as claimed in claim 7 and further including the step of illuminating the target with a strobed light source to eliminate blur in the image of the target. 10. A method for reading a theodolite as claimed in claim 7 wherein said position determining step includes the steps of determining a start position of the theodolite when the target is first imaged and determining an end position of the theodolite when the target is last imaged, and determining a midpoint position of the theodolite between the start position and end position which corresponds to an image target location in the center of the TV camera. 11. A method for reading a theodolite as claimed in claim 7 wherein the theodolite position determining step is made at predetermined positions. 12. A method for reading a theodolite as claimed in claim 7 wherein the rotating step includes rotation at a constant speed. 13. A method for reading a theodolite as claimed in claim 7 wherein said imaging step includes the step of initially applying a retroreflective target to an object which target is then imaged. 