A walking beam conveyor (54) delivers drill bits (B), one at a time, into a feed position. A pushrod (52) moves a drill bit (B) from the feed position into the nosepiece (36) of a robot arm (28). The drill bit (B) enters the nosepiece (36) shank end first. The shank (84) enters into and is gripped by a collet (38) in the nosepiece (36). A stylus (66) is then lowered down onto the point end portion of the drill bit (B) and the drill bit (B) is rotated about its axis until the stylus (66) drops down to the bottom of the drill bit flute (70). Rotation is immediately stopped and the robot arm (28) is retracted and swung into a position of alignment with a drill bit holder (18) of a sharpening machine. The robot arm (28) is then extended to place the drill bit (B) into a collet (C) in the holder (18). The collet (C) is operated to grasp the drill bit (B) and the collet (38) in the nosepiece (36) is operated to release the drill bit (B). The holder (18) then moves in position to in turn move the point of the drill bit (B) into contact with a surface of a rotating grinding wheel (14). The drill bit (B) was rotated while in the nosepiece (36) to in that manner orient the point surfaces of the drill bit for proper contact with the grinding wheel (14). Oversized and undersized drill bits (B), and drill bits (B) with excessive material buildup, are detected and rejected.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Mechanism for feeding drill bits one at a time into a drill bit holder of a drill bit sharpener which includes a grinding wheel, said holder serving to position the drill bit against the grinding wheel during grinding, said mechanism comprising: a drill bit carrier swingable between a drill bit receiving position and a drill bit inserting position, said carrier including a collet for receiving the shank end of a drill bit when the carrier is in its drill bit receiving position; means for inserting a drill bit into the collet when the drill bit carrier is in its drill bit receiving position and closing the collet to grip said drill bit; means for then swinging the carrier from its drill bit receiving position into its drill bit inserting position, said drill bit being aligned with the drill bit holder when the carrier is in its drill bit inserting position; means for extending the collet endwise an amount sufficient to insert the drill bit into the drill bit holder, and then opening the collet to release the drill bit from the collet when the drill bit is in the drill bit holder, and then refracting the collet endwise; and means for moving the carrier back into its drill bit receiving position, for receiving another drill bit. 2. Mechanism according to claim 1, wherein the means for inserting a drill bit into the collet include a conveyor for moving the drill bit into a position of spaced axial alignment with the collet, and pushrod means extendible against the point end of the drill bit, for moving the drill bit endwise from such position toward the collet, and its shank end into the collet. 3. Mechanism according to claim 2, wherein the conveyor is a walking beam conveyor which advances a plurality of drill bits sideways, one step at a time, to an end position on the conveyor, and said conveyor includes means mounting it for movement between an extended position, in which a drill bit at the end position is in said position of spaced axial alignment with the collet, and a retracted position in which the end position of the conveyor is spaced back from the region through which the pushrod means moves. 4. Mechanism according to claim 3, further comprising normally open gripper means positioned vertically above a midportion of a drill bit in the collet of the carrier, when the carrier is in its drill bit receiving position, means for inspecting a drill bit for an excessive build-up of material in its flutes, following its insertion into the collet of the carrier, and in response to a detection of excessive build-up of material, moving the carrier and the drill bit upwardly, to place the drill bit in the gripper, and means for closing the gripper on the drill bit, then opening the collet of the carrier, then retracting the carrier away from the drill bit, and then opening the gripper to allow the drill bit to drop out of 5. Mechanism according to claim 3, further comprising normally open gripper means positioned vertically above a midportion of a drill bit in the collet of the carrier, when the carrier is in its drill bit receiving position, means associated with the drill bit holder of the drill bit sharpener, for detecting an oversized drill bit delivered to it by the carrier, and in response to the presence of an oversized drill bit, operating the carrier to retain the drill bit in the carrier, and then swing the carrier back into its drill bit receiving position, placing the drill bit vertically below the gripper, and then moving the carrier and the drill bit upwardly to place the drill bit in the gripper, and means for closing the gripper on the drill bit, and then opening the collet of the carrier, then retracting the carrier away from the drill bit, and then opening the gripper to allow the drill bit to drop out of the gripper. 6. Mechanism according to claim 3, further comprising normally open gripper means positioned vertically above a midportion of a drill bit in the collet of the carrier, when the carrier is in its drill bit receiving position, means associated with the drill bit holder of the drill bit sharpener, for detecting an undersized drill bit delivered to it by the carrier, and in response to the presence of an undersized drill bit, operating the carrier to retain the drill bit in the carrier, and then swing the carrier back into its drill bit receiving position, placing the drill bit vertically below the gripper, and then moving the carrier and the drill bit upwardly to place the drill bit in the gripper, and means for closing the gripper on the drill bit, then opening the collet of the carrier, then retracting the carrier away from the drill bit, and then opening the gripper to allow the drill bit to drop out of the gripper. 7. Mechanism according to claim 1, comprising means for sensing a build-up in a flute portion of a drill bit when the drill bit is in the collet of the drill bit carrier and the drill bit carrier is in its drill bit receiving position, and reject means operable in response to an excessive build-up to remove the drill bit from the collet before the drill bit carrier moves into its drill bit inserting position. 8. Mechanism according to claim 1, comprising means associated with the drill bit holder of the drill bit sharpener, for detecting an oversized condition of a drill bit, while the drill bit is being inserted into the drill bit holder, and means causing a retention of such an oversized drill bit in the collet, so that such drill bit is carried by the carrier back into the drill bit receiving position, and reject means operable in response to an oversized drill bit being carried by the carrier back to the drill bit receiving position, for removing the drill bit from the collet, prior to the carrier being positioned to receive another drill bit. 9. Mechanism according to claim 1, comprising means associated with the drill bit holder of the drill bit sharpener, for detecting an undersized condition of a drill bit, while the drill bit is being inserted into the drill bit holder, and means causing a retention of such an undersized drill bit in the collet, so that such drill bit is carried by the carrier back into the drill bit receiving position, and reject means operable in response to an undersized drill bit being carried by the carrier back to the drill bit receiving position, for removing the drill bit from the collet, prior to the carrier being positioned to receive another drill bit. 