A non-contact, laser strain extensometer for use in materials testing utilizes a revolving laser beam to measure the separation of benchmarks placed on the specimen to be tested. The reflection of the laser beam from the benchmarks is focused on a photosensor to generate electronic pulses. The time duration between these pulses can be precisely measured using electronic counters. This time duration correlates with the distance separating the benchmarks. The revolving beam can be generated either by rotating polygonal mirror or an oscillating mirror.
Claims Having described the invention, what is claimed as new and secured by Letters Patent is: 1. In optical measurement apparatus for optically measuring deformation of a specimen under stress, the improvement comprising: A. marking means for marking the specimen with reflective benchmarks, B. scanning means for scanning an interrogating light beam across the specimen at a selected rate, so that light is reflected from said reflective benchmarks, C. photosensor means for receiving said light reflected from said benchmarks and for generating time-variant electronic pulses representative of said reflected light, D. time measurement means for measuring time between said pulses to provide a measure of separation between said benchmarks, and E. digital processor means, in electrical circuit with said scanning means, photosensor means, and time measurement means, for correcting geometric variances in measurement resulting from said scanning means. 2. In apparatus according to claim 1, the further improvement wherein said time measurement means includes A. clock means, responsive to said pulses, for generating a series of clock signals, and B. counter means, in electrical circuit with said clock means, for counting said clock signals produced by said clock means. 3. In apparatus according to claim 1, the further improvement wherein said scanning means includes a mirror element mounted for revolution. 4. In apparatus according to claim 3, the further improvement wherein said mirror element is a rotatable polygonal mirror. 5. In apparatus according to claim 4, the further improvement wherein A. said photosensor means includes reference photodetector means for detecting said interrogating light beam at a selected reference angle and generating in response thereto a reference signal, and B. said digital processor means includes means, responsive to said reference signal, for correcting geometric variances in measurement resulting from said rotatable polygonal mirror. 6. In apparatus according to claim 5, the further improvement wherein said digital processor means includes automatic calibration means, responsive to light reflected from fixed, reflective benchmarks on a reference specimen, said benchmarks having a known separation, for calibrating separation measurement of the optical measurement apparatus with respect to the known separation of the reference benchmarks. 7. In apparatus according to claim 1, the further improvement wherein said scanning means includes a plane mirror mounted for oscillation through a selected range of angles. 8. In apparatus according to claim 7, the further improvement wherein A. said photosensor means includes reference photodetector means for detecting said interrogating light beam at a selected reference angle and generating in response thereto a reference signal, and B. said digital processor means includes means, responsive to said reference signal, for correcting geometric variances in measurement resulting from said oscillating plane mirror. 9. In apparatus according to claim 8, the further improvement wherein said digital processor means includes automatic calibration means, responsive to light reflected from fixed, reflective benchmarks on a reference specimen, said benchmarks having a known separation, for calibrating separation measurement of the optical measurement apparatus with respect to the known separation of the reference benchmarks. 10. In apparatus according to claim 1, the further improvement wherein said marking means includes reflective benchmark elements arranged for removable mounting to selected points on the specimen. 