A wrist mechanism suitable for robotic manipulators comprising a first actuator for rotating a first yoke about a first axis, a first crossed shaft carried by the yoke, a second actuator for pivoting the first crossed shaft about a second axis, a second crossed shaft carrying a second yoke, an actuator means for causing rotation of the wrist mechanism about a third axis, highly rigid side plates supporting the first and second crossed shafts in bearings, highly rigid cross members rigidly interconnecting the side plates, and gears for transferring motion between the first and second crossed shafts to allow pivotal movement of an end effector carried by the second yoke in excess of 180.degree. about the second axis, and at least 180.degree. about the third axis, and rotation in excess of 200.degree. about the first axis.
Claims We claim: 1. A wrist mechanism suitable for robotic manipulators comprising first actuator means for rotating a first yoke about a first axis (W1), a first cross shaft, one shaft of which is mounted for rotation in bearings carried by arms of said first yoke, the other shaft of which has its ends mounted in bearings carried by a pair of spaced parallel side plates, second actuator means for pivoting said first cross shaft in said bearings about a second axis (W2), a second cross shaft having one shaft mounted in bearings carried by said side plates, the other shaft of which pivotally carries a second yoke adapted to carry an end effector, third actuator means for causing rotation of said wrist mechanism about a third axis (W3) coincident with the axis of said other shaft of said first cross shaft, cross members rigidly interconnecting said side plates, and gear means for transferring motion between said first cross shaft and said second cross shaft and for transmitting drive between said first yoke and said second yoke, whereby said third actuator means causes simultaneous rotation about said third axis and about an axis parallel to the axis of said second cross shaft said side plates, said cross members, said bearings and said gears being constructed and adjusted to provide high rigidity in said wrist mechanism, said side plates and said cross members being of such a configuration to allow pivotal movements of the end effector in excess of 180.degree. about said second axis and at least 180.degree. about said third axis, said first actuator being constructed to allow rotation in excess of 200.degree. about said first axis. 2. The wrist mechanism of claim 1, wherein said spaced side plates include one very rigid bearing carrying side plate and a lighter bearing carrying side plate interconnected by two intermediate cross members and a lower cross member shaped to allow free passage of the gears throughout the full range of motion of the wrist mechanism and also to accommodate the third actuator means between the side plates within the mechanism. 3. The wrist mechanism of claim 2, wherein said gear means for transferring motion between said first and second cross shafts are mounted on substantial bearing assemblies carried by first and second bearing holders formed integrally with the very rigid side plate, and the meshing of the bevel gears is adjusted by means of machined spacer washers to reduce the amount of backlash to a minimum thereby further improving the rigidity of the mechanism. 4. The wrist mechanism of claim 3, wherein said bevel gears are carried on said bearing holders. 5. The wrist mechanism of claim 1, wherein said actuators are hydraulic actuators having servo valves mounted directly on said actuators to reduce to a minimum the volume of hydraulic fluid carried by the hydraulic actuators thereby reducing the compliance of the wrist mechanism. 6. The wrist mechanism of claim 5, wherein the actuator for the W3 movement is carried inside the wrist mechanism thereby reducing the overall dimensions of the wrist mechanism. 7. The wrist mechanism of claim 1, further comprising service and signal lines extending from said first yoke to said end effector, said lines extending from one face of said yoke and entering a face of said end effector displaced by about 90.degree. to said one face of said yoke whereby said service and signal lines do not become entangled and do not encroach on the work space of the end effector. 8. The wrist mechanism of claim 3, wherein said first yoke includes a main pivot arm to which a first bevel gear is rigidly attached and through which a cross shaft is mounted in bearings, said cross shaft being rigidly mounted in an opening in an upper pivot shaft mounted in said bearings carried by said first bearing holder of said very rigid side plate and in bearings in said lighter side plate, a second bevel gear meshing with said first bevel gear and carried by bearings engaging the external surface of said first bearing holder, said second bevel gear also carrying a first segment gear extending adjacent and parallel to said very rigid side plate, a second segment gear meshing with said first segment gear and carried by a third bevel gear mounted on bearings engaging the outer surface of said second bearing holder, a lower pivot shaft carried by the bearings in said second bearing holder and in said auxiliary side plate, a stub axle rigidly carried in an opening in said lower pivot shaft and extending perpendicularly thereto, said stub axle carrying a bevel gear which meshes with said second bevel gear, third and fourth segment gears carried by said upper and lower pivot shaft and extending parallel to said lighter side plate, said second actuator means being mounted on said first yoke and engaging pivot means attached to said upper pivot shaft to pivot said wrist mechanism about an axis coincident with said cross shaft, said third actuator extending between said lower cross member and pivot means on said upper pivot shaft to pivot said wrist mechanism about an axis coincident with said upper pivot shaft, said second yoke being rigidly attached to said fourth bevel gear. 