A digital robot control includes a position/velocity microprocessor control and a torque microprocessor control for each of multiple robot axes. Digital position, velocity and motor current feedback signals are generated from motor sensor signals for use in making microprocessor control calculations. A backup velocity determination is made for each joint motor by the torque microprocessor from the motor current feedback, the motor command terminal voltage and the motor resistance and inductance. The robot is shut down if the difference between the feedback and backup velocity values exceeds a predetermined limit.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A digital control for a robot having a plurality of arm joints, said control comprising: an electric motor for driving each of the robot arm joints; a power amplifier operable to supply drive current to each motor; each joint motor having digital feedback control loop means operable at a predetermined sampling rate and including digital position and velocity control loops driving a digital torque control loop in accordance with digital position commands to generate digital motor voltage commands for controlling the associated power amplifier; means for sensing the motion of each joint motor and for generating corresponding digital position and primary velocity feedback signals for control calculations in said position and velocity control loops; means for generating digital signals representative of the respective joint motor drive currents for control calculations in said torque control loop; and backup velocity monitoring means independently determining the velocity of each joint motor from the motor current and terminal voltage and the motor inductance and resistance; and means for comparing said primary and backup velocity signals for each joint motor. 2. A digital robot control as set forth in claim 1 wherein means are provided for shutting down the robot operation if the difference between the primary and backup voltages for any joint motor exceeds a predetermined limit. 3. A digital robot control as set forth in claim 1 wherein the motor current and voltage values are average values computed for a predetermined time period next preceding the current control cycle. 4. A digital robot control as set forth in claim 1 wherein the following formula is employed in the backup velocity calculation: where: R=motor resistant [ohm] L=motor inductance [H] Vin=motor terminal voltage [V] Ke=motor Back-emf constant [V/rad/sec] w=motor velocity [rad/sec] i=motor current [A] 5. A digital robot control as set forth in claim 1 wherein each of said motor torque control loops includes torque servo control means having microprocessor means for generating motor voltage commands from torque commands and motor current feedback signals; and another servo control means having another microprocessor means included in each of said motor velocity control loops and generating torque commands in response to position and velocity commands and position and velocity feedback signals. 6. A digital robot control as set forth in claim 5 wherein said torque microprocessor means includes said backup velocity monitoring means and said other microprocessor means includes said comparing means. 7. A digital robot control as set forth in claim 6 wherein said other microprocessor means further includes means for shutting down the robot operation if the difference between the primary and backup voltages for any joint motor exceeds a predetermined limit. 8. A robot comprising: an arm having a plurality of joints; an electric motor for driving each of the robot arm joints; a power amplifier operable to supply drive current to each motor; each joint motor having digital feedback control loop means operable at a predetermined sampling rate and including digital position and velocity control loops driving a digital torque control loop in accordance with digital position commands to generate digital motor voltage commands for controlling the associated power amplifier; means for sensing the motion of each joint motor and for generating corresponding digital position and primary velocity feedback signals for control calculations in said position and velocity control loops; means for generating digital signals representative of the respective joint motor drive currents for control calculations in said torque control loop; and backup velocity monitoring means independently determining the velocity of each joint motor from the motor current and terminal voltage and the motor inductance and resistance; and means for comparing said primary and backup velocity signals for each joint motor. 9. A robot as set forth in claim 8 wherein means are provided for shutting down the robot operation if the difference between the primary and backup voltages for any joint motor exceeds a predetermined limit. 10. A robot as set forth in claim 8 wherein each of said motor torque control loops includes torque servo control means having microprocessor means for generating motor voltage commands from torque commands and motor current feedback signals; and another servo control means having another microprocessor means included in each of said motor velocity control loops and generating torque commands in response to position and velocity commands and position and velocity feedback signals. 