A description is given of a tactile sensor for measuring force with fine resolution which is based on a network of glass fiber optic interferometers. The counting of interference fringes as readout method makes available an inherently digital (incremental) output signal which allows the measured signal to be passed on optically free of interference to evaluation electronics and to data processing. In conjunction with a suitable elastic skin to accept the glass fiber network, the small glass fiber diameter (125 .mu.) and the user of the strain measurement technique employing glass fiber interferometers should make possible a tactile sensor comparable with the human sense of touch. The fields of application for such tactile sensors are robotics, prostheses and advanced controls at the man-machine interface.
Claims I claim: 1. A flat tactile sensor comprising at least one pair of fiberoptic interferometer-type sensing elements, each of said sensing elements including an input measuring arm having a sensing portion and an input end remote from the sensing portion thereof, an input light source for the input measuring arm at the input end thereof, an output measuring arm having a sensing portion and an output end remote from the sensing portion thereof and a readout measuring means at the output end of the output measuring arm thereof, each of said sensing elements including a monomode directional coupler for coupling the input and output measuring arms thereof, the sensing portions of the measuring arms of each of said sensing elements being substantially straight and being disposed in substantially parallel spaced relation to each other, the sensing portion of each of the measuring arms of one sensing element of said pair of sensing elements being disposed in spaced, angular crossing relation with respect to the sensing portion of one of the measuring arms of the other sensing element of said pair, said sensor further comprising support means for supporting the sensing portions of said measuring arms, said support means including a support surface and an elastic layer on said support surface, said elastic layer supporting said sensing portions so that the sensing portions of different sensing elements are normally spaced in a direction toward said support surface but so that said sensing portions are flexible in a direction toward said support surface to alter the respective lengths of said sensing portions, the readouts of said sensing elements each including means for counting the interference fringes generated as a result of the differences in the lengths of the respective sensing portions thereof. 2. In the sensor of claim 1, said measuring arms being embedded in said elastic layer. 3. The sensor of claim 1 further comprising at least two pairs of said sensing elements, the sensing portion of at least one measuring arm of one sensing element of each pair of sensing elements being substantially parallel to and interposed in substantially equidistant, substantially parallel relation between the sensing portions of the measuring arms of a sensing element of a different pair of sensing elements. 4. In the sensor of claim 1, said sensing elements further characterized as Mach-Zehnder type inferometers. 5. In the sensor of claim 1, said sensing elements further characterized as Michelson-type inferometers. 6. The sensor of claim 1 further comprising a heat-conductive metal foil on said elastic layer adjacent said measuring arms. 7. In the sensor of claim 6, said elastic layer further characterized as a first elastic layer, said sensor further comprising a second elastic layer on said metal foil and a plurality of interferometer-type temperature sensing elements, the sensor portions of the measuring arms of said interferometer-type temperature sensing elements being embedded in said second elastic layer. 