A robotic crawling device that can traverse vertical and overhead surfaces while carrying other equipment. The device preferably includes a platform (10) that remains a substantially fixed distance from the surface. The platform (10) rides on a crawling mechanism which includes an outer housing (56) and an inner housing (46) positioned within the outer housing (56). A turning mechanism can be mounted with the inner housing (46) to allow the device to be advanced in any direction.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic crawling device that can traverse a vertical or overhead surface, comprising: outer gripping means for gripping the surface; inner gripping means for gripping the surface, the inner gripping means being positioned within the outer gripping means; and crawling means for raising, advancing and lowering the outer gripping means as a unit and raising, advancing, and lowering the inner gripping means in sequence with the outer gripping means; wherein the outer gripping means circumscribes the inner gripping means. 2. The robotic crawling device of claim 1, further comprising turning means for changing the direction of the crawling means. 3. The robotic crawling device of claim 1, further comprising: a platform for mounting other devices therewith; and means for connecting the platform to the crawling means so that the platform remains a substantially fixed distance from the surface. 4. The robotic crawling device of claim 3, wherein the inner and outer gripping means comprises suction means for maintaining a low pressure between the surface and the platform. 5. The robotic crawling device of claim 1, wherein the inner and outer gripping means comprises electromagnets that sequentially grip the surface. 6. A robotic crawling device that can traverse a vertical or overhead surface, comprising: outer gripping means for gripping the surface; inner gripping means for gripping the surface, the inner gripping means being positioned within the outer gripping means; a cam shaft rotatably mounted to a mounting frame; a first circular cam eccentrically mounted on the cam shaft; first cam engaging means mounted with the outer gripping means and rotatably engaging the first cam; a second circular cam eccentrically mounted on the cam shaft; second cam engaging means mounted with the inner gripping means and rotatably engaging the second cam; and drive means mounted with the mounting frame for rotating the cam shaft for raising, advancing, and lowering the outer and inner gripping means in sequence. 7. A robotic crawling device that can traverse a vertical or overhead surface, comprising: an outer housing having first annular sealing means for sealing with the surface when pressed against the surface; an inner housing having second annular sealing means for sealing with the surface when pressed against the surface, the inner housing being positioned within the outer housing; suction means for pressing the inner and outer housings toward the surface; crawling means for raising, advancing, and lowering the outer and inner housings in sequence; a platform for mounting other devices therewith; and means for connecting the platform to the crawling means so that the platform remains a substantially fixed distance from the surface. 8. The robotic crawling device of claim 7, wherein the suction means comprises: an inner chamber within the inner housing; an annular chamber between the inner and outer housings; an upper chamber between the inner housing and the platform, the upper chamber being in fluid communication with the inner chamber; and a source of suction in fluid communication with the inner and upper chambers. 9. The robotic crawling device of claim 7, wherein the crawling means comprises: a cam shaft rotatably mounted to a mounting frame; a first circular cam eccentrically mounted on the cam shaft; first cam engaging means mounted on the outer housing and rotatably engaging the first cam; a second circular cam eccentrically mounted on the cam shaft; second cam engaging means mounted with the inner housing and rotatably engaging the second cam; and drive means mounted with the mounting frame for rotating the cam shaft. 10. The robotic crawling device of claim 9, further comprising turning means for changing the direction of advancing the inner and outer housings. 11. The robotic crawling device of claim 10, wherein the turning means comprises: a pinion gear rotatably and eccentrically mounted with a first portion of the inner housing, the first portion of the inner housing including the second cam engaging means; a ring gear mounted with a second portion of the inner housing and engaging the pinion gear, the second portion of the inner housing including the second annular sealing means; connecting means for connecting the first and second portions of the inner housing to allow turning of the first portion with respect to the second portion; and means for rotating the pinion gear. 12. The robotic crawling device of claim 7, further comprising venting means for equalizing the pressure around the first and second sealing means. 13. The robotic crawling device of claim 12, wherein the venting means comprises compressible vents in the first and second sealing means. 14. A robotic crawling device that can traverse a vertical or overhead surface, comprising: an outer housing having first annular sealing means for sealing with the surface when pressed against the surface; an inner housing positioned within the outer housing and having second annular sealing means for sealing with the surface when pressed against the surface, the inner housing forming an inner chamber; a cam shaft rotatably mounted to a mounting frame; a first circular cam eccentrically mounted on the cam shaft; first cam engaging means mounted with the outer housing and rotatably engaging the first cam; a second circular cam eccentrically mounted on the cam shaft; second cam engaging means mounted with the inner housing and rotatably engaging the second cam; drive means mounted with the mounting frame for rotating the cam shaft; a platform for mounting other devices therewith; means for connecting the platform to the cam shaft so that the platform remains a substantially fixed distance from the surface; means for connecting the inner housing to the outer housing so that an annular chamber is formed between the inner and outer housings; means for connecting the platform to the outer housing so that an upper chamber is formed within the outer housing, the upper chamber being in fluid communication with the inner chamber; and a source of suction in fluid communication with the inner and upper chambers for maintaining a low pressure between the platform and the surface. 15. The robotic crawling device of claims 14, further comprising turning means for changing the direction of advancing the inner and outer housings. 16. The robotic crawling device of claim 15, wherein the turning means comprises: a pinion gear rotatably and eccentrically mounted with a first portion of the inner housing, the first portion of the inner housing including the second cam engaging means; a ring gear mounted with a second portion of the inner housing and engaging the pinion gear, the second portion of the inner housing including the second annular sealing means; connecting means for connecting the first and second portions of the inner housing to allow turning of the first portion with respect to the second portion; and means for rotating the pinion gear. 17. The robotic crawling device of claim 14, further comprising venting means for equalizing the pressure around the first and second sealing means. 18. The robotic crawling device of claim 17, wherein the venting means comprises compressible vents in the first and second sealing means. 19. The robotic crawling device of claim 14, wherein the means for connecting the platform to the cam shaft comprises: a football-shaped cam mounted on the cam shaft; a roller mounted with the platform and engaging the football-shaped cam; and means for slidably connecting the platform to the mounting frame. 20. The robotic crawling device of claim 14, wherein the means for connecting the inner housing to the outer housing to form the annular chamber and the means for connecting the platform to the outer housing to form the upper chamber comprises flexible annular diaphragms. 