The present invention relates to a wire harness retainer stud adhesively bonded to an automobile body panel. This stud is used to mount a wire harness to automobile body panels. The stud contains a contact adhesive and an uncured adhesive. The contact adhesive is used to mount the stud to the body panel until the stud and panel are heated to cure the uncured adhesive, thereby bonding the stud to the panel. A method of, and apparatus for, automated assembly of the stud is also disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A removable backing wafer for use with a harness retainer stud in an automatic assembly process, the stud having a circular flat plate having a shaft face and a seal face, the faces parallel to one another, a shaft disposed upon the shaft face of the plate having clip engaging means for communicating with the wire harness retainer clip, a resilient annular seal having plate surface and an adhesive surface, the surfaces parallel to one another, the plate surface attached to the seal face of the plate, the annular seal having a central cavity, a contact adhesive coating on the adhesive surface of the seal for mounting the stud on the body panel, and an uncured adhesive in the central cavity of the seal which when cured will bond the stud to the body panel the wafer comprising: a solid disc; a ring disc having a central opening, and; means for attaching the discs to one another in a coplanar relationship; the solid and ring discs having a diameter greater than the diameter of the plate of the stud, the central opening of the ring disc exposing the interior surface of the solid disc and capable of receiving the seal, allowing contact of the seal with the interior surface of the solid disc, the wafer retained onto the seal by the contact adhesive. 2. The wafer described in claim 1, wherein: the wafer is wax coated for easy removal of the wafer from the stud. 3. The wafer described in claim 1, wherein: the wafer is made of corrugated cardboard. 4. The wafer described in claim 1, wherein: the wafer is made of one piece of polystyrene. 