A portable tacking unit includes a hand-held tacking head having a cylindrical brush operatively communicating with a central suction unit via a flexible conduit. The unit is readily adapted to electrostatically attract and remove fine dust particles from surfaces prior to painting, lacquering or coating thereof.
Claims I claim: 1. A portable tacking unit comprising: a tacking head including a cylindrical brush, a housing adapted to rotatably support the brush such that a major portion of the circumference of the brush is exposed and a minor portion thereof is surrounded by the housing, said housing further including an exhaust port disposed proximate the minor portion of the brush and adapted to withdraw ambient air therefrom; a central suction unit adapted to provide a flow of air at pressures less than atmospheric; and a flexible conduit operatively connecting said exhaust port to the suction unit such that a low pressure flow of air is established from said exhaust port to said central suction unit and an elongated flexible shaft having a first end thereof operatively connected to a motor disposed within the central suction unit for rotation thereby, and having a second end thereof operatively connected to the brush for rotation thereof by the motor, said shaft passing through the flexible conduit. 2. An apparatus as in claim 1, wherein said brush is a cylindrical brush comprising a rigid inner core having a plurality of feathers affixed thereto. 3. An apparatus as in claim 2, wherein said feathers are ratite feathers. 4. An apparatus as in claim 1, wherein said brush is approximately 5-72 inches in length and approximately 5-24 inches in width. 5. An apparatus as in claim 1, wherein said brush is adapted to generate a static electrical charge in use so as to attract and retain dust particles thereupon and said housing further includes an ion generator associated therewith and adapted to discharge the static electrical charge from the brust so as to facilitate the release of dust particles attracted thereto. 6. An apparatus as in claim 1, wherein the major portion of the circumference of the brush corresponds to at least 270.degree. thereof. 7. An apparatus as in claim 1, wherein said central suction unit is adapted to operate in cooperation with the exhaust port and the flexible conduit so as to withdraw dust particles from the brush. 8. An apparatus as in claim 7, wherein said central suction unit is further adapted to collect the dust particles. 9. An apparatus as in claim 7, wherein said central suction unit includes a filter adapted to trap at least 95% of all dust particles 0.3 microns in size and larger. 10. An apparatus as in claim 1, further including a tacking head holder adapted to support the tacking head when not in use. 11. An apparatus as in claim 1, wherein said brush is a bristle brush. 12. A portable tacking unit comprising: a tacking head including a cylindrical brush, a housing adapted to rotatably support the brush such that a major portion of the circumference of the brush is exposed and a minor portion thereof is surrounded by the housing, said housing further including an exhaust port disposed proximate the minor portion of the brush and adapted to withdraw ambient air therefrom; a central suction unit adapted to provide a flow of air at pressure less than atmospheric and operative in conjunction with said exhaust port to withdraw and collect dust particles from the brush; a filter associated with the central suction unit and operative to trap at least 95% of all dust particles 0.3 microns in size and larger; and a flexible conduit operatively connecting said exhaust port to the suction unit such that a low pressure flow of air is established from said exhaust port to said central suction unit. 13. An apparatus as in claim 12, wherein said housing includes drive means for rotating the brush. 14. An apparatus as in claim 13, wherein said drive means includes an electric motor. 15. An apparatus as in claim 13, wherein said drive means includes a flexible shaft. 16. A portable tacking unit comprising: a tacking head including a cylindrical brush, a housing adapted to rotatably support the brush such that a major portion of the circumference of the brush is exposed and a minor portion thereof is surrounded by the housing, said housing further including an exhaust port disposed proximate the minor portion of the brush and adapted to withdraw ambient air therefrom; a central suction unit adapted to provide a flow of air at pressure less than atmospheric; a flexible conduit operatively connecting said exhaust port to the suction unit such that a low pressure flow of air is established from said exhaust port to said central suction unit; and a tacking head holder operative to support the tacking head when not in use. 17. An apparatus as in claim 16, wherein said tacking head holder is adapted to receive and surround the major portion of the circumference of the brush when the tacking head is supported therein. 