Precision control over the cutting force during robotic deburring and edge contouring is obtained by use of a "zero spring rate" driver. The driver consists of an air cylinder with a low friction piston. An accumulator is used in between an air supply line and the air cylinder such that the air pressure against the piston is constant. The driver is used to position or move a moving portion of an ultralow friction ball slide relative to a fixed portion of the ball slide. The arrangement avoids inaccuracies in a metal removal process which might otherwise be caused by robot path errors, part setup errors, and robot stepwise motion effects.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic device comprising: a robotic arm; a deburring tool for deburring or edge contouring a workpiece by frictional engagement with a surface of the workpiece; a motor operably connected to rotate said deburring tool; a low friction movable bearing slide having a moving portion and a fixed portion, said motor and said deburring tool being secured to said moving portion of said slide, said fixed portion being secured to said robot arm; and a driver operably connected for moving said moving portion of said slide relative to said fixed portion between two limits of travel, said driver being passive and having a sufficiently low spring rate such that it is operable to maintain said deburring tool against the workpiece with a cutting force which varies less than 10% between said two limits of travel, said driver operable to automatically move said deburring tool relative to said robot arm in order to compensate for errors in the relative positioning of the workpiece and the robot arm over a range corresponding to the distance between said two limits of travel, and wherein said driver is a pressurized fluid cylinder with a piston disposed for movement over a stroke distance therein to define a displaceable volume; and an accumulator communicating with said fluid cylinder, said accumulator having at least 20 times the displaceable volume of said cylinder such that the combined volume of said cylinder and said accumulator changes only slightly with changes in the position of the piston within the cylinder. 2. The robotic device of claim 1 wherein said accumulator has at least 90 times the displaceable volume of said cylinder. 3. The robotic device of claim 1 wherein the slide is constructed and arranged such that the friction between said moving portion of said slide and said fixed portion of said slide is less than 5% of the normal operating load of said cylinder. 4. The robotic device of claim 1 further comprising a mounting interface having said fixed portion of said slide secured thereto and a bracket having a plurality of slots therein, said bracket secured between said fixed portion of said slide and said mounting interface, said slots allowing the adjustment of said bracket relative to said mounting interface so as to change said two limits of travel. 5. A robotic device comprising: a metal removal tool for removing metal from a workpiece by frictional engagement therewith; a motor operably connected to rotate said metal removal tool; a slide having a moving portion and a fixed portion, said motor and said metal removal tool being secured to said moving portion of said slide, said fixed portion adapted to be securable to a robot arm; an air cylinder with a piston disposed for movement between limits of travel therein, said air cylinder and piston connected as a passive driver to said moving portion of said slide and adapted to position said moving portion of said slide relative to said fixed portion of said slide; and an accumulator communicating with said air cylinder, said accumulator having at least 10 times the displaced volume of said air cylinder such that air pressure in said air cylinder is substantially independent of the movement of said piston relative to said air cylinder; wherein said robotic device is operable to maintain said metal removal tool against the workpiece with a substantially constant force independent of variations of the relative positions of the workpiece and robot arm within a range corresponding to movement of said piston between said limits of travel. 6. The robotic device of claim 5 wherein said accumulator has at least 90 times the displaced volume of said air cylinder. 7. The robotic device of claim 5 wherein said accumulator has at least 20 times the displaced volume of said air cylinder. 8. The robotic device of claim 7 wherein said slide is a low friction movable bearing slide. 9. The robotic device of claim 8 wherein said slide is a ball slide. 10. The robotic device of claim 8 wherein said air cylinder and said piston are operable to maintain said metal removal tool against the workpiece with a force which varies less than 10% with movement of said piston relative to said air cylinder between said limits of travel. 11. The robotic device of claim 10 wherein said metal removal tool is a deburring tool for deburring or edge contouring of the workpiece. 12. The robotic device of claim 11 wherein said air cylinder and said piston are operable to maintain said metal removal tool against the workpiece with a force which varies less than 10% with movement of said piston between the limits of travel relative to said air cylinder. 13. The robotic device of claim 12 wherein friction between said moving portion of said slide and said fixed portion of said slide is less than 5% of the normal operating load of said air cylinder. 14. The robotic device of claim 11 wherein said fixed portion of said slide is secured to said robot arm, and said air cylinder and piston are operable to automatically move said deburring tool relative to said robot arm in order to compensate for errors in the relative positioning of the workpiece and the robot arm over a range corresponding to the distance between said limits of travel. 15. The robotic device of claim 14 wherein said air cylinder and said piston have a sufficiently low spring rate such that the spring rate variation in their output force is less than 2% over the distance between the limits of travel. 