The elements making up robotic devices such as the basic robot and driving device, arms, manipulators and the like are coupled together by a novel coupling device, including a coupling device actuator mounted within an element holder for receiving the element and activating the coupling device mounted upon the element typically comprised of a pair of arms spring biased toward a locking position. The element holder is provided with a location for receiving the element and a pair of activating arms which move the locking arms between the locked and unlocked position. The receiving element has a groove for receiving the locking arms and preferably a female socket for receiving a projection on the end of the element having the locking arms. The element to be connected is normally maintained in the holder with the activators energized to retain the locking arms in the open position. The robot is moved to the holder and its element is inserted into the connecting element within the holder. The activating arms are de-energized, releasing the locking arms to enter into the locking groove. The locking arms are retained in this position by biasing springs. The proper orientation of the interconnected elements maybe maintained by the cross-sectional shape of the female socket and cooperating projection, by the arrangement of the locking arm receiving grooves, or both.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Means releasably interconnecting first and second elements comprising: a pair of couplers pivotally mounted to one of said elements and each having a coupling end and an activating end; the remaining one of said elements having coupling receiving means for receiving said couplers; bias means on said one element for normally urging said couplers toward the locked position; a holder for said one element orienting said one element for coupling with the end of said remaining one of said elements; said holder including a cavity for releasably receiving said one element and adjacent recesses for receiving said couplers; activators arranged in said holder adjacent to said activating ends and having reciprocating members movable between a first position for opening said couplers and a second position releasing said couplers, enabling said bias means to urge said couplers to the locked position whereby said one element may be lifted from said holder by said remaining element. 2. The interconnecting means of claim 1 wherein said activators comprise relay operating means having an armature coupled to each activator. 3. The interconnecting means of claim 2 wherein said activators are linearly movable. 4. The interconnecting means of claim 1 wherein said couplers each comprise an arm having a locking end having an inwardly directed projection; said remaining one of said elements having recesses near one end thereof for receiving one of said projections. 5. The interconnecting means of claim 4 wherein said recesses extend along the surface of said element and lie along an imaginary line passing through the center of said remaining one of said elements. 6. The interconnecting means of claim 4 wherein said recesses extend around the surface of said remaining one of said elements. 7. The interconnecting means of claim 4 wherein said one of said elements has a receiving socket at the end thereof and said remaining one of said elements has a projection at the end thereof adjacent to said coupling end and adapted for insertion into said socket. 8. The interconnecting means of claim 7 wherein said one of said elements has a shoulder and said remaining one of said elements has a shoulder, said former and latter shoulders cooperating to properly locate the elements being interconnected when said shoulders are in engagement. 9. The interconnecting means of claim 7 wherein the cross-section of said projection conforms to the cross-section of said socket. 10. The interconnecting means of claim 9 wherein said cross-sections are substantially circular. 11. The interconnecting means of claim 9 wherein said cross-sections are substantially non-circular. 12. The interconnecting means of claim 11 wherein said cross-sections are polygonal shaped. 13. The interconnecting means of claim 12 wherein said cross-sections are square shaped. 14. The interconnecting means of claim 12 wherein said cross-sections are rectangular shaped. 15. The interconnecting means of claim 12 wherein said cross-sections are trapezoidal-shaped. 16. The interconnecting means of claim 1 wherein said bias means comprises resilient spring means. 17. The interconnecting means of claim 16 wherein said spring means comprises torsion spring means. 18. The interconnecting means of claim 16 wherein each of said coupling means comprises an arm pivotally connected to said element and has a first end provided with an integral projection arranged to extend into the receiving recess provided in the element to be coupled to the element having said coupling means. 19. The interconnecting means of claim 18 wherein the end of said arm opposite said projection is arranged to be engaged by said activatorg means when the element supporting the coupling means is positioned in said element holder. 20. The interconnecting means of claim 19 wherein the actuator means is provided with an arm having a tapered slot for receiving and centering the end of the arm engaging the locking means arm. 21. The interconnecting means of claim 20 wherein the portion of said arm engaging said slot is tapered. 22. The interconnecting. means of claim 19 wherein the actuator means is provided with an arm having a tapered projection for centering the end of the activating means engaging a slot in the locking means arm. 23. The interconnecting means of claim 22 wherein the slot in said arm engaging said projection is tapered. 24. A method for interconnecting two elements in a robotics system said elements having interfitted end portions which engage one another when the elements are joined together; one of said elements having a pair of swingably mounted locking arms and means for biasing the locking arms toward a closed position; said arms having locking projections and activating portions at spaced locations therealong; the remaining one of said elements having recesses for receiving the locking projections and a holder for holding said one element so that it is positioned to receive the interengaging end of said remaining element, said elements having interengaging surfaces which are adapted to contact one another when the elements are properly interfitted, said method comprising the steps of: (a) moving said remaining element towards said holder and with the interengaging surfaces in contact to bring the elements into interfitting engagement while holding the locking arms open; (b) releasing the locking arms under control of their bias means to enable movement of the locking arm projections into the projection receiving recesses; and (c) moving said remaining element in the reverse direction to remove the said one element and its locking arms from said holder. 25. The method of claim 24 wherein the interfitted portions of said elements have conforming cross-sections; and step (a) further includes the step of orienting remaining elements to bring the conforming cross-sections into alignment. 26. The method of claim 25 wherein said conforming cross-sections are non-circular and wherein the orienting step comprises rotating said element. 27. The method of claim 26 wherein the rotating of said remaining element includes selectively rotating said remaining element in a plurality of mutually perpendicular axes. 28. The interfitting apparatus of claim 1 further comprising sensor means for sensing a portion of one of said elements to indicate proper alignment of said elements. 29. The apparatus of claim 28 wherein said sensor means detects the release of one of said locking arms. 30. The apparatus of claim 29 wherein said sensor means is positioned in said holder. 31. The apparatus of claim 28 wherein the sensor means is arranged in one of said elements for detecting engagement of said elements. 