A programmable or flexible fixture for holding a plurality of details comprising an assembly during assembly processes thereon comprising an elongated base supported in a predetermined position, a plurality of positioning units located at spaced locations along the base, each of the positioning units having a clamp adapted to engage the details, the positioning units being located to allow access to the details from two directions of movement of tools of assembly apparatus moving with respect to the workpiece during assembly processes thereon, a robot operatively associated with the positioning units for moving the positioning units relative to the base for accepting the various members of a family of details which all have the same configuration and differ by increments in size and for holding the details together as an assembly and holding the assembly in the proper detail location and assembly position for assembling, and an actuator for moving the clamp into and out of engagement with the details. A programmable or flexible assembly cell comprises at least one automatic assembly machine, each machine having operational parameters determined by the nature of the details to be assembled, at least one of the programmable or flexible fixtures for holding a plurality of details comprising an assembly, the fixture being capable of accepting a family of details, which all have the same configuration and differ by increments in size, the fixture having the plurality of movable positioning units at spaced locations along the fixture and each of the positioning units having the clamp adapted to engage the details, at least one robot for adjusting the fixture positioning units and for placing details and assemblies in the fixture and removing details and assemblies from the fixture, and a conveyor for transporting details to the cell and for transporting assemblies from the cell. A cell controller monitors information pertaining to the details and assemblies, monitors operation of the assembly machine and controls operation of the robot.
Claims We claim: 1. A flexible fixture for holding a plurality of details comprising an assembly during assembly processes thereon comprising: (a) an elongated base; (b) means for supporting said base in a predetermined position; (c) a plurality of movable positioning means located at spaced locations along said base, each of said positioning means having holding means adapted to engage said details, said positioning means being located to allow access to said details from two directions of movement of tools of assembly apparatus moving with respect to the assembly during assembly processes thereon; (d) mechanical means separate from said base for engaging said positioning means for moving said positioning means relative to said base to enable said holding means to accept various members of a family of details which all have substantially the same configuration and differ by increments in size and for holding the details together as an assembly and in the proper detail location and assembly position for assembling; and (e) means for moving said holding means into and out of engagement with said details. 2. A flexible fixture according to claim 1, further including means for movably mounting said positioning means on said base for movement in first and second directions at angles to each other and in a first plane. 3. A flexible fixture according to claim 2, wherein said holding means are disposed relative to said positioning means such that the assembly is held in a plane generally parallel to said first plane. 4. A flexible fixture according to claim 1, further including means for movably mounting said positioning means on said base for pivotal movement about an axis generally perpendicular to the plane of the assembly. 5. A flexible fixture according to claim 2, further including means operatively associated with said positioning means for holding said positioning means at selected locations after movement in said directions. 6. A flexible fixture according to claim 4, further including means operatively associated with said positioning means and said base for holding said positioning means at selected locations after movement about said axis. 7. A flexible fixture according to claim 1, further including control means for controlling said mechanical means engaging said positioning means and for controlling said means for moving said holding means. 8. A flexible fixture according to claim 1, further including means operatively connected to said holding means for moving said holding means about an axis generally parallel to the plane of the assembly. 9. A flexible fixture according to claim 1, further including means operatively connected to said holding means for moving said holding means along a plane substantially perpendicular to the plane of said assembly. 10. A flexible fixture according to claim 1, wherein means for moving said positioning means comprises robotic means operatively associated with said fixture. 11. A flexible fixture according to claim 1, wherein each of said positioning means comprises: (a) an assembly movably supported on said base; (b) an elongated member having a longitudinal axis and movably carried by said assembly for movement in opposite directions along said longitudinal axis; and (c) said holding means being located adjacent one end of said elongated member. 12. A flexible fixture according to claim 11, further including releasable clamping means on said assembly and operatively engaging said base for enabling said assembly to be moved relative to said base when said clamping means is released and for holding said assembly in a fixed position on said base when said clamping means is engaged. 13. A flexible fixture according to claim 11, further including releasable clamping means on said assembly and operatively engaging said elongated member for enabling said member to be moved along said axis relative to said assembly when said clamping means is released and for holding said elongated member in a fixed position relative to said member when said clamping means is engaged. 14. A flexible fixture according to claim 11, further including means for removably connecting said holding means to said elongated member to enable various types of holding means to be connected to said elongated member. 15. A flexible fixture according to claim 1, further including means for removably connecting said holding means to said positioning means so that various types of holding means can be associated with said positioning means. 16. A flexible fixture for holding a plurality of details comprising an assembly during assembly processes thereon the assembly of plurality of details defining a plane of the assembly, said flexible fixture comprising: (a) an elongated base; (b) means for supporting said base in a predetermined position, said supporting means including means for moving said base in a direction substantially perpendicular to the plane of the assembly; (c) a plurality of positioning means located at spaced locations along said base, each of said positioning means having holding means adapted to engage said details, said positioning means being located to allow access to said details from two directions of movement of tools of assembly apparatus moving with respect to the assembly during assembly processes thereon; (d) means for movably mounting each of said positioning means on said base for movement in first and second angular directions in a plane substantially parallel to the plane of the assembly and for pivotal movement about an axis substantially perpendicular to said plane; (e) means operatively associated with said positioning means for moving said positioning means relative to said base in said first and second directions and about said axis to enable said holding means to accept the various members of a family of details which all have substantially the same configuration and differ by increments in size and for holding the details together as an assembly and in the proper detail location and assembly position for assembling; (f) means for moving said holding means into and out of engagement with said details; and (g) control means operatively connected to said means for moving said positioning means and to said means for moving said holding means. 17. A flexible fixture according to claim 16, further including means operatively connected to said holding means for moving said holding means about an axis generally parallel to the plane of the assembly. 18. A flexible fixture according to claim 16 further including means operatively connected to said holding means for moving said holding means about an axis generally perpendicular to the plane of the assembly. 19. A flexible fixture according to claim 16, further including means operatively associated with said positioning means for holding said positioning means at selected locations after movement in said first and second directions. 20. A flexible fixture according to claim 16, further including means operatively associated with said positioning means and said base for holding said positioning means at selected locations after movement about said axis. 21. A flexible fixture according to claim 16, wherein said holding means comprises clamping means including jaw means movable about an axis generally parallel to the plane of said assembly. 22. A flexible fixture according to claim 16 further including motive means operatively associated with each jaw of said jaw means for moving said jaws independently of each other. 23. A flexible fixture according to claim 16, wherein said positioning means is provided with first and second formations and said means for moving said positioning means includes means for selectively grasping said first formation for moving said positioning means in said first direction and about said axis and grasping said second formation for moving said positioning means in said second direction. 24. A flexible fixture according to claim 16, wherein said means for moving said positioning means comprises robotic means operatively associated with said fixtures. 25. A flexible fixture according to claim 24, wherein said robotic means comprises (a) motive means for moving said robotic means along defined paths relative to said fixture, said paths being in two orthogonal directions in a plane and in a third direction normal to said plane; and (b) manipulative means adapted to engage said positioning means for adjusting same and adapted to grasp parts and assemblies for placing in and removing from said fixture. 26. A flexible fixture according to claim 25, wherein said manipulative means includes means for providing at least three separate movements about at least three axes. 27. A flexible fixture according to claim 16, wherein each of said positioning means comprises: (a) an assembly movably supported on said base; (b) an elongated member having a longitudinal axis and movably carried by said assembly for movement in opposite directions along said longitudinal axis; and (c) said holding means being located adjacent one end of said elongated member. 28. A flexible fixture according to claim 27, further including releasable clamping means on said assembly and operatively engaging said base for enabling said assembly to be moved relative to said base when said clamping means is released and for holding said assembly in a fixed position on said base when said clamping means is engaged. 29. A flexible fixture according to claim 27, further including releasable clamping means on said assembly and operatively engaging said elongated member for enabling said member to be moved along said longitudinal axis relative to said assembly when said clamping means is released and for holding said elongated member in a fixed position relative to said member when said clamping means is engaged. 30. A flexible fixture according to claim 27, further including means for removably connecting said holding means to said elongated member to enable various types of holding means to be connected to said elongated member. 31. A flexible fixture according to claim 16, further including means for removably connecting said holding means to said positioning means so that various types of holding means can be associated with said positioning means. 32. A flexible fixture for holding a plurality of details comprising an assembly during assembly processes thereon comprising; (a) an elongated base; (b) means for supporting said base in a predetermined position; (c) a plurality of positioning means located at spaced locations along said base, each of said positioning means having holding means adapted to engage said details, said positioning means being located to allow access to said details from two directions of movement of tools of assembly apparatus moving with respect to the assembly during assembly processes thereon; (d) means operatively associated with said positioning means for moving said positioning means relative to said base to enable said holding means to accept various members of a family of details which all have substantially the same configuration and differ by increments in size and for holding the details together as an assembly and in the proper detail location and assembly position for assembling; (e) means for moving said holding means into and out of engagement with said details; and (f) said means for supporting said base including means for moving said base in a direction substantially perpendicular to the plane of the assembly. 33. A flexible fixture for holding a plurality of details comprising an assembly during assembly processes thereon comprising: (a) an elongated base; (b) means for supporting said base in a predetermined position; (c) a plurality of positioning means located at spaced locations along said base, each of said positioning means having holding means adapted to engage said details, said positioning means being located to allow access to said details from two directions of movement of tools of assembly apparatus moving with respect to the assembly during assembly processes thereon; (d) means operatively associated with said positioning means for moving said positioning means relative to said base to enable said holding means to accept various members of a family of details which all have substantially the same configuration and differ by increments in size and for holding the details together as an assembly and in the proper detail location and assembly position for assembling; (e) means for moving said holding means into and out of engagement with said details; (f) means for movably mounting said positioning means on said base for movement in first and second directions at angles to each other and in a first plane; and (g) said positioning means being provided with first and second formations and said means for moving said positioning means including means for selectively grasping said first and second formations for moving said positioning means in said first and second directions, respectively. 34. A flexible fixture for holding a plurality of details comprising an assembly during assembly processes thereon comprising: (a) an elongated base; (b) means for supporting said base in a predetermined position; (c) a plurality of positioning means located at spaced locations along said base, each of said positioning means having holding means adapted to engage said details, said positioning means being located to allow access to said details from two directions of movement of tools of assembly apparatus moving with respect to the assembly during assembly processes thereon; (d) means operatively associated with said positioning means for moving said positioning means relative to said base to enable said holding means to accept various members of a family of details which all have substantially the same configuration and differ by increments in size and for holding the details together as an assembly and in the proper detail location and assembly position for assembling; (e) means for moving said holding means into and out of engagement with said details; (f) means for movably mounting said positioning means on said base for pivotal movement about an axis generally perpendicular to the plane and assembly; and (g) said positioning means being provided with a first formation and said means for moving said positioning means including means for grasping said formation for moving said positioning means about said axis. 35. A flexible fixture for holding a plurality of details comprising an assembly during assembly processes thereon comprising: (a) an elongated base; (b) means for supporting said base in a predetermined position; (c) a plurality of positioning means located at spaced locations along said base, each of said positioning means having holding means adapted to engage said details, said positioning means being located to allow access to said details from two directions of movement of tools of assembly apparatus moving with respect to the assembly during assembly processes thereon; (d) means operatively associated with said positioning means for moving said positioning means relative to said base to enable said holding means to accept various members of a family of details which all have substantially the same configuration and differ by increments in size and for holding the details together as an assembly and in the proper detail location and assembly position for assembling; (e) means for moving said holding means into and out of engagement with said details; and (f) said means for moving said positioning means comprising robotic means operatively associated with said fixture, said robotic means comprising motive means for moving said robotic means along defined paths relative to said fixture, said paths being in two orthogonal directions in a plane and in a third direction normal to said plane and manipulative means adapted to engage said positioning means for adjusting same and adapted to grasp details and assemblies for placing in and removing from said fixture. 36. A flexible fixture according to claim 35, wherein said manipulative means includes means for providing three separate movements about three axes. 