A unitary end bell 66 includes a body 90 and a bridging section 92 and is assembled with a lamination stack 74 in the formation of a stator subassembly 150. End bell 66 is formed with base surfaces 118 at one end thereof which insulate adjacent portions of lamination stack 74 from coil windings 152, and is further formed with wire-retaining shrouds 110 which retain coil windings 152 in a wound configuration. Bridging section 92, which straddles the other end of body 90, is formed with brush channels 120 for supporting brush boxes and a bearing nest 138 for supporting an armature bearing. Methods of assembling the elements to form stator subassembly 150, and various assembly aids such as shroud support 168 and pallet 212 are added.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A stator subassembly end member, which comprises: a body formed as a single molded unit with an opening at one end thereof and with at least two spaced edge portions adjacent the periphery of the opening; bridging means, having opposite ends which are molded integrally with the spaced edge portions and which extends as a chord across the portion of the opening between the spaced edge portions, for supporting at least one motor-related element, and means formed integrally with the body for providing insulation between an exterior surface of the body and portions of the body inwardly of the surface. 2. The end member as set forth in claim 1, wherein the end member is a unitary structure. 3. A stator subassembly end member, which comprises: a body formed as a single molded unit with an opening at one end thereof and with at least two spaced edge portions adjacent the periphery of the opening; bridging means, having opposite ends which are molded integrally with the spaced edge portions and which extends as a chord across the portion of the opening between the spaced edge portions, for supporting at least one motor-related element, and wire retaining means formed integrally with the body for maintaining a coil winding of a stator subassembly in a confined arrangement. 4. The end member as set forth in claim 3 which further comprises: means formed integrally with the body for providing insulation between an exterior surface of the body and portions of the body inwardly of the surface. 5. A unitary end member for assembly with a field core and coil winding of a stator subassembly, which comprises: a plastic body formed with a first end and a second end; the first end being formed with an opening; the body being formed with at least two spaced edge portions adjacent the periphery of the opening; a plastic bridging member, having opposite ends which are molded integrally with the spaced edge portions and which extends as a chord across the portion of the opening between the spaced edge portions; means formed integrally in the bridging member for supporting at least one motor-related element, and an insulating section formed integrally at the second end of the body for providing insulation between an exterior surface of the body and portions of the body inwardly of the surface. 6. The end member as set forth in claim 5, which further comprises: a wire-retaining shroud integrally formed with the body at the second end thereof for maintaining the coil winding in a confined arrangement. 7. A unitary end member for assembly with a field core and coil winding of a stator subassembly, which comprises: a plastic body formed with a first end and a second end; the first end being formed with an opening; the body being formed with at least two spaced edge portions adjacent the periphery of the opening a plastic bridging member, having opposite ends which are molded integrally with the spaced edge portions and which extends as a chord across the portion of the opening between the spaced edge portions; means formed integrally in the bridging member for supporting at least one motor-related element, and a wire-retaining shroud integrally formed with the body at the second end thereof for maintaining the coil winding in a confined arrangement. 8. A stator subassembly unitary end member for assembly with a field core and a coil winding of a stator subassembly, which comprises: a plastic body formed with a hollow chamber having a first end and a second end; the plastic body formed as a single molded unit with an opening at the first end thereof and with at least two spaced edge portions adjacent the periphery of the opening; a plastic bridging section having opposite ends which are molded integrally with the spaced edge portions of the body and which extends as a chord across the opening at the first end of the chamber; the bridging section being formed with a nest for receipt and support of an armature bearing; the second end of the body being open into the chamber; an insulating section formed integrally with the body at the second end thereof for insulating an inwardly portion of the body from an exterior surface thereof, and at least one wire shroud formed integrally with the body and extending into the chamber at the open second end to maintain a coil winding of the stator subassembly in a confined arrangement. 9. A stator subassembly, which comprises: a field core; a unitary end member assembled with one end of the field core; a coil winding wound about portions of the field core and end member; and the end member comprising: a body formed as a single molded unit with an opening at one end thereof and with at least two spaced edge portions adjacent the periphery of the opening; a bridging means, having opposite ends which are molded integrally with the spaced edge portions and which extends as a chord across the portion of the opening between the spaced edge portions, for supporting at least one motor-related element, and insulating means positionable between one surface area of the field core and an adjacent portion of the coil winding for insulating the surface area of the core from the portion of the coil winding. 10. A stator subassembly, which comprises: a field core; means formed on the field core for confining adjacent portions of the coil winding; a unitary end member assembled with the field core at one end thereof, the end member comprising: a body formed as a single molded unit with an opening at the end thereof and with at least two spaced edge portions adjacent the periphery of the opening; bridging means, having opposite ends which are formed integrally with the spaced edge portions and which extends as a chord across the portion of the opening between the spaced edge portions, for supporting at least one motor-related element; and wire-retaining means formed integrally with the body for maintaining other portions of the coil winding in a confined arrangement, and a coil winding wound tightly about the combined confining means of the field core and wire-retaining means of the end member. 11. The stator subassembly as set forth in claim 10, which further comprises: the end member further including insulating means positionable between one surface area of the field core and the other portions of the coil winding for insulating the surface area of the core from the other portions of the coil winding. 12. The stator subassembly as set forth in claim 10, wherein the end member comprising the body is a first end member, and wherein the stator subassembly further comprises: a second end member assembled with the field core at another end thereof; wire-retaining means formed integrally with the second end member for maintaining still other portions of the coil winding in a confined arrangement, and the coil winding being wound tightly about the combined confining means of the field core and wire-retaining means of the first and second end members. 13. The stator subassembly as set forth in claim 10, which further comprises: the body and the field core each being formed with surface which are positioned within the stator subassembly to interface with each other, and means interposed between the body and field core surfaces which interface for facilitating axial alignment of the end member with a stator subassembly axis. 14. A stator subassembly which comprises: a field core; a coil winding; means formed on the field core for confining adjacent portions of the coil winding; a unitary end member assembled with the field core at one end thereof; the end member comprising: a body formed as a single molded unit with an opening at one end thereof and with at least two spaced edge portions adjacent the periphery of the opening; bridging means, having opposite ends which are molded integrally with the spaced edge portions and which extends as a chord across the portion of the opening between the spaced edge portions, for supporting at least one motor-related element; and wire-retaining means formed integrally with the body for maintaining other portions of the coil winding in a confined arrangement; the coil winding being wound tightly about the combined confining means of the field core and wire-retaining means of the end member; the body and the field core each being formed with surfaces which interface with each other; a plurality of selectively-located projections composed of a deformable material and integrally formed with and projecting from the interfacing surface of the body; a corresponding plurality of similarly selectively-located deforming elements formed with the interfacing surface of the field core; and the projections being deformed by the elements in a selected pattern to permit the end member to retain alignment with the stator subassembly axis. 15. A stator subassembly, which comprises: a field core; at least one coil winding; a unitary end member positioned in unattached assembly with the field core at one end thereof; the end member comprising: a body formed as a single molded unit with an opening at one end thereof and with at least two spaced edge portions adjacent the periphery of the opening; bridging means, having opposite ends which are molded integrally with the spaced edge portions and which extends as a chord across the portion of the opening between the spaced edge portions, for supporting at least one motor-related element; and wire-retaining means formed integrally with the body for maintaining other portions of the coil winding in a confined arrangement, and the coil windings being wound tightly about the wire-retaining means of the unattached assembly of the field core and end member to compress together interfacing surfaces of the field core and end member. 16. The stator subassembly as set forth in claim 15, which further comprises: at least one fastener spaced from the coil winding to provide at least a two-point compression of the field core with end member as provided by the coil winding and the fastener. 17. The stator subassembly as set forth in claim 15, which further comprises: the field core including a continuous flat surface which extends in a full loop; the end member including a continuous flat surface which extends in a full loop, and the full-loop flat surfaces of the assembled field core and end member being in full interfacing position. 18. A stator subassembly which comprises: a field core; at least one coil winding; a unitary end member assembled with the field core at one end thereof; the end member comprising: a body formed as a single molded unit with an opening at one end thereof and with at least two spaced edge portions adjacent the periphery of the opening; bridging means, having opposite ends which are molded integrally with the spaced edge portions and which extends as a chord across the portion of the opening between the spaced edge portions, for supporting at least one motor-related element; and wire-retaining means formed integrally with the body for maintaining other portions of the coil winding in a confined arrangement; and the coil windings being wound tightly about portions of the assembled field core and the wire-retaining means of the end member to compress together interfacing surfaces of the field core and end member; the field core being formed with a flat surface; the end member being formed with a flat surface; the surfaces of the field core and the end member being in an interfacing position; at least one boss extending outwardly from the flat surface of the field core; at least one embossment extending outwardly from the flat surface of the end member and located in alignment with the boss; the embossment being formed with a self-dowelled hole formed by the boss, and the embossment and boss being located adjacent to the coil winding whereby the coil winding holds and compresses the boss within the self-dowelled hole of the embossment. 19. The stator subassembly as set forth in claim 15, which further comprises: the end member and the field core each being formed with surfaces which are positioned within the stator subassembly to interface with each other, and means interposed between the end member and field core surfaces which interface for facilitating axial alignment of the end member with a stator subassembly axis. 20. The stator subassembly as set forth in claim 19, wherein the tightly wound coil winding provides a first point of compression of the field core with the end member, and which further comprises: at least one fastener spaced from the coil winding and assembled with the field core and end member to provide a second point of compression of the assembled field core and end member; and wherein: the facilitating means are located in two areas coincident with the first and second points of compression. 21. The unitary end member as set forth in claim 7, wherein the wire-retaining shroud is formed with a major surface which facilitates the maintaining of the coil winding in the confined arrangement, and wherein the end member further comprises means located adjacent a portion of the major surface of the wire-retaining shroud for maintaining adjacent portions of the coil winding spaced from the major surface of the wire-retaining shroud. 22. The stator subassembly as set forth in claim 10, which further comprises: the field core being formed with an exterior sidewall of a prescribed diameter dimension and configuration, and the body of the end member being formed with an exterior side wall which conforms generally to the prescribed diameter dimension and configuration of the field core. 23. A stator subassembly end member, which comprises: a body; bridging means formed integrally with the body for supporting a brush box, and insulating means formed integrally with the body for ultimately providing insulation between a metallic surface of a stator subassembly core and a coil winding upon assembly of the coil winding with the core and the end member. 24. A stator subassembly end member, which comprises: a body; bridging means formed integrally with the body for supporting a bearing for an armature shaft, and insulating means formed integrally with the body for ultimately providing insulation between a metallic surface of a stator subassembly core and a coil winding upon assembly of the coil winding with the core and the end member. 25. The end member as set forth in claim 24 wherein the bridging means includes means for supporting a brush box. 