A pressure profile versus flow rate is determined for a flow control system using positive displacement or a flow meter to measure flow. The profile is used as a pressure reference for closed loop pressure control of flow during the transient period following a change in commanded flow rate to reduce the time required to reach the new flow rate with compressible fluids and compliant output lines. Alternatively the pressure profile is automatically determined and updated continuously to adapt to environmental conditions affecting the accuracy of pressure controlled fluid flow.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for reducing the transient pressure build-up time in a flow control system comprising the steps of: calibrating a flow control system by: commanding a flow rate of a flow material; determining the rate of pressure change applied by said flow control system; waiting until the rate of pressure change falls below a preset value; recording the amount of time of said waiting, said time defining a transient period; measuring pressure applied to said flow material; recording flow rate and pressure; and repeating said calibrating step for all flow rates of interest; using the calibration recordings to apply pressure loop flow control during said transient period by: selecting a flow rate; determining corresponding steady state pressure from said calibration recordings, said steady state pressure defining a reference pressure; determining difference between current pressure and said reference pressure, said difference defining an error signal; commanding a flow rate proportional to said error signal; and repeating the steps of determining said error signal and flow rate commanding until said error signal becomes less than a predetermined value; and switching to positive displacement flow control at the end of said transient period, said displacement flow control maintaining a predetermined constant velocity of a piston of predetermined cross sectional area within a confining chamber causing said flow. 2. A method as defined in claim 1, wherein said calibration recordings are updated after each time a flow rate is selected by the steps of: measuring pressure applied to said flow material during said positive displacment flow control following said transient period; determining the rate of change of said pressure applied by said flow control; determining the rate of pressure change falling below a preset value; and recording pressure in place of the corresponding prior value of said recording. 3. A method as defined in claim 1, wherein flow is produced by positive displacement of flow material. 4. A method as defined in claim 2, wherein flow is produced by positive displacement of flow material. 5. A method as defined in claim 2, wherein said recording step comprises: recording pressure in place of an (N+1)th prior value of said recording; averaging N recorded pressure values; and using said average as said reference pressure. 6. A method as defined in claim 5, wherein said averaging is weighted. 7. A method as defined in claim 1, wherein said commanded flow rate during said transient period is non-linearly proportional to said error signal. 8. A method as defined in claim 1, wherein said transient period is limited to a value determined during said calibrating step. 9. A method for reducing the pressure transient time in a closed loop flow meter flow control system comprising the steps of: calibrating a closed loop flow meter flow control system by: commanding a flow rate of a flow material; determining the rate of pressure change applied by said flow control system; waiting until the rate of pressure change falls below a preset value; recording the amount of time of said waiting, said time defining a transient period; measuring pressure applied to said flow material; recording flow rate and pressure; and repeating said calibrating step for all flow rates of interest; using the calibration recordings to apply pressure loop flow control during said transient period by: selecting a flow rate; determining a corresponding steady state pressure from said calibration recordings, said steady state pressure defining a reference pressure; determining difference between current pressure and said reference pressure, said difference defining an error signal; commanding a flow rate proportional to said error signal; and repeating the steps of determining said error signal and flow rate commanding until said error signal becomes less than a predetermined value; and switching to a closed loop flow meter flow control at the end of said transient period. 10. A method as defined in claim 9, wherein said calibration recordings are updated after each time a flow rate is selected by the steps of: measuring pressure applied to said flow material during said closed loop flow meter flow control following said transient period; determining the rate of change of said pressure applied by said flow control; determining the rate of pressure change falling below a preset value; and recording pressure in place of the corresponding prior value of said recording. 