Apparatus for determinig when the gripper or hand of a robot arm, resiliently mounted on a robot arm body with a set of highly compliant springs, strikes or makes contact with an object that impedes or limits hand movement. The apparatus includes a light source, preferably mounted in a particular location on the robot arm hand and a light sensitive device cooperatively mounted in a particular location on the robot arm body, a device is capable of continuously generating hand-to-robot arm body relative position signals in response to the position of optically focused light from the light source impinging on the light sensitive device. Relative movement between the robot arm body and the robot hand normally resulting from contact between a motion impeding object and the robot hand causes the light sensitive device to generate a signal indicative of such object contact and/or extent of relative hand-to-robot arm body movement. This signal may be employed, for example, to either terminate robot arm movement or cause a particular force to be applied to the object contacted by the robot hand.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for sensing load forces exerted along at least selected axes of a work performing mechanism having a driven input portion and a load engaging output portion, said apparatus comprising: means connecting said input and output portions for resilient relative displacement along at least one given axis; and means for detecting the relative displacement of said portions along a direction at least parallel to said given axis so as to determine the load forces acting in said direction on said output portion as a function of said displacement and the resiliency of said connecting means, said detecting means including a position sensing lateral effect photodiode fixedly mounted with respect to one of said portions having a given photosensitive surface extending in said direction, and means for directing a spot of light to said photosensitive surface from a fixed location with respect to the other of said portions such that the position of said spot of light on the photosensitive surface of said photodiode is a continuous function of the relative displacement of said portions in said direction. 2. The invention of claim 1, wherein said connecting means includes at least one elastomeric element extending generally transverse said given axis with its ends mounted in fixed relation to respective ones of said input and output portions, and said elastomeric element having a relatively high longitudinal spring constant to essentially preclude displacement of said portions along an axis normal to said given axis under relatively heavy load forces acting along said normal axis and a comparatively low lateral spring constant to permit displacement of said portions along said given axis under comparatively light loads. 3. The invention of claim 2, wherein said work performing mechanism is a robotic arm and said output portion is an extended member coupled by said connecting means to said input portion, and said given axis is generally normal to the longitudinal axis of said input portion. 4. The invention of claim 1, additionally including energizeable control means for displacing said input portion, said control means including means for controlling said displacement at least in directions parallel to said given axis in accordance with displacement of said light spot on said photodiode. 5. The invention of claim 4, wherein said control means includes means for terminating further displacement of said input portion when said displacement of said light spot from its no-load position on said photodiode exceeds a given maximum distance. 6. The invention of claim 1, wherein said connecting means includes means for permitting resilient relative displacement of said portions in at least a given plane, and said position sensing photodiode includes a two dimensional photosensitive surface extending in orthogonal directions in said given plane so as to detect displacement over and load forces exerted along said two dimensional area defined by said directions. 7. The invention of claim 6, wherein said photosensitive surface is a planar member mounted in substantially parallel arrangement to said given plane to detect displacement of and load forces acting on said output portion along said given plane. 8. Force sensing apparatus for a robotic arm having a driven input member and a load engaging output member, said apparatus comprising: means connecting said members together for resilient relative displacement in at least a given plane; and means for detecting the relative displacement of said members in said given plane so as to determine the load forces acting in said given plane on said output member as a function of said displacement and the resiliency of said connecting means in said given plane, said detecting means including a position sensing lateral effect photodiode fixedly mounted with respect to one of said members having a photosensitive surface that extends in a direction parallel to said plane, and means for directing a spot of light to said photodiode from a fixed location with respect to the other of said members such that the position of said spot of light on said photodiode is a function of the relative displacement of said members in said direction. 9. The invention of claim 8, wherein said connecting means includes at least one elastomeric element extending generally transverse said given plane with its ends mounted in fixed relation to respective ones of said input and output members, and said elastomeric element having a relatively high longitudinal spring constant to essentially preclude displacement of said members in a plane normal to said given plane under relatively heavy load forces in said normal plane and a comparatively low lateral spring constant to permit displacement of said members in said given plane under comparatively light loads. 10. The invention of claim 9, wherein said input member is an extended member and said given plane is essentially normal to the longitudinal axis of said input member. 11. The invention of claim 10, additionally including energizeable control means for displacing said arm, said control means including means for controlling said arm displacement at least in directions parallel to said given plane in accordance with displacement of said light spot on said photodiode. 12. The invention of claim 11, wherein said control means includes means for terminating further displacement of said arm when said displacement of said light spot on said photodiode exceeds a given maximum distance. 13. Relative movement sensing apparatus, comprising: a light source; a first member; a second member resiliently mounted on said first member, being relatively movable with respect thereto; a lateral effect photodiode having a light sensitive surface, said photodiode being mounted in a fixed position with respect to one of said members and including means for generating an electrical signal representative of a relative position between said members; and means for directing a portion of the light from said light source from a particular location relative to the other of said members, to a particular location on said light sensitive surface. 14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein said means for directing a portion of the light from said light source is a light-focusing lens. 15. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the means for resiliently mounting said second member on said first member includes a high compliance spring comprising a multiplicity of flat discs with each of said discs having a flat surface thereof adjacent the flat surface of another disc, the disc surfaces being generally orthogonal to a particular axial direction with said discs being encapsulated in an elastomeric material such that forces applied to said spring lateral to said axial direction can produce significant disc movement in said lateral direction and only negligible disc movement along said particular axial direction. 16. Robot arm drive force interrupting apparatus, comprising: a light source; an energizeable robot arm drive member; a robot arm driven member resiliently mounted on said drive member, being relatively movable with respect thereto; a lateral effect photodiode having a light sensitive surface, said photodiode being mounted in a fixed position with respect to one of said members and including means for generating an electrical signal representative of a relative position between said members; means for directing a portion of the light from said light source from a particular location relative to the other of said members, to a particular location on said light sensitive surface; and means responsive to said relative position signal for disabling said robot arm drive member when said signal is greater than or equal to a predetermined magnitude. 17. Drive force magnitude regulating apparatus, comprising: a light source; an energizeable drive member; a driven member mounted on said drive member through a spring member having a known spring rate, said driven member being movable with respect to said drive member; a lateral effect photodiode having a light sensitive surface, said photodiode being mounted in a fixed position with respect to one of said members and including means for generating an electrical signal representative of a relative position between said members; means for directing a portion of the light from said light source from a particular location relative to the other of said members, to a particular location on said light sensitive surface; and means responsive to said relative position signal for controlling the movement of said drive member to thereby control the magnitude of the drive force provided by said driven member. 18. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the means for resiliently mounting said second member on said first member includes a plurality of compliant pads. 19. The apparatus of claims 16 or 17, wherein the means for mounting said second member on said first member includes a plurality of compliant pads. 