A driving mechanism having a spindle which is provided with a first helical threaded portion having a lefthand direction of rotation and with a second helical threaded portion having a righthand direction of rotation. A pair of spindle guides each engage a respective spindle threaded portion for rotating the spindle and translating the spindle in an axial direction. Each spindle guide has three pairs of runner rollers on a sleeve for centering and supporting the spindle within the sleeves. The three pairs of runner rollers on each sleeve kinematically constrain the six degrees of freedom of the spindle without overconstraint to reduce friction and binding of the spindle in the spindle guides.
Claims WHAT IS CLAIMED IS: 1. A driving mechanism, comprising: a spindle defining a spindle axis, said spindle comprising a first threaded portion having multiple helical threads with a lefthand sense and a second threaded portion having multiple helical threads with a righthand sense, said first and second threaded portions occupying separate axial lengths of said spindle, the threads of said first threaded portion having a first thread pitch and the threads of said second threaded portion having a second thread pitch, and each thread of said multiple threaded portions having opposing sidewalls; first and second spindle guides for guiding said spindle for rotation about said spindle axis and translation along said spindle axis, each spindle guide comprising a sleeve sized for receiving a respective threaded portion with a clearance fit, and three pairs of rollers arranged on said sleeve for centering and supporting a respective spindle threaded portion within said sleeve, the rollers of each roller pair being spaced from each other and oriented with respect to the spindle axis for guiding a corresponding thread between the rollers of the roller pair and along a helical path relative to said sleeve as defined by the thread pitch of said corresponding thread, and said rollers being rotatably mounted in said sleeve for providing rolling contact with the respective thread sidewalls, said spindle being inserted into said guides with said first threaded portion engaging said first spindle guide and said second threaded portion engaging said second spindle guide; and means for rotatably supporting said spindle guides at a fixed axial distance relative to each other such that each spindle guide guides a respective threaded portion, whereby for rotation of said spindle guides in the same direction as each other, with the rate of rotation of said first spindle guide relative to said second spindle guide equal to the ratio of said first thread pitch to said second thread pitch, said spindle being rotated without axial translation of said spindle, for rotation of said spindle guides in the opposite direction of each other, with the rate of rotation of said first spindle guide relative to second spindle guide equal to the ratio of said first thread pitch to said second thread pitch, said spindle being translated along said spindle axis without rotation, and for other combinations of rotation of said spindle guides, said spindle being translated along said spindle axis and being rotated about said spindle axis. 2. A driving mechanism as claimed in claim 1, wherein said means for supporting said spindle guides comprises a pair of housings, each spindle guide being rotatably supported in a respective housing, and first bearing means for allowing relative rotation of said housings coaxial with said spindle. 3. A driving mechanism as claimed in 1, wherein each threaded portion of said spindle is triple threaded and each roller pair engages a respective thread. 4. A driving mechanism as claimed in claim 3, wherein for each sleeve said three roller pairs are disposed at a same axial position. 5. A driving mechanism as claimed in claim 4, wherein said roller pairs on each sleeve are equiangularly spaced in the circumferential direction on said sleeves. 6. A driving mechanism as claimed in claim 5, wherein each sleeve comprises two axially adjacent sleeve portions, the rollers of each roller pair being oppositely disposed on respective sleeve portions, and means for resiliently connecting said adjacent sleeve portions for allowing resilient displacement of the rollers of each roller pair with respect to each other. 7. A driving mechanism as claimed in claim 6, wherein said means for resiliently connecting said sleeve portions comprises three elastically deformable bridges connecting said sleeve portions, said bridges connecting said sleeve portions between the rollers of each of said three roller pairs. 8. A driving mechanism as claimed in claim 7, wherein said sleeve comprises a sleeve wall, said sleeve portions are separated by a plurality of partial circumferential cuts through said sleeve wall, and each elastically deformable bridge comprises a circumferentially extending sleeve wall portion axially bound by a pair of axially spaced and circumferentially overlapping portions of said cuts. 9. A driving mechanism as claimed in claim 8, wherein said driving mechanism further comprises means for selectively rotating said first and second spindle guides for effecting translation and rotation of said spindle. 10. A driving mechanism as claimed in claim 8, wherein said sleeve portions are coupled to each other by three bolts arranged between successive pairs of rollers, each of the bolts being pre-stressed by means of a spring located between a sleeve portion and the bolt. 11. A driving mechanism in claim 10, wherein said spring is a cup spring. 12. A driving mechanism as claimed in claim 9, wherein said means for selectively rotating said first and second spindle guides comprises first and second toothed guide pulleys connected to said first and second spindle guides, respectively, and rotatably supported in a respective housing, a pair of motors, each having a toothed motor pulley, for driving a respective guide pulley, and a pair of belts for connecting each motor pulley to a respective guide pulley, said belts being toothed for meshing with said guide and motor pulleys. 13. A driving mechanism as claimed in claim 9, wherein said means for selectively rotating said first and second spindle guides comprises an electric motor arranged in each housing concentrically about said spindle, each electric motor comprising a tubular portion connected to a respective spindle guide, bearing means for supporting said tubular portion for concentric rotation about said spindle, an annular rotor magnet secured to said tubular portion, and an energizable stator secured to said housing and arranged coaxially with said rotor magnet for rotating said tubular portion and said spindle guide. 14. A driving mechanism as claimed in claim 1, further comprising means for selectively rotating said first and second sleeves for effecting translation and rotation of said spindle. 15. A driving mechanism as claimed in claim 14, wherein said means for selectively rotating said first and second spindle guides comprises first and second toothed guide pulleys connected to said first and second spindle guides, respectively, and rotatably supported in a respective housing, a pair of motors, each having a toothed motor pulley, for driving a respective guide pulley, and a pair of belts for connecting each motor pulley to a respective guide pulley, said belts being toothed for meshing with said guide and motor pulleys. 16. A driving mechanism as claimed in claim 14, wherein said means for selectively rotating said first and second spindle guides comprises an electric motor arranged in each housing concentrically about said spindle, each electric motor comprising a tubular portion connected to a respective spindle guide, bearing means for supporting said tubular portion for concentric rotation about said spindle, an annular rotor magnet secured to said tubular portion, and an energizable stator secured to said housing and arranged coaxially with said rotor magnet for rotating said tubular portion and said spindle guide. 17. A driving mechanism as claimed in claim 1, wherein each sleeve comprises two axially adjacent sleeve portions, the rollers of each roller pair being oppositely disposed on respective sleeve portions, and means for resiliently connecting said adjacent sleeve portions for allowing resilient displacement of the rollers of each roller pair with respect to each other. 18. A driving mechanism as claimed in claim 17, wherein said means for resiliently connecting said sleeve portions comprises three elastically deformable bridges connecting said sleeve portions, said bridges connecting said sleeve portions between the rollers of each of said three roller pairs. 19. A driving mechanism as claimed in claim 18, wherein said sleeve comprises a sleeve wall, said sleeve portions are separated by a plurality of partial circumferential cuts through said sleeve wall, and each elastically deformable bridge comprises a circumferentially extending sleeve wall portion axially bound by a pair of axially spaced and circumferentially overlapping portions of said cuts. 20. A driving mechanism as claimed in claim 19, wherein said sleeve portions are coupled to each other by three bolts arranged between successive pairs of rollers, each of the bolts being pre-stressed by means of a spring located between a sleeve portion and the bolt. 21. A driving mechanism as claimed in claim 20, wherein said spring is a cup spring. 22. A driving mechanism as claimed in claim 1, wherein said roller pairs on each sleeve are equiangularly spaced in the circumferential direction on said sleeves. 23. In a robotic manipulator having a base defining a main axis, a pair of parallel arms extending from said base transverse to said main axis pivotable with respect to each other at their ends remote from said base about a second axis parallel to said main axis, means for translating said arm ends in a radial direction with respect to said main axis and for rotating said arm ends in a circumferential direction about said main axis, wherein the improvement comprises: a driving mechanism supported at said arm ends, said driving mechanism comprising a spindle defining a spindle axis, said spindle comprising a first threaded portion having multiple helical threads with a lefthand sense and a second threaded portion having multiple helical threads with a righthand sense, said first and second threaded portions occupying separate axial lengths of said spindle, the threads of said first threaded portion having a first thread pitch and the threads of said second threaded portion having a second thread pitch, and each thread of said multiple threaded portions having opposing sidewalls; first and second spindle guides for guiding said spindle for rotation about said spindle axis and translation along said spindle axis, each spindle guide comprising a sleeve sized for receiving a respective threaded portion with a clearance fit, and three pairs of rollers arranged on said sleeve for centering and supporting a respective spindle threaded portion within said sleeve, the rollers of each roller pair being spaced from each other and oriented with respect to the spindle axis for guiding a corresponding thread between the rollers of the roller pair and along a helical path relative to said sleeve as defined by the thread pitch of said corresponding thread, and said rollers being rotatably mounted in said sleeve for providing rolling contact with the respective thread sidewalls, said spindle being inserted into said guides with said first threaded portion engaging said first spindle guide and said second threaded portion engaging said second spindle guide; means for rotatably supporting said spindle guides at a fixed axial distance relative to each other such that each spindle guide guides a respective threaded portion; and means for selectively rotating said first and second spindle guides for effecting rotation of said spindle about said second axis and translation of said spindle along said second axis, whereby for rotation of said spindle guides in the same direction as each other, with the rate of rotation of said first spindle guide relative to said second spindle guide equal to the ratio of said first thread pitch to said second thread pitch, said spindle being rotated without axial translation of said spindle, for rotation of said spindle guides in the opposite direction of each other, with the rate of rotation of said first spindle guide relative to second spindle guide equal to the ratio of said first thread pitch to said second thread pitch, said spindle being translated along said spindle axis without rotation, and for other combinations of rotation of said spindle guides, said spindle being translated along said spindle axis and being rotated about said spindle axis. 24. A manipulator as claimed in 23, wherein each threaded portion of said spindle is triple threaded and each roller pair engages a respective thread. 25. A manipulator as claimed in claim 24, wherein for each sleeve the three roller pairs are disposed at a same axial position. 26. A driving mechanism as claimed in claim 25, wherein said roller pairs on each sleeve are equiangularly spaced in the circumferential direction on said sleeves. 27. A manipulator as claimed in claim 26, wherein each sleeve comprises two axially adjacent sleeve portions, the rollers of each roller pair being oppositely disposed on respective sleeve portions, and means for resiliently connecting said adjacent sleeve portions for allowing resilient displacement of the rollers of each roller pair with respect to each other. 28. A driving mechanism as claimed in claim 27, wherein said means for resiliently connecting said sleeve portions comprises three elastically deformable bridges connecting said sleeve portions, said bridges connecting said sleeve portions between the rollers of each of said three roller pairs. 29. A manipulator as claimed in claim 28, wherein said sleeve comprises a sleeve wall, said sleeve portions are separated by a plurality of partial circumferential cuts through said sleeve wall, and said elastically deformable bridges comprise circumferentially extending sleeve wall portions each axially bound by respective pairs of axially spaced and circumferentially overlapping portions of said cuts. 30. A manipulator as claimed in claim 29, wherein said ends of said arms comprise a pair of housings in which said sleeves are mounted for rotation concentric with said spindle, and said means for selectively rotating said first and second sleeves comprises a toothed pulley rotatably supported within each housing concentric with said spindle and connected to a respective spindle guide. 31. A manipulator as claimed in claim 29, wherein said remote arm ends each comprise a housing, and said means for selectively rotating said first and second spindle guides comprises a pair of electric motors each arranged concentrically about said spindle in a respective housing, each electric motor comprising a tubular portion connected to a respective spindle guide, bearing means for rotatably supporting said tubular portion in said housing for concentric rotation about said spindle, an annular rotor magnet secured to said tubular portion, and an energizable stator fixed in said housing coaxially with said tubular portion and rotor magnet for rotating said tubular portion and said spindle guide. 32. A driving mechanism as claimed in claim 29, wherein said sleeve portions are coupled to each other by three bolts arranged between successive pairs of rollers, each of the bolts being pre-stressed by means of a spring located between a sleeve portion and the bolt. 33. A driving mechanism as claimed in claim 32, wherein said spring is a cup spring. 34. A manipulator as claimed in claim 23, wherein said remote ends of each arm comprise a housing in which said spindle guides are mounted for rotation, and said means for selectively rotating said first and second sleeves comprises a toothed pulley rotatably supported within each housing concentric with said spindle and connected to a respective spindle guide for driving said spindle guide. 35. A manipulator as claimed in claim 34, further comprising a tool holder fixed to an end of said spindle. 36. A manipulator as claimed in claim 23, wherein said remote arm ends each comprise a housing, and said means for selectively rotating said first and second spindle guides comprises a pair of electric motors each arranged concentrically about said spindle in a respective housing, each electric motor comprising a tubular portion connected to a respective spindle guide, bearing means for rotatably supporting said tubular portion in said housing for concentric rotation about said spindle, an annular rotor magnet secured to said tubular portion, and an energizable stator fixed in said housing coaxially with said tubular portion and rotor magnet for rotating said tubular portion and said spindle guide. 37. A manipulator as claimed in claim 36, further comprising a tool holder fixed to an end of said spindle. 38. A driving mechanism as claimed in claim 23, wherein said roller pairs on each sleeve are equiangularly spaced in the circumferential direction on said sleeves. 