A work transfer system conveying a work basket in a programmed sequence to the processing tanks of an assembly thereof at various positions on a work bench. The system acts to transfer the basket to a selected tank and to properly orient the basket with respect to this tank before lowering the basket therein for processing for a given dwell period, at the conclusion of which the basket is hoisted from the tank and transferred to another tank where the procedure is repeated. Running parallel to the front side of the bench is a rail on which a robot rides, the robot supporting a hoist carriage which can be raised or lowered. Cantilevered from the carriage is a main arm articulated by an elbow shaft to a forearm that extends over the bench. The forearm is joined by a hand shaft depending therefrom to a hand that engages the handle of the work basket. A main arm motor acts to rotate the elbow shaft and thereby swing the forearm to a position generally aligning the basket with a selected tank therebelow. A forearm motor acts to turn the hand to properly orient the basket with respect to this tank before it is lowered therein by the hoist carriage.
Claims I claim: 1. A work transfer system for conveying in a desired sequence a work basket having a handle to a plurality of processing tanks so dispersed on a work bench that not all tanks are displaced the same transverse distance from the front side of the bench, nor are all tanks oriented in the same manner, said system comprising: A. a robot riding on a fixed rail parallel to the front side of the bench; B. a hoist carriage mounted above the robot, and means to raise or lower said carriage relative to the robot, said means being constituted by an elevator platform in said robot, a hoist post anchored on said platform to support the carriage, and an elevator motor to operate the platform; C. a main arm cantilevered from the carriage and articulated by a vertical elbow shaft to a forearm which extends over the bench, whereby said forearm is swingable in a horizontal plane, said forearm having a hand depending from its end and coupled thereto by a vertical hand shaft at right angles to the horizontal plane that engages the handle of the basket; D. means to advance the robot on the rail to a position in general alignment with a selected tank; E. means including a first drive motor disposed in said main arm and operatively coupled by an endless belt to said elbow shaft to swing the forearm relative to the main arm to shift the position of the basket so that it is transversely aligned with the selected tank therebelow on the workbench; F. a second drive motor disposed in said forearm and operatively coupled by an endless belt to the vertical handshaft to turn the hand to conform the orientation of the basket to that of the selected tank therebelow; and G. means to lower the hoist carriage to immerse the basket in the selected tank for processing therein, and for thereafter raising the basket preparatory to transfer of the basket to another tank where the procedure is repeated. 2. A work transfer system as set forth in claim 1, wherein said means to advance said robot on said rail includes a robot motor. 3. A system as set forth in claim 2, wherein said post and said elbow shaft are hollow to accommodate wires from said first and second drive motors to a power source therefor. 4. A system as set forth in claim 2, wherein said drive motors, said elevator motor and said robot motor are coupled to a computer which is programmed to govern the operation of these motors to effect transfer in a desired sequence. 