A gripping device 10 for providing large moment-carrying capability for handling long cylindrical work-pieces W of a wide range of diameters. The device 10, which may be attached as an end effector for a robotic arm, includes two spaced pairs of parallel jaw type gripping members, 87, 102 and 101, 98. Each gripping member includes a gripping pad 110d with a contour which accommodates the grasping of cylindrical objects of different diameters. Movement of the gripping members between a fully open position (FIG. 3) and a fully closed position (FIG. 4) is controlled by a pair of concentrically arranged inner and outer output drive shafts 56, 59, each of which is provided with a pair of arms (81,82 and 83,84) extending in generally opposed radial directions of the shaft axis and to which a gripping member is pivotally attached near its distal end. The gripping device 10 includes a reversible motor 17 and transmission means 20 for simultaneously driving the pair of output drive shafts 56, 59 in counter-rotating directions relative to one another and for reversing their directions of rotation whereby the gripping member of each pair of gripping members may be moved to any position between their fully open and fully closed positions as desired. A mechanical linkage means such as members 81, 87, 89 and pivotally connected structure between pivots 91 and 92 is provided for each said gripping member for maintaining the gripping pads in parallel relationship throughout their range of movement.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A gripping device having relatively large moment-carrying capability which is particularly adapted for use as an end effector of a robotic arm, said gripping device comprising: a motor including a motor shaft; a pair of output drive shafts comprising an inner output drive shaft and an outer output drive shaft mounted in coaxial sleeved relationship; a transmission means connected to the motor shaft for simultaneously driving the pair of output drive shafts in counter-rotating directions relative to one another in response to operation of said motor and cooperable with said motor for controllably reversing the directions of rotation of the counter-rotating drive shafts; a first pair of arms attached to said inner output drive shaft and extending therefrom in substantially opposed directions; a second pair of arms attached to said outer output drive shaft and extending therefrom in substantially opposed directions, each said arm of both pairs of arms having a gripping member pivotally attached thereto near the distal end of the arm and disposed in substantially coplanar relationship with all of said gripping members whereby each of said gripping members attached to the arms of the inner output drive shaft is cooperatively associated with a different one of the gripping members on the arms of the outer output drive shaft to form two pairs of cooperative gripping members, each said gripping member being provided with a gripping surface; and means for limiting the rotational movement of each said drive shaft between a first extreme rotational position wherein the gripping pads of each said pair of gripping members are disposed in a widely separated full open position and a second extreme rotational position wherein the gripping pads of each said pair of gripping members are disposed in a closely spaced substantially contacting fully closed position whereby the individual gripping members of said pairs of gripping members are movable in response to operation of said motor to a selected position intermediate said extreme rotational positions for grasping elongate cylindrical workpieces at relatively widely spaced regions of contact or for releasing the workpieces. 2. A gripping device as recited in claim 1 wherein said motor is a reversible motor. 3. A gripping device as recited in claim 1 wherein said motor is a reversible stepping motor. 4. A gripping device as recited in claim 1 wherein said transmission means comprises a pair of harmonic drive transmissions operatively connected to the motor shaft for transferring the torque of the motor shaft to said inner and outer output drive shafts in counter rotating directions relative to one another. 5. A gripping device as recited in claim 4 wherein said harmonic drive transmissions are comprised of axially compact gearing components in coaxial relationship. 6. A gripping device as recited in claim 1 wherein each of said gripping members is provided with a gripping pad having elongate planar surface sections which are convergent to a central connecting surface section having a predetermined radius of curvature, said elongate planar surface sections providing the gripping surfaces of said gripping members. 7. A gripping device as recited in claim 6 further including mechanical linkage means for maintaining the gripping pads in parallel relationship for all allowable rotational positions of the output drive shafts. 8. A gripping device as recited in claim 1 further including a separate mechanical linkage means connected to each said gripping member for maintaining the gripping members in parallel relationship for all allowable rotational positions of the output drive shafts and in equidistant relationship to an axis of symmetry extending between the gripping members of each pair of gripping members. 9. A gripping device as recited in claim 8 further including a housing for said motor and transmission means and wherein each said mechanical linkage means is comprised of four pivotally connected elements including a gripping member, the arm to which it is attached, and a drag link pivotally connected to the gripping member and said housing. 10. A gripping device as recited in claim 7 wherein the faces of said gripping pads are formed of elastic material. 11. A gripping device having relatively large moment-carrying capability which is particularly adapted for use as an end effector of a robotic arm, said gripping device comprising: two spaced pairs of parallel jaw type gripping members, each said gripping member being provided with a gripping surface; means for controlling movement of the gripping members of each said pair between a fully open position and a closed position, said controlling means comprising a pair of coaxially arranged inner and outer output drive shafts, each of which is provided with a pair of arms extending in opposed generally radial directions of its drive shaft axis with each said arm having a different one of said gripping members attached thereto with said gripping members being equidistant from the common axis of said output drive shafts, and a drive means for simultaneously and controllably driving said output drive shafts in counter-rotating directions; and means for maintaining the gripping surfaces of the gripping members in parallel orientation and in equidistant relationship from an axis of symmetry extending between the gripping members of each said pair throughout their range of movement, said gripping device being provided with large moment-carrying capability for grasping elongate workpieces at relatively widely spaced regions of contact. 12. A gripping device as recited in claim 11 wherein said drive means comprises a motor including a motor shaft, and a transmission means connected to the motor shaft for simultaneously driving the pair of output drive shafts in counter-rotating directions relative to one another in response to operation of said motor and cooperable with said motor for controllably reversing the directions of rotation of the counter-rotating drive shafts. 13. A gripping device as recited in claim 12 wherein said motor is a reversible motor. 14. A gripping device as recited in claim 12 wherein said motor is a servo-controlled motor. 15. A gripping device as recited in claim 12 wherein said transmission means comprises a pair of harmonic drive transmissions operatively connected to the motor shaft for transferring the torque of the motor shaft to said inner and outer output drive shafts in counter rotating directions relative to one another. 16. A gripping device as recited in claim 15 wherein said harmonic drive transmissions are comprised of axially compact gearing components in coaxial relationship. 17. A gripping device as recited in claim 11 wherein each of said gripping members is provided with a gripping pad having elongate planar surface sections which are convergent to a central connecting surface section having a predetermined radius of curvature, said elongate planar surface sections providing the gripping surfaces of said gripping members whereby the gripping members are adapted to grasp cylindrical objects of a wide range of diameters. 18. A gripping device as recited in claim 11 wherein said means for maintaining the gripping surfaces of the gripping members in parallel orientation throughout their range of movement includes a housing for said drive means and a separate mechanical linkage means connected to each said gripping member wherein each said mechanical linkage means is comprised of four pivotally connected elements including the gripping member, the arm to which it is attached, and a drag link pivotally connected to the gripping member and said housing. 19. A gripping device as recited in claim 17 wherein the faces of said gripping pads are formed of elastic material. 