A system for providing cash to users in a self-service environment such as in dispensing motor fuel, includes a self-service dispensing machine (12). A user is enabled to dispense merchandise from the self-service dispensing machine and is also enabled to selectively receive cash value by charging the amount of such value to a monetary source associated with a machine readable article (80, 82). A user may receive cash value by presenting a printed voucher or other item to a service provider located at a facility (14) at which the service provider exchanges the voucher or other item for cash. Alternatively, cash may be dispensed to the user directly from the self-service dispensing machine.
Claims I claim: 1. A method comprising: a) paying a charge for merchandise delivered to a user at a self-service dispensing machine, including reading a machine readable article, wherein the article corresponds to a source of monetary value; b) receiving an input from the user through an input device adjacent the dispensing machine, wherein the input corresponds to a request for an amount of cash; c) charging the source of monetary value for the charge and the amount; d) communicating information representative of the request for the amount to a facility remote from the machine, wherein the facility includes a supply of cash; and e) delivering the amount of cash to the user from the supply after the user arrives at the facility. 2. The method according to claim 1 and further comprising the steps of: f) providing the user with other merchandise at the remote facility, the other merchandise having a cost; and g) reducing the amount delivered to the user in step (e) by the cost associated with the other merchandise. 3. The method according to claim 1 and further comprising the steps of: f) providing the user with other merchandise at the remote facility, the other merchandise having an associated cost; and g) receiving payment of the cost from the user in cash at the remote facility. 4. The method according to claim 1 and further comprising the steps of: f) providing the user with an item at the self-service dispensing machine responsive to the request for the amount; and g) receiving the item from the user at the facility in exchange for the amount of cash. 5. The method according to claim 4 wherein step (f) includes printing the item with a printer adjacent the dispensing machine. 6. The method according to claim 4 wherein the item provided to the user in step (f) includes machine readable indicia having a corresponding relationship to the amount, and wherein step (g) includes reading the machine readable indicia with a reading device at the facility. 7. The method according to claim 6 wherein the reading device is operatively connected to a cash dispensing mechanism, and wherein the supply includes the cash dispensing mechanism and wherein step (e) includes dispensing the amount of cash from the cash dispensing mechanism responsive to reading the item with the reading device. 8. The method according to claim 7 wherein the supply includes another portion separate from the cash dispensing mechanism, and further comprising the step of loading cash from another portion of the supply to the cash dispensing mechanism. 9. The method according to claim 1 wherein step (d) includes providing a visual indication through an output device that the user has requested the amount. 10. The method according to claim 1 and prior to step (c) further comprising the step of storing a charge record in a data store associated with a computer, wherein the charge record includes data representative of a charge by the user to the source of monetary value of a total, wherein the total is equal to the charge and the amount. 11. The method according to claim 10 and further comprising the step of communicating data representative of the charge record to the source of monetary value through a communications network. 12. The method according to claim 1 wherein in step (a) the self-service dispensing machine includes a liquid dispenser and the merchandise includes a motor fuel. 13. The method according to claim 1 wherein the machine readable article includes a credit card. 14. The method according to claim 1 wherein the machine readable article includes a debit card. 15. The method according to claim 1 wherein the machine readable article includes a stored value card. 16. The method according to claim 15 wherein the stored value card includes a stored value memory thereon, and wherein step (c) includes modifying the data stored in the stored value memory. 17. The method according to claim 15 and further comprising the steps of: (f) receiving a further input from the user through the input device, wherein the further input corresponds to a request to load data representative of a further amount of monetary value to the stored value card; (g) charging the further amount to the source of the monetary value; and (h) loading the data representative of the further amount to the stored value card. 18. The method according to claim 1 wherein step (d) includes delivering an item to the user at the self-service dispensing machine in response to the request for the amount, and the user delivering the item to the remote facility, wherein step (e) is performed responsive to the user delivering the item to the facility. 19. The method according to claim 18 wherein the item includes a printed document. 20. The method according to claim 1 wherein the self-service dispensing machine includes a card reader, and wherein the machine readable article includes a card, and wherein step (a) includes reading the card with the card reader, and wherein the machine includes a plurality of keys, wherein in step (b) the input corresponds to the user touching at least one of the keys. 21. The method according to claim 20 wherein the machine further comprises an output device, and further comprising the step of providing a prompt message through the output device advising the user to press at least one of the keys if they wish to receive an amount of cash. 22. The method according to claim 1 and prior to step (e) further comprising the step of reviewing identification indicia associated with the user at the facility. 23. The method according to claim 22 wherein step (e) comprises at least one of either reviewing the machine readable article, reviewing a driver's license associated with the user, or receiving a biometric input from the user. 24. The method according to claim 1 wherein the self-service dispensing machine is operative to deliver motor fuel in an outdoor environment, and wherein the facility includes an indoor sales area, wherein in step (e) the amount is delivered in the sales area. 25. The method according to claim 1 wherein the self-service dispensing machine is operative to deliver motor fuel, and wherein the facility includes a service window, wherein in step (e) the amount is delivered to the user through the service window. 26. The method according to claim 25 wherein the service window is a drive-up window, and prior to step (e) further comprising the step of moving a vehicle from adjacent the dispensing machine to adjacent the service window. 27. Apparatus operating to perform the method steps recited in claim 1. 28. The method according to claim 1 and further comprising the steps of: (f) providing the user with machine readable indicia adjacent the self-service dispensing machine responsive to the request for the amount; (g) reading the machine readable indicia with a reading device at the facility; and wherein step (e) includes dispensing the amount of cash from a cash dispensing device responsive to reading the machine readable indicia with the reading device. 29. The method according to claim 28 wherein step (f) includes printing the machine readable indicia on a paper item. 30. The method according to claim 1 and further comprising the steps of: (f) providing the user with a code at the self service dispensing machine responsive to the request for the amount; (g) receiving input of the code through an input device at the facility; and wherein step (e) includes dispensing the amount of cash from a cash dispensing device responsive to receiving input of the code through the input device. 31. The method according to claim 30 wherein step (f) includes printing the code on a paper item. 32. The method according to claim 30 wherein step (f) includes printing the code on a receipt. 33. The method according to claim 1 and further comprising the steps of: (f) receiving a further input corresponding to the user through a further input device adjacent the self-service dispensing machine; (g) correlating through operation of a computer, data corresponding to the further input and the amount; (h) receiving the further input through a remote input device at the remote facility; and wherein step (e) includes dispensing the amount of cash from a cash dispensing device responsive to receipt of the further input through the remote input device. 34. The method according to claim 33 wherein in step (f) the further input includes a user selected code. 35. The method according to claim 33 wherein in step (f) the further input corresponds to at least one feature of the user and the further input device includes a biometric input device. 36. The method according to claim 33 wherein in step (f) the further input corresponds to at least one feature of a vehicle operated by the user. 37. The method according to claim 1 and further comprising the step of: reading the machine readable article with a further input device at the facility, and wherein step (e) includes dispensing the amount of cash from a cash dispensing device responsive to reading the machine readable article with the further input device. 38. A method comprising the steps of: a) paying for a first charge for merchandise delivered to a user at a first self-service dispensing machine, including accepting an amount of cash with a cash accepting device; b) generating a code, wherein the code corresponds to an amount of change, wherein the amount of change corresponds to the difference between the first charge and the amount of cash; c) outputting the code to the user; and d) paying for a second charge for merchandise delivered to the user at a second self service dispensing machine, including inputting the code and reducing the second charge by the amount of change that corresponds to the code. 39. The method according to claim 38, wherein the outputting step further includes dispensing an item that includes indicia representative of the code, and wherein the second charge paying step further includes reading the indica from the item. 40. A method comprising: receiving a first customer input request at a customer request station, wherein the first request is received via at least one input device at the customer request station, wherein the first request corresponds to a merchandise purchase; receiving a second customer input request at the customer request station, wherein the second request is received via at least one input device at the customer request station, wherein the second request corresponds to an amount of cash; providing a code at the customer request station, wherein the code is provided responsive to the second request; receiving a single payment at the customer request station for both the merchandise and the amount of cash, wherein such payment receiving includes reading a machine readable article; delivering at least a portion of the requested amount of cash from a cash dispensing device at a cash delivery station responsive to receiving input of the code at an input device at the cash delivery station, wherein the cash delivery station is remote from the customer request station, and wherein such cash delivery is subsequent to customer arrival at the cash delivery station. 41. The method according to claim 40, wherein the customer request station includes a self-service fuel dispensing machine, and wherein receiving the first customer input request includes receiving a request for fuel. 42. The method according to claim 40, wherein the cash delivery station includes a self-service automated cash dispensing device, wherein providing the code includes printing the code on a paper item, and wherein delivering the cash includes dispensing cash from the cash dispensing device responsive to receiving input of the code at the cash dispensing device. 43. The method according to claim 42, wherein the self-service automated cash dispensing device comprises an automated teller machine (ATM), and wherein the ATM includes a supply of cash. 