The present invention provides an amusement device having a body, wherein the body has features, at least one motor for powering the device and at least some of the features, and an information receiving structure for receiving information from an information carrying item that is separate or discrete from the amusement device.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An interactive amusement device comprising: (a) a body; (b) features carried by the body; (c) means for powering the device and at least some of the features, said means for powering carried by the body; (d) a swipe card reader, said swipe card reader carried by the body; and (e) a microprocessor operably coupled to the means for powering and the swipe card reader, and wherein said at least some of the features comprises at least one of the following at least one transport element moveably connected to the body and at least two arms moveably connected to the body, the swipe card reader is adapted to receive information from a swipe card and transmit the information to the microprocessor, wherein the information activates at least two functions of the device, and wherein the at least two functions activated comprises at least activation of movement of the device and activation of a defense for the device, wherein said activation of said defense generates or activates moveable features or elements. 2. The device of claim 1, wherein said swipe card further comprises: (a) card game information displayed on the face of the swipe information card; and (b) device actuation information, the device actuation information configured to be transmitted to the microprocessor. 3. The device of claim 1 further comprising armor configured to be attachable to the body of the device. 4. The interactive amusement device of claim 1, said at least two functions activated by said information further comprises at least one of producing light, producing sound, discharging projectiles, launching projectiles, projecting projectiles or firing projectiles from the device. 5. A transforming interactive amusement device comprising: (a) a body; (b) at least two transport elements moveably connected to the body; (c) at least two arms moveably connected to the body; (d) a motor associated with the body, the motor operably coupled to the at least two transport elements; (e) a microprocessor operably coupled to the motor, the microprocessor being configured to command the motor to perform an action; (f) a swipe card reader associated with the body, the swipe card reader is adapted to receive enhancement data from a swipe card and transmit the enhancement data to the microprocessor, wherein the enhancement data enhances at least two functions of the device, and wherein said at least two functions enhanced comprises enhancement of at least movement and a defense for the device, wherein said activation of said defense generates or activates moveable features or elements; (g) a wireless receiver associated with the body, the wireless receiver adapted to receive a wireless communication and transmit the wireless communication to the microprocessor; (h) a unit wireless transmitter associated with the body, the unit wireless transmitter operably coupled with the microprocessor and capable of wireless communication with a second interactive amusement device; and (i) a remote wireless transmitter operably coupled by wireless communication with the wireless receiver; wherein the device transforms into at least two different forms. 6. The amusement device of claim 5 further comprising a swipe card configured to be swiped through the swipe card reader, the swipe card comprising (a) game card information displayed on the face of the swipe card; and (b) the enhancement data. 7. An interactive amusement device comprising: (a) a body; (b) a launchable element connected to the body; (c) a launchable mechanism associated with the body, wherein the launch mechanism is operably coupled to the launchable element; (d) a motor; and (e) a swipe card reader operably coupled to the motor and to the launch mechanism, the swipe card reader configured to actuate the motor for propelling movement of the device and the launch mechanism for launching the launch element upon receiving a swipe card, and wherein said swipe card reader is also adapted to activate a defense function for the device upon receiving the swipe card. 8. A transforming interactive amusement device system capable of performing at least two functions and comprising: (a) a body; (b) a motor associated with the body; (c) a microprocessor operably coupled to the motor, the microprocessor being configured to command the motor to perform an action; (d) a wireless receiver associated with the body, the wireless receiver adapted to receive a wireless communication and transmit the wireless communication to the microprocessor; (e) a unit wireless transmitter associated with the body, the unit wireless transmitter operably coupled with the microprocessor and capable of wireless communication with a second interactive amusement device; (f) a remote wireless transmitter operably coupled by wireless communication with the wireless receiver; and (g) a swipe card reader associated with the body, the swipe card reader adapted to receive data from a swipe card and transmit the data to the microprocessor, wherein the data provides for changing the at least two functions, wherein the least two functions comprises at least movement and a defense for the device system, wherein said activation of said defense generates or activates moveable features or elements, the changes being selected from the group consisting of: (1) changed number of functions; and (2) changed speed of functions. 9. The interactive amusement system according to claim 8, wherein the swipe card comprises game information on a face of the swipe card, wherein the game information is configured to be used in a card game. 10. The interactive amusement system according to claim 8, further comprising a control switch associated with the body, the control switch being configured to actuate at least one of the at least two functions. 11. The interactive amusement device of claim 10, wherein the control switch is configured to shut down the amusement device. 12. An interactive amusement device comprising: (a) a body; (b) a launchable element associated with the body; (c) a launchable mechanism associated with the body, the launch mechanism configured to propel the launchable element away from the body; (d) a motor; and (e) a swipe card reader configured to read a swipe card, said swipe card reader operably coupled to the motor and to the launch mechanism, the swipe card reader configured to actuate the motor for propelling movement of the device and the launch mechanism for launching the launch element upon receiving a swipe card, and wherein said swipe card reader is also adapted to activate a defense function for the device upon receiving the swipe card. 13. A transformable interactive amusement device, comprising: (a) a body; (b) a motor associated with the body; (c) a microprocessor operably coupled to the motor, the microprocessor configured to actuate the motor to propel an action; (d) a swipe card reader configured to read information from a swipe card whereby the microprocessor is actuated, and transmit the information to the microprocessor, wherein the information activates at least two functions of the device, and wherein the at least two functions activated comprises at least activation of movement of the device and activation of a defense for the device, wherein said activation of said defense generates or activates moveable features or elements; and (e) at least two moveable elements moveably coupled to the body, the at least two moveable elements operably coupled to the motor, wherein the body and the at least two moveable elements are reconfigurable whereby the device is transformable. 14. The device of claim 13, further comprising at least two couplings configured to couple the at least two moveable elements to the body, wherein the at least two couplings are configured to allow the body and the at least two moveable elements to be reconfigurable. 