A method and apparatus for the automated milking of dairy cattle employing live capture of the teats of a dairy cow without requiring identification of a particular dairy cow or the prior knowledge of the location of the individual teats. The live capture milking apparatus locates the individual teats of a dairy cow and attaches a teatcup to the teat without the need for human intervention. After the milking operation is completed, the live capture milking apparatus returns to a home position where cleaning and sanitization the milking equipment occurs.
Claims Having thus described the aforementioned invention, we claim: 1. An apparatus for milking a dairy cow having an udder with a plurality of teats, said apparatus comprising: a plurality of teatcups adapted to extract milk from the dairy cow; a height adjustment member raising and lowering said plurality of teatcups as a group; a radial positioning member moving said plurality of teatcups as a group in a radial direction relative to said height adjustment member; a tangential adjustment member moving said plurality of teatcups as a group in a orthogonal direction relative to said radial positioning member; a plurality of first positioning arms adapted to raise and lower each of said plurality of teatcups independently of each other of said plurality of teatcups; a plurality of second positioning arms adapted to move each of said plurality of teatcups in a first direction independently of each other of said plurality of teatcups; a plurality of third positioning arms adapted to move each of said plurality of teatcups in a second direction independently of each other of said plurality of teatcups, said second direction being different than said first direction; an alignment sensing component associated with each of said plurality of teatcups, said alignment sensing component sensing when the associated one of said plurality of teatcups is aligned with one of the plurality of teats; and a controller in communication with said sensor, said controller activating said height adjustment member, said radial positioning member, and said tangential positioning member to position said plurality of teatcups generally proximate the plurality of teats; aligning each of said plurality of teatcups with one of the plurality of teats along a line in a first direction using said plurality of second positioning arms; aligning each of said plurality of teatcups with one of the plurality of teats along a line in a second direction using said plurality of third positioning arms;and engaging each of the plurality of teats with one of said plurality of teatcups using said plurality of first positioning arms. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said second direction is substantially orthogonal relative to said first direction. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said radial positioning arm is fixedly connected to said height adjustment member, said height adjustment member having a vertical axis, said height adjustment member rotating about said vertical axis to adjust an angular offset of said plurality of teatcups relative to a fixed reference point. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said radial positioning arm is pivotally connected to said height adjustment member, said radial positioning arm pivoting about said height adjust member to adjust an angular offset of said plurality of teatcups relative to a fixed reference point. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said controller moves each of said plurality of teatcups simultaneously using said plurality of first positioning arms, said plurality of second positioning arms, and said plurality of third positioning arms. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a height sensor for sensing a target, said target being either of the udder and any of the plurality of teats. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein said height sensor has a narrow line-of-sight, said height sensor traveling through a specified range of motion, said controller further moving said height sensor horizontally through said specified range of motion; sensing the target; moving said height sensor vertically if the target is not sensed within the specified range of motion; and positioning said plurality of teatcups vertically relative to a sensed position of the target. 8. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein said height sensor has a first component measuring a distance to the target, said controller further positioning said plurality of teatcups vertically relative to a measured distance to the target. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein said height sensor has second component having a narrow line-of-sight, said height sensor traveling through a specified range of motion, said controller further moving said height sensor horizontally through said specified range of motion; sensing the target and producing an output; moving said height sensor based upon said output; and positioning said plurality of teatcups vertically relative to a sensed position of the target. 10. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a leg sensor traveling with at least one of said plurality of teatcups, said leg sensor sensing a leg of the dairy cow. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein said controller further sensing the position of the leg of the dairy cow; and stopping lateral movement of the plurality of teatcups when the distance between any of the plurality of teatcups and the leg of the dairy cow reaches a specified minimum distance. 12. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein aligning each of said plurality of teatcups with one of the plurality of teats along a line in a first direction using said plurality of second positioning arms includes moving each of said plurality of teatcups along the line in the first direction; sensing when each of said plurality of teatcups is proximate to one of the teats along the line in the first direction; and stopping each of said plurality of teatcups when aligned with one of the teats along the line in the first direction. 13. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein each of said plurality of teatcups is pivotally connected to at least one of said plurality of first positioning arms, said plurality of second positioning arms, and said plurality of third positioning arms to allow each of said plurality of teatcups to rotate about the lateral axis and the longitudinal axis. 14. An apparatus for milking a dairy cow having an udder, the udder having a plurality of teats, said apparatus comprising: a plurality of teatcups adapted to extract milk from the dairy cow, each of said plurality of teatcups having an associated alignment sensor for sensing the presence of one of the plurality of the teats; a major positioning system for moving said plurality of teatcups underneath the dairy cow, said major positioning system positioning said plurality of teatcups at a specified distance relative to the plurality of teats; a minor positioning system for individually positioning one of said plurality of teatcups on each of the plurality of teats, said minor positioning system simultaneously moving said plurality of teatcups until each said associated alignment sensor senses that each of the plurality of teats is aligned with one of said plurality of teatcups. 15. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein said major positioning system includes a height sensor for sensing the position of a target, a rotation component for moving said plurality of teatcups to position for insertion underneath the dairy cow, and a translation component for inserting said plurality of teatcups underneath said dairy cow, said translation component moving said plurality of teatcups in three mutually orthogonal directions, said target being one of the udder and any of the plurality of teats. 16. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein said major positioning system includes a vertical support, a radial arm attached to said vertical support, and a tangential arm attached to said radial arm, said radial arm being rotatable around a vertical axis running parallel to said vertical support, said radial arm extending and retracting radially from said vertical support, said tangential arm extending and retracting orthogonally with respect to said radial arm, said radial arm rotating relative to an vertical axis centered on said vertical support. 17. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein each associated alignment sensor senses when each of the plurality of teats is laterally and longitudinally aligned with one of said plurality of teatcups, said minor positioning system vertically moving each of said plurality of teatcups into engagement with the corresponding one of the plurality of teats. 18. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein said minor positioning system includes a lifter, a first carrier, and a second carrier for each of said plurality of teatcups, and said associated alignment sensor traveling with each of said plurality of teatcups, each said first carrier moving one of said plurality of teatcups in a substantially lateral direction with respect to the dairy cow until said associated alignment sensor indicates that said teatcup is laterally aligned with one of the plurality of teats, each said second carrier moving one of said plurality of teatcups in a substantially longitudinal direction with respect to the dairy cow until said associated alignment sensor indicates that said teatcup is longitudinally aligned with one of the plurality of teats, and each said lifter raising one of said plurality of teatcups into engagement with one of the plurality of teats. 19. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein each of said plurality of teatcups is pivotally connected to said minor positioning system to allow each of said plurality of teatcups to rotate about the lateral axis and the longitudinal axis. 20. An apparatus for milking a dairy cow having an udder, the udder having a bottom and a plurality of teats, said apparatus comprising: a means for extracting milk from the dairy cow; a means for laterally translating said means for extracting milk; a means for longitudinally translating said means for extracting milk; a means for vertically translating said means for extracting milk relative to a vertical axis; a means for rotating said means for extracting milk about the vertical axis; a means for sensing the presence of each of the plurality of teats; and a means for determining when each of the plurality of teats is aligned with said means for extracting milk from the dairy cow. 21. The apparatus of claim 20 further comprising: means for rotating said means for extracting milk about the lateral axis; and means for rotating said means for extracting milk about the longitudinal axis. 