A motion event system for transmitting events between a motion program and a motion device. The motion event system comprises a driver component, a motion component, and a motion event component. The driver component is associated with the motion device. The motion component allows communication between the motion program and the at least one driver component. The motion event component configures at least one of the driver component and the motion component to recognize events to be transmitted between the motion program and the motion device.
Claims I claim: 1. A motion event system for transmitting events between a motion program and a motion device, comprising: a driver component associated with the motion device; a motion component for allowing communication between the motion program and the driver component; a motion event component for configuring at least one of the driver component and the motion component to recognize events to be transmitted between the motion program and the motion device; and at least one subscription identifier associated with at least one event, where the driver component stores subscription information associated with each subscription identifier. 2. A motion event system as recited in claim 1, further comprising at least one data identifier associated with each event, where the driver component stores information relating each data identifier to the motion device associated with the driver component. 3. A motion event system as recited in claim 2, in which the driver component monitors data associated with each data identifier. 4. A motion event system as recited in claim 2, in which, when the driver component reads data associated with at least one of the recognized events, the motion event component generates an event that transmits the changed data to the motion program. 5. A motion event system as recited in claim 2, in which, when the driver component reads data associated with at least one of the recognized events, the motion event component generates an event that transmits the changed data and the data identifier associated with the event to the motion program. 6. A motion event system as recited in claim 2, in which, when the driver component detects a change in data associated with at least one of the recognized events, the motion event component generates an event that transmits the changed data to the motion program. 7. A motion event system as recited in claim 2, in which, when the driver component detects a change in data associated with at least one of the recognized events, the motion event component generates an event that transmits the changed data and the data identifier associated with the event to the motion program. 8. A motion event system as recited in claim 1, comprising a plurality of motion devices, where at least one driver component is associated with each of the motion devices. 9. A motion event system as recited in claim 1, in which the motion component returns the subscription identifier. 10. A motion event system as recited in claim 1, in which the motion program subscribes to at least one group of events comprising at least one event based on the subscription identifier, where the at least one event in the subscribed group of events is transmitted to the motion program. 11. A motion event system as recited in claim 10, in which the motion program unsubscribes from at least one group of events such that the at least one event in the subscribed group of events is no longer transmitted to the motion program. 12. A motion event system as recited in claim 1, in which the motion program directs the motion component to pause event processing. 13. A motion event system as recited in claim 12, in which the motion component directs the driver component to pause all event processing when the motion program directs the motion component to pause event processing. 14. A motion event system as recited in claim 12, in which the driver component discontinues sending events to the motion event component when the motion program directs the motion component to pause event processing. 15. A motion event system as recited in claim 12, in which the motion event directs the motion component to continue event processing when the pause is cancelled. 