A pre-hemming apparatus for use with a hemming die includes a driving member adapted to be centrally disposed below the hemming die. A plurality of link arms are operatively, pivotally connected to the driving member. A lever arm is operatively connected to each link arm. A flanging member is operatively connected to each lever arm at an end thereof. A plurality of mounts for supporting the lever arms are adapted to be mounted to a side of the hemming die. Each lever arm is pivotally connected to one of the mounts intermediate ends of the lever arm. An actuator is operatively engagable with the driving member. Actuation of the driving member moves the flanging members towards the hemming die through the lever arms and the link arms for pre-hemming, and away from the hemming die cycling the apparatus.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A pre-hemming apparatus for use with a hemming die, the pre-hemming apparatus comprising: a driving member adapted to be centrally disposed below said hemming die; a plurality of link arms operatively, pivotally connected to said driving member; a lever arm operatively connected to each link arm; a flanging member operatively connected to each lever arm at an end thereof; a plurality of mounts for supporting said lever arms, each of said mounts adapted to be mounted to a side of said hemming die, and each lever arm being pivotally connected to one of said mounts intermediate ends of said lever arm; and an actuator operatively engagable with said driving member, whereby actuation of said driving member moves said flanging members towards said hemming die through said lever arms and said link arms for pre-hemming, and away from said hemming die cycling the apparatus. 2. The pre-hemming apparatus of claim 1, wherein said driving member is a cam plate. 3. The pre-hemming apparatus of claim 1, wherein at least one additional link member is operatively, pivotally connected between each of said link arm and lever arm pair. 4. The pre-hemming apparatus of claim 1, wherein each of said flanging members is mounted on one of said lever arms. 5. The pre-hemming apparatus of claim 1, wherein each of said flanging members is pivotally connected to one of said lever arms. 6. The pre-hemming apparatus of claim 1, wherein said flanging members are flanging steels. 7. The pre-hemming apparatus of claim 1, wherein said actuator is an air cylinder. 8. The pre-hemming apparatus of claim 1, including lever arms disposed at corners of the hemming die. 9. The pre-hemming apparatus of claim 1, wherein said driving member is a link bar. 10. The pre-hemming apparatus of claim 1, wherein said actuator is a piston. 11. The pre-hemming apparatus of claim 1, wherein said actuator is a robot arm. 12. A pre-hemming assembly comprising: a hemming apparatus including a base, a rotatable turntable mounted on the base, a mounting bracket disposed on the turntable, and a hemming die mounted on the mounting bracket; a driving member centrally disposed below said hemming die; a plurality of link arms operatively, pivotally connected to the linkage member; a lever arm operatively connected to each link arm; a flanging member operatively connected to each lever arm at an end thereof; a plurality of mounts for supporting said lever arms, each of said mounts being mounted to a side of said hemming die, and each lever arm being pivotally connected to one of said mounts intermediate the ends of said lever arm; and an actuator operatively engagable with said driving member, said actuator being mounted on said mounting bracket below said hemming die; whereby actuation of said driving member moves said flanging members towards said hemming die through said lever arms and said link arms for pre-hemming, and away from said hemming die cycling the apparatus. 13. The pre-hemming assembly of claim 12, wherein said actuator is one of an air cylinder, a piston, and a robot arm. 14. The pre-hemming assembly of claim 12, wherein said driving member is one of a rotary cam plate and a link bar. 15. The pre-hemming assembly of claim 12, wherein said flanging members are flanging steels. 