A structured product coding system that reflects both the components as are used to fabricate a given product but component manipulators as are used to execute part-mating operations to combine the components and intermediate structures as are assembled during the fabrication process can be used to generate a generic assembly/disassembly tree that corresponds to that product.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of forming a structured product coding system comprising: coding a plurality of individual product components using at least corresponding coded component identifiers; coding a plurality of component manipulators using at least corresponding coded component manipulator identifiers; coding a plurality of part-mating operations for at least one of assembly and disassembly as corresponds to at least some of the plurality of individual product components and the plurality of component manipulators; forming, in a manufacturing analysis platform, a structured product coding system for a given product by: identifying the components to be used to fabricate the given product; identifying part-mating operations to be used for manufacturing the given product; identifying an initial discrete parsed combination of at least two of the components and their part-mating operation to be effected as corresponds to initiation of fabrication of the given product and further identifying at least one of the component manipulators to be used to make the initial discrete parsed combination and using the coded component identifiers, the coded part-mating operation identifier and the coded component manipulator identifiers to represent the identified initial discrete parsed combination as a particular corresponding structured product coding system entry; identifying a subsequent discrete parsed combination of at least the initial discrete parsed combination and at least one of the components and one of the coded part-mating operations to be effected as further corresponds to continuation of the fabrication of the given product and further identifying at least one of the component manipulators to be used to make the subsequent discrete parsed combination and using the coded component identifiers and the coded component manipulator identifiers and the coded part-mating operation identifier to represent the identified subsequent discrete parsed combination as another corresponding structured product coding system entry. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein coding a plurality of individual product components includes coding, for a plurality of different products, the individual product components that substantially comprise such different products using at least corresponding coded component identifiers such that a given component as used in more than one product will nevertheless have a single corresponding coded component identifier. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein coding a plurality of individual product components using at least corresponding coded component identifiers includes using coded component identifiers that are comprised, at least in part, of an alphanumeric string. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein using coded component identifiers that are comprised, at least in part, of an alphanumeric string includes using coded component identifiers that are comprised, at least in part, of an alphanumeric string wherein at least portions of the alphanumeric string comprise parsed information fields. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein coding a plurality of component manipulators using at least corresponding coded component manipulator identifiers includes coding a plurality of component manipulators as a function, at least in part, of a type of component manipulator. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein coding a plurality of component manipulators as a function, at least in part, of a type of component manipulator further includes coding at least one of the component manipulators as a function, at least in part, of specific characteristics of the at least one component manipulator. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein identifying the components to be used to fabricate the given product includes identifying all of the components that are to be used to fabricate the given product. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein using the coded component identifiers and the coded component manipulator identifiers and the coded part-mating operation identifier to represent the identified initial discrete parsed combination as a particular corresponding structured product coding system entry includes using the coded component identifiers, the coded part-mating operation identifier and the coded component manipulator identifiers to specify a structured product coding system node. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein using the coded component identifiers, the coded part-mating operation identifier and the coded component manipulator identifiers to specify a structured product coding system node includes specifying the node as a part of a structured product coding system hierarchical tree. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein specifying the node as a part of a structured product coding system hierarchical tree includes specifying the node as a part of a structured product coding system binary assembly/disassembly tree. 11. The method of claim 1 wherein using the coded component identifiers and the coded component manipulator identifiers and the coded part-mating operation identifier to represent the identified initial discrete parsed combination as a particular corresponding structured product coding system entry and using the coded component identifiers, the coded part-mating operation identifier and the coded component manipulator identifiers to represent the identified subsequent discrete parsed combination as another corresponding structured product coding system entry includes presenting the structured product coding system entries on an active display. 12. The method of claim 11 wherein presenting the structured product coding system entries on an active display includes presenting the structured product coding system entries as leaves on a hierarchical assembly/disassembly tree. 13. The method of claim 1 and further comprising using the structured product coding system to automatically determine a predicted cost of manufacturing the given product. 14. The method of claim 1 wherein forming a structured product coding system for a given product further includes identifying component manipulator resetting actions to be effected as corresponds to fabrication of the given product and using the coded component manipulator identifiers to represent the identified component manipulator resetting actions as particular corresponding structured product coding system entries. 15. The method of claim 1 and further comprising using the structured product coding system to automatically determine a predicted cost of at least partially de-fabricating the given product. 16. The method of claim 1 and further comprising using the structured product coding system to determine a de-fabrication procedure to facilitate at least partial de-fabrication of the given product. 17. The method of claim 1 and further comprising using the structured product coding system to facilitate inventory control of at least one of: at least some of the plurality of individual product components; and at least some sub-assemblies comprised of at least some of the plurality of individual product components. 