A system for wafer handling employing a complex numerical method for calculating a path of wafer travel that controls wafer acceleration and jerk, and results in maximum safe speed of wafer movement from a first point to a second point. Motion is begun along a straight line segment while accelerating to a first path velocity. During this acceleration, the system computer calculates a series of straight line segments and interconnecting sinusiodally shaped paths over which the wafer is to be guided to the second point. The straight line segments and sinusiodally shaped paths are calculated so as to minimize total path length and the time required to move the wafer from the first point to the second point. The system computes the point of entrance and exit to and from each straight and sinusoidal path.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A wafer handling system comprising: (a) a robot with an axis of rotation and a bifurcated arm, and a wafer manipulator, said robot for moving a wafer along a path having a plurality of segments from a first location to a second location; and (b) control apparatus for moving said wafer along said path under controlled condition so as to limit acceleration and jerk, and wherein said controller calculates and directs a path trajectory with an optimized maximum path acceleration for the movements of the wafer manipulator, producing arm movement along the path trajectory by calculating the maximum acceleration and jerk for each of a series of straight line segments and interconnecting sinusoid paths over the path trajectory to minimize the total path trajectory length and maintain maximum path acceleration for the move from the first location to the second location. 2. A system as recited in claim 1 wherein said control apparatus directs said robot to move said wafer with non-zero velocity at all points in moving from a particular selected one of said path segments to a next path segment following said particular one of said segments. 3. A system as recited in claim 2 wherein the controller controls the acceleration along the path so as to be continuously differentiable and thereby causes jerk to be finite. 