Mineral processing system performs product movement and processing within a secured room using robotics and computerized automation. A heated chemical processing well provides a hot bath wherein raw mineral is submersed into a separating agent. Used separating agent and residual mineral waste can be automatically disposed of at a chemical dumping station. New separating agent can be automatically loaded into hot baths. Crucibles contain separating agent during mineral processing, and can be used to transport waste from the processing station to the dumping station. A mineral basket can transport and contain mineral during processing. Crucibles and baskets can be made of Inconel, stainless steel, or other material suitable for high temperature processing. A lid/cover includes transducers (e.g., thermal, liquid level) for monitoring processing operations within the well. A separating material delivery port and a vent integrated with the lid/cover that can be used to collect and contain harmful vapors.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A mineral processing system that performs product movement and processing within a secured room using robotics and computerized automation, comprising: a robotic arm adapted for picking up, carrying, manipulating and releasing at least one crucible or mineral basket; a mineral processing station including at least one chemical processing well adapted with at least one thermal transducer and at least one heating element, wherein the chemical processing well can be heated to provide a hot bath of separating agent wherein raw mineral is submersed; and at least one computer, said at least one computer for controlling movement of the robotic arm, operating and monitoring the mineral processing station, and controlling access to the secured room. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein said at least one chemical processing well further comprises a cover for containing mineral and separating agent during mineral processing. 3. The system of claim 2 wherein said cover further comprises at least one transducer for monitoring processing operations within the chemical processing well. 4. The system of claim 2 wherein the cover further comprises a separating material delivery port integrated with the cover that can be used to dispense separating material into the chemical processing well. 5. The system of claim 2 wherein the cover further comprises a vent integrated with the cover that can be used to collect harmful vapors emanating from the chemical processing well. 6. The system of claim 1 further comprising a mineral basket, said basket adapted contain mineral during processing and adapted for handling by the robotic arm during transport within the secured room. 7. The system of claim 6, wherein said baskets is made from at least one of Inconel or stainless steel. 8. The system of claim 1 further comprising a crucible, said crucible adapted to contain separating material outside of the chemical processing well prior to placement in the chemical processing well by the robotic arm, within the chemical processing well during mineral processing after placement of the crucible within the mineral processing well by the robotic arm, and after mineral processing when the robotic arm removes the crucible and transports it to a chemical dumping station where the chemical can be dumped from the crucible into the dumping station after manipulation of the crucible by the robotic arm. 9. The system of claim 8, wherein said crucible is made from at least one of Inconel or stainless steel. 10. An automated mineral processing system, comprising: a work cell adapted with electronically controlled access; a computer-controlled robot located within the work cell and including an arm adapted for providing retrieval, movement, manipulation and release of containers within the work cell; a mineral processing station located within the work cell and including at least one chemical processing well adapted with at least one thermal transducer and at least one heating element, wherein the chemical processing well can be heated to provide a hot bath of separating agent wherein raw mineral is submersed; a chemical dumping station located within the work cell wherein used separating agent and residual mineral waste is disposed; and at least one computer for controlling movement of the robotic arm, operation and monitoring of the mineral processing station, and access to the work cell. 11. The system of claim 10 wherein said at least one chemical processing well further comprises a cover for containing mineral and separating agent during mineral processing. 12. The system of claim 11 wherein said cover further comprises at least one transducer for monitoring processing operations within the chemical processing well. 13. The system of claim 11 wherein the cover further comprises a separating material delivery port integrated with the cover that can be used to dispense separating material into the chemical processing well. 14. The system of claim 11 wherein the cover further comprises a vent integrated with the cover that can be used to collect harmful vapors emanating from the chemical processing well. 15. The system of claim 10 further comprising a mineral basket, said basket adapted contain mineral during processing and adapted for handling by the arm during transport within the secured room. 16. The system of claim 15, wherein said baskets is made from at least one of Inconel or stainless steel. 17. A method of processing minerals using an automated system including a work cell secured by electronically controlled entry/exit and containing a computer-controlled robot, a preheating element, and a hot bath associated with a heated processing station, said method comprising the steps of: using the robot to move a basket containing mineral surrounded by residue from the electronically controlled entry/exit to the preheating element wherein the basket containing mineral and surrounding residue is heated to over 500.degree. C.; using the robot to move the basket containing mineral surrounded by residue from the pre-heating element into the hot bath, said hot bath containing a separating agent already heated to over 500.degree. C.; wherein the basket containing heated mineral remains until the mineral is no longer surrounded by mine residue; using the robot to move the basket containing mineral no longer surrounded by residue from the hot bath to a cooling area where the basket and mineral are allowed to cool down; and using the robot to move the basket containing mineral no longer surrounded by residue from the cooling area to the electronically controlled entry/exit. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein said system includes a chemical dumping station and the hot bath is contained within a crucible that is removable from a well formed in the heated processing station, said method further comprising the steps of: using the robot to remove the crucible from a well located in the heated processing station and to move it to a dumping station; using the robot to manipulate the crucible over the dumping station to thereby empty the separating agent into a collection reservoir associated with the dumping station. 19. The method of claim 18, further comprising the step of using the robot to move the crucible from the dumping station to storage. 20. The method of claim 18, further comprising the steps of: using the robot to move the crucible from the dumping station into a heated well located within the heated processing station; automatically loading separating agent into the crucible via loading port associated with the heated processing station; heating the crucible and separating agent to over 500.degree. C.; and repeating the steps of claim 18. 