An integrated control system comprises one or more controllers each equipped to perform a control function and to gather data (ordinarily from sensors) relevant to the control function. The data is combined with instructions, associated with the data, for causing a remote computer to generate a visual display incorporating the data in a predetermined format. A communication module establishes contact and facilitates data interchange with the remote computer over the World Wide Web.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A controller capable of interacting with a remotely located computer, the controller comprising: a. a data-gathering unit configured to gather data relevant to an industrial control function; and b. a web server configured to receive a request from the remotely located computer and, in response to the request, configured to transmit to the remotely located computer instructions associated with the data, execution of the instructions by the remotely located computer causing said computer to present the data in a predetermined format wherein the data is displayed in a dynamic fashion on the remotely located computer and to periodically request updated data from the web server. 2. The controller of claim 1 wherein the web server is configured to receive requests and transmit instructions over the Internet. 3. The controller of claim 1 wherein the web server implements TCP/IP. 4. The controller of claim 1 wherein requests are received and instructions transmitted in accordance with the HyperText Transfer Protocol. 5. The controller of claim 1 wherein the instructions define a web page for presentation on a browser running as an active process on the remotely located computer. 6. The controller of claim 5 wherein the controller comprises at least one input/output module, the web page comprising data gathered from the at least one module and formatting instructions. 7. The controller of claim 6 wherein the web page further comprises applet instructions execution of which causes the remotely located computer to periodically request updated data from the controller. 8. A method of obtaining and presenting data associated with a control system, the method comprising the steps of: a. gathering data relevant to an industrial control function; b. storing (i) the data and (ii) instructions defining a web page; and c. receiving a request from the remotely located computer and, in response to the periodic request, transmitting the instructions to the remotely located computer, execution of the instructions by the remotely located computer causing said computer to present the data in a dynamic fashion in accordance with the web page and to periodically request updated data. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein requests are received and instructions transmitted over the Internet. 10. The method of claim 8 wherein requests are received and instructions transmitted using TCP/IP. 11. The method of claim 8 wherein requests are received and instructions transmitted in accordance with the HyperText Transfer Protocol. 12. The method of claim 8 wherein the web page is presented by a browser running as an active process on the remotely located computer. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein the web page comprises (i) gathered data and (ii) formatting instructions. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein the web page further comprises applet instructions execution of which causes the remotely located computer to display the data in the dynamic fashion. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein the data is continuously generated, the instructions causing the remotely located computer to continuously request the changing data from the controller and to display the retrieved data. 16. The method of claim 8 wherein the control function comprises operation of an industrial machine, the data-gathering step comprising receiving data from the machine. 17. The method of claim 8 wherein the control function comprises operation of an industrial process, the data-gathering step comprising receiving data from equipment implementing the industrial process. 18. A method for distributing control and monitoring operations, comprising the steps of: locating a remote controller on a network with a browser on a computer, the remote controller configured to gather status data relevant to an industrial control function; downloading a page defined by a markup language from the controller that includes the status data from the controller and an embedded program for viewing the status data on the computer; and the embedded program executing on the computer and causing the status data from the controller to be displayed on the computer in a dynamic fashion and periodically requesting updated status data from the controller. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein: the embedded program is a Java applet. 20. The method of claim 18, wherein: the embedded program is an ActiveX control. 21. The method of claim 18, wherein: the markup language is HTML. 22. The method of claim 18, wherein: the step of downloading is performed a single time. 23. The method of claim 18, further comprising the steps of: connecting the controller to a network; and connecting a remote computer to the network. 24. The method of claim 23, wherein: the network is an Internet protocol network. 25. The method of claim 24, wherein: at least a portion of the network is the Internet. 26. The method of claim 18, wherein: the embedded program includes instructions for retrieving updated data from the remote controller and for causing the updated data to be displayed on the computer in the same page that was downloaded in the downloading step. 27. The method of claim 18, wherein: the page includes hyperlinks to other controllers on the network. 28. The method of claim 27, further comprising the steps of: selecting a hyperlink included on the page that corresponds to a second remote controller; downloading a second page defined by a markup language from the second remote controller that includes status data from the second remote controller and a second embedded program for viewing the status data from the second remote controller; and executing the second embedded program on the computer causing the status data from the second remote controller to be displayed on the computer. 29. A method for allowing remote monitoring of a programmable logic controller by sending a single message from the programmable logic controller to a monitoring computer, comprising the steps of: storing data relevant to an industrial control function to be monitored in a memory location of the programmable logic controller that is accessible over a network; sending a single message to the monitoring computer including a page defined by a markup language that includes an executable program that when to be executed on the monitoring computer will cause the monitoring computer to periodically retrieve the data to be monitored from the memory location and will cause the data to be monitored to be displayed dynamically in a predetermined format on the monitoring computer and will cause the computer to periodically request updated data from the programmable logic controller. 30. A system for allowing remote monitoring of a programmable logic controller by sending a single message from the programmable logic controller to a monitoring computer, comprising: means for storing data relevant to an industrial control function to be monitored in a memory location of the programmable logic controller that is accessible over a network; means for sending a single message to the monitoring computer including a page defined by a markup language; means for including in the single message an executable program to be executed on the monitoring computer causes the monitoring computer to retrieve the data to be monitored from the memory location, causes the data to be monitored to be displayed dynamically in a predetermined format on the monitoring computer, and causes the computer to periodically request updated data from the memory location. 31. A system for distributing control and monitoring operations, comprising: means for controlling industrial equipment; means for locating a remote controller on a network; means for downloading from the means for controlling a page defined by a markup language that includes status data relevant to an industrial control function from the controller and an embedded program for viewing the status data; and means for executing the embedded program on the computer and means for causing the status data from the controller to be dynamically displayed on the remote computer the embedded program configured to cause the computer to periodically download updated status data for display on the remote computer. 32. A computer implemented factory automation control system, comprising: a remote computer having a processor, and a memory having stored therein an executable program having processor readable instructions that when executed by said remote computer implements a factory automation control mechanism configured to cause said remote computer to periodically access a memory of a controller controlling equipment of a factory automation system via a browser for data relevant to an industrial control function, to display in the browser information relating to the data stored in the memory of the controller, to change the data stored in the memory of the controller by manipulating the information displayed in the browser, and to cause the remote computer to periodically request updated data from the controller. 