There is therefore provided, in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention, a robotic system for systematically moving about an area to be covered. The system includes at least one boundary marker (48) located along the outer edge of the area to be covered, a robot (40) with a navigation system (41) and a sensor unit (43). The navigator system (41) navigates the robot (40) in generally straight, parallel lines from an initial location and turns the robot (40) when the robot (40) encounters one of the boundary markers (48), thereby to systematically move about the area to be covered. The sensor unit (43) senses proximity to one of the at least one boundary marker (48).
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A robot comprising: a movement system for moving the robot over a surface; at least one obstacle detection sensor; and, a unit in communication with the movement system and the at least one obstacle detection sensor, the unit configured for following an obstacle along a path corresponding to at least a portion of the periphery of the obstacle in response to the at least one obstacle detection sensor detecting the obstacle. 2. The robot of claim 1, wherein the unit in communication with the movement system and the at least one obstacle detection sensor, is additionally configured for signaling the movement system to turn the robot in response to the at least one obstacle detection sensor detecting the obstacle. 3. The robot of claim 2, wherein the unit in communication with the movement system and the at least one obstacle detection sensor, is configured for signaling the movement system to turn the robot approximately 180 degrees in response to the at least one obstacle detection sensor detecting the obstacle. 4. The robot of claim 2, wherein the unit in communication with the movement system and the at least one obstacle detection sensor, is additionally configured for providing a scanning pattern to the movement system when the movement system is moving the robot over a surface. 5. The robot of claim 4, wherein the scanning pattern includes substantially straight lines, substantially parallel to each other. 6. The robot of claim 2, wherein the at least one obstacle detection sensor includes a contact sensor. 7. The robot of claim 2, wherein the at least one obstacle detection sensor includes a proximity sensor. 8. The robot of claim 2, wherein the robot is a lawn mower. 9. The robot of claim 2, wherein the robot is a vacuum cleaner. 10. The robot of claim 1, wherein the movement system includes wheels. 11. A robot comprising: a movement system for moving the robot over a surface; at least one obstacle detection sensor; and, a unit in communication with the movement system and the at least one obstacle detection sensor, the unit configured for signaling the movement system to turn the robot in response to the at least one obstacle detection sensor detecting an obstacle, the turn at least partially rotating the robot. 12. The robot of claim 11, wherein the unit, in communication with the movement system and the at least one obstacle detection sensor, is additionally configured for following the obstacle along a path corresponding to at least a portion of the periphery of the obstacle in response to the at least one obstacle detection sensor detecting the obstacle. 13. The robot of claim 12, wherein the unit in communication with the movement system and the at least one obstacle detection sensor is additionally configured for providing a scanning pattern to the movement system when the movement system is moving the robot over a surface. 14. The robot of claim 12, wherein the at least one obstacle detection sensor includes a proximity sensor. 15. The robot of claim 12, wherein the at least one obstacle detection sensor includes a proximity sensor. 16. The robot of claim 13, wherein the scanning pattern includes substantially straight lines, substantially parallel to each other. 17. The robot of claim 11, wherein the unit in communication with the movement system and the at least one obstacle detection sensor, is configured for signaling the movement system to turn the robot approximately 180 degrees in response to the at least one obstacle detection sensor detecting the obstacle. 18. The robot of claim 11, wherein the robot is a lawn mower. 19. The robot of claim 11, wherein the robot is a vacuum cleaner. 20. The robot of claim 11, wherein the movement system includes wheels. 21. The robot of claim 11, wherein, the robot includes a first end that is the leading end of the robot when the robot moves over the surface; and, the turn orients the robot such that the first end is the leading end of the robot when the robot moves over the surface. 22. A robot comprising: a movement system for moving the robot along a surface; at least one obstacle detection sensor; and, a navigation system in communication with the movement system and the at least one obstacle detection sensor, the navigation system configured for causing the movement system to turn the robot in response to an obstacle being detected and move the robot in a direction away from the obstacle, the turn at least partially rotating the robot. 23. The robot of claim 22, wherein the navigation system is additionally configured for following the obstacle along a path corresponding to at least a portion of the periphery of the obstacle in response to the at least one obstacle detection sensor detecting the obstacle. 24. The robot of claim 23, wherein the navigation system is additionally configured for providing a scanning pattern to the movement system when the movement system is moving the robot over a surface. 25. The robot of claim 24, wherein the scanning pattern includes substantially straight lines, substantially parallel to each other. 26. The robot of claim 23, wherein the at least one obstacle detection sensor includes a contact sensor. 27. The robot of claim 23, wherein the at least one obstacle detection sensor includes a proximity sensor. 28. The robot of claim 22, wherein the turn is approximately 180 degrees. 29. The robot of claim 23, wherein the robot is a lawn mower. 30. The robot of claim 22, wherein the robot is a vacuum cleaner. 31. The robot of claim 22, wherein the movement system includes wheels. 32. The robot of claim 22, wherein, the robot includes a first end that is the leading end of the robot when the robot moves over the surface; and, the turn orients the robot such that the first end is the leading end of the robot when the robot moves over the surface. 33. A method for operating a robot comprising: moving the robot over a surface; detecting a first obstacle; turning the robot in response to a first obstacle being detected by at least partially rotating the robot; and, moving the robot in a direction away from the first obstacle. 34. The method of claim 33, wherein the moving the robot away from the first obstacle includes, moving the robot for a distance until either of a boundary or a second obstacle is detected. 35. The method of claim 34, additionally comprising: turning the robot in response to the second obstacle or the boundary being detected and moving the robot in a direction toward the first obstacle. 36. The method of claim 35, wherein the turning the robot includes turning the robot approximately 180 degrees. 37. The method of claim 35, additionally comprising: moving the robot so as to follow the first obstacle along a path corresponding to at least a portion of the periphery of the first obstacle. 38. The method of claim 35, wherein moving the robot for a distance until either of a boundary or a second obstacle is detected, and, moving the robot in a direction toward the first obstacle, is performed in substantially straight lines, substantially parallel to each other. 39. The method of claim 33, additionally comprising: operating the robot for lawn mowing. 40. The method of claim 33, additionally comprising: operating the robot for vacuum cleaning. 41. The method of claim 33, wherein, moving the robot over a surface includes moving the robot in an orientation such that a first end of the robot is the leading end of the robot; and, moving the robot in a direction away from the first obstacle includes moving the robot over the surface in an orientation such that the first end of the robot is the leading end of the robot. 