A surface clinging robotic device. The device includes a supporting structure or base, on which is mounted (a) a lead pivoting support surface, such as a pivoting wheel, and (b) two or more traction drives, such as drive wheels. Each of the traction drives are independently driven by a separate drive motor. A plurality of vacuum cups are mounted on the bottom of the base. The vacuum cups each have a low friction foot designed for movement over a surface with minimal friction while vacuum is maintained. The low friction foot portion is provided by a generally surface direction oriented C-shaped Teflon skin. The robotic device can move over gaps or obstructions in the surface without losing vacuum in all of the vacuum cups, using a fluid limiting valve at each vacuum cup to interrupt flow in the event of loss of vacuum in that vacuum cup.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic apparatus for traversing a workpiece surface, said apparatus comprising: (a) a base, said base having a bottom side and an upper side; (b) a plurality of vacuum cups, each of said vacuum cups comprising (1) a foot, said foot having a low friction wear surface coating, (2) a sidewall comprising one or more resilient accordion pleats (34); (3) an outlet port, said outlet port having an inlet portion (4) a fluid limiting valve, said fluid limiting valve located in fluid communication with and adapted to at least partially close said outlet port when said vacuum cup experiences loss of vacuum; (c) at least three points of support for said base, said at least three points of support for said base, spacing said base apart from yet located close to the workpiece surface being traversed, so as to limit compression of said vacuum cups between said bottom side of said base and the surface being traversed, and (1) providing at least two contact points having driving traction relative to said workpiece surface being traversed; (2) providing at least one pivotable contact point adapted to allow said robotic device to turn along a direction of travel. 2. The apparatus as set forth in claim 1, further comprising a vacuum header, and wherein each of said vacuum cups is in fluid communication with said vacuum header. 3. The apparatus as set forth in claim 2, wherein said vacuum header comprises a tubular frame. 4. The apparatus as set forth in claim 2 or in claim 3, wherein said base comprises a plurality of vacuum apertures therethrough, and wherein said vacuum apertures are in fluid communication with said vacuum header. 5. The apparatus as set forth in claim 4, wherein a plurality of vacuum cups are mounted on a bottom side of said base in fluid communication with one or more of said vacuum apertures in said base. 6. The apparatus as set forth in claim 1, wherein said fluid limiting valve comprises a reed valve. 7. The apparatus as set forth in claim 1, wherein said outlet port further comprises an outlet seal, and wherein said fluid limiting valve comprises a seal seat portion that sealingly seats against said outlet seal, and wherein said fluid limiting valve is responsive to fluid flow to move between (a) a normal flow, open position, wherein said valve allows fluid flow unimpeded through said outlet, and (b) a vacuum loss, closed position, wherein fluid flow toward said outlet valve closes said valve so that said seal seat portion of said valve sealingly seats against said outlet seal. 8. The apparatus as set forth in claim 7, wherein said fluid limiting valve further comprises an open minimum flow outlet, said open minimum flow outlet sized and shaped to allow a preselected fluid flow out of said open minimum flow outlet when said fluid limiting valve is in the vacuum loss, closed position. 9. The apparatus as set forth in claim 1, wherein each of said at least two drive contact points comprise wheels. 10. The apparatus as set forth in claim 9, wherein each of said wheels comprise a urethane rubber wheel surface. 11. The apparatus as set forth in claim 9, wherein in said urethane rubber wheel surface comprises a urethane rubber having a durometer at least as soft as 30 Shore A hardness. 12. The apparatus as set forth in claim 11, wherein each of said drive motors is independent, and wherein said robot is maneuverable via differential speed between drive motors, or by separate drive action each from the other of said drive motors. 13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein said surface sensor comprises a sensing member disposed to ride on said surface, a support to carry said sensing member, a mount for mounting the support for sliding movement relative to said base in said direction. 14. The apparatus as set forth in claim 9, further comprising at least two drive motors, each of said drive motors connected to drive one or more of said at least two wheels. 15. The device as set forth in claim 9, wherein said drive motors and wheels are operably connected by an endless drive member. 16. The apparatus as set forth in claim 15, further comprising (a) a surface sensor mounted on said base and disposed to ride on a workpiece surface as said robotic device traverses said workpiece, said surface sensor being movable in accordance with deviations in said workpiece surface in a second direction and at an angle to the direction of movement of the robotic apparatus, and (b) sensors responsive to movement of said surface sensors in said second direction to generate a surface map of said surface. 17. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein said surface sensor comprises a sensing member and a mount, said sensing member adapted for sensing movement in said second direction, said second direction being generally normal to a plane extending downward through the lower runs of said endless drive members. 18. The apparatus as set forth in claim 9, wherein each of said wheels has a idler sprocket affixed thereto, and wherein each of said drive motors has a drive sprocket affixed thereto, and wherein said one of said drive motors and one of said wheels are drivingly connected by a linked chain. 19. The apparatus as set forth in claim 9, further comprising a pair of trucks pivotablly affixed to said base, and wherein two pairs of said wheels are provided, and wherein one pair wheels is rotatably affixed to one of said trucks, and wherein each one of said wheels has an idler sprocket affixed thereto, and wherein each of said drive motors has a drive sprocket affixed thereto, and wherein said one of said drive motors and each one of said wheels on each one of said pair of trucks are drivingly connected by a linked chain. 20. The apparatus as set forth in claim 1, wherein said at least two drive contact points each comprise endless resilient tracks. 21. The apparatus as set forth in claim 20, further comprising at least two drive motors, each of said drive motors connected to drive one or more of said at least two endless resilient tracks. 22. The apparatus as set forth in claim 21, wherein one of said drive motors and one of said at least two endless resilient tracks are operably connected by an endless drive member. 23. The apparatus of claim 15, or of claim 22, wherein said endless drive member comprises a link chain. 24. The apparatus as set forth in claim 14, or in claim 21, wherein said drive motors are selected from the group consisting of (a) direct current electrical motors, (b) pneumatic motors, and (c) hydraulic motors. 25. The apparatus as set forth in claim 1, further comprising a laser beam retro reflector mounted on said base in position to receive and reflect a laser beam from a laser tracking unit. 26. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein said retro reflector is mounted generally centrally of said base and projects upwardly above said base. 27. The apparatus of claim 25, further comprising biasing means for biasing said sensing member toward said surface. 28. A robotic apparatus for traversing a workpiece surface, said apparatus comprising: (a) a base, said base having a bottom side and an upper side; (b) a plurality of vacuum cups, each of said vacuum cups comprising (1) a foot, said foot having a low friction wear surface coating, (2) a sidewall comprising one or more resilient accordion pleats (34); (3) an outlet port, said outlet port having an inlet portion (4) a fluid limiting valve, said fluid limiting valve located in fluid communication with and adapted to at least partially close said outlet port when said vacuum cup experiences loss of vacuum; (c) at least three points of support for said base, said at least three points of support affixed to said base and adapted to limit the distance of said base relative to the workpiece surface being traversed, so as to limit compression of said vacuum cups between said bottom side of said base and the surface being traversed, and (1) providing at least two contact points having driving traction relative to said workpiece surface being traversed; (2) providing at least one pivotable contact point adapted to allow said robotic device to turn along a direction of travel. 