Disclosed are methods of separating a target molecule from a non-target molecule using zinc- or cobalt-charged solid supports.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of characterizing a his-tagged protein comprising: (a) contacting a starting material comprising the his-tagged protein and hemoglobin with a zinc or cobalt charged solid support under conditions that allow his-tagged protein to preferentially bind to the solid support, relative to binding to the hemoglobin; (b) washing the solid support; (c) contacting the his-tagged protein with a substrate or a second protein; and (d) detecting interaction between the his-tagged protein and the second protein or substrate to characterize the his-tagged protein. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein after step (b), the his-tagged protein is eluted from the solid support. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the interaction is detected by detecting an increase or decrease in fluorescence. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein step (c) comprises contacting the his-tagged protein with a kinase. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein step (d) comprises characterizing the his-tagged protein for its ability to serve as a substrate for the kinase. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein step (c) comprises contacting the his-tagged protein with a protease. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein step (d) comprises characterizing the his-tagged protein for its ability to serve as a substrate for the protease. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein step (c) comprises contacting the his-tagged protein with a substrate. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein step (d) comprises detecting kinase activity of the his-tagged protein. 10. The method of claim 8, wherein step (d) comprises detecting protease activity of the his-tagged protein. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein step (c) comprises contacting the his-tagged protein with an antibody. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the antibody is a fluorescent antibody. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the his-tagged protein is an antibody and wherein step (c) comprises contacting the his-tagged antibody with an antigen. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein step (d) comprises detecting binding of the his-tagged antibody to the antigen. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the antigen is fluorescently labeled. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein step (d) comprises detecting interaction between the his-tagged protein and a ligand. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the ligand is fluorescently labeled. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein step (d) comprises detecting caspase activity of the his-tagged protein. 