A robot adapted to operate in association with an interface surface having disposed therein or thereon coded data indicative of a plurality of reference points of the interface surface, the robot comprising: movement means to allow the robot to move over the interface surface; a sensing device which senses at least some of the coded data and generates indicating data indicative of a position of the robot on the interface surface; communication means to transmit the indicating data to a computer system running a computer application, and to receive movement instructions from the computer application; and, a marking device adapted to selectively mark the interface surface in response to marking instructions received from the computer application.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A robot for marking an interface surface, the interface surface having coded data indicative of a plurality of reference points of the interface surface, the robot comprising: movement means to allow the robot to move over the interface surface; a sensing device for sensing at least some of the coded data from the interface surface and generating indicating data indicative of a position of the robot on the interface surface, the indicating data being derived from the coded data sensed by the sensing device; communication means to transmit the indicating data to a computer system running a computer application, and to receive movement instructions from the computer application; and, a marking device adapted to selectively mark the interface surface in response to marking instructions received from the computer application. 2. The robot as claimed in claim 1, wherein the marking device is at least one pen, or the like, attached to or held by the robot. 3. The robot as claimed in claim 1, wherein the marking device is at least one printhead attached to or held by the robot. 4. The robot as claimed in claim 1, wherein the marking device can be selectively moved into and out of contact with the interface surface. 5. The robot as claimed in claim 1, wherein a characteristic of the marking device is determined by the robot decoding a barcode on the marking device. 6. The robot as claimed in claim 1, wherein a characteristic of the marking device is determined by the robot reading a value from a solid-state memory associated with the marking device. 7. The robot as claimed in claim 1, wherein a characteristic of the marking device is determined by a user activating a hyperlink on the interface surface using the robot. 8. The robot as claimed in claim 7, wherein a characteristic of the marking device is the color of the ink in the marking device. 9. The robot as claimed in claim 1, wherein the robot can operate in a raster mode or a vector mode. 10. The robot as claimed in claim 1, wherein the robot can be remotely controlled by a user. 11. The robot as claimed in claim 1, wherein the movement means are electronically driven wheels. 12. The robot as claimed in claim 1, wherein the computer application controls the marking device in response to the indicating data received by the computer system. 13. The robot as claimed in claim 1, wherein the robot has a unique robot identifier which is adapted to distinguish the robot from other robots. 14. The robot as claimed in claim 1, wherein the indicating data is transmitted to the computer system by a wireless signal. 15. The robot as claimed in claim 14, wherein the computer system is adapted to receive the indicating data via a relay device in wireless communication with the robot. 16. The robot as claimed in claim 1, wherein the interface surface is a netpage. 17. The robot as claimed in claim 1, wherein the coded data is also indicative of an identity of the interface surface that can be sensed by the sensing device. 18. A system for marking an interface surface with a robot that can move over the interface surface, the system comprising: the interface surface, having coded data indicative of a plurality of reference points of the interface surface, that allow the robot to operate in association with the interface surface; the robot, provided with movement means for moving the robot over the interface surface, and a sensing device for sensing at least some of the coded data and generating indicating data indicative of a position of the robot on the interface surface, the indicating data being derived from the coded data, and a marking device for marking the interface surface; and, a computer system running a computer application, the computer system in communication with the robot, the computer application adapted to receive the indicating data and to transmit movement instructions and marking instructions to the robot based on the indicating data received. 19. A method of marking an interface surface with a robot that has a marking device and can move across the interface surface, the robot additionally adapted to operate in association with the interface surface having coded data indicative of a plurality of reference points of the interface surface, the method including the steps of: the robot sensing at least some of the coded data and generating indicating data indicative of a position of the robot on the interface surface; the robot transmitting the indicating data to a computer system running a computer application; the robot receiving movement instructions from the computer application, the computer having derived the movement instructions from the indicating data transmitted from the robot; and, the robot receiving marking instructions from the computer application to selectively mark the interface surface. 20. The method as claimed in claim 19, wherein the robot can mark the interface surface while stationary or moving. 