Embodiments relate to the discovery that certain tripeptide amides and glycine amide can be used to inhibit viral infection, including human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection. More specifically, medicaments comprising said tripeptide amides and/or glycine amide and methods of using said compounds for the prevention and treatment of viral infection, such as HIV infection, are provided.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An antiviral composition for human administration comprising monopeptidic glycine amide and a compound that inhibits replication of HIV in the presence of monopeptidic glycine amide. 2. The antiviral composition of claim 1, wherein said antiviral composition is formulated for oral administration. 3. The antiviral composition of claim 1, wherein the amount of glycine amide is 250 .mu.g or more. 4. The antiviral composition of claim 1, wherein said compound that inhibits replication of HIV in the presence of monopeptidic glycine amide is a peptide. 5. The antiviral composition of claim 4, wherein said peptide is selected from the group consisting of AIG-NH.sub.2, GFG-NH.sub.2, GWG-NH.sub.2, FLG-NH.sub.2, GYG-NH.sub.2, APG-NH.sub.2, GLG-NH.sub.2, and a-t-butylglycine-PG-NH.sub.2. 6. The antiviral composition of claim 4, wherein said antiviral composition is formulated for oral administration. 7. The antiviral composition of claim 4, wherein said antiviral composition comprises 250 .mu.g glycine amide. 8. The antiviral composition of claim 4, wherein said antiviral composition comprises 1 mg glycine amide. 9. The antiviral composition of claim 4, wherein said antiviral composition comprises 50 mg glycine amide. 10. The antiviral composition of claim 4, wherein said antiviral composition comprises 100 mg glycine amide. 11. The antiviral composition of claim 4, wherein said antiviral composition comprises 300 mg glycine amide. 12. The antiviral composition of claim 1, wherein said compound that inhibits replication of HIV in the presence of monopeptidic glycine amide is selected from the group consisting of nucleoside analogue reverse transcriptase inhibitors, nucleotide analogue reverse transcriptase inhibitors, non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors, and protease inhibitors. 13. The antiviral composition of claim 12, wherein said compound that inhibits replication of HIV in the presence of monopeptidic glycine amide is selected from the group consisting of azidothymidine (AZT), zidovudine, lamivudine, stavudine, didanosine, abacavir, zalcitabine, adetovir, pivaxir, efavirenz, nevirapine, delavirdine, indinavir, nelfinavir, ritonavir, saquinavir, and amprenavir. 14. The antiviral composition of claim 12, wherein said antiviral composition is formulated for oral administration. 15. The antiviral composition of claim 12, wherein the amount of glycine amide is 250 .mu.g or more. 16. A pill comprising monopeptidic glycine amide formulated for human administration in unit dosage form. 17. An oral suspension comprising 1 mg monopeptidic glycine amide and a flavoring, formulated for human administration. 18. A suppository comprising monopeptidic glycine amide formulated for human administration. 19. A transdermal composition comprising monopeptidic glycinamide formulated for human administration. 