A handling device includes a gripping member and a support structure that supports the gripping member. The gripping member includes a flexible, substantially toroidal wall member having an outer wall portion and an inner wall portion that defines an axial passageway through the gripping member. A fluid fills the volume enclosed by the wall member. The support structure includes a drive mechanism that engages the wall member and is constructed and arranged to provide relative axial movement between the inner and outer wall portions.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A handling device including a gripping member and a support structure that supports the gripping member, wherein the gripping member includes a flexible, substantially toroidal wall member having an outer wall portion and an inner wall portion defining an axial passageway that extends through the gripping member, and a fluid that fills the volume enclosed by the wall member, and the support structure includes a drive mechanism that engages the wall member and is constructed and arranged to provide relative axial movement between the inner and outer wall portions, wherein the drive mechanism comprises an inner rotary drive mechanism that engages the inner wall portion and is constructed and arranged to provide relative axial movement between the inner wall portion and the support structure, and an outer rotary drive mechanism that engages the outer wall portion and is constructed and arranged to provide relative axial movement between the outer wall portion and the support structure, said inner and outer rotary drive mechanisms being operable to provide continuous rotation of the wall member. 2. A handling device according to claim 1, wherein the wall member is made of an elastomeric material. 3. A handling device according to claim 2, wherein the wall member is made of natural or synthetic rubber. 4. A handling device according to claim 1, wherein the gripping member is filled with a liquid. 5. A handling device according to claim 1, wherein the gripping member is filled with a gas. 6. A handling device according to claim 1, wherein the pressure of the fluid in the gripping member is substantially equal to atmospheric pressure. 7. A handling device according to claim 1, wherein the gripping member contains a lubricant. 8. A handling device according to claim 1, in which the inner and outer drive mechanisms are interlinked for opposed movement. 9. A handling device according to claim 1, in which the inner and outer drive mechanisms are capable of independent movement. 10. A handling device according to claim 1, in which the drive mechanism includes a drive belt that engages the wall member. 11. A handling device according to claim 1, including a plurality of radially-spaced drive mechanisms. 12. A handling device according to claim 1, in which the axial length of the toroidal wall member is greater than its diameter. 13. A handling device according to claim 12, in which the axial length of the toroidal wall member is at least twice its diameter. 14. A handling device according to claim 1, including a sensor for sensing the presence of an object in the passageway. 15. A handling device according to claim 14, in which the sensor senses light reflected from an object in the passageway. 16. A handling device including a gripping member and a support structure that supports the gripping member, wherein the gripping member includes a flexible, substantially toroidal wall member having an outer wall portion and an inner wall portion defining an axial passageway that extends through the gripping member, and a fluid that fills the volume enclosed by the wall member, and the support structure includes a drive mechanism that engages the wall member and is constructed and arranged to provide relative axial movement between the inner and outer wall portions, wherein the drive mechanism comprises an inner rotary drive mechanism that engages the inner wall portion and is constructed and arranged to provide relative axial movement between the inner wall portion and the support structure, and an outer rotary drive mechanism that engages the outer wall portion and is constructed and arranged to provide relative axial movement between the outer wall portion and the support structure, in which the inner and outer drive mechanisms are interlinked for opposed movement. 17. A handling device including a gripping member and a support structure that supports the gripping member, wherein the gripping member includes a flexible, substantially toroidal wall member having an outer wall portion and an inner wall portion defining an axial passageway that extends through the gripping member, and a fluid that fills the volume enclosed by the wall member, and the support structure includes a drive mechanism that engages the wall member and is constructed and arranged to provide relative axial movement between the inner and outer wall portions, in which the drive mechanism includes a drive belt that engages the wall member. 18. A handling device according to claim 17, wherein the drive mechanism engages a first one of said inner and outer wall portions, the support structure engages a second one of said inner and outer wall portions, the drive mechanism being constructed and arranged to provide relative axial movement between the first wall portion and the support structure. 