An ellipsometric apparatus provides two impinging focused probe beams directed to reflect off the sample along two mutually distinct and preferably substantially perpendicular directions. A rotating stage rotates sections of the wafer into the travel area defined by two linear axes of two perpendicularly oriented linear stages. As a result, an entire wafer is accessed for measurement with the linear stages having a travel range of only half the wafer diameter. The reduced linear travel results in a small travel envelope occupied by the wafer and consequently in a small footprint of the apparatus. The use of two perpendicularly directed probe beams permits measurement of periodic structures along a preferred direction while permitting the use of a reduced motion stage.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An ellipsometer for evaluating a sample, comprising: a broadband light source for generating a polychromatic probe beam, a first optical assembly for splitting the probe beam into first and second portions, the optical assembly directing the first portion to reflect off the sample in a first direction and directing the second portion to reflect off the sample in a second direction; a detector system for selectively determining the change in polarization state of the first and second portions and generating output signals in response thereto; and a processor for evaluating the sample based on the output signals. 2. An ellipsometer according to claim 1, wherein: said detector system includes a single photodetector for selectively monitoring the first and second portions. 3. An ellipsometer according to claim 1, wherein: said first direction is substantially perpendicular to the second direction. 4. An ellipsometer for evaluating a sample comprising: a first polychromatic probe beam directed to reflect off the sample in a first direction; a second polychromatic probe beam directed to reflect off the sample in a second direction; an optical assembly for directing the reflected first and second probe beams along a common path; a photodetector for selectively monitoring the directed first and second probe beams and generating output signals in response thereto; and a processor for evaluating the sample based on the output signals. 5. An ellipsometer as recited in claim 4, wherein: said first and second probe beams are generated by a single light source. 6. An ellipsometer according to claim 4, wherein: said first direction is substantially perpendicular to the second direction. 7. An ellipsometer for evaluating a sample, comprising: a broadband light source for generating a polychromatic probe beam, a first optical assembly for selectively splitting the probe beam into first and second portions, the optical assembly directing the first portion to reflect off the sample in a first direction and directing the second portion to reflect off the sample in a second direction; a second optical assembly for directing the reflected first and second portions along a common path; a photodetector for selectively monitoring the directed first and second portions and generating output signals in response thereto; and a processor for evaluating the sample based on the output signals. 8. An ellipsometer for evaluating a sample, comprising: a broadband light source for generating a polychromatic probe beam, an optical assembly for selectively directing the probe beam along first and second paths, the first path directing the probe beam to reflect off the sample in a first direction and the second path directing the probe beam to reflect off the sample in a second direction; a detector system for selectively determining the change in polarization state of the probe beam along either the first or second path and generating output signals in response thereto; and a processor for evaluating the sample based on the output signals. 9. An ellipsometer according to claim 8, wherein: said detector system includes a single photodetector for selectively monitoring the first and second paths. 10. An ellipsometer according to claim 8, wherein: said detector system includes two physically separate photodetectors for monitoring the first and second paths respectively. 11. An ellipsometer according to claim 8, wherein: the optical assembly includes first and second mirrors, at least one of said first and second mirrors being moveable in order to selectively direct the probe beam. 12. An ellipsometer according to claim 8, wherein: the detector system includes a photodetector having a plurality of photodetecting elements generating a plurality of output signals corresponding to a plurality of wavelengths of the polychromatic probe beam. 13. An ellipsometer according to claim 8, further comprising: a second optical assembly for selectively directing the probe beam from the first and second paths along a common path to the detector system. 14. An ellipsometer according to claim 8, wherein: the detector system further includes a polarizing element and a retarding element positioned along the probe beam for selectively monitoring a change in polarization state of the beam. 15. An ellipsometer according to claim 14, wherein: said retarding element is rotatable. 16. An ellipsometer according to claim 8, further comprising; a moveable stage assembly operable to move the sample with respect to the probe beam, said moveable stage assembly permitting both rotation and linear motion of the sample. 17. An ellipsometer according to claim 8, wherein: said first direction is substantially perpendicular to the second direction. 