Systems and methods provide a user the ability to select three-dimensional virtual objects in a three-dimensional modeling environment using two-dimensional representations of the objects. In broad overview, the invention involves a multidimensional degree of freedom haptic interface that controls a three-dimensional cursor. A user employs the cursor to select an arbitrary point on a three-dimensional virtual object of interest. Through the application of a mathematical transformation, the system displays the cursor at the location of the selected point on the object. The user can manipulate the object by operating the haptic interface. The systems and methods provide the user with the possibility of editing the selected virtual object. In one embodiment, editing includes sculpting the object. When the user releases the object after manipulation is completed, the cursor is relocated to the position the cursor would have had had the manipulations been applied to the cursor directly.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for selecting an object in a three-dimensional modeling environment, the method comprising the steps of: determining a position of a cursor in a three-dimensional modeling environment, the environment containing one or more virtual objects; providing a two-dimensional representation of the cursor and at least one of the virtual objects; and selecting a virtual object based on a positional correspondence of the selected object and the cursor in the two-dimensional representation, wherein the providing step comprises providing a first view of the cursor and at least one of the virtual objects in a first two-dimensional display space and a second view of the cursor and at least one of the virtual objects in a second two-dimensional display space, wherein the first and second display spaces correspond to different planes of the three-dimensional modeling environment. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the position of the cursor corresponds to a position of an input device in real space. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the input device is user-controlled. 4. The method of claim 2, wherein the input device has at least six degrees of freedom. 5. The method of claim 2, wherein the input device is a haptic device. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the haptic device is adapted to apply a force to a user when the cursor coincides with the object in two of three dimensions. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the force is a friction force. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the selecting step comprises selecting a virtual object upon issuance of a user command at a time when the cursor coincides with the object in two of three dimensions. 9. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of applying a mathematical transformation to determine the positional correspondence. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the two-dimensional representation is a two-dimensional view. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the two-dimensional view is a selected one of a perspective view and an orthogonal view. 12. An apparatus that permits a user to select an object in a three-dimensional modeling environment, the apparatus comprising: an input device that provides user input to a computer; computer software that, when operating with the computer and the user input, determines a position of a cursor in a three-dimensional modeling environment, selects a virtual object in the modeling environment based on a two-dimensional positional correspondence of the object and the cursor, and provides a first view of the cursor and the virtual object in a first two-dimensional display space and a second view of the cursor and the virtual object in a second two-dimensional display space, wherein the first and second display spaces correspond to different planes of the three-dimensional modeling environment. 13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the input device has at least six degrees of freedom. 14. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the input device is a haptic device. 15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the haptic device is adapted to apply a force to a user when the cursor coincides with the object in two of three dimensions. 16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the force is a friction force. 