A method for assembling a plurality of electronic devices is described. A plurality of dies separated die from a wafer are attached to a support surface. The plurality of dies is transferred from the support surface to a substrate structure that includes a plurality of tag substrates.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for assembling a plurality of radio frequency identification (RFID) tags, comprising: (a) applying an underfill material on a surface of a substrate structure having an array of tag substrates; (b) positioning a support surface closely adjacent to the surface of the substrate structure, such that each die of a plurality of dies attached to a first surface of the support surface is closely adjacent to a corresponding tag substrate of the array of tag substrates; and (c) simultaneously transferring each die of the plurality of dies onto the closely adjacent corresponding tag substrate from the support surface. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein step (c) comprises: applying a punching mechanism having a plurality of substantially co-planar punching portions to a second surface of the support surface, wherein a punching portion of the plurality of punching portions corresponds to each die of the plurality of dies. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: curing the underfill material. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the underfill material is an anisotropic electrically conductive material, wherein said curing step comprises: flash curing the underfill material. 5. The method of claim 3, wherein the underfill material is a thermally curable epoxy, wherein said curing step comprises: applying heat to cure the thermally curable epoxy. 6. The method of claim 3, wherein the underfill material is an acoustically curable epoxy, wherein said curing step comprises: applying an acoustic source to cure the acoustically curable epoxy. 7. The method of claim 3, wherein the underfill material is an electron beam curable epoxy, wherein said curing step comprises: applying an electron beam to cure the electron beam curable epoxy. 8. The method of claim 3, wherein the underfill material is an ultraviolet (UV) light wavelength curable epoxy, wherein said curing step comprises: applying UV light to cure the UV light wavelength curable epoxy. 9. The method of claim 3, wherein the underfill material is an infrared (IR) light wavelength curable epoxy, wherein said curing step comprises: applying IR light to cure the IR light wavelength curable epoxy. 10. The method of claim 3, wherein the underfill material is a pressure curable epoxy, wherein said curing step comprises: applying a pressure between each die and corresponding tag substrate to cure the pressure curable epoxy. 11. The method of claim 3, wherein said curing step comprises: causing the underfill material to contract to decrease a distance between each die and corresponding tag substrate to electrically couple each die to the corresponding tag substrate. 12. The method of claim 3, wherein the underfill material comprises electrically conductive microspheres to provide electrical connectivity, wherein said curing step comprises: causing the underfill material to contract, which creates pressure between each die and corresponding tag substrate to cause the microspheres to at least deform to electrically couple each die to the corresponding tag substrate. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the support surface is a chip carrier that has a plurality of cells accessible on a first surface of the chip carrier so that each die of the plurality of dies resides in a corresponding cell of the plurality of cells and is recessed in the corresponding cell with respect to the first surface, wherein step (c) comprises: punching a second surface of the chip carrier proximate to a location opposite of each cell of the plurality of cells to move each die out of the corresponding cell. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the plurality of tag substrate portions of the substrate structure are arranged a single column of tag substrate portions, wherein step (b) comprises: aligning the substrate structure with the chip carrier. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein said aligning step comprises: mechanically aligning the substrate structure with the chip carrier. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein said mechanically aligning step comprises: aligning the chip carrier using a first wheel having spaced pegs that interlock with spaced holes in the chip carrier; aligning the substrate structure using a second wheel having spaced pegs that interlock with spaced holes in the substrate structure, wherein the first wheel and second wheel are synchronized. 17. The method of claim 14, wherein said aligning step comprises: optically aligning the substrate structure with the chip carrier. 18. The method of claim 13, wherein each die has at least one contact pad located on a first surface, further comprising: prior to step (b), inserting each die in the corresponding cell such that the first surface with the at least one contact pad faces into the cell. 19. The method of claim 13, further comprising: (d) prior to step (b), forming the plurality of cells in the chip carrier. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein step (d) comprises: forming a plurality of serially aligned openings through the chip carrier that are open on the first surface and a second surface of the chip carrier; and applying an adhesive structure to the second surface of the chip carrier to cover the plurality of serially aligned openings on the second surface of the chip carrier. 21. The method of claim 1, further comprising: (d) prior to step (b), separating the plurality of dies from a wafer attached to the support surface so that the plurality of dies are separated and attached to the support surface. 22. The method of claim 21, further comprising: (e) prior to step (d), attaching the wafer to the support surface. 23. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of dies is all of the dies attached to the first surface of the support surface, wherein step (c) comprises: simultaneously transferring all of the dies attached to the first surface of the support surface. 24. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of dies is a portion of the dies attached to the first surface of the support surface, wherein step (c) comprises: simultaneously transferring a portion of the dies attached to the first surface of the support surface. 