Interactive, computer based orthodontist treatment planning, appliance design and appliance manufacturing is described. A scanner is described which acquires images of the dentition which are converted to three-dimensional frames of data. The data from the several frames are registered to each other to provide a complete three-dimensional virtual model of the dentition. Individual tooth objects are obtained from the virtual model. A computer-interactive software program provides for treatment planning, diagnosis and appliance from the virtual tooth models. A desired occlusion for the patient is obtained from the treatment planning software. The virtual model of the desired occlusion and the virtual model of the original dentition provide a base of information for custom manufacture of an orthodontic appliance. A variety of possible appliance and appliance manufacturing systems are contemplated, including customized archwires and customized devices for placement of off-the shelf brackets on the archwires, and removable orthodontic appliances.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An orthodontic appliance manufacturing system, comprising: a machine readable memory storing digital data representing a three-dimensional virtual model of a malocclusion of a patient and digital information representing the location of orthodontic brackets to be placed on the malocclusion, said memory further storing digital data representing a three-dimensional virtual model of the patient's teeth and the patient's dentition and location of orthodontic brackets at a target situation in three dimensions; a wire bending robot; an instrument for generating a three-dimensional physical model of the malocclusion with the brackets placed on the malocclusion; and a forming device forming a bracket placement tray matching the geometry of the physical model of the malocclusion with the brackets; wherein the bracket placement tray is removed from the physical model for the placement of orthodontic brackets on the malocclusion, said tray formed with spaces for placement of brackets and enabling bonding of the brackets to the teeth at a desired location based on the virtual model of the dentition and the placement of orthodontic brackets on the malocclusion; wherein said memory further stores data obtained by scanning the dentition of the patient after the bracket bonding is complete, and wherein said memory stores instructions to verify the position of the brackets on the dentition. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the wire bending robot comprises a six axis robot having a fixed gripping tool and a moveable gripping tool mounted to the end of a moveable arm. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the instrument for generating the three-dimensional model comprises a stereolithographic instrument. 4. The system of claim 1, further comprising equipment for manufacturing a customized bracket bonding pad based on the placement of a three-dimensional virtual orthodontic bracket on the surface of a three-dimensional virtual model of the dentition of a patient. 5. A system for manufacture of a customized bracket bonding pad for a bracket, the bracket having a base, comprising: a memory storing a three-dimensional virtual model of a patient's dentition and a three-dimensional virtual model of an off-the-shelf orthodontic bracket as placed on the surface of a tooth in the three-dimensional virtual model of the dentition; a processing unit deriving from said three-dimensional virtual models the three-dimensional shape of a customized bracket bonding pad for attaching to the base of said off-the-shelf bracket; and a machine system for manufacturing said customized bracket bonding pad according to said derived three-dimensional shape. 