A change station for atomizer (7) and other tools that contains a carousel-like rotatable and/or linearly movable mount (112) is arranged on the wall of the cabin of a coating installation. The arrangement is such that the storage locations of the change station are accessible both to the coating machine (151) in the cabin and from outside the cabin.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for sequentially coating workpieces with tools releasably and exchangeably positioned in a plurality of storage locations, said method comprising the steps of: positioning a robotic device inside a cabin; placing a mounting unit defining a periphery adjacent the robotic device; forming the plurality of storage locations in the periphery to releasably engage the tools; rotating the mounting unit about an axis generally defined by the periphery to a position accessible by the robotic device to selectively engage a first of the tools for sequentially coating at least one of the workpieces; and moving a second of the tools to a second position to enable the robotic device to selectively engage the second tool once the robotic device completed sequentially coating at least one of the workpieces with the first tool as the first tool is returned to one of the storage locations. 2. The method as set forth in claim 1, including the step of positioning a magazine device rotatable relative the mounting unit and the robotic device. 3. The method as set forth in claim 2, including the step of rotating the mounting unit and the magazine device relative to one another to interchange at least one of the tools therebetween to place at least one the tools in the position accessible by the robotic device. 4. The method as set forth in claim 1, wherein the step of forming a plurality of storage locations in the periphery is further defined by forming an atomizer connector and a port for fluid supply. 5. The method as set forth in claim 4, wherein the step of forming a plurality of storage locations in the periphery is further defined by forming a tool engaging mechanism for engaging the tools. 6. The method as set forth in claim 4, including the step of providing a rinsing station and a filling station adjacent the robotic device to sequentially transfer the tools to the rinsing station and the filling station. 7. The method as set forth in claim 4, including the step of providing a measurement device in at least one of the storage locations. 8. The method as set forth in claim 7, including the step of measuring hue, spreading, layer thickness, and general quality parameters of the coat by the measurement device as the coat is applied to the workpiece. 9. The method as set forth in claim 8, including the step of modifying application procedures in response to at least one of hue, spreading, layer thickness, and general quality parameters determined by the measurement device. 10. A method for sequentially coating workpieces with tools releasably and exchangeably positioned in a plurality of storage locations, said method comprising the steps of: positioning a robotic device inside a cabin; installing a magazine defining a periphery to hold the tools; placing a mounting unit defining a periphery adjacent the magazine and the robotic device; forming the plurality of storage locations in the periphery of the mounting unit to releasably engage the tools; rotating the mounting unit about a first axis generally defined by the periphery of the mounting unit to a position accessible by the robotic device to selectively engage a first of the tools to sequentially coat at least one of the workpieces and moving a second of the tools to a second position thereby enabling the robotic device to engage the second tool once the robotic device completed sequentially coating at least one of the workpieces with the first tool as the first tool is returned to one of the storage locations; and rotating the magazine about a second axis relative to the mounting unit to replace at least one of the first tool and the second tool engaged in the mounting unit with a third tool engaged in the magazine. 11. A method for sequentially coating workpieces with tools releasably and exchangeably positioned in a plurality of storage locations, said method comprising the steps of: positioning a robotic device inside a cabin defining a wall; placing a mounting unit defining a periphery for holding the tools adjacent the robotic device; placing a cover over the mounting unit to protect the mounting unit holding the tools from soiling as the mounting unit rotates about an axis relative the cover; and moving the robotic device relative to the mounting unit between a first position as the robotic device opens the cover to remove a first tool from the mounting unit and a second position as the robotic device closes the cover after the first tool is replaced with a second tool removed from the mounting unit. 