A steerable endoscope has an elongated body with a selectively steerable distal portion and an automatically controlled proximal portion. The endoscope body is inserted into a patient and the selectively steerable distal portion is used to select a desired path within the patient's body. When the endoscope body is advanced, an electronic motion controller operates the automatically controlled proximal portion to assume the selected curve of the selectively steerable distal portion. Another desired path is selected with the selectively steerable distal portion and the endoscope body is advanced again. As the endoscope body is further advanced, the selected curves propagate proximally along the endoscope body, and when the endoscope body is withdrawn proximally, the selected curves propagate distally along the endoscope body. This creates a serpentine motion in the endoscope body that allows it to negotiate tortuous curves along a desired path through, around, and between organs within the body.
Claims I claim: 1. A method of advancing an instrument along an arbitrary path, comprising: selectively steering a distal portion of the instrument to assume a first selected curve along the arbitrary path; measuring a length of at least one side of the distal portion from the selected curve; advancing the instrument distally while continuously controlling at least a proximal portion of the instrument to linearly assume the first selected curve of the distal portion in an infinitely variable motion; and propagating the measured length from the at least one side of the distal portion to at least one side of the proximal portion while advancing the instrument. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein measuring the length comprises measuring at least two sides of the distal portion from the selected curve. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein measuring the length comprises measuring at least three sides of the distal portion from the selected curve. 4. The method of claim 1 further comprising further advancing the instrument distally while controlling the proximal portion to propagate the first selected curve proximally along the proximal portion of the instrument. 5. The method of claim 1 further comprising withdrawing the instrument proximally while controlling the proximal portion to propagate the first selected curve distally along the proximal portion of the instrument. 6. The method of claim 1 further comprising: selectively steering the elongate distal portion of the instrument to linearly assume a second selected curve along the arbitrary path; and advancing the instrument proximally while controlling the proximal portion to linearly propagate the first and second selected curves proximally along the proximal portion of the instrument. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein selectively steering the distal portion comprises manually steering the distal portion of the instrument to assume the first selected curve. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein the proximal portion of the instrument is automatically controlled by an electronic motion controller. 9. The method of claim 8 further comprising measuring an axial position of the instrument with an axial motion transducer. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein the proximal portion of the instrument is controlled such that the first selected curve remains approximately fixed in space as the instrument is advanced proximally and/or withdrawn proximally. 11. The method of claim 1 wherein the instrument is an endoscope inserted into a patient's body. 12. The method of claim 1 wherein the instrument is a colonoscope inserted into a patient's colon. 13. The method of claim 1 further comprising affixing the first selected curve relative to a fixed point of reference while advancing the instrument distally. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein the fixed point of reference is located at a distance from the arbitrary path. 15. The method of claim 1 wherein the elongate distal portion comprises a non-segmented steerable portion. 16. The method of claim 1 wherein the proximal portion comprises a plurality of segments pivotally interconnected between adjacent segments. 17. The method of claim 1 wherein the distal portion of the instrument comprises an elongate steerable section. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein the elongate distal portion comprises at least one segment. 