Disclosed are apparatus and methods for delivery of transcranial magnetic stimulation. The apparatus includes a TMS coil which when energized generates an electric field substantially parallel to a long axis of the coil and substantially normal to a surface of the coil. Furthermore disclosed an apparatus for delivery of TMS in which a coil is adapted to a robotic member for computer-aided control and delivery. Further disclosed are methods of TMS planning and delivery in which subject images are utilized to plan, position and orient the TMS coil for precise delivery. Disclosed also are TMS coils having unique designs to better focus and direct magnetic stimulation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for transcranial magnetic stimulation, comprising: a robotic member having a distal portion and a proximal portion, said robotic member having at least six degrees of freedom; a coil for generating an electric field, said coil coupled to said distal portion of said robotic member; a computer to control movement of said robotic member to position said coil at a preselected position relative to a subject according to a pre-specified treatment plan for magnetic stimulation in accordance with an aiming principle; and a storage coupled to the computer and storing the pre-specified treatment plan. 2. The system of claim 1, further comprising a power supply to supply energy to said coil to generate said electric field, said power supply comprising a capacitor bank. 3. The system of claim 1, further comprising a digitizer adapted to said robotic member. 4. A system comprising: a robotic arm having a distal end and a proximal end; a magnetic stimulator coupled to the distal end of the robotic arm; a controller coupled to the robotic arm to execute instructions; and a controller-readable medium coupled to the controller including instructions to control positioning of the magnetic stimulator according to a pre-specified treatment plan for magnetic stimulation in accordance with an aiming principle, the pre-specified treatment plan stored in the controller-readable medium. 5. The system of claim 4, wherein the robotic arm is capable of movement with at least six degrees of freedom. 6. The system of claim 5, wherein the robotic arm comprises at least five joints and a holder to hold the magnetic stimulator. 7. The system of claim 6, wherein the holder is adapted to hold the magnetic stimulator at least a first distance away from the robotic arm. 8. The system of claim 6, wherein the holder comprises a proximal portion coupled to the robotic arm and a distal portion coupled to the magnetic stimulator, wherein the holder comprises the sixth degree of freedom. 9. The system of claim 4, wherein the magnetic stimulator is rotatable about an axis. 10. The system of claim 4, further comprising a sensor to obtain information regarding orientation of the magnetic stimulator. 11. The system of claim 4, wherein the controller-readable medium further comprises instructions that enable the controller to move the magnetic stimulator to a predetermined position with respect to a subject via movement of the robotic arm without user involvement. 12. The system of claim 4, wherein the controller-readable medium further comprises instructions that enable the controller to move the magnetic stimulator to a plurality of predetermined sites with respect to a subject via movement of the robotic arm without user involvement. 13. The system of claim 4, wherein the robotic arm comprises a medical robot. 14. A system comprising: an active member capable of movement under machine control, the active member having a distal portion and a proximal portion; a transcranial magnetic stimulator coupled to the distal portion of the active member to provide magnetic stimulation to a subject; a controller coupled to the active member to execute instructions; and a controller-readable medium coupled to the controller including instructions to control positioning of the transcranial magnetic stimulator in accordance with a predetennined treatment plan for transcranial magnetic stimulation. 15. The system of claim 14, wherein the active member is capable of movement with at least six degrees of freedom. 16. The system of claim 14, wherein the controller-readable medium further comprises instructions that if executed enable the controller to move the transcranial magnetic stimulator to a predetermined position with respect to the subject via movement of the active member. 17. The system of claim 14, wherein the controller-readable medium further comprises instructions that if executed enable the controller to move the transcranial magnetic stimulator to a plurality of sites with respect to the subject via movement of the active member. 18. The system of claim 14, wherein the controller-readable medium further comprises instructions that if executed enable the controller to move the transcranial magnetic stimulator within a coordinate system corresponding to the predetermined treatment plan via movement of the active member. 19. A system comprising: a moveable member having a distal end and a proximal end, wherein the moveable member is capable of movement with six degrees of freedom; a magnetic stimulator coupled to the distal end of the moveable member; a controller coupled to the moveable member to control positioning of the magnetic stimulator in response to instructions; and a controller-readable medium coupled to the controller including instructions to control the positioning of the magnetic stimulator to a predetermined position with respect to a subject via movement of the moveable member in accordance with a pre-specified treatment plan for magnetic stimulation. 20. The system of claim 19, wherein the controller-readable medium further comprises instructions that if executed enable the controller to move the magnetic stimulator to a plurality of sites with respect to the subject via movement of the moveable member in accordance with the pre-specified treatment plan. 21. The system of claim 11, wherein the predetermined position comprises a brain location identified via an imaging procedure. 22. The system of claim 16, wherein the predetermined position comprises a brain location identified via an imaging procedure. 23. The system of claim 4, wherein the pre-specified treatment plan to position the magnetic simulator according to a cortical column cosine aiming principle. 24. The system of claim 1, wherein the pre-specified treatment plan to position the coil according to a cortical column cosine aiming principle. 25. The system of claim 14, wherein the predetermined treatment plan to position the transcranial magnetic simulator according to a cortical column cosine aiming principle. 