A printhead assembly is provided, comprising at least one printhead module comprising at least two printhead integrated circuits, each of which has nozzles formed therein for delivering printing fluid onto the surface of print media, and a support member supporting and carrying the printing fluid for the at least two printhead integrated circuits, a casing in which the at least one printhead module is removably mounted, and a capping member capping a terminal end of the support member of the at least one printhead module.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A printhead assembly, comprising: at least one printhead module comprising at least two printhead integrated circuits, each of which has nozzles formed therein for delivering printing fluid onto the surface of print media, and an elongate support member having two longitudinal ends supporting, and carrying the printing fluid for, the at least two printhead integrated circuits; a casing in which the at least one printhead module is removably mounted; and a capping member capping a terminal longitudinal end of the support member of the at least one printhead module, wherein the longitudinal ends of the support member are configured differently and complementarily to one another, and the capping member is configured to cap either of said longitudinal ends. 2. A printhead assembly according to claim 1, wherein: the support member has complementary female and male end portions; and the capping member is arranged to cap each of the female and male end portions. 3. A printhead assembly according to claim 2, wherein a sealing adhesive is provided at the interface of the interconnected capping and support members. 4. A printhead assembly according to claim 3, wherein the sealing adhesive is an epoxy. 5. A printhead assembly according to claim 1, wherein: the at least one printhead module is formed as a unitary arrangement of the at least two printhead integrated circuits, the support member, at least two fluid distribution members each mounting one of the at least two printhead integrated circuits to the support member, and an electrical connector for connecting electrical signals to the at least two printhead integrated circuits; and the support member has at least one longitudinally extending channel for carrying the printing fluid for the printhead integrated circuits and includes a plurality of apertures extending through a wall of the support member arranged so as to direct the printing fluid from the at least one channel to associated nozzles in both, or if more than two, all of the printhead integrated circuits by way of respective ones of the fluid distribution members. 