A test cell for use in a semiconductor manufacturing operation allowing alignment of semiconductor devices to be tested to a test station. The test cell is well suited for testing semiconductor devices on carrier strips. To aid in alignment, the test cell includes a down-ward looking camera and a simple upward looking sensor. Fiducials are acurately positioned relative to the test site, which are easily detected by the simple sensor. A controller within the test cell uses the output of the camera and the sensor, in conjunction with position sensors on a robotic assembly, to determine relative positions of the devices to be tested and the test station and issue the appropriate commands to align the devices to the test station.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A test cell comprising a test station and a robotic assembly for moving a device to the test station, the test cell comprising: a camera having a field of view facing in direction of the robotic assembly; at least one fiducial associated with the test station; and a sensor attached to the robotic assembly facing the fiducial, wherein the sensor comprises a light receptor configured to detect light reflected by the fiducial onto the light receptor, wherein the sensor is configured to substantially align to the fiducial when the light has an intensity that exceeds a threshold. 2. The test cell of claim 1, wherein the sensor comprises a light source and the fiducial comprises light reflective material. 3. The test cell of claim 2, wherein the sensor has a binary output, indicating that the intensity of the light is either below or above the threshold. 4. The test cell of claim 1, further comprising a position sensor associated with the robotic assembly, the position sensor having an output indicative of a position of the robotic assembly. 5. The test cell of claim 1, wherein the robotic assembly comprises a platform, the platform having an upper surface adapted to receive the device. 6. The test cell of claim 1, further comprising a controller, the controller comprising a program to position the robotic assembly toward the fiducial and to move the sensor to locate the fiducial. 7. The test cell of claim 6, wherein the controller comprises a program to move the sensor to detect a plurality of points on a periphery of the fiducial and to compute a center of the fiducial from the plurality of points. 8. The test cell of claim 1, wherein the at least one fiducial is circular. 9. The test cell of claim 1 used in a process of manufacturing semiconductor devices on carrier strips, comprising: using the sensor to determine the location of the test station; placing a semiconductor device on a carrier strip on the robotic assembly; using the camera to determine a location of the semiconductor device; using the location of the test station and the location of the semiconductor device to position the robotic assembly with the semiconductor device to align with the test station; testing the semiconductor device; and further processing the semiconductor device based on results of testing the semiconductor device. 10. The test station of claim 1, further comprising at least two fiducials associated with the test station. 11. The test station of claim 10, wherein the test station further comprises a controller comprising a program that determines a location of each of the fiducials and determines a coefficient of expansion of the test station. 12. A test cell comprising: a test station having a bottom surface that is substantially parallel to a first plane, the bottom surface holding a plurality of device contactors; a robotic assembly having an upper surface substantially parallel to the first plane and facing the bottom surface, the upper surface holding a plurality of devices a camera having a field of view facing the first plane; at least one fiducial associated with the test station; and a sensor attached to the robotic assembly facing the fiducial; wherein the robotic assembly moves the upper surface of the robotic assembly towards the bottom surface of the test station such that the devices held by the upper surface contact the device contactors held by the bottom surface. 13. The test cell of claim 12, wherein at least one fiducial comprises visibly distinguishable features in a predetermined positional relationship to the plurality of contactors in the test station. 14. The test cell of claim 12, wherein the upper surface has a plurality of vacuum ports formed therein. 15. The test cell of claim 12, wherein the upper surface has a visually distinguishable feature marking its substantial center of rotation. 16. The test station of claim 12, wherein the sensor provides a binary output. 