The present invention provides an apparatus and method for automated and rapid loading of a large number of samples for mass spectrometric analysis using various ionization methods (e.g. matrix assisted desorption by laser bombardment (MALDI) and atmosperic pressure ionization (API) methods such as electrospray). The aparatus utilizes microtiter plates to hold the sample, optical elements (e.g. fiber optic) to facilitate automated transport of the ions, and a multiple part capillary comprising at least two capillary sections joined with airtight seal by a union for use in mass spectrometry (particularly with ionization sources) to transport ions between pressure regions of a mass spectrometer for analysis is described herein. Preferably, the capillary is useful to transport ions from an elevated pressure ionization source to a first vacuum region of a mass analysis system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for performing automated mass spectrometric analysis, said method comprising the steps of: (a) positioning a means for receiving a sample near a sample supply; (b) receiving said sample from said sample supply; (c) ionizing said sample; (d) introducing said first ions into a first vacuum region of a mass spectrometer; (e) performing mass spectrometric analysis on said ions; (f) repositioning said receiving means to receive a next sample from said sample supply; and (g) repeating steps (b) through (e) for said next sample. 2. A method according to claim 1, wherein said receiving means are positioned by an automated device. 3. A method according to claim 1, wherein said ions are introduced into said first vacuum region through a capillary. 4. A method according to claim 3, wherein said capillary comprises first and second capillary sections joined by a union, said sections each having a channel therethrough having an inlet and outlet end. 5. A method according to claim 4, wherein said capillary section comprises an inlet end and an outlet end. 6. A method according to claim 5 wherein said inlet end and said outlet end further comprise conductive end caps. 7. A method according to claim 1, wherein said sample is ionized using an ionization source selected from the group consisting of an atmospheric pressure ionization (API) source, an electrospray ionization source, a pneumatic assisted electrospray ionization source, an electron impact source, a chemical ionization source, a matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization (MALDI) source, a plasma desorption source, and a liquid chromatography source. 8. A method according to claim 1, wherein said mass spectroscopic analysis is performed using a mass analyzer selected from the group consisting of a quadrupole mass analyzer, a time-of-flight mass analyzer, an ion trap mass analyzer, an ion cyclotron resonance mass analyzer, and a magnetic sector mass analyzer. 9. A method according to claim 1, wherein said capillary section is constructed from an electrically conductive material. 10. An apparatus for automating mass spectroscopic analysis of sample ions, wherein said apparatus comprises: a sample holder; an ion source; a mass analyzer; a multiple part capillary device; and a robot; wherein one or more vacuum regions connect said ion source to said mass analyzer; wherein said robot interfaces with said ion source; and wherein said capillary device interfaces said ion source with a first on of said vacuum regions. 11. An apparatus according to claim 10, wherein said robot further comprises a plurality of means for receiving said sample from said sample holder. 12. An apparatus according to claim 10, wherein said robot further comprises an arm for positioning said means of receiving said sample from said sample holder. 13. An apparatus according to claim 12, wherein said robot arm further transfers said sample to an ionization source. 14. An apparatus according to claim 10, wherein said robot has a means for directing laser beams into said sample holder. 15. An apparatus according to claim 10, wherein said ionization source is selected from the group consisting of an atmospheric pressure ionization (API) source, an electrospray ionization source, a pneumatic assisted electrospray ionization source, an electron impact source, a chemical ionization source, a matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization (MALDI) source, a plasma desorption source, and a liquid chromatography source. 16. An apparatus according to claim 10, wherein said mass analyzer is selected from the group consisting of a quadrupole mass analyzer, a time-of-flight mass analyzer, an ion trap mass analyzer, an ion cyclotron resonance mass analyzer, and a magnetic sector mass analyzer. 17. An apparatus according to claim 10, wherein said capillary section is constructed from an electrically conductive material such as stainless steel. 18. An apparatus according to claim 10, where each of said capillary sections comprises an inlet end and an outlet end. 19. An apparatus according to claim 10, where said capillary sections are constructed of a flexible material. 20. An apparatus according to claim 10, where said capillary sections are constructed of a rigid material. 21. An apparatus according to claim 10, wherein the axis of said capillary channel may be placed at any angle with respect to said ion source. 22. An apparatus according to claim 10, wherein said sections of said capillary device are interfaced at a union. 23. An apparatus according to claim 10, wherein said union comprises two openings for receiving an inlet end of a first capillary section and an outlet end of a second capillary section. 24. An apparatus according to claim 23, wherein said capillary device has one less said union than said capillary sections. 