A milking parlor has a holding gate and a parallel spaced individually loaded-occupied-unloaded milking stall with an operator pit located intermediate the holding gate and the milking stall. The operator pit can be recessed from the holding gate and the milking stall, wherein a bridge or a bridge cart selectively connects a holding gate to an unoccupied milking stall. A robotic or human operator can function from the operator pit to implement the milking process.
Claims I claim: 1. A method of individually presenting an animal to be milked, comprising: (a) forwardly loading the animal into a milking stall through an ingress gate at a rear of the milking stall along a controlled path including a corresponding holding gate that opens and closes to allow access to the ingress gate; and (b) locating an operator pit intermediate the holding gate and the rear of the milking stall. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising locating a bridge intermediate the holding gate and the rear of the milking stall. 3. The method of claim 2 further comprising locating at least one rail on the bridge. 4. A method of presenting an animal to be milked, comprising: (a) forwardly unloading the animal from a holding area through a holding gate; (b) translating the animal across an operator pit; (c) forwardly loading the animal into a milking stall through a milking stall ingress gate; and (d) forwardly unloading the animal from the milking stall through a milking stall exit gate. 5. The method of claim 4 further comprising milking the animal in the milking stall from the rear. 6. The method of claim 4 further comprising forwardly loading the animal onto a bridge cart after forwardly unloading the animal from the holding gate. 7. The method of claim 6 further comprising moving the bridge cart between a first position and a second position in the operator pit. 8. The method of claim 4 further comprising forwardly unloading the animal from a bridge cart prior to forwardly loading the animal into the milking stall. 9. A method of individually presenting an animal to be milked, comprising: (a) forwardly loading the animal into a milking stall through an ingress gate at a rear of the milking stall along a controlled path including a corresponding holding gate that opens and closes to allow access to the ingress gate; (b) locating an operator pit intermediate the holding gate and the rear of the milking stall; and (c) locating a bridge intermediate the holding gate and the rear of the milking stall. 10. A method of presenting an animal to be milked, comprising: (a) forwardly unloading the animal from a holding area through a holding gate; (b) translating the animal across an operator pit; (c) forwardly loading the animal into a milking stall through a milking stall ingress gate; (d) forwardly unloading the animal from the milking stall through a milking stall exit gate; and (e) forwardly loading the animal onto a bridge cart after forwardly unloading the animal from the holding gate. 11. A method of presenting an animal to be milked, comprising: (a) forwardly unloading the animal from a holding area through a holding gate; (b) translating the animal across an operator pit; (c) forwardly loading the animal into a milking stall through a milking stall ingress gate; (d) forwardly unloading the animal from the milking stall through a milking stall exit gate; and e) forwardly unloading the animal from a bridge cart prior to forwardly loading the animal into the milking stall. 