An automated storage system includes a media storage facility, which may take the form of an automated storage library or shelf system. The media storage facility includes a plurality of individual medium slots and a plurality of superset slots. The facility further includes at least one mechanism for accessing individual media and at least one mechanism for accessing supersets of media. Individual media located in a superset remain accessible on an individual basis in addition to being accessible as part of the corresponding superset.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automated storage system comprising: a media storage facility including a plurality of individual medium slots, each individual medium slot being for storing an individual medium, the media storage facility further including a plurality of superset slots, each superset slot being for storing a superset of media; at least one mechanism for accessing individual media; and at least one mechanism for accessing supersets of media, wherein the media storage facility is configured such that any individual media located in a superset remain accessible on an individual basis in addition to being accessible as part of the superset where it is located. 2. The automated storage system of claim 1 wherein the media storage facility is configured such that supersets can be reorganized, emptied, or created based on a list of individual media present in the media storage facility. 3. The automated storage system of claim 1 wherein the media storage facility is configured such that supersets can be reorganized, emptied, or created based on a set of instructions or policies imposed by a controlling system. 4. The automated storage system of claim 3 wherein the media storage facility is configured such that the organization of the supersets can be a RAID grouping. 5. The automated storage system of claim 1 wherein the media storage facility is configured such that intermediate supersets can be logically organized within the physical organization of a parent superset. 6. The automated storage system of claim 5 wherein the media storage facility is configured such that an intermediate superset can be an individual media location within the organization of a parent superset. 7. The automated storage system of claim 1 wherein the media storage facility is configured such that intermediate supersets can be physically organized while maintaining a logical organization relationship to a parent superset. 8. The automated storage system of claim 1 wherein the media storage facility is configured to receive supersets and individual media such that system accessible supersets may be created with received individual media and such that received supersets may be split into multiple system accessible individual media or intermediate supersets of media. 9. The automated storage system of claim 8 wherein the media storage facility is configured to manage more types of supersets than the system is organized to receive. 10. The automated storage system of claim 8 wherein the media storage facility is configured such that system accessible individual media may be grouped to form supersets for ejection and such that system accessible supersets may be ejected as a unit or split into multiple individual media for ejection. 11. The automated storage system of claim 1 wherein any individual media located in a superset remain accessible as part of an intermediate superset within the superset. 12. The automated storage system of claim 1 wherein the accessing mechanisms are the same physical mechanism. 13. The automated storage system of claim 1 wherein there are a plurality of different types of supersets of media. 14. An automated storage system comprising: an automated storage library including a plurality of individual medium slots, each individual medium slot being for storing an individual medium, the automated storage library further including a plurality of superset slots, each superset slot being for storing a superset of media; at least one mechanism for accessing individual media; and at least one mechanism for accessing supersets of media, wherein the automated storage library is configured such that any individual media located in a superset remain accessible on an individual basis in addition to being accessible as part of the superset where it is located. 15. The automated storage system of claim 14 wherein the automated storage library is configured such that supersets can be reorganized, emptied, or created based on a list of individual media present in the automated storage library. 16. The automated storage system of claim 14 wherein the automated storage library is configured such that supersets can be reorganized, emptied, or created based on a set of instructions or policies imposed by a controlling system. 17. An automated storage system comprising: a shelf system including a plurality of individual medium slots, each individual medium slot being for storing an individual medium, the shelf system further including a plurality of superset slots, each superset slot being for storing a superset of media; at least one mechanism for accessing individual media; and at least one mechanism for accessing supersets of media, wherein the shelf system is configured such that any individual media located in a superset remain accessible on an individual basis in addition to being accessible as part of the superset where it is located. 18. The automated storage system of claim 17 wherein the shelf system is configured such that supersets can be reorganized, emptied, or created based on a list of individual media present in the shelf system. 19. The automated storage system of claim 17 wherein the shelf system is configured such that supersets can be reorganized, emptied, or created based on a set of instructions or policies imposed by a controlling system. 20. The automated storage system of claim 17 wherein the accessing mechanisms are the same physical mechanism. 