A method and system for cutting a wafer comprising a conductive substrate attached to an array of integrated devices includes placing the wafer on a stage such as a movable X-Y stage including a vacuum chuck having a porous mounting surface, and securing the wafer during and after cutting by vacuum pressure through the pores. The wafer is cut by directing UV pulses of laser energy at the conductive substrate using a solid-state laser. An adhesive membrane can be attached to the separated die to remove them from the mounting surface, or the die can otherwise be removed after cutting from the wafer.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for cutting a workpiece, comprising: placing the workpiece on a porous member having a mounting surface; securing the workpiece on the mounting surface by applying suction to the workpiece through pores in the porous member; using laser energy to cut through the workpiece, and separate the workpiece into individual elements without cracking, the elements remaining secured to the mounting surface by the applied suction. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the laser energy has a wavelength that is absorbed to a greater degree by the workpiece than by the mounting surface. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: reducing the suction to release the elements from the mounting surface; and removing the elements from the mounting surface. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising; after said cutting the workpiece, adhering the elements to a flexible sheet; and removing the elements adhered to the flexible sheet from the mounting surface. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: after said cutting the workpiece, using a robotic device to remove the elements from the mounting surface. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the porous member comprises a rigid plate. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the porous member comprises a flexible sheet. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the porous member comprises paper. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the porous member comprises plastic. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the porous member comprises ceramic. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the porous member comprises metal. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the workpiece comprises a wafer having an active surface, and the active surface is mounted in contact with the mounting surface. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the workpiece comprises an array of integrated devices on a wafer having an active surface and comprising a conductive substrate. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein the workpiece comprises a wafer having an active surface comprising GaN, and a metallic substrate. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein the workpiece comprises an array of integrated devices. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein the workpiece comprises a wafer having an active surface and a back surface, and the back surface is mounted in contact with the mounting surface. 17. A method for cutting a workpiece, comprising: placing the workpiece on a porous member having a mounting surface, wherein the workpiece comprises an array of devices on a metal substrate; securing the workpiece on the mounting surface by applying suction to the workpiece through pores in the porous member; using laser energy to cut through the metal substrate of workpiece, and separate the workpiece into individual elements, the elements remaining secured to the mounting surface by the applied suction. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein the laser energy has a wavelength that is absorbed to a greater degree by the metal substrate of the workpiece than by the mounting surface. 19. The method of claim 17, further comprising: reducing the suction to release the elements from the mounting surface; and removing the elements from the mounting surface. 20. The method of claim 17, further comprising; after said cutting the workpiece, adhering the elements to a flexible sheet; and removing the elements adhered to the flexible sheet from the mounting surface. 21. The method of claim 17, further comprising: after said cutting the workpiece, using a robotic device to remove the elements from the mounting surface. 22. The method of claim 17, wherein the porous member comprises a rigid plate. 23. The method of claim 17, wherein the porous member comprises a flexible sheet. 24. The method of claim 17, wherein the porous member comprises paper. 25. The method of claim 17, wherein the porous member comprises plastic. 26. The method of claim 17, wherein the porous member comprises ceramic. 27. The method of claim 17, wherein the porous member comprises metal. 28. The method of claim 17, wherein the workpiece comprises a wafer having an active surface, and the active surface is mounted in contact with the mounting surface. 29. The method of claim 17, wherein the devices comprises GaN based devices. 30. The method of claim 17, wherein metal substrate is mounted in contact with the mounting surface. 