A method is provided for performing array microcrystallizations to determine suitable crystallization conditions for a molecule, the method comprising: forming an array of microcrystallizations, each microcrystallization comprising a drop comprising a mother liquor solution whose composition varies within the array and a molecule to be crystallized, the drop having a volume of less than 1 microliter; storing the array of microcrystallizations under conditions suitable for molecule crystals to form in the drops in the array; and detecting molecule crystal formation in the drops by taking images of the drops.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automated method for setting up protein crystallization experiments on a multiwell plate comprising: providing a multiwell plate having a plate surface contoured to define at least 48 different protein crystallization experiment regions, each protein crystallization experiment region comprising a well region housing a mother liquor and a sitting drop region for performing a protein crystallization experiment; automated delivering of submicroliter portions of the mother liquor from well regions to sitting drop regions of the multiwell plate such that submicroliter portions are delivered to multiple different sitting drop regions of the multiwell plate at the same time; and automated delivering of submicroliter volumes of a solution containing a protein to be crystallized to the corresponding sitting drop regions of the multiwell plate, wherein the submicroliter volumes of the solution containing the protein to be crystallized and the submicroliter portions of the mother liquor delivered to the sitting drop regions combine to form protein crystallization solutions of volumes less than 250 nanoliters capable of forming protein crystals suitable for X-ray diffraction; wherein the multiwell plate being configured such that the remaining mother liquor solution in the well region and the protein crystallization solution in the sitting drop region of each protein crystallization experiment region can be placed in vapor diffusion communication with each other but not in vapor diffusion communication with other protein crystallization regions of the multiwell plate, and wherein automated delivering of the submicroliter portions of mother liquor and automated delivering of the submicroliter volumes of the solution containing the protein to be crystallized can occur in any order. 2. An method according to claim 1, wherein the mother liquor drop station delivers mother liquor to at least four wells of the multiwell plate at the same time. 3. An method according to claim 1, wherein the mother liquor drop station delivers mother liquor to at least eight wells of the multiwell plate at the same time. 4. A method according to claim 1, wherein the protein crystallization solution forms a drop of a volume less than about 25 nanoliters. 5. A method according to claim 1, wherein the protein crystallization solution forms a drop of a volume less than about 20 nanoliters. 6. A method according to claim 1, wherein the protein crystallization solution forms a drop of a volume less than about 15 nanoliters. 7. A method according to claim 1, wherein the molecule drops formed have a volume of between about 1 nanoliter and 250 nanoliters. 8. A method according to claim 1, wherein submicroliter portions of mother liquor are delivered to the multiwell plate before submicroliter volumes of the solution are delivered to the multiwell plate. 9. A method according to claim 1, wherein submicroliter portions of mother liquor are delivered to the multiwell plate after submicroliter volumes of the solution are delivered to the multiwell plate. 10. An automated method for setting up protein crystallization experiments on a plurality of multiwell plates comprising: automated transferring a plurality of multiwell plates to a crystallization set-up station, each multiwell plate having a plate surface contoured to define at least 48 different protein crystallization experiment regions, each protein crystallization experiment region comprising a well region housing a mother liquor and a sitting drop region for performing a protein crystallization experiment; for each multiwell plate transferred to the crystallization set-up station, automated delivering of submicroliter portions of the mother liquor from well regions to sitting drop regions of the multiwell plate such that submicroliter portions are delivered to multiple different sitting drop regions of the multiwell plate at the same time; and automated delivering of submicroliter volumes of a solution containing a protein to be crystallized to the corresponding sitting drop regions of the multiwell plate, wherein the submicroliter volumes of the solution containing the protein to be crystallized and the submicroliter portions of the mother liquor delivered to the sitting drop regions combine to form protein crystallization solutions of volumes less than 250 nanoliters capable of forming protein crystals suitable for X-ray diffraction; and wherein the microtiter plate being configured such that the remaining mother liquor solution in the well region and the protein crystallization solution in the sitting drop region of each protein crystallization experiment region can be placed in vapor diffusion communication with each other but not in vapor diffusion communication with other protein crystallization regions of the multiwell plate. 