A system for performing minimally invasive cardiac procedures includes a pair of surgical instruments coupled to a pair of robotic arms with end effectors that can be manipulated to hold and suture tissue. The robotic arms are coupled to a pair of master handles by a controller to produce a corresponding movement of the end effectors. The movement of the handles is scaled such that the end effectors movement corresponds differently, typically smaller, than the movement performed by the hands of the surgeon. The input button allows the surgeon to adjust the position of the handles without moving the end effector, so that the handles can be moved to a more comfortable position. The system may include a robotically controlled endoscope allowing the surgeon to remotely view a surgical site. The surgeon may manipulate handles and move end effectors to perform a cardiac procedure.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A medical robotic system, comprising: at least two robotic arms; a handle; first and second endoscopic surgical instruments, each instrument held by an associated robotic arm; a controller in electrical communication with the robotic arms, wherein movement at the handle produces a proportional movement of one of the robotic arms; and a multiplexer switching connections between the handle and the robotic arms such that the handle may control the first or second instrument. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein each said endoscopic surgical instrument is an articulable endoscopic surgical instrument. 3. The system of claim 2 wherein the articulable surgical instrument comprises a base, a pivot linkage, and a distal end. 4. The system of claim 2 further comprising an audio feedback device for providing audio messages. 5. The system of claim 1 further comprising a plurality of removably attachable handles, wherein a surgeon may interchange said handles. 6. The system of claim 1 further comprising a handle stand, wherein said handle is removably attached to said handle stand. 7. The system of claim 1 further comprising a voice recognizer coupled to said multiplexer. 8. The system of claim 1, further comprising a stabilizer attached to the first surgical instrument. 