A force sensor for measuring force and/or torque about a single axis or multiple axes is rugged, inexpensive and can be fabricated over a wide range of sizes. The force sensor includes first and second members that are coupled to each other by an elastomeric flexure that allows at least one member to be movable with respect to the other member when a force is applied. The force sensor includes a transmitting coil or printed circuit trace and a receiving coil or printed circuit trace. In one embodiment, the transmitting and receiving coils are formed on different ones of the first and second members. In another embodiment, the transmitting and receiving coils are formed on the same member and the other member is formed as a shading plate. A signal applied to the transmitting coil induces a signal in the receiving coil that represents the force applied.
Claims What is claimed and desired to be secured by Letters Patent is: 1. A force sensor comprising: a stationary member; a member movable by an applied force; a transmitting coil supported on either the stationary member or the movable member; a receiving coil supported on either the stationary member or the movable member; a flexure coupled between the stationary member and the movable member; and a signal applied to the transmitting coil, the signal in the transmitting coil inducing a signal in the receiving coil wherein motion of the movable member results in a detectable change in the signal induced in the receiving coil to provide a measure of the force applied to the movable member. 2. A force sensor as recited in claim 1 wherein the change in the signal in the receiving coil is proportional to the motion of the movable member relative to the stationary member. 3. A force sensor as recited in claim 2 wherein the change in the signal is non-linearly proportional to the motion of the movable member. 4. A force sensor as recited in claim 2 wherein the change in the signal is linearly proportional to the motion of the movable member. 5. A force sensor as recited in claim 1 wherein the transmitting coil and the receiving coil are supported on different ones of the stationary member and movable member. 6. A force sensor as recited in claim 1 wherein the transmitting coil is supported on the movable member and the receiving coil is supported on the stationary member. 7. A force sensor as recited in claim 1 wherein the transmitting coil is supported on the stationary member and the receiving coil is supported on the movable member. 8. A force sensor as recited in claim 1 wherein the transmitting and receiving coils are supported on the same member. 9. A force sensor as recited in claim 1 wherein the transmitting and receiving coils are supported on one member and the other member includes a shading plate. 10. A force sensor as recited in claim 1 wherein the transmitting and receiving coils are printed circuit traces. 11. A force sensor as recited in claim 10 wherein the traces are in a first zigzag pattern for measuring translation along an axis. 12. A force sensor as recited in claim 11 including traces in a second zigzag pattern orthogonal to the first pattern for measuring translation along two orthogonal axes. 13. A force sensor as recited in claim 10 wherein the traces form a first loop pair with one loop and another counter-rotated loop for measuring tilt about a first axis. 14. A force sensor as recited in claim 13 including a second loop pair of traces orthogonal to the first loop pair, the second loop pair having one loop and another counter-rotated loop for measuring tilt about a second axis orthogonal to the first axis. 15. A force sensor as recited in claim 10 wherein the traces are in a circular zigzag pattern for measuring rotation. 16. A force sensor as recited in claim 10 wherein the traces are a loop pair for measuring distance between the stationary and movable members. 17. A force sensor as recited in claim 16 including a third coil formed as a loop trace to null the mutual inductance when the movable member is a predetermined distance from the stationary member. 18. A force sensor as recited in claim 1 wherein the transmitting and receiving coils are printed circuit traces on one member and the other member includes a shading plate. 19. A force sensor as recited in claim 18 wherein the traces are in a zigzag pattern and the shading plate is patterned with the same periodicity as the traces, for measuring translation along a first axis. 20. A force sensor as recited in claim 19 including a second set of traces and shading plate orthogonal to but with the same pattern as used for the traces and shading plate measuring translation along the first axis, the second set measuring translation along a second axis orthogonal to the first axis. 21. A force sensor as recited in claim 18 wherein the traces form a first loop pair with one loop and another loop counter rotated, measuring tilt about a first axis. 22. A force sensor as recited in claim 21 including a second loop pair of traces-orthogonal to the first loop pair, the second loop pair having one loop and another counter-rotated loop measuring tilt about a second axis orthogonal to the first axis. 23. A force sensor as recited in claim 18 wherein the traces are in a circular zigzag pattern and the shading plate is patterned with the same periodicity measuring rotation. 24. A force sensor as recited in claim 18 wherein the traces are a loop pair measuring distance between the stationary and movable members. 25. A force sensor as recited in claim 24 including a third coil formed as a loop trace to null the mutual inductance when the movable member is a predetermined distance from the stationary member. 26. A force sensor as recited in claim 1 wherein the flexure is an elastomeric flexure. 27. A force sensor as recited in claim 1 wherein the flexure includes a plurality of springs. 28. A force sensor as recited in claim 1 wherein the flexure includes a plurality of beams. 29. A force sensor as recited in claim 1 wherein the flexure includes a plurality of flexible strips. 30. A force sensor comprising: a first member; a second member, at least one of the first and second members being movable with respect to the other member by a force applied thereto; a first coil supported on either the first or second member; a second coil supported on either the first or second member; a flexure coupled between the first and second members; and an AC signal applied to the first coil inducing in the second coil, a signal with an amplitude and phase representing the applied force. 31. A force sensor comprising claim 30 including a synchronous detector for demodulating the induced signal to measure relative displacement of the first and second members. 32. A force sensor as recited in claim 30 wherein the first coil and the second coil are supported on different ones of the first member and second member. 33. A force sensor as recited in claim 30 wherein the first coil is supported on the first member which is movable and the second coil is supported on the second member which is stationary. 34. A force sensor as recited in claim 30 wherein the first coil is supported on the second member which is stationary and the second coil is supported on the first member which is movable. 35. A force sensor as recited in claim 30 wherein the first and second coils are supported on the same member. 36. A force sensor as recited in claim 30 wherein the first and second coils are supported on the same member and the other member includes a shading plate. 37. A force sensor as recited in claim 30 wherein the first and second coils are printed circuit traces. 38. A force sensor as recited in claim 37 wherein the traces are in a first zigzag pattern for measuring translation along an axis. 39. A force sensor as recited in claim 38 including traces in a second zigzag pattern orthogonal to the first pattern for measuring translation along two orthogonal axes. 40. A force sensor as recited in claim 37 wherein the traces form a first loop pair with one loop and another counter-rotated loop for measuring tilt about a first axis. 41. A force sensor as recited in claim 40 including a second loop pair of traces orthogonal to the first loop pair, the second loop pair having one loop and another counter-rotated loop for measuring tilt about a second axis orthogonal to the first axis. 42. A force sensor as recited in claim 37 wherein the traces are in a circular zigzag pattern for measuring rotation. 43. A force sensor as recited in claim 37 wherein the traces are a loop pair for measuring distance between the stationary and movable members. 44. A force sensor as recited in claim 43 including a third coil formed as a loop trace to null the mutual inductance when the movable member is a predetermined distance from the stationary member. 45. A force sensor as recited in claim 30 wherein the first and second coils are printed circuit traces on one member and the other member includes a shading place. 46. A force sensor as recited in claim 45 wherein the traces are in a zigzag pattern and the shading plate is patterned having the same periodicity as the traces, measuring translation along a first axis. 47. A force sensor as recited in claim 46 including a second set of traces and shading plate orthogonal to but with the same pattern as used for the traces and shading plate measuring translation along the first axis, the second set measuring translation along a second axis orthogonal to the first axis. 48. A force sensor as recited in claim 45 wherein the traces form a first loop pair with one loop and another loop counter rotated for measuring tilt about a first axis. 49. A force sensor as recited in claim 48 including a second loop pair of traces orthogonal to the first loop pair, the second loop pair having one loop and another counter-rotated loop for measuring tilt about a second axis orthogonal to the first axis. 50. A force sensor as recited in claim 45 wherein the traces are in a zigzag pattern and the shading plate is patterned with the same periodicity as the traces for measuring translation along a first axis. 51. A force sensor as recited in claim 45 wherein the traces are a loop pair for measuring distance between the first and second members. 52. A force sensor as recited in claim 45 including a third coil formed as a loop trace to null the mutual inductance when the first member is a predetermined distance from the second member. 53. A force sensor as recited in claim 30 wherein the flexure is an elastomeric flexure. 54. A force sensor as recited in claim 30 wherein the flexure includes a plurality of springs. 55. A force sensor as recited in claim 30 wherein the flexure includes a plurality of beams. 56. A force sensor as recited in claim 30 wherein the flexure includes a plurality of flexible strips. 57. A force sensor comprising: a first member; a second member, at least one of the first and second members being movable with respect to the other member by a force applied thereto; a first circuit trace formed on either the first or second member; a second circuit trace formed on either the first or second member; an elastomeric flexure coupled between the first and second members; and a signal applied to the first trace inducing a signal in the second trace representing the applied force. 58. A force sensor comprising claim 57 including a synchronous detector for demodulating the induced signal to measure relative displacement of the first and second members. 59. A force sensor as recited in claim 57 wherein movement of one member with respect to the other member produces a proportional change in amplitude and phase of the induced signal. 60. A force sensor as recited in claim 59 wherein the change in the induced signal is linearly proportional to the movement. 61. A force sensor as recited in claim 59 wherein the change in the induced signal is non-linearly proportional to the movement. 