Disclosed is a device for transporting automotive instrument panels, comprising a frame, a pair of carry arms pivoted to the frame to carry opposite sides of an instrument panel, each carry arm having an outer end section which is provided with a carry formation for engaging a complementary carry formation on a corresponding side of the instrument panel; the instrument panel having a central column region with a lower column end portion, both of said carry arms having an inner end section which is positioned to lie in the path of the lower column end portion as it is lowered onto the frame, said carry arms being further arranged to be displaced downwardly as the instrument panel is lowered to a carry elevation relative to the frame, the downward displacement of the carry arms by the instrument panel causing the carry formations on the arms positively to engage the complementary carry formations on the instrument panel.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of supporting automotive instrument panels on a carrier, comprising: providing a frame, pivotally mounting a pair of carry arms to the frame in order to carry opposite sides of an instrument panel; locating a carry formation on an outer end section of each carry arm for positively engaging a complementary carry formation on a corresponding side of the instrument panel; locating an inner end section of each carry arm in order to obstruct the path of a central portion of the instrument panel as it reaches a carry elevation relative to the frame; aligning the carry formations on the arms positively to engage the carry formations on the instrument panel while displacing the instrument panel toward the frame until the central portion of the instrument panel engages the central region on each carry arm; displacing the instrument panel to cause a corresponding displacement of the central regions of the carry arms to advance the positive engagement of the carry formations between the instrument panel and the arms, until the instrument panel reaches a carry elevation relative to the frame. 2. A method as defined in claim 1 wherein the carry formation on each of the arms is at least one pin and the corresponding carry formation on the instrument panel includes at least one passage to receive the pin. 3. A method as defined in claim 2 wherein the central portion of the instrument panel includes a column having a lower column end portion, further comprising the steps of: providing each inner end section of each arm with a capture formation, arranging each capture formation to form a seat for the central portion of the instrument panel when the instrument panel reaches a carry elevation relative to the frame. 4. A method as defined in claim 3, further including step of adjustably mounting the pin to the respective arm, so that the position of the pin may be adjusted relative thereto. 5. A method of supporting irregularly shaped articles on a carrier, comprising: providing a frame; pivotally mounting a pair of carry arms to the frame in order to carry opposite sides of an irregularly shaped article; arranging the carry arms to lie in a common plane which is generally parallel with an elongate axis on the article; locating a carry formation on an outer end section of each carry arm for positively engaging a complementary carry formation on a corresponding side of the article; locating an inner end section of each carry arm in order to obstruct the path of a central portion of the article as it reaches a carry elevation relative to the frame; aligning the carry formations on the arms positively to engage the carry formations on the article while displacing the article toward the frame until the central portion of the article engages the central region on each carry arm; displacing the article to cause a corresponding displacement of the central regions of the carry arms to advance the positive engagement of the carry formations between the article and the arms, until the article reaches a carry elevation relative to the frame, wherein the step of locating a carry formation includes the step of providing at least one pin on the outer end section to be received by at least one passage on the article. 6. A method as defined in claim 5, further comprising the steps of providing the inner end section of each arm with a capture formation, and arranging the capture formations to form a seat for the central portion of the article when the article reaches a carry elevation relative to the frame. 7. A method as defined in claim 6, wherein the step of providing the inner end section of each arm with a capture formation includes the steps of locating a plate on the respective inner end section, and providing an upstanding peripheral wall on the plate to engage opposed laterally spaced side edge regions of the central portion. 8. A method as defined in claim 7, further comprising the step of laterally offsetting each plate relative to the corresponding arm. 9. A method as defined in claim 8, further comprising the steps of providing each arm with an elongate portion extending between the respective capture formation and the respective arm carry formation, and pivoting each elongate portion to the frame. 10. A method as defined in claim 9, further comprising the step of centrally locating a support member on the frame and positioning the support member to lie between the inner end sections of the arms when the article reaches a carry elevation. 11. A method as defined in claim 10, further comprising the step of positioning the support member substantially parallel with and between the plates to support the central portion when the article reaches a carry elevation. 12. A method as defined in claim 11, further comprising the step of aligning the upstanding peripheral walls of the capture formations with one another when the article reaches a carry elevation. 13. A method as defined in claim 12, further comprising the step of providing each upstanding peripheral wall with an inclined portion to guide the central portion. 14. A method as defined in claim 5, further comprising the step of adjusting each pin relative to the corresponding carry arm to adjust a carry elevation for the article. 15. A method as defined in claim 13, further comprising the step of adjusting the position of each arm carry formation relative to the respective capture formation. 16. A method as defined in claim 15, wherein the step of adjusting the position of each arm carry formation includes the steps of positioning a housing on each carry arm, mounting the respective pin for movement relative to the respective housing, and anchoring the respective pin relative to the respective housing. 17. A method as defined in claim 5, further comprising the step of biasing each arm toward an open position wherein the arms are ready to receive an article. 18. A method as defined in claim 17, further comprising the steps of extending a pair of posts upwardly from the frame, pivoting a corresponding carry arm thereon, the step of biasing including the step of locating at least one spring between each post and the corresponding carry arm. 19. A method as defined in claim 6 further comprising the steps of providing a wheeled undercarriage for supporting the frame along a floor surface, orienting a lower frame member of the frame generally parallel with the floor surface, providing each arm with an elongate portion having a first segment which is adjacent the respective capture formation, and orienting the first segment generally parallel to the lower frame member when the article reaches a carry elevation relative to the frame. 20. A method as defined in claim 19, further comprising the step of orienting the first segment of each arm to lie adjacent the frame when the article reaches a carry elevation relative to the frame. 21. A method as defined in claim 20, further comprising the step of disposing a second segment of each arm at angle relative to the respective first segment with an included angle therewith of greater than 90 degrees and less than 180 degrees. 22. A method as defined in claim 21, further comprising the steps of orienting a third segment of each arm at an angle relative to the respective second segment and with an included angle therewith of greater than 90 degrees and less than 180 degrees, and directing the third segment vertically when the article has reached a carry elevation, and supporting the respective arm carry formation on the third segment. 23. A method as defined in claim 22, further comprising the steps of moving the arms between a closed position where the carry formations of the arms are in positive engagement with the carry formations of the article and the first segments are adjacent the frame and an open position and wherein the first segments are inclined relative to the frame, and arranging the arms to fall to the open position in the absence of an article, under the force of gravity or a biasing source or both. 