The robot arm is composed of two parallel branches (2, 3) formed from a reduced number of segments (5, 6, 7) and connected to each other by a wrist (5) through a wrist holder (8), the directions of which are kept approximately constant by transmissions (12 to 16). The working space of this control arm is large and it is free of any kinetic singularities except at the end positions, and good decoupling of translation and rotation movements is achieved.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A control arm configured to transfer movement to a coupled device, the control arm comprising: two branches extending from a common base, each branch having portions moveable along a plane and rotatable about at least two parallel first axes; a common wrist; two wrist holders coupled to respective ends of the common wrist, each wrist holder extending along a second axis parallel to the plane and joined in an articulated manner to respective ones of the branches; and means for preventing the second axis of each wrist holder from moving out of the plane. 2. Control arm according to claim 1, characterized in that said means for preventing comprises a joint about which each wrist holder is coupled to its respective branch, wherein each wrist holder rotates about the joint about a third axis parallel to the first axis. 3. Control arm according to claim 1, further comprising transmissions including pulleys located on successive articulation axes segments of the branches, and tightened belts in series on pairs of successive articulation axes, one of said pulleys being a fixed pulley. 4. Control arm according to claim 1, characterized in that the branches are free to move such that they have three degrees of freedom of translation at the wrist holders, and in that the common wrist is comprised of articulated portions so as to have two or three degrees of freedom in rotation. 5. Control arm according to claim 4, characterized in that the portions of the common wrist are articulated about axes that are orthogonal to each other at a reference configuration. 6. Control arm according to claim 1, characterized in that the wrist is free to pivot about an axis perpendicular to the axes of the wrist holders without changing the distance between the wrist holders. 7. Control arm according to claim 1 further comprising a force feedback motor coupled to the common wrist. 8. Control arm according to claim 1, further comprising a force feedback motor installed on a portion of the base and means for transmission of force from the motor to the common wrist. 9. Control arm according to claim 1, characterized in that the branches comprise two segments articulated with each other, with a wrist holder and with a portion of the base through three parallel axes. 10. Control arm according to claim 1, comprising force feedback motors coupled to the base. 11. Control arm according to claim 9, characterized in that the said portion of the base is free to rotate about a fixed portion of the base about an axis orthogonal to the said three parallel axes. 12. Control arm according to claim 1, characterized in that the branches are of substantially equal length. 13. A control arm configured to transfer movement to a remotely coupled device, the control arm comprising: two branches extending from a common base, each branch having portions moveable along a plane and rotatable about at least two parallel first axes; a common wrist; and two wrist holders coupled to respective ends of the common wrist, each wrist holder extending along a second axis parallel to the plane and joined in an articulated manner to respective ones of the branches at a third axis parallel to the two first axes, wherein the wrist holders rotate about the third axis and remain in the plane during rotation. 14. The control arm according to claim 13, wherein the branches are free to move such that they have three degrees of freedom of translation at the wrist holders, and in that the common wrist is comprised of articulated portions so as to have two or three degrees of freedom in rotation. 15. The control arm according to claim 14, wherein the portions of the common wrist are articulated about axes that are orthogonal to each other at a reference configuration. 16. The control arm according to claim 14, wherein the wrist is free to pivot about an axis perpendicular to the axes of the wrist holders without changing the distance between the wrist holders. 17. The control arm according to claim 13, further comprising a force feedback motor in the common wrist. 18. The control arm according to claim 13, further comprising a force feedback motor installed on a portion of the base and a device for transmission of force from the force feedback motor to the common wrist. 19. The control arm according to claim 13, wherein the branches include segments further comprising force feedback motors supported on the base and wherein the base comprises force feedback motors supported thereon. 20. The control arm according to claim 13, wherein the branches are of substantially equal length. 21. A robotic arm configured to transfer movement to a coupled device comprising: a common wrist having two ends; two branches extending from a common base, each branch oriented along a plane and having a first axis about which adjacent portions of the branch are rotatable; and two wrist holders coupled to respective ends of the common wrist, each wrist holder coupled to its respective branch at a joint having a second axis parallel to the first axis, each wrist holder extending along the plane of its respective branch wherein the wrist holder rotates about the joint and remains in the plane. 