A robotic system that moves a surgical instrument in response to the actuation of a foot pedal that can be operated by the foot of a surgeon. The robotic system has an end effector that is adapted to hold a surgical instrument such as an endoscope. The end effector is coupled to a robotic arm assembly which can move the endoscope relative to the patient. The system includes a computer which controls the movement of the robotic arm in response to input signals received from the foot pedal.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system that allows a user to control a movement of an endoscope, the endoscope being located within an endoscope coordinate system that has a left-right axis and an up-down axis which are orthogonal to each other and to a longitudinal axis of the endoscope, comprising: a robotic arm linkage located in a world coordinate system and supporting the endoscope; a display showing a viewing image taken by the endoscope, the display located in the world coordinate system and the viewing image taken in the endoscope coordinate system; a first actuator coupled to said robotic arm; a second actuator that is coupled to said robotic arm, said first and second actuators being capable of moving the endoscope; an input device that can receive a command from the user to effect a commanded movement of the endoscope along the up-down axis in the endoscope coordinate system; a controller that receives the user command, the controller computing a transformation of the commanded movement of the endoscope in the endoscope coordinate system to a movement of the endoscope in the world coordinate system, and provides output signals to said first and second actuators to move the endoscope in the world coordinate system so that the endoscope moves along the up-down axis. 2. The system of claim 1, further comprising a third actuator coupled to said robotic arm. 3. The system of claim 1, further comprising an end effector that is coupled to said controller and spins the endoscope. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein said input device comprises a foot pedal. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein said first and second actuators include electric motors. 6. The system of claim 1, further comprising a first position sensor coupled to said first actuator and a second position sensor coupled to said second actuator. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein said controller transforms the desired movement of the endoscope in the endoscope coordinate system to movement of the endoscope in the world coordinate system in accordance with a plurality of transformation equations. 8. The system of claim 1, further comprising a table that is coupled to said first and second actuators. 9. A medical system that can be controlled by a user, comprising: a display showing a viewing image, the display located in a world coordinate system; a first actuator; a second actuator; an endoscope that is coupled to said first and second actuators, said endoscope being located within an endoscope coordinate system that bas an x axis and a y axis which are orthogonal to each other, and to a longitudinal axis of the endoscope, said endoscope capturing the viewing image so that the viewing image shown in the display has the endoscope coordinate system; an input device that can receive a command from the user to move the endoscope along the y axis in the endoscope coordinate system; and a controller that receives the user command and computes a transformation of the command from the endoscope coordinate system to a movement of the endoscope in the world coordinate system, and provides output signals to said first and second actuators to move the endoscope in the world coordinate system to that the endoscope moves along the y axis. 10. The system of claim 9, further comprising a third actuator coupled to said endoscope. 11. The system of claim 9, further comprising an end effector that is coupled to said controller and spins the endoscope. 12. The system of claim 9, wherein said input device comprises a foot pedal. 13. The system of claim 9, wherein said first and second actuators include electric motors. 14. The system of claim 9, further comprising a first position sensor coupled to said first actuator and a second position sensor coupled to said second actuator. 15. The system of claim 9, wherein said controller transforms the movement of the endoscope in the endoscope coordinate system to movement of the endoscope world coordinate system in accordance with a plurality of transformation equations. 16. The system of claim 9, further comprising a table that is coupled to said first and second actuators. 17. The system of claim 1, wherein the controller computes the transformation by computing a first transformation of the commanded movement from an endoscope coordinate system to an intermediate coordinate system, and by computing a second transformation of the commanded movement from the intermediate coordinate system to the world coordinate system. 18. The system of claim 1, further comprising a first robotic instrument arm having first and second instrument actuators and holding a first surgical instrument, the input device comprising a first handle movable in the world coordinate system to input a first instrument command, the controller coupled to the first robotic instrument arm and calculating signals for the first and second instrument actuators. 19. The system of claim 18, further comprising a second robotic instrument arm having third and fourth instrument actuators and holding a second surgical instrument, the input device comprising a second handle movable in the world coordinate system to input a second instrument command, the controller coupled to the second robotic instrument arm and calculating signals for the third and fourth instrument actuators. 20. The system of claim 18, wherein the controller stores a pivot point location along a shaft of the first instrument, and wherein the controller calculate the signals for the first and second instrument actuators using the pivot point location. 21. The system of claim 20, wherein the controller updates the pivot point location and issues a warning signal if movement of the pivot point exceeds a threshold value. 