A pill dispensing system includes a shelving unit in array form that holds a number of bulk containers, each holding a bulk amount of a pill to be dispensed. A computer controlled robot removes a selected bulk container and places it on a counter that also dispenses pills. The robot has an arm with a free end portion that can grip a bulk container or a single pill bottle to be filled. The robot is computer controlled to retrieve an empty pill bottle, place it on a label printing and applying unit, then place it next to the counter/dispenser to receive the selected number of selected prescription pills, then place the filled, labeled bottle on a conveyor. In an alternate embodiment, pill bottles are dispensed from a dispenser that holds bottles on inclined plates and feeds them to a vertical dispensing channel. Gates prevent the flow of bottles from an inclined position until the plate above has been emptied.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for filling prescriptions, comprising: a shelving unit removably carrying a plurality of containers; a source of a plurality of vials; a counting and dispensing unit; and a computer controlled robot for automatically moving containers and vials to and from said counting and dispensing unit, said robot having at its free end a single pair of movable jaws, each jaw having one surface configured to grip one of said plurality of containers and another surface configured to grip one of said plurality of vials. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said source of a plurality of vials includes a vial dispenser. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said robot includes an articulated, computer controlled arm. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said shelving unit is arc shaped. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 additionally comprising replenishment in and replenishment out ports, and wherein said computer controlled robot automatically moves said containers between said shelving unit and said ports. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 additionally comprising an off-load device and a label printing and applying unit, said robot for automatically moving vials to and from said label printing and applying unit and to said off-load device from said counting and dispensing unit. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein said off-load device comprises one of a conveyor and a carousel. 8. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein said off-load device comprises a conveyor having more than one lane. 