A printhead assembly is provided comprising at least one printhead module comprising at least two printhead integrated circuits, a support member for supporting and carrying the printing fluid for the at least two printhead integrated circuits, and an electrical connector for connecting electrical signals to the at least two printhead integrated circuits, drive electronics incorporating at least one controller which is connected to at least one of the at least two printhead integrated circuits via the electrical connector for controlling the printing operation of at least one of the at least two printhead integrated circuits, and a casing in which the at least one printhead module and the drive electronics are removably mounted. The drive electronics is provided on a printed circuit board which is supported by a support frame of the casing via at least one mounting element.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A printhead assembly, comprising: at least one printhead module comprising at least two printhead integrated circuits, a support member for supporting and carrying the printing fluid for the at least two printhead integrated circuits, and an electrical connector for connecting electrical signals to the at least two printhead integrated circuits; drive electronics incorporating at least one controller which is connected to at least one of the at least two printhead integrated circuits via the electrical connector for controlling the printing operation of at least one of the at least two printhead integrated circuits; and a casing in which the at least one printhead module and the drive electronics are removably mounted, wherein the drive electronics is provided on a printed circuit board which is supported by a support frame of the casing via at least one mounting element. 2. A printhead assembly according to claim 1, wherein the at least one printed circuit board for the at least one controller is supported on one mounting element. 3. A printhead assembly according to claim 1, wherein the at least one printed circuit board for the at least one controller is supported on more than one mounting element. 4. A printhead assembly according to claim 1, wherein: the at least one printhead module is formed as a unitary arrangement of the at least two printhead integrated circuits, the support member, the electrical connector, and at least one fluid distribution member mounting the at least two printhead integrated circuits to the support member; and the support member has at least one longitudinally extending channel for carrying the printing fluid for the printhead integrated circuits and includes a plurality of apertures extending through a wall of the support member arranged so as to direct the printing fluid from the at least one channel to associated nozzles in both, or if more than two, all of the printhead integrated circuits by way of respective ones of the fluid distribution members. 