A teleoperator system with telepresence is shown which includes right and left hand controllers (72R and 72L) for control of right and left manipulators (24R and 24L) through use of a servomechanism that includes computer (42). Cameras (46R and 46L) view workspace (30) from different angles for production of stereoscopic signal outputs at lines (48R and 48L). In response to the camera outputs a 3-dimensional top-to-bottom inverted image (30I) is produced which, is reflected by mirror (66) toward the eyes of operator (18). A virtual image (30V) is produced adjacent control arms (76R and 76L) which is viewed by operator (18) looking in the direction of the control arms. Use of the teleoperator system for surgical procedures also is disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A minimally invasive surgical method comprising: inserting an end effector and a distal end of an elongate shaft into the body of a patient through a minimally invasive incision, a wrist member coupling the end effector to the distal end of the shaft; rotating the wrist member and end effector about a longitudinal axis of the shaft within the patient body; pivoting the wrist member and end effector about a wrist axis extending across the shaft; rotating the end effector about a longitudinal axis of the wrist member within the patient body; and manipulating tissue with the end effector. 2. The minimally invasive surgical method of claim 1, wherein the wrist member pivots at a wrist joint coupling the wrist member to the shaft, the wrist joint defining the wrist axis, and the wrist axis being perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the shaft and to the longitudinal axis of the wrist member. 3. The minimally invasive surgical method of claim 1, wherein the end effector comprises first and second jaw members, and further comprising pivoting the first jaw member about a jaw pivot axis extending across the longitudinal axis of the wrist member so as to open and close the jaws. 4. The minimally invasive surgical method of claim 3, wherein the jaw pivot axis is perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the wrist member. 5. The minimally invasive surgical method of claim 1, wherein the rolling of the wrist member changes an orientation of the end effector within the patient body while the wrist member is roughly perpendicular to the shaft. 6. The minimally invasive surgical method of claim 1, further comprising supporting a proximal end of the shaft with a robotic linkage and effecting the rotating and pivoting of the end effector with robotic motors. 7. The minimally invasive surgical method of claim 6, wherein the motors are actuated in response to manual movement of an input device according to a master-slave by robotic controller. 8. A minimally invasive robotic surgical method comprising: supporting a proximal end of an elongate shaft with a robotic linkage; inserting an end effector and a distal end of the shaft into the body of a patient through a minimally invasive incision; manipulating tissue with the end effector by: rotating the shaft about a longitudinal axis of the shaft within the patient body; rotating the end effector about a longitudinal axis of a wrist member within the patient body, the wrist member coupled to the end effector; and pivoting a wrist so as to vary an angle between the longitudinal axis of the wrist member and the longitudinal axis of the shaft within the patient body. 