An endoscope apparatus and method of operating the same. The endoscope apparatus comprises an endoscope portion and a control and display unit. The endoscope portion preferably comprises: (i) a sensor disposed at a distal end of the endoscope portion and providing endoscope data; (ii) one or more electronically controlled actuators (e.g., electroactive polymer actuators) controlling the operation of the endoscope portion based on received control signals; (iii) a first wireless transceiver coupled to the sensor and the one or more electronically controlled actuators, transmitting received endoscope data from the sensor and forwarding received control signals to the one or more electronically controlled actuators; and (iv) a portable power source (e.g., a battery) coupled to the sensor, the first wireless transceiver, and the one or more electronically controller actuators. The control and display unit preferably comprises: (i) a second wireless transceiver coupled via a wireless link to the first transceiver in the endoscope portion and receiving endoscope data from the first transceiver and transmitting control signals to the first transceiver; (ii) a control portion coupled to the second wireless transceiver and sending control signals to the one or more actuators in the endoscope portion via the first and second wireless transceivers; and (iii) a display portion that displays information received from the sensor via the first and second wireless transceivers. Another aspect of the present invention is directed to a method for providing single-use endoscopes to one or more hospitals.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An endoscope apparatus comprising: (a) an endoscope portion, comprising an elongated body adapted for insertion into a lumen, said elongated body further comprising (a) a tubular structural member and (b) electrically controlled electroactive polymer actuators that are controllable to impart a desired orientation to said body, wherein a plurality of said actuators are disposed upon a first flexible sheet and wherein a plurality of said actuators are disposed upon a second flexible sheet, and said actuators controlling operation of the endoscope portion based on received control signals, which further comprises: (i) a sensor disposed at a distal end of said endoscope portion and providing endoscope data; (ii) a first wireless transceiver coupled to the sensor and the electronically controlled actuators, transmitting received endoscope data from the sensor and forwarding received control signals to the electronically controlled actuators; and (iii) a portable power source coupled to the sensor, the first wireless transceiver, and the electronically controller actuators; and (b) a control and display unit, which further comprises: (i) a second wireless transceiver coupled via a wireless link to the first transceiver in said endoscope portion and receiving endoscope data from the first transceiver and transmitting control signals to the first transceiver; (ii) a control portion coupled to the second wireless transceiver and sending control signals to the one or more actuators in the endoscope portion via said first and second wireless transceivers; and (iii) a display portion that displays information received from said sensor via said first and second wireless transceivers. 2. The endoscope apparatus of claim 1, wherein said portable power source comprises a battery. 3. The endoscope apparatus of claim 1, wherein said control and display unit comprises a personal computer. 4. The endoscope apparatus of claim 1, wherein said control portion further comprises a manual steering device converting manual movements into the control signals to be sent to the one or more actuators via the first and second wireless transceivers. 5. The endoscope apparatus of claim 4, wherein said steering device comprises a joystick. 6. The endoscope apparatus of claim 1, wherein said sensor comprises an energy source outputting energy and an imaging detector detecting reflected energy. 7. The endoscope apparatus of claim 6, wherein said energy source comprises a light source. 8. The endoscope apparatus of claim 7, wherein said light source comprises a light emitting diode. 9. The endoscope apparatus of claim 6, wherein said imaging detector comprises a camera. 10. The endoscope apparatus of claim 9, wherein said camera comprises a CMOS camera. 11. The endoscope apparatus of claim 1, wherein said endoscope portion further comprises a working channel. 12. The endoscope apparatus of claim 1, wherein said endoscope portion further comprises a control handle operable by a user, disposed at a proximal end of said endoscope portion, and integrated into said endoscope at said proximal end. 13. The endoscope apparatus of claim 1, wherein said portable power source and said wireless interface are disposed within said control handle. 14. The endoscope apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a remote server coupled to the control and display unit. 15. The endoscope apparatus of claim 14, wherein said control and display unit further comprises a network access device to access said remote server over a network. 16. The endoscope apparatus of claim 15, wherein said network access device comprises a modem. 17. The endoscope apparatus of claim 14, wherein said remote server is adapted to track endoscope inventory. 18. The endoscope apparatus of claim 14, wherein remote server is adapted to perform patient scheduling. 19. The endoscope apparatus of claim 14, wherein said remote server comprises a database of patient data and examination images. 20. The endoscope apparatus of claim 1, wherein said first transceiver communicates identifying data for said endoscope portion automatically to said control and display unit. 21. The endoscope apparatus of claim 1, wherein said first and second flexible sheets are rolled such that they are bath coaxial with said tubular structural member. 22. The endoscope apparatus of claim 1, wherein said first and second flexible sheets are disposed outside said tubular structural member. 