There is provided an article of footwear having a thematical a toe box cover. The toe box cover may be removably coupleable to a primary shoe element in which the toe box cover has an ornamental sculptured work simulating the appearance of another and different article. A covering system for an article of footwear, includes a themed cover adapted to cover at least a forefoot portion of a foot of a wearer. The themed cover may include a flange provided for removably coupling the themed cover to the article of footwear and the flange is disposed on bottom periphery of the themed cover. Further, a plurality of interchangeable footcovers bears different three-dimensional ornamental simulations within a common theme relating to another article of manufacture. There is also provided a method of marketing an article of manufacture with an article of footwear, in which the article of manufacture is different from the article of footwear.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An article of footwear, comprising: a sole; an upper having at least a forefoot portion and a rearwardly disposed side panel; and a forefoot cover provided to substantially envelop the forefoot portion of the upper and the forefoot cover being removably coupleable to the sole, the forefoot cover having a first ornamental contoured member and the side panel having a second ornamental contoured member, wherein the first ornamental contoured member and the second ornamental contoured member collectively define an ornamental sculptural work simulating another article different from the article of footwear. 2. The article of footwear in accordance with claim 1, wherein the ornamental sculptural work simulates a facial feature of the another article. 3. The article of footwear in accordance with claim 1, wherein the ornamental sculptural work comprises a robot. 4. The article of footwear in accordance with claim 1, wherein the ornamental sculptural work comprises an outer body of an automobile. 5. The article of footwear in accordance with claim 1, wherein the ornamental sculptural work is formed at least in part by changes in thickness of the first ornamental contoured member and the second ornamental contoured member. 6. The article of footwear in accordance with claim 1, wherein the ornamental sculptural work is formed at least in part by apertures extending through a thickness in the first ornamental contoured member. 7. The article of footwear in accordance with claim 6, wherein the apertures simulate the eyes of the another article. 8. The article of footwear in accordance with claim 1, wherein the forefoot cover includes at least a resilient outer layer and a layer of compressible foam. 9. The article of footwear in accordance with claim 1, further comprising a mating system including a first mating portion being attached to the forefoot cover and a second mating portion being disposed on the sole, said first mating portion being removably coupled to the second mating portion. 10. The article of footwear in accordance with claim 9, wherein the first mating portion extends downwardly from a lower periphery of the forefoot cover and the first mating portion includes a plurality of apertures configured to receive the second mating portion therein. 11. The article of footwear in accordance with claim 10, wherein the sole further comprising a midsole and the second mating portion extends from the midsole. 12. The article of footwear in accordance with claim 9, wherein the first mating portion comprises a resilient material which provides a resilient bias. 13. The article of footwear in accordance with claim 9, wherein the second mating portion include at least a body portion extending generally normal to the midsole and the body portion having an interlock head at a free end. 14. The article of footwear in accordance with claim 1, wherein the side panel further comprises a molded plastic material. 