A temporary operation path is set by connecting a plurality of welding points in a virtual space generated by a computer to investigate whether an end effector can be operated along the temporary operation path. If the operation cannot be operated, a path to avoid interference with a workpiece is set automatically while extracting a portion in which the workpiece exists in the internal space surrounded by the end effector in order to set a narrow-area operation path for withdrawing the end effector from a welding point. Next, in order to set a wide-area operation path for making movement between withdrawing points, a template operation is applied, in which the end effector is moved by a prescribed distance in a prescribed direction.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for setting an operation path for an articulated robot including an end effector, said method comprising: an internal space-defining step of defining an internal space which is partially surrounded by an arm or electrodes of said end effector; an extracting step of extracting a portion of a workpiece to be welded existing in said internal space as an objective workpiece portion of said workpiece; and an interference-investigating step of investigating whether interference occurs between said end effector and said objective workpiece portion when said articulated robot is operated. 2. The method for setting said operation path for said articulated robot according to claim 1, wherein said workpiece is a model which is approximated with a plurality of blocks. 3. The method for setting said operation path for said articulated robot according to claim 1, wherein said internal space is a model which is approximated with a plurality of blocks. 4. The method for setting said operation path for said articulated robot according to claim 1, wherein said interference-investigating step comprises: a reference line-defining step of defining a reference line passing through a center of said objective workpiece portion; an investigation end position-defining step of setting an investigation end position for said end effector on said reference line; and a first detailed interference-investigating step of investigating whether interference occurs between said end effector and said objective workpiece portion by operating said end effector from an investigation start position to said investigation end position. 5. The method for setting said operation path for said articulated robot according to claim 1, wherein said interference-investigating step comprises: a reference line-defining step of defining a reference line passing through a center of said objective workpiece portion; a center of gravity position-defining step of defining a center of gravity position of said objective workpiece portion based on said reference line; and a second detailed interference-investigating step of investigating whether interference occurs between said end effector and said objective workpiece portion by operating said end effector from an investigation start position to said center of gravity position. 6. The method for setting said operation path for said articulated robot according to claim 5, wherein a portion of said objective workpiece portion, which is located near an opening as compared with said center of gravity position of said objective workpiece portion, is extracted as a new objective workpiece portion to perform said center of gravity position-defining step and said second detailed interference-investigating step, said objective workpiece portion being replaced with said new objective workpiece portion. 7. An apparatus for setting an operation path for an articulated robot including an end effector, said apparatus comprising: an internal space-defining section for defining an internal space which is partially surrounded by an arm or electrodes of said end effector; a workpiece-extracting section for extracting a portion of a workpiece to be welded existing in said internal space as an objective workpiece portion of said workpiece; and an interference-investigating section for investigating whether interference occurs between said end effector and said objective workpiece portion when said end effector is operated. 8. A method for setting an operation path for an articulated robot for operating an end effector from a start point to an arrival point, said method comprising: an operation-investigating step of setting a path for connecting said start point and said arrival point to investigate whether said end effector can be operated along said path; and a retracting path-setting step of setting a retracting path for operating said end effector by a prescribed distance in a prescribed direction from said start point or said arrival point if said end effector cannot be operated along said path in said operation-investigating step. 9. The method for setting said operation path for said articulated robot according to claim 8, wherein said prescribed direction is predetermined based on a posture of said end effector at said start point or said arrival point. 10. The method for setting said operation path for said articulated robot according to claim 8, wherein said prescribed direction is a direction to connect said start point or said arrival point and an established point in space. 11. The method for setting said operation path for said articulated robot according to claim 10, wherein said established point is a central point of an original axis of said articulated robot. 12. The method for setting said operation path for said articulated robot according to claim 8, wherein an end point of said retracting path is defined as a new start point or a new arrival point to execute said operation-investigating step or said retracting path-setting step again. 13. The method for setting said operation path for said articulated robot according to claim 8, wherein said retracting path is set, again if an end point of said retracting path is a point at which said articulated robot cannot arrive or at which interference occurs, said prescribed distance being corrected in said retracting path. 14. An apparatus for setting an operation path for an articulated robot for operating an end effector from a start point to an arrival point, said apparatus comprising: a path-investigating section for setting a path for connecting said start point and said arrival point to investigate whether said end effector can be operated along said path; and a wide-area operation path-setting section for setting a retracting path for operating said end effector by a prescribed distance in a prescribed direction from said start point or said arrival point if said path-investigating section judges that said end effector cannot be operated along said path. 15. A method for setting an operation path for an articulated robot for operating an end effector between operation points for a workpiece, said method comprising: a narrow-area operation path-setting step of setting a narrow-area operation path for retracting said end effector from said operation point to a point located near an end of said workpiece without interfering in said workpiece and another obstacle based on shapes of said obstacle and said workpiece near said operation point, said end effector being arranged at said operation point for said workpiece; said narrow-area operation path-setting step comprising: an internal space-defining step of defining an internal space which is partially surrounded by an arm or electrodes of said end effector; and an extracting step of extracting a portion of said workpiece to be welded existing in an internal space as an objective workpiece portion of said workpiece; an interference-investigating step of investigating whether interference occurs between said end effector and said objective workpiece portion when said articulated robot is operated, and a wide-area operation path-setting step of setting a wide-area operation path for effecting operation from a start point to an arrival point by combining predetermined prescribed operations provided that said start point and said arrival point reside in predetermined points located near said end of said workpiece. 16. The method for setting said operation path for said articulated robot according to claim 15, wherein said wide-area operation path-setting step comprises: an operation-investigating step of setting a path for connecting said start point and said arrival point to investigate whether said end effector can be operated along said path; and a retracting path-setting step of setting a retracting path for operating said end effector by a prescribed distance in a prescribed direction from said start point or said arrival point if said end effector cannot be operated along said path in said operation-investigating step. 17. The method for setting said operation path for said articulated robot according to claim 16, wherein said prescribed direction is predetermined based on a posture of said end effector at said start point or said arrival point. 18. The method for setting said operation path for said articulated robot according to claim 16, wherein said prescribed direction is a direction to connect said start point or said arrival point and an established point in space. 19. An apparatus for setting an operation path for an articulated robot for operating an end effector between operation points for a workpiece, said apparatus comprising: a narrow-area operation path-setting section for setting a narrow-area operation path for retracting said end effector from said operation point to a point located near an end of said workpiece without interfering in said workpiece and another obstacle based upon shapes of said obstacle and said workpiece near said operation point, said end effector being arranged at said operation point for said workpiece; said narrow-area operation path-setting comprising: an internal space-defining for defining an internal space which is partially surrounded by an arm or electrodes of said end effector; a workpiece-extracting section for extracting a portion of said workpiece to be welded existing in said internal space as an objective workpiece portion of said workpiece; and an interference-investigating section for investigating whether interference occurs between said end effector and said objective workpiece portion when said articulated robot is operated, and a wide-area operation path-setting section for setting a wide-area operation path for effecting operation from a start point to an arrival point by combining predetermined prescribed operations provided that said start point and said arrival point reside in predetermined points located near said end of said workpiece. 