A storage/buffering system for the stocking and/or buffering of substrate and/or substrate carriers in a process environment includes a 6-axis robot. An end-effector is connected with the robot providing an additional one degree of freedom and a mechanism for grabbing and moving of substrate and/or substrate carriers. The robot is mounted in an inverted orientation to a removable service cart for easy removal of the robot to a service area in the event of breakdown. The robot receives commands from a programmable controller connected to control the robot and configured to direct the arm of the robot through a set of movements. Product is loaded in and out of the system through I/O load ports. Product is stored inside the storage/buffering system on a plurality of storage locations, each with product presence/absence detect sensor. The robot can alternatively be mounted directly to the storage system enclosure structure.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A storage system for the stocking of objects in a process environment comprising: a storage enclosure for storing objects comprising a plurality of storage shelves, each shelf having at least one storage location; a multi-axis robot mounted to the storage enclosure in an inverted orientation; an end effector connected to the robot suitable for grasping the objects; at least one load port; and a controller for controlling the robot movement; whereby the robot transfers objects between the load port and the storage locations under control of the controller. 2. The storage system of claim 1 wherein each storage shelf further comprises a sensor to detect the presence of an object. 3. The storage system of claim 1 further comprising a process station for performing a process on the stored objects. 4. The storage system of claim 1 wherein the end effector has one additional degree of freedom. 5. The storage system of claim 1 wherein the controller executes a teaching sequence to map the location of features within the storage enclosure. 6. A storage system for the stocking of substrate carrier pods in a process environment comprising: a storage enclosure for storing objects comprising a plurality of storage shelves, each shelf having at least one storage location; a multi-axis robot attached in an inverted orientation to a linear sliding stage, the linear sliding stage attached to the storage enclosure; an end effector suitable for grasping the objects connected to the robot and having at least one axis of motion; at least one load port; and a controller for controlling the robot movement; whereby the robot transfers objects between the load port and the storage locations under control of the controller. 7. The storage system of claim 6 further comprising a process station for performing a process on the substrate carrier pods. 8. The storage system of claim 6 further comprising a sliding door with a first position substantially covering the load port and a second position allowing access to the load port. 9. The storage system of claim 6 further comprising: an extended storage section attached to the storage enclosure; and wherein the linear sliding stage allows the multi-axis robot to travel linearly through the storage system including the extended storage section; whereby the extended storage section provides additional storage capacity for the storage system. 