A steerable endoscope has an elongated body with a selectively steerable distal portion and an automatically controlled proximal portion. The endoscope body is inserted into a patient and the selectively steerable distal portion is used to select a desired path within the patient's body. When the endoscope body is advanced, an electronic motion controller operates the automatically controlled proximal portion to assume the selected curve of the selectively steerable distal portion. Another desired path is selected with the selectively steerable distal portion and the endoscope body is advanced again. As the endoscope body is further advanced, the selected curves propagate proximally along the endoscope body, and when the endoscope body is withdrawn proximally, the selected curves propagate distally along the endoscope body. This creates a serpentine motion in the endoscope body allowing it to negotiate tortuous curves along a desired path through or around and between organs within the body.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus comprising: an elongated instrument body having a multiplicity of controllable sections, including at least a first section, a second section and a third section; and an electronic motion controller configured for controlling each of the first section, the second section, and the third section to assume first, second, and third portions, respectively, of an arbitrary curve when the elongated instrument body is in an initial position, and configured to, when the elongated instrument advances distally from the initial position, control the second section to assume the first portion of the arbitrary curve and the third section to assume the second portion of the arbitrary curve by propagating at least one measured length of at least one side of the second section to at least one side of the third section. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the electronic motion controller is further configured to, when the elongated instrument withdraws proximally a distance of approximately one unit of length from the initial position, control the first section to assume the second portion of the arbitrary curve and the second section to assume the third portion of the arbitrary curve. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the elongated instrument body further comprises a selectively steerable distal portion. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising an axial motion transducer for measuring axial motion of the elongated instrument body. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising an imaging system for transmitting an image from a distal end to a proximal end of the elongated instrument body. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the imaging system comprises a fiberoptic imaging bundle extending from the distal end to the proximal end of the elongated instrument body. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising an imaging system for transmitting an image from a distal end of the elongated instrument body to a video monitor. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the elongated instrument body is configured as an endoscope for insertion into a patient's body. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the elongated instrument body is configured as a colonoscope for insertion into a patient's colon. 