A teleconferencing robot for enabling a remote conferee to project a sense of presence into a group meeting. The teleconferencing robot includes: a base; a video monitor movably mounted to the base for receiving and displaying an image of the remote conferee; an attention getting device for getting the attention of conferees in the group meeting; a control device mounted on the base for moving the video monitor and actuating the attention getting device in response to an input control signal derived from a remote signal generated by the remote conferee and sending an outgoing data signal to the remote conferee providing feedback to the remote conferee from the robot; and the video monitor and attention getting device move in response to the input control signal to enable the remote conferee to project a sense of presence into the group meeting, and to confirm the movement by the outgoing data signal.
Claims The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows: 1. A teleconferencing robot, for enabling a remote conferee to project a sense of presence into a group meeting, the teleconferencing robot comprising: a base; a video monitor movably mounted to the base for receiving and displaying an image of the remote conferee; attention getting means for getting the attention of conferees in the group meeting; control means mounted on the base for moving the video monitor and actuating the attention getting means in response to an input control signal derived from a remote signal generated by the remote conferee and sending an outgoing data signal to the remote conferee providing feedback to the remote conferee from the teleconferencing robot; and wherein said video monitor and attention getting means move in response to said input control signal to enable the remote conferee to project a sense of presence into the group meeting, the remote conferee can confirm the movement by said outgoing data signal. 2. A teleconferencing robot as claimed in claim 1, wherein the video monitor is rotatably mounted to the base unit, for rotation about a substantially vertical axis; and wherein the control means includes a rotating drive unit for rotation of the video monitor. 3. A teleconferencing robot as claimed in claim 2, further comprising a video camera rotatably mounted with the video monitor to the base unit; and wherein the rotating drive unit rotates the video monitor and video camera. 4. A teleconferencing robot as claimed in claim 3, wherein the video camera is rotatably mounted to the base, for rotation about a substantially vertical axis; wherein the control means includes a pan drive unit for rotation of the video camera; wherein the video camera is additionally mounted so as to be tiltable upwards and downwards; and wherein the control means includes a tilt drive unit for tilting the video camera upwards and downwards; and wherein the outgoing data signal contains at least one feedback signal indicative of pan/tilt/zoom information of the video camera. 5. A teleconferencing robot as claimed in claim 1 wherein outgoing data signal contains at least one feedback signal indicative of a position of the video monitor. 6. A teleconferencing robot as claimed in claim 1, wherein the outgoing data signal is indicative of actuating the attention getting means. 7. A teleconferencing robot as claimed in claim 1, wherein the base comprises upper and lower stages, wherein the video monitor is secured to the upper stage, and the lower and upper stages are rotatable relative to one another about a substantially vertical axis; and wherein the upper stage has a defined forward direction with the video monitor normally being directed in said defined forward direction. 8. A teleconferencing robot as claimed in claim 3, wherein the base comprises an upper part on which the video monitor is mounted and a lower part, and means for vertically displacing the upper and lower parts relative to one another. 9. A teleconferencing robot as claimed in claim 3, wherein the base comprises an upper part on which the video monitor is mounted and a lower part; and wherein the lower part of the base comprises a mobile ground unit including wheels and drive motors for rotating the wheels, to drive the teleconferencing robot across the ground. 10. A teleconferencing robot as claimed in claim 3, wherein the screen of the video monitor is positioned at or near the vertical axis about which the video monitor rotates such that the angle formed by two straight lines lying in a horizontal plane crossing at the vertical axis and further extending through left and right hand edges of the screen of the video monitor is substantially 160.degree. 200.degree.. 11. A teleconferencing robot as claimed in claim 1, wherein the attention getting means comprises a representation of a hand and arm. 12. A teleconferencing robot as claimed in claim 11, wherein a free end of the arm is mechanically coupled to the base, whereby said representation of a hand and arm may be rotated alternatively inwardly and outwardly, to mimic a waving motion. 13. A teleconferencing robot as claimed in claim 3, in combination with a remote teleconferencing unit which comprises a second microphone and a second video camera for obtaining an audio signal and an image from the remote conferee for transmission to the video monitor of the teleconferencing robot, and a second video monitor and a second speaker for providing a video image and an audio signal received from the teleconferencing robot; wherein the video monitor of the teleconferencing robot is provided with a speaker for outputting an audio signal received from the microphone of the remote teleconferencing unit; and wherein the input control signal is provided by the remote teleconferencing unit. 14. A teleconferencing robot in combination with a remote teleconferencing unit as claimed in claim 13, wherein the remote teleconferencing unit and the teleconferencing robot are each provided with a respective communication controller for audio, video and data signals, for communication therebetween over a transmission system; and wherein the communications controllers transmit audio and video signal in both directions between the remote teleconferencing unit and the teleconferencing robot, and data signals to the teleconferencing robot, for controlling the teleconferencing robot and the outgoing data signals back to the remote teleconferencing unit, to provide information on movement of the teleconferencing robot. 15. A teleconferencing robot as claimed in claim 5, further comprising microphone array means for enabling a location of a speaker to be determined and generating a detection signal indicative of the location of the speaker wherein the input control signal is derived from the detection signal and causes the rotating drive unit to rotate the video monitor to a position substantially facing the location of the speaker; and further comprising a switch unit enabling the input control signal to be selectively derived from the detection signal and the remote signal generated by the remote conferee. 16. A teleconferencing robot in combination with a remote teleconferencing unit as claimed in claim 14 wherein the remote teleconferencing unit comprises a graphics overlay unit for generating characters, symbols or icons indicative of the outgoing data signals for display on the second video monitor. 17. A teleconferencing robot in combination with a remote teleconferencing unit as claimed in claim 16 wherein the graphics overlay unit superimposes the characters, symbols or icons indicative of the outgoing data signals on the video image indicative of the video signals received from the teleconferencing robot. 18. A teleconferencing robot as claimed in claim 3, wherein a screen of the video monitor is positioned near the vertical axis about which the video monitor rotates; and wherein the video camera rotates substantially about the vertical axis. 19. A teleconferencing robot as claimed in claim 5, further comprising: location determining means for enabling a location of a person to be determined and generating a detection signal indicative of the location of the speaker; wherein the location determining means is fixed to the base such that the video camera and the video monitor rotate independently of the location determining means; and wherein the input control signal is derived from the detection signal and causes the rotating drive unit and pan drive unit to rotate the video monitor and video camera, respectively, to a position substantially facing the location of the speaker. 20. A teleconferencing robot as claimed in claim 1, in combination with a remote teleconferencing unit which comprises a second video monitor and a second speaker for providing video image and an audio signal received from the teleconferencing robot; wherein the teleconferencing unit receives the outgoing data signal and provides the input control signal; and wherein the remote teleconferencing unit further comprises a graphics overlay unit for generating characters, symbols or icons indicative of the outgoing data signals for display on the second video monitor. 