A configuration system for an intelligent assist system is provided. The intelligent assist system includes a module, and a computational node on the module. The configuration system includes a host computer system capable of executing a stored program. The host computer system is in communication with the computational node via a communication link. The system also includes a graphical user interface enabling a user to manipulate objects related to the module or the computational node, and a plurality of visual indicators corresponding to a status of the module, the computational node, or the communication link.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A configuration system for an intelligent assist system, the intelligent assist system comprising a module, and a computational node on the module, the configuration system comprising: a host computer system capable of executing a stored program, the host computer system being in communication with the computational node via a communication link; a graphical user interface enabling a user to manipulate objects related to the module or the computational node; and a plurality of visual indicators corresponding to a status of the module, the computational node, or the communication link. 2. The configuration system of claim 1, wherein the graphical user interface allows the user to view parameters of the module. 3. The configuration system of claim 1, wherein the graphical user interface allows the user to manipulate parameters of the module. 4. The configuration system of claim 3, wherein the parameters are adjusted with graphic sliders. 5. The configuration system of claim 1, wherein the graphical user interface allows the user to establish default parameters of the module. 6. The configuration system of claim 1, wherein the graphical user interface allows the user to test the module. 7. The configuration system of claim 1, wherein the intelligent assist system further comprises a second module with a second computational node, and the host computer system is in communication with the second computational node via a second communication link. 8. The configuration system of claim 7, wherein the communication links are in communication with each other and the visual indicators indicate the status of communication between the computational nodes. 9. The configuration system of claim 8, wherein the visual indicators indicate the transfer of data between the computational nodes. 10. The configuration system of claim 1, wherein the visual indicators indicate a fault status of the computational node. 11. The configuration system of claim 1, wherein the host computer system comprises a laptop computer. 12. The configuration system of claim 1, wherein the host computer system comprises a handheld computer. 13. The configuration system of claim 1 wherein the host computer system comprises a personal digital assistant. 14. The configuration system of claim 1, wherein the module is a moveable trolley. 15. The configuration system of claim 1, wherein the module is a lift. 