The present invention provides a micro-robot for use inside the body during minimally-invasive surgery. The micro-robot includes an imaging devices, a manipulator, and in some embodiments a sensor.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system with a mobile robot for use inside an animal body during minimally invasive surgery, comprising: a laparoscopic surgical tool, wherein the robot is adapted to fit through a port of the laparoscopic surgical tool; a body for incorporating components of the robot; a mobilization element coupled to the body for moving the body of the robot within the animal body, the mobilization element comprising two wheels disposed along a longitudinal dimension of the body and having an axis of rotation substantially parallel to the longitudinal dimension; a member disposed between the two wheels and extending from the body in a direction substantially perpendicular to the axis of rotation of the two wheels for converting rotational motion of the wheels into translational motion of the body; a controller for controlling remotely the mobilization element; an actuator coupled to the controller and mobilization element, the actuator configured to provide movement to the mobilization element based on input from the controller; a power supply adapted to power the actuator; and a means for obtaining a biopsy sample. 2. The system of claim 1, further comprising at least one imaging device proximate the body of the robot for imaging within the animal body. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the body is shaped like a cylinder. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the wheels have treads. 5. The system of claim 1, further comprising a transmitter and receiver for sending data and inputting command signals between the robot and a remote location. 6. The system of claim 1, further comprising at least one sensor that is selected from at least one member of the group consisting of a pH sensor, a temperature sensor, a sensor to detect gasses, a sensor to detect electrical potential, a sensor to detect heart rate, a sensor to detect respiration rate, a sensor to detect humidity, and a sensor to detect blood. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the mobile robot is wireless. 8. The system of claim 2, wherein the imaging device is movable relative to the body of the robot to adjust a position of the imaging device. 9. The system of claim 8, wherein the position is pan, tilt or combinations thereof. 10. A mobile robot for use inside an animal body during minimally invasive surgery, comprising: a body for incorporating components of the robot; a means for obtaining a biopsy sample; a mobilization assembly coupled to the body for actively moving the body of the robot along a surface within an open space inside the animal body, wherein the mobilization assembly comprises two wheels disposed at each end of the body and having an axis of rotation substantially parallel to the length of the robot; and a member disposed between the two wheels and extending from the body in a direction substantially perpendicular to the axis of rotation of the two wheels for converting rotational motion of the wheels into translational motion. 11. The mobile robot of claim 10, further comprising at least one imaging device proximate the body of the robot for imaging within the animal body. 12. The mobile robot of claim 10, wherein the mobilization assembly is adapted for use within a cavity external to organs of the animal body, the cavity selected from at least one of an abdominal cavity, a pelvic cavity and a thoracic cavity. 13. The mobile robot of claim 10, wherein the open space is inside an abdominal cavity. 14. The mobile robot of claim 10, wherein the open space is outside of a gastrointestinal tract. 15. The mobile robot of claim 10, wherein the two wheels have treads. 16. The mobile robot of claim 10, wherein a majority of an external surface area of the robot is provided by the wheels. 17. The mobile robot of claim 10, wherein the mobilization assembly enables turning movement of the body and forward and backward movement of the body transverse to the length of the robot. 18. The mobile robot of claim 10, wherein the mobilization assembly is remotely controlled. 19. A method of performing minimally invasive surgery inside an animal body, comprising: performing an incision in the animal body; implanting a robot through the incision into an open space inside the animal body, the robot having a remotely controllable mobilization assembly and a means for obtaining a biopsy sample; and actively moving the robot along a surface inside the animal body within the open space by driving two wheels of the mobilization assembly, wherein the two wheels have an axis of rotation substantially parallel to a length of the robot and are separated form one another along the length of the robot by a member extending in a direction substantially perpendicular to the axis of rotation of the two wheels for converting rotational motion of the wheels into translational motion capable of moving the robot transverse to the length of the robot. 20. The method of claim 19, further comprising viewing images within the animal body with an imaging device. 21. The method of claim 19, further comprising viewing images within the animal body with an imaging device and performing a surgical task by operation of the manipulator arm. 22. The method of claim 19, wherein implanting the robot includes disposing the robot within a cavity external to organs of the animal body, the cavity selected form at least one of an abdominal cavity, a pelvic cavity and a thoracic cavity. 23. The method of claim 19, wherein implanting the robot includes disposing the robot outside of a gastrointestinal tract. 