Methods and apparatus, including computer program products, mass spectrometry systems, and sample plates for use in such systems, implement techniques for calibrating an ion source that includes a sample control system including a sample holder and a laser source. A sample plate is mounted in the sample holder, and a relationship is determined between a coordinate system of the sample plate and a coordinate system of the sample control system. The relationship is used to align a target region of the sample plate with ion optics of a mass spectrometer for a mass spectrometric analysis. The relationship is determined at least in part by aligning one or more fiducials relative to a reference point of the sample control system. The fiducials define reference points of the sample plate coordinate system. The techniques can be used to facilitate processes involving partial or full automation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of calibrating an ion source, the ion source including a sample control system including a sample holder for supporting a sample plate in a sample plane and a laser source having a focal point representing a point at which a beam generated by the laser source intersects the sample plane, the method comprising: mounting a sample plate in the sample holder, the sample plate including one or more fiducials defining reference points of a sample plate coordinate system and one or more target regions at one or more predefined locations in the sample plate coordinate system; determining a relationship between the coordinate system of the sample plate and a coordinate system of the sample control system, the relationship being determined at least in part by aligning one or more fiducials relative to a reference point of the sample control system using computer-implemented pattern recognition techniques; and using the determined relationship to align one of the target regions of the sample plate with ion optics of a mass spectrometer for a mass spectrometric analysis. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the fiducials is positioned at a known displacement from a target location of at least one of the target regions. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein at least one of the one or more fiducials is formed on a surface of the sample plate. 4. The method of claim 2, wherein: at least one of the one or more fiducials is formed on a surface of the sample holder. 5. The method of claim 2; wherein: the target location of at least one of the target regions is a centroid of the at least one of the target regions. 6. The method of claim 2, wherein: the at least one of the fiducials forms the target location of the at least one of the target regions. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more fiducials include a first fiducial and a second fiducial disposed at a known displacement from the first fiducial, and determining a relationship between a coordinate system of the sample plate and a coordinate system of the sample control system includes: aligning the reference point with a first fiducial of the one or more fiducials; moving the sample plate relative to the sample control system or the focal point by a distance and in a direction corresponding to the known displacement; and determining an alignment error of the coordinate systems of the sample control system and the sample plate based at least in part on the aligning and the moving. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein determining a relationship between a coordinate system of the sample plate and a coordinate system of the sample control system includes: generating a first image of the sample plate, the first image including a representation of at least a first fiducial of the one or more fiducials; processing the first image to identify a location of the first fiducial in the first image; aligning the reference point of the sample control system relative to the identified location of the first fiducial; and determining an alignment error of the coordinate systems of the sample control system and the sample plate based at least in part on the alignment of the reference point relative to the identified location of the first fiducial. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein determining a relationship between a coordinate system of the sample plate and a coordinate system of the sample control system includes: processing the first image to identify a location of a second fiducial in the first image; aligning the reference point of the sample control system relative to the identified location of the second fiducial; and determining an alignment error of the coordinate systems of the sample control system and the sample plate based at least in part on the alignment of the reference point relative to the identified location of the second fiducial. 10. A method of calibrating an ion source, the ion source including a sample control system including a sample holder for supporting a sample plate in a sample plane and a laser source having a focal point representing a point at which a beam generated by the laser source intersects the sample plane, the method comprising: mounting a sample plate in the sample holder, the sample plate including one or more target regions; determining a relationship between a coordinate system of the sample plate and a coordinate system of the sample control system, the relationship being determined at least in part by aligning one or more fiducials relative to a reference point of the sample control system, the fiducials including a first fiducial, a second fiducial disposed at a known displacement from the first fiducial, and a third fiducial, and by defining reference points of the sample plate coordinate system, the determining including: generating a first image of the sample plate, the first image including a representation of at least a first fiducial and a second fiducial of the one or more fiducials; processing the first image to identify a location of the first fiducial and a location of the second fiducial in the first image; aligning the reference point of the sample control system relative to the identified location of the first fiducial and the location of the second fiducial; moving the sample plate relative to the reference point; generating a second image of the sample plate, the second image including a representation of a third fiducial of the one or more fiducials; processing the second image to identify a location of a third fiducial in the second image; aligning the reference point of the sample control system relative to the identified location of the third fiducial; and determining an alignment error of the coordinate systems of the sample control system and the sample plate based at least in part on the moving and alignment of the reference point relative to the identified locations of the first, second, and third fiducials; and using the determined relationship to align a target region of the sample plate with ion optics of a mass spectrometer for a mass spectrometric analysis. 11. The method of any of claims 1, 7, 8, 9 and 10, wherein: the processing, aligning, or determining an alignment error are performed automatically in a sample control application. 12. The method of claim 1, further comprising: calibrating the focal point of the laser source and the coordinate system of the sample control system. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein: calibrating the focal point of the laser source and the coordinate system of the sample control system includes aligning the focal point of the laser source and the reference point of the sample control system with the ion optics. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein aligning the focal point of the laser source and the reference point of the sample control system with the ion optics includes: identifying a point in the sample plane corresponding to a center axis of the ion optics; and aligning the focal point of the laser source and the reference point of the sample control system with the identified point. 15. The method of claim 12, wherein aligning the focal point of the laser source and the reference point of the sample control system with the ion optics includes: aligning the reference point of the sample control system with a central axis of the ion optics; and aligning the focal point with the reference point of the sample control system. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein determining a relationship includes: determining one or more offsets that relate the coordinate system of the sample plate and the coordinate system of the sample control system. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein using the determined relationship includes: using the offsets to control a movement of the sample plate relative to the focal point or a firing of the laser source, with an accuracy of less than about +/-100 .mu.m. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein: one or more of the fiducials includes two lines arranged in substantially orthogonal configuration. 19. A computer program product, tangibly embodied on a computer-readable medium, for calibrating an ion source, the ion source including a sample control system including a sample holder for supporting a sample plate in a sample plane, and a laser source having a focal point representing a point at which a beam generated by the laser source intersects the sample plane, the product including instructions operable to cause data processing apparatus to perform operations comprising: receiving data indicating that a sample plate is mounted in the sample holder, the sample plate including one or more fiducials defining reference points of a sample plate coordinate system and one or more target regions at one or more predefined locations in the sample plate coordinate system; determining a relationship between the coordinate system of the sample plate and a coordinate system of the sample control system, the relationship being determined at least in part by aligning one or more fiducials relative to a reference point of the sample control system using pattern recognition techniques; and using the determined relationship to align one of the target regions of the sample plate with ion optics of a mass spectrometer for a mass spectrometric analysis. 20. The computer program product of claim 19, wherein at least one of the fiducials is positioned at a known displacement from a target location of at least one of the target regions. 21. The computer program product of claim 20, wherein at least one of the one or more fiducials is formed on a surface of the sample plate. 22. The computer program product of claim 20, wherein: at least one of the one or more fiducials is formed on a surface of the sample holder. 23. The computer program product of claim 20, wherein: the target location of at least one of the target regions is a centroid of the at least one of the target regions. 24. The computer program product of claim 20, wherein: the at least one of the fiducials forms the target location of the at least one of the target regions. 25. The method of claim 19, wherein the one or more fiducials include a first fiducial and a second fiducial disposed at a known displacement from the first fiducial, and determining a relationship between a coordinate system of the sample plate and a coordinate system of the sample control system includes: aligning the reference point with a first fiducial of the one or more fiducials; moving the sample plate relative to the sample control system or the focal point by a distance and in a direction corresponding to the known displacement; and determining an alignment error of the coordinate systems of the sample control system and the sample plate based at least in part on the aligning and the moving. 26. The computer program product of claim 19, wherein determining a relationship between a coordinate system of the sample plate and a coordinate system of the sample control system includes: generating a first image of the sample plate, the first image including a representation of at least a first fiducial of the one or more fiducials; processing the first image to identify a location of the first fiducial in the first image; aligning the reference point of the sample control system relative to the identified location of the first fiducial; and determining an alignment error of the coordinate systems of the sample control system and the sample plate based at least in part on the alignment of the reference point relative to the identified location of the first fiducial. 27. The computer program product of claim 26, wherein determining a relationship between a coordinate system of the sample plate and a coordinate system of the sample control system includes: processing the first image to identify a location of a second fiducial in the first image; aligning the reference point of the sample control system relative to the identified location of the second fiducial; and determining an alignment error of the coordinate systems of the sample control system and the sample plate based at least in part on the alignment of the reference point relative to the identified location of the second fiducial. 28. A computer program product, tangibly embodied on a computer-readable medium, for calibrating an ion source, the ion source including a sample control system including a sample holder for supporting a sample plate in a sample plane and a laser source having a focal point representing a point at which a beam generated by the laser source intersects the sample plane, the product including instructions operable to cause data processing apparatus to perform operations comprising: receiving data indicating that a sample plate is mounted in the sample holder, the sample plate including one or more target regions; determining a relationship between a coordinate system of the sample plate and a coordinate system of the sample control system, the relationship being determined at least in part by aligning one or more fiducials relative to a reference point of the sample control system, the fiducials including a first fiducial, a second fiducial disposed at a known displacement from the first fiducial, and a third fiducial, and by defining reference points of the sample plate coordinate system, the determining including: generating a first image of the sample plate, the first image including a representation of at least a first fiducial and a second fiducial of the one or more fiducials; processing the first image to identify a location of the first fiducial and a location of the second fiducial in the first image; aligning the reference point of the sample control system relative to the identified location of the first fiducial and the identified location of the second fiducial; moving the sample plate relative to the reference point; generating a second image of the sample plate, the second image including a representation of a third fiducial of the one or more fiducials; processing the second image to identify a location of a third fiducial in the second image; aligning the reference point of the sample control system relative to the identified location of the third fiducial; and determining an alignment error of the coordinate systems of the sample control system and the sample plate based at least in part on the moving and alignment of the reference point relative to the identified locations of the first, second, and third fiducials; and using the determined relationship to align a target region of the sample plate with ion optics of a mass spectrometer for a mass spectrometric analysis. 29. The computer program product of any of claims 19, 25, 26, 27 and 28, wherein: the processing, aligning, or determining an alignment error are performed automatically in a sample control application. 30. The computer program product of claim 19, further comprising: calibrating the focal point of the laser source and the coordinate system of the sample control system. 31. The computer program product of claim 30, wherein: calibrating the focal point of the laser source and the coordinate system of the sample control system includes aligning the focal point of the laser source and the reference point of the sample control system with the ion optics. 32. The computer program product of claim 31, wherein aligning the focal point of the laser source and the reference point of the sample control system with the ion optics includes: identifying a point in the sample plane corresponding to a center axis of the ion optics; and aligning the focal point of the laser source and the reference point of the sample control system with the identified point. 33. The computer program product of claim 30, wherein aligning the focal point of the laser source and the reference point of the sample control system with the ion optics includes: aligning the reference point of the sample control system with a central axis of the ion optics; and aligning the focal point with the reference point of the sample control system. 34. The computer program product of claim 19, wherein determining a relationship includes: determining one or more offsets that relate the coordinate system of the sample plate and the coordinate system of the sample control system. 35. The computer program product of claim 34, wherein using the determined relationship includes: using the offsets to control a movement of the sample plate relative to the focal point or a firing of the laser source, with an accuracy of less than about +/-100 .mu.m. 36. The computer program product of claim 19, wherein: one or more of the fiducials includes two lines arranged in substantially orthogonal configuration. 37. A mass spectrometry system, comprising: an ion source, the ion source including a sample control system including a sample holder for supporting a sample plate in a sample plane and a laser source having a focal point representing a point at which a beam generated by the laser source intersects the sample plane; and a processing unit configured to perform operations comprising: determining a relationship between a coordinate system of a sample plate mounted in the sample holder and a coordinate system of the sample control system, the relationship being determined at least in part by aligning one or more fiducials relative to a reference point of the sample control system using computer-implemented pattern recognition techniques, the fiducials defining reference points of the sample plate coordinate system; and using the determined relationship to align a target region of the sample plate with ion optics of a mass spectrometer for a mass spectrometric analysis, the target region at a predefined location in the sample plate coordinate system. 38. The method of claim 1, wherein: at least one of the fiducials is positioned at a determinable displacement from the target location of at least one of the target regions. 39. The method of claim 38, wherein: at least one of the target regions provides at least one of the fiducials. 40. The method of claim 39, wherein: a perimeter of at least one of the target regions provides at least one of the fiducials. 41. The method of claim 1, wherein: at least one of the one or more target regions comprises a track of eluent. 42. A method of generating ions for mass spectrometry, comprising: depositing a sample onto a sample plate to provide one or more target regions in the sample, the sample plate including one or more fiducials defining reference points of a sample plate coordinate system, the one or more target regions at one or more defined locations in the sample plate coordinate system; mounting the sample plate in a sample holder of an ion source having a sample control system; determining a relationship between the coordinate system of the sample plate and a coordinate system of the sample control system, the relationship being determined at least in part by aligning the one or more fiducials relative to a reference point of the sample control system using computer-implemented pattern recognition techniques; using the determined relationship to align one of the target regions of the sample plate with ion optics of a mass spectrometer; directing a beam from a laser source to the target location in the sample by directing the beam at a known or determinable displacement from at least one of the fiducials. 43. The method of claim 42, wherein: the ion source comprises a matrix assisted laser desorption ionization (MALDI) source. 44. The method of claim 42, wherein: depositing the sample includes depositing eluent from a high pressure liquid chromatograph (HPLC). 45. The method of claim 44, wherein: depositing the sample includes depositing the eluent in a track. 46. The method of claim 1, wherein: the sample plate includes a representation of sample data or plate data. 47. The method of claim 46, wherein: the plate data includes information identifying the layout of the one or more target regions on the sample plate. 48. The method of claim 1, wherein: determining a relationship using computer-implemented pattern recognition techniques includes matching a pattern in observed data representing one of the one or more fiducials with a predefined fiducial. 49. The computer program product of claim 19, wherein: the sample plate includes a representation of sample data or plate data. 50. The computer program product of claim 49, wherein: the plate data includes information identifying the layout of the one or more target regions on the sample plate. 51. The computer program product of claim 19, wherein: determining a relationship using computer-implemented pattern recognition techniques includes matching a pattern in observed data representing one of the one or more fiducials with a predefined fiducial. 