One aspect provides a capacitor feedthrough assembly having an electrically conductive member dimensioned to extend at least partially through a feedthrough hole of a case of the capacitor, the conductive member having a passage therethrough.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for manufacturing a capacitor, the method comprising: providing a capacitor case having a hole; installing a feedthrough assembly at least partially into the hole, the feedthrough assembly comprising a conductive member having a passage therethrough; and filling the case with an electrolyte solution through the passage. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: installing a terminal fastener in the passage. 3. A method for replacing a first capacitor installed in a medical device with a second capacitor, the method comprising: disengaging a terminal coupled to the medical device from a feedthrough passage of the first capacitor; and installing the same terminal into a feedthrough passage of the second capacitor. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein disengaging a terminal coupled to the medical device from a feedthrough passage comprises disengaging a terminal coupled to the medical device from a feedthrough passage located through an axial portion of a electrically conductive member. 5. A method comprising: providing a capacitor case having a hole; mounting a capacitor stack within the case; installing a feedthrough assembly at least partially into the hole, the feedthrough assembly including a conductive member having a passage; coupling the feedthrough assembly to the capacitor stack; and mounting a feedthrough terminal to the passage of the conductive member such that the feedthrough terminal and the conductive member are electrically coupled. 6. The method of claim 5, further including insulating the conductive member from the case. 7. The method of claim 5, wherein installing the feedthrough assembly includes attaching an outer insulating portion of the feedthrough assembly to the case proximate the hole. 8. The method of claim 5, further comprising filling the case with an electrolyte solution through the conductive member passage before mounting the feedthrough terminal to the passage. 9. The method of claim 5, wherein mounting the feedthrough terminal to the passage includes using a terminal fastener to attach the feedthrough terminal to the conductive member. 10. The method of claim 5, wherein mounting the feedthrough terminal to the passage includes crimping the feedthrough terminal within the passage. 11. The method of claim 5, wherein mounting the feedthrough terminal to the passage includes removably mounting the feedthrough terminal to the passage. 12. The method of claim 5, wherein coupling the feedthrough assembly to the capacitor stack includes attaching a flexible tab connection member between the feedthrough assembly and the stack. 13. The method of claim 5, wherein coupling the feedthrough assembly to the capacitor stack includes attaching a bottom surface of the feedthrough assembly directly to a surface of the capacitor stack. 