Methods and apparatuses are disclosed for applying melt flowable materials to components of articles of manufacture. The methods and apparatuses disclosed herein are concerned with formation of appropriate flowable materials, control over the manner in which the flowable materials are applied, treatment of the components prior to application of the flowable materials and the like. Moreover, the apparatuses and methods may be particularly suited for applying flowable materials to surfaces and components found in automotive, aerospace, and marine vehicles.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for applying a flowable material to a plurality of components for one or more automotive vehicles the method comprising: providing a first surface of the plurality of components; providing a dispenser capable of applying the flowable material to the plurality of components; providing an automated apparatus for moving the plurality of components during application of the flowable material to the plurality of components, the automated apparatus being selected from a carousel or a robot arm; applying the flowable material with the dispenser upon the first surface of the plurality of components in a slightly flowable state such that the flowable material wets and adheres to the first surface; and transporting the plurality of components to or within an assembly plant; assembling the plurality of components to the one or more automotive vehicles prior to painting the body of the one or more automotive vehicles; and expanding the flowable material through the use of heat typically encountered in an e-coat or other automotive paint oven operation. 2. A method as in claim 1 wherein the first surface includes at least one contaminant material disposed thereon and the method further comprises treating the first surface of the component for removing the at least one contaminant material therefrom and the step of treating the first surface of the component includes applying a primer to the first surface, washing the first surface or exposing the surface of the component to energy from an energy source for removing the at least one contaminant material from the first; and wherein the step of treating the first surface includes exposing the surface of the component to energy from an energy source wherein the energy is selected from heat, plasma, light or near infrared light and the energy source is selected from a plasma generator, a laser, a flash lamp, a heat lamp or a NdYag laser; and wherein the step of applying the flowable material to the first surface occurs without pre-heating the first surface. 3. A method as in claim 1 wherein the flowable material is selected from an olefinic-polymer based flowable material, an ethylene-polymer based material or an epoxy based flowable material and the flowable material includes an ingredient selected from a solubilizing agent, a low compatibility component, a polar ingredient or an ingredient modified with an adhesion promoter. 4. A method as in claim 1 wherein the step of applying the flowable material upon the first surface includes extruding the flowable material as a bead and wherein the flowable material is substantially tack-free at temperatures near room temperature. 5. A method as in claim 4 wherein the component are a part of the automotive vehicle selected from a door beam, a closure panel, a trunk lid, a hood a roof bow, a fuel filler door, exterior trim or a vehicle pillar. 6. A method as in claim 5 wherein the flowable material has a base resin with a narrow molecular weight distribution. 7. A method as in claim 5 wherein the component are formed of a metal selected from steel, aluminum, or stamped metal. 8. A method as in claim 1 further comprising heating the surface of the component prior to applying the flowable material to the surface wherein the step of heating the surface includes exposing the surface to a lamp, exposing the surface to a blower, exposing the surface to a flame or combinations thereof. 9. A method as in claim 1 wherein the step of applying the flowable material includes extruding the flowable material with the dispenser, the dispenser including: i) a supply of the flowable material, the flowable material being provided as pellets in a container; ii) an extruder in communication with the supply of flowable material for receiving the pellets, the extruder capable of intermixing the pellets of flowable material into a viscoelastic state and dispensing the flowable material, the extruder including a rotatable screw for dispensing the flowable material; iii) a system for moving the extruder or the component during dispensing of the flowable material; and iv) a controller in communication with the extruder and the system wherein the controller employs closed loop control to control output of flowable material based upon a metering system that relates screw rotational speed to the output. 10. A method as in claim 9 wherein the controller is programmed to reverse a direction of rotation of the extruder screw for retracting the flowable material a short distance after an application of the flowable material to the component. 11. A method as in claim 9 wherein the controller is a programmable logic controller in communication with the extruder, the programmable logic controller programmed with a profile that relates an output rate of flowable material to a position angle of the extruder and a rotational speed of the extruder screw and wherein the programmable logic controller employs closed loop control in conjunction with the profile to set the output rate at a desired level. 12. A method as in claim 9 wherein the extruder includes a nozzle arrangement including an extrusion die through which material is extruded from the extruder to the component and wherein the extrusion die is attached to the extruder with a quick change attachment device selected from a quick nut and bolt fastener, a hydraulic quick connect fastener or a male/female quick connect fastener and further wherein the extrusion die include a plurality of openings for emitting a plurality of beads of flowable material. 13. A method as in claim 9 further comprising a screw bearing assembly associated with the extruder, the assembly have a first thrust bearing and a second thrust bearing, the first and second thrust bearings configured to act in opposite directions. 14. A method as in claim 9 wherein the extruder is configured to dispense the flowable material upon the components within a tolerance of less than 3 millimeters upon a surface of the components and the apparatus includes a source of vacuum pressure for moving pellets from the container to the extruder. 15. A method as in claim 1 wherein the automated apparatus is a carousel. 16. A method for applying a flowable material to a component of an article of manfacture, the method comprising: providing a first surface of the component; and extruding the flowable material upon the first surface in a slightly flowable state such that the flowable material wets and adheres to the first surfacem the flowable material being extruded with an automated apparatus, which includes: (i) a supply of the flowable material, the flowable material being provided as pellets in a container; (ii) an extruder in communication with the supply of flowable material for receiving the pellets, the extruder capable of intermixing the pellets of flowable 17. A method for applying a flowable material to a component of an article of manufacture, the method comprising: providing a first surface of the component; and extruding the flowable material upon the first surface in a slightly flowable state such that the flowable material wets and adheres to the first surface, the flowable material being extruded with an automated apparatus, which includes: i) a supply of the flowable material, the flowable material being provided as pellets in a container; ii) an extruder in communication with the supply of flowable material for receiving the pellets, the extruder capable of intermixing the pellets of flowable material into a viscoelastic state and dispensing the flowable material, the extruder including a rotatable screw for dispensing the flowable material wherein the extruder includes a nozzle arrangement including an extrusion die through which material is extruded from the extruder to the component and wherein the extruder die is attached to the extruder with a quick change attachment device selected from a quick nut and bolt fastener, a hydraulic quick connect fastener or a male/female quick connect fastener and further wherein the extrusion die includes a plurality of openings for emitting a plurality of beads of flowable material; iii) a system for moving the extrusion component during dispensing of the flowable material wherein the system includes a robot arm, a conveyor or a carousel for moving the component; and iv) a programmable logic controller in communication with the extruder and the system wherein the programmable logic controller is programmed with a profile that relates an output rate of flowable material to a position angle of the extruder and a rotational speed of the extruder screw and wherein the programmable logic controller employs closed loop control in conjunction with the profile to set the output rate at a desired level and wherein the controller is programmed to reverse a direction of rotation of the extruder screw for retracting the flowable material a short distance after an application of the flowable material to the component. 18. A method for applying a flowable material to a component for an automotive vehicle, the method comprising: providing a first surface of a plurality of components of an automotive vehicle, each of the plurality of components being formed of plastic and including a cavity, a gap or a seam at least partially defined by the first surface; providing a dispenser capable of applying the flowable material to the plurality of components, the dispenser including a metering system and the material being an adhesive sealant; providing an automated apparatus for moving the plurality of components during application of the flowable material to the plurality of components wherein the automated apparatus is a carousel and the plurality of components are mounted upon supports associated with the carousel; applying the flowable material with the dispenser as a bead to the cavity, gap or seam that is at least partially defined by the first surface of the plurality of components in a slightly flowable state such that the flowable material wets and adheres to the first surface wherein the flowable material is applied in metered amounts about the periphery of each of the plurality of components using the metering system; and transporting the component along with a plurality of other components to or within an assembly plant; assembling the component to the automotive vehicle prior to painting the body of the automotive vehicle; and expanding the flowable material through the use of heat typically encountered in an e-coat or other automotive paint oven operation. 19. A method as in claim 18 wherein a controller is in communication with the automated apparatus and the dispenser for assisting in controlling the movement of the plurality of components and the dispensing of the flowable material. 20. A method as in claim 19 wherein the plurality of components are formed of a molded or extruded plastic. 21. A method as in claim 20 wherein the flowable material has a narrow molecular weight distribution. 22. A method as in claim 21 wherein the flowable material is selected from an olefinic-polymer based flowable material, an ethylene-polymer based material or an epoxy based flowable material. 