Modern animation and modeling systems enable artists to create high-quality content, but provide limited support for interactive applications. Although complex forms and motions can be constructed either by hand or with motion or geometry capture technologies, once they are created, they are difficult to modify, particularly at runtime. Interpolation provides a way to leverage artist-generated source material. Presented here are methodologies for efficient runtime interpolation between multiple forms or multiple motion segments. Radial basis functions provide key mathematical support for the interpolation. Once the illustrated and described system is provided with example forms and motions, it generates a continuous range of forms referred to as a "shape" or a continuous range of motions referred to as a verb. Additionally, shape interpolation methodology is applied to articulated figures to create smoothly skinned figures that deform in natural ways. The runtime interpolation of the forms or motions runs fast enough to be used in interactive applications such as games.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A blending method comprising: linearly approximating a degree of freedom that is associated with a new form or motion that is to be rendered based upon a plurality of examples that define respective forms or motions within a multi-dimensional abstract space, wherein each dimension of the abstract space is defined by at least one of an adjective and an adverb; defining a radial basis function for each of the examples by scaling the radial basis function for each example, the scaling comprising evaluating a matrix system to ascertain a plurality of scaling weights, individual weights of which are used to scale the radial basis functions; combining the linear approximation and the radial basis functions to provide a cardinal basis function; and using the cardinal basis function to render the new form or motion. 2. The blending method of claim 1, wherein said matrix system is configured so that its evaluation yields scaling weights which, when used to scale a corresponding radial basis functions, result in a combination of the radial basis functions and the linear approximation to provide the cardinal basis function. 