An improved take-off device for an injection molding machine that includes an extensible sleeve for extending a suction channel during transfer of parts from the mold core assembly to the take-off device, the tube being retractable after the parts have been transferred.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A take-off device for receiving a plurality of molded articles, said device comprising: a plate having a first surface; a plurality of hollow tubes attached to the first surface of said plate, each hollow tube having a base portion and a central portion for receiving a corresponding one of the plurality of molded articles; a suction port connected to the base portion of each hollow tube; ejecting structure configured to eject each molded article from the corresponding hollow tube, said ejecting structure comprising an ejector rail mounted to said plate and movable along an axis substantially perpendicular to said first surface, said ejector rail being selectively positionable to a retracted position and to an extended position, said ejector rail having a plurality of apertures, each aperture corresponding to one of said plurality of hollow tubes; and at least one sleeve associated with each of said plurality of hollow tubes, each said sleeve being attached to said ejector rail, each said sleeve extending out from said one of said plurality of hollow tubes with a portion of each said sleeve still remaining around the corresponding hollow tube when said rail is at said extended position, each said sleeve, when at said extended position, being sufficiently close to the corresponding hollow tube to maintain suction from said suction port for assisting transfer of a molded article from a mold and into said at least one hollow tube. 2. The take-off device of claim 1, wherein said at least one sleeve comprises one of: plastic or sheet metal. 3. The take-off device of claim 1, wherein said at least one sleeve is attached to said ejector rail by detent structure. 4. The take-off device of claim 1, wherein said at least one sleeve is a collapsible membrane. 5. A take-off device for receiving molded articles from an injection mold, comprising: a plate having a first surface; a molded article support structure attached to the first surface of said plate, each support structure configured to at least partially enclose a molded article to be received therein; a suction structure arranged through said support structure for configuring a suction channel therealong for effecting a suction assisted transfer of the molded article from the injection mold thereto; and an ejecting structure arranged to eject the molded article from the support structure; and suction channel structure that is configured to be disposed in an extended and in a retracted position, relative to a distal end of the molded article support structure, a portion of the suction channel structure being disposed with respect to the molded article support structure to maintain suction in the suction channel in the extended position; whereby the suction channel can assist with the transfer of the molded article from the injection mold. 6. The take-off device as defined in claim 5, further comprising a plurality of said support structures and a corresponding plurality of said suction channel structures. 7. The take-off device of claim 5, wherein said support structure comprises a hollow tube having an inside surface configured to closely conform to an exterior surface of the article. 8. The take-off device of claim 7, wherein said suction channel structure comprises a sleeve surrounding at least a portion of said hollow tube, said sleeve being configured to be extendable toward an article held in the mold. 9. The take-off device of claim 8, wherein the sleeve comprises lightweight material. 10. The take-off device of claim 9, wherein said sleeve comprises at least one of: plastic; and sheet metal. 11. The take-off device of claim 8, wherein each said sleeve includes an annular ring surface at a distal end thereof configured to engage an outwardly protruding portion of a molded article, said ring ejecting said article from said hollow tube when in an extended position. 12. The take-off device as defined in claim 5, wherein said suction channel structure comprises a collapsible bellows. 13. The take-off device as defined in claim 8, wherein said suction channel structure is arranged on an extensible member of said ejection structure for the selective extension thereof. 14. The take-off device as defined in claim 13, wherein said extensible member comprises an ejector rail. 15. The take-off device as defined in claim 14, further comprising a connector configured to releasably connect said suction channel structure to said ejector rail. 16. The take-off device as defined in claim 11, further comprising an actuator configured to move the suction channel structure between the extended position and the retracted position. 17. A suction channel extension configured to cooperate with a molded article support structure on an injection molding machine take-off device, the suction channel extension comprising: a suction channel extensible member that is configured to have at least a portion thereof that is selectively extensible relative to a distal end of the molded article support structure; said suction channel extensible member being configured to maintain, in an extended position, a suction channel into a region between the distal end of the molded article support structure and an injection mold structure, where the molded articles are formed, for assisting with a transfer of the molded article from the injection mold structure to the molded article support structure. 18. The suction channel extension according to claim 17, wherein said suction channel extension comprises a hollow sleeve that is configured for mounting to an extensible member of a take-off device ejection structure for the selective extension thereof, at least a portion of the hollow sleeve extending around the support structure when the sleeve is in an extended position relative thereto. 19. The suction channel extension according to claim 17, wherein said suction channel extension comprises a collapsible bellows structure that is configured to extend between the distal end of the support structure and an extensible member of a take-off device ejection structure. 20. The suction channel extension according to claim 17, wherein said suction channel extension and an extensible member of a take-off device ejection structure are integrally formed. 21. An injection molding machine including a take-off device comprising: a plate having a first surface; a molded article support structure attached to the first surface of said plate, each support structure configured to at least partially enclose a molded article to be received therein; a suction structure arranged through said support structure for configuring a suction channel therealong for effecting a suction assisted transfer of the molded article from an injection mold thereto; and an ejecting structure arranged to eject the molded article from the support structure; and a suction channel extension that is configured to have at least a portion thereof that is selectively extensible, between an extended and a retracted position, relative to a distal end of the molded article support structure; said suction channel extension being configured to (i) maintain the suction channel when in the extended position, and (ii) to selectively extended the suction channel into a region between the distal end of the support structure and the injection mold for assisting with the transfer of the molded article therebetween. 22. The injection molding machine as defined in claim 21, further comprising a plurality of said support structures and a corresponding plurality of said suction channel extensions. 23. The injection molding machine of claim 21, wherein said support structure comprises a hollow tube having an inside surface configured to closely conform to an exterior surface of the article. 24. The injection molding machine of claim 23, wherein said suction channel extension comprises a sleeve surrounding at least a portion of said hollow tube, said sleeve being configured to be extendable toward an article held in the mold. 25. The injection molding machine of claim 24, wherein the sleeve comprises lightweight material. 26. The injection molding machine of claim 25, wherein said sleeve comprises at least one of: plastic; and sheet metal. 27. The injection molding machine of claim 24, wherein each said sleeve includes an annular ring surface at a distal end thereof configured to engage an outwardly protruding portion of a molded article, said ring ejecting said article from said hollow tube when in an extended position. 28. The injection molding machine as defined in claim 21, wherein said suction channel extension comprises a collapsible bellows. 29. The injection molding machine as defined in claim 24, wherein said suction channel extension is arranged on an extensible member of said ejection structure for the selective extension thereof. 30. The injection molding machine as defined in claim 29, wherein said extensible member comprises an ejector rail. 31. The injection molding machine as defined in claim 30, further comprising a connector configured to releasably connect said suction channel extension to said ejector rail. 32. The injection molding machine as defined in claim 27, further comprising an actuator configured to move the suction channel extension between the extended position and the retracted position. 