A computer graphics and analysis application improvement providing calculation, regeneration, and display of mechanism solutions based on inputted desired functions such as part positions by extracting functional requirements data from such inputted data so that the designer or engineer can view the mechanism solutions in space and thereby design the desired mechanism or mechanisms. The computing application extracts the functional requirements data (such as point and angular references) from the inputted function data, such as part positions. Using the inputted data, the computing application calculates, generates, and displays mechanism solutions based on the function or functions and provides the engineer or designer with meaningful visualization of how the mechanism would work, for example by showing how the part would move through desired positions in space, in addition to including the mechanism's or mechanisms' motion path, coupler curve, and other visual data helpful to the engineer in the design of the mechanism.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for the graphical synthesis of mechanisms comprising: a computer processor capable of processing graphical information and data; computer memory, electronically coupled to said computer processor, capable of storing said graphical information and data; a display device electronically coupled to said computer processor, displaying graphical information to an operator; an operator input interface electronically coupled to said computer processor allowing an operator to manipulate said graphical information on said display device; and a computing application residing in said computer memory and running on said computer processor, wherein said computing application receives operator input representative of constructs, said input indicative of desired functional requirements, from said operator input interface, and processes said operator input to extract position and angle data for use to calculate mechanism solutions having the particular desired functional requirements said mechanism capable of behaving in accordance with said inputted functional requirements, said computing application further calculating parameters associated with said calculated mechanism for display as graphical information on said display device for said operator to view. 2. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein said computing application comprises a computer aided design (CAD) computing application. 3. The system as recited in claim 2, wherein said operator input is represented as positions of the mechanism's part(s) by said computing application. 4. The system as recited in claim 3, wherein said positions comprise beginning, ending and/or other positions of the mechanisms' part(s). 5. The system as recited in claim 4, wherein one position is representative of a beginning point along a desired motion path for said inputted construct. 6. The system as recited in claim 4, wherein one position is representative of a final point along a desired motion path for said inputted construct. 7. The system as recited in claim 4, wherein said mechanism solutions are generated based on functional requirements by extracting functional requirements data from said input representative of constructs. 8. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein said mechanism solutions include any of: a coupler curve, angle positions, points in space, and/or a mechanisms' motion path. 9. The system as recited in claim 1, further comprising a data store. 10. The system as recited in claim 9, wherein said data store comprises a list of pre-defined constructs, said pre-defined constructs being offered to participating users through said operator interface to facilitate construct design. 11. The system as recited in claim 10, wherein sad data store further comprises mechanism components, said mechanism components utilized when synthesizing mechanisms for inputted constructs. 12. The system as recited in claim 11, wherein said mechanism components comprise any of linkage points, links, link assemblies, mechanism bars, and mechanisms. 13. The system recited in claim 1, wherein said computing application operates in a computer network environment, said computer network environment comprising any of: a fixed-wire LAN, a wireless LAN, a fixed-wire WAN, a wireless WAN, a fixed-wire intranet, a wireless intranet, a fixed-wire extranet, a wireless extranet, the Internet, and the wireless Internet. 14. A method for calculating and generating computerized graphical representations of mechanism solutions on a computing system having, memory, an input interface, and a display device, comprising the acts of: receiving information indicative of a construct's desired function and intended positions for said construct by said computing system; processing said inputted information on said computing system to produce a mechanism viewable to the operator; and displaying said mechanism solutions based on the inputted desired function operating on said inputted construct on said display device. 15. The method as recited in claim 14, wherein said inputting step comprises the step of receiving data points from said input interface, said data points representative of said desired construct and desired construct positions. 16. The method as recited in claim 14, wherein said processing step comprises the steps of: extracting position data from said received intended positions, said position data being represented by vectors comprising any of position and angle information; and calculating an appropriate mechanism using said position data. 17. The method as recited in claim 16, wherein said calculating step comprises the step of providing mechanisms having behavior parameters that accommodate said construct having said construct positions, said mechanism behavior parameters comprising at least one of a group comprising: mechanism's motion path, mechanism's coupler curve, and associated mechanism elements. 18. The method as recited in claim 14 further comprising the step of storing said synthesized mechanism and said inputted function in said memory. 19. A computer readable storage medium comprising computer-executable instructions for instructing a computer to perform the acts recited in claim 14. 20. A method to synthesize mechanisms having desired behavior comprising the acts of: providing construct dimensional information and construct positional parameter information, said positional parameters indicative of said constructs' desired positions along a desired motion path; and processing said positional parameters to suggest mechanisms that are operable on said constructs. 21. The method as recited in claim 20, wherein said providing act comprises the act of receiving positional data from participating users through a graphics computing application, said positional data representative of desired positions for said constructs. 22. The method as recited in claim 20, wherein said processing act comprises the acts of extracting and calculating the vector values from said positional parameters and from said construct dimensional information, said vector values used to calculate mechanisms operable on said constructs. 23. The method as recited in claim 22, wherein said vector values comprise a position value and an angle value. 24. A system to synthesize mechanisms for constructs to move along desired motion paths comprising: an input means, said input means comprising an interface to receive data; a processing means, said processing means cooperating with said input means to extract relevant position data from said received data for use when synthesizing mechanisms; and a display means, said display cooperating with said processing means display output representative of said synthesized mechanisms. 25. A system for designing, synthesizing, and analyzing mechanisms comprising: an interface system, said interface system capable of receiving data representative of two and three dimensional constructs for modeling in a computing modeling environment; an data extractor system, said data extractor system capable of extracting relevant data from said received data representative of said constructs; and a solver system, said solver system cooperating with said data extractor system to provide mechanism solutions; and a display system, said display system capable of displaying said mechanism solutions in conjunction with said inputted constructs, wherein said mechanisms and said constructs are amenable to animation in a modeling space of a computing modeling environment. 26. A method for designing, synthesizing, and analyzing mechanisms comprising the steps of: receiving data representative of constructs by a computing modeling environment, said construct data indicative of desired functional requirements; extracting relevant data from said received construct data; providing mechanism solutions to satisfy said functional requirements, said solutions calculated using said extracted data; and displaying said mechanism solutions and said constructs such that said mechanisms solutions are operable on said constructs. 