In order to determine the dielectric constant of a layer deposited on a semiconducotr wafer (2), the density of the layer is obtained. To obtain that density, the wafer (2) without the layer is weighed in a weighing chamber (4) in which a weighing pan (7) supports the wafer on a weighing balance. The weight of the wafer is determined taking into account the buoyancy exerted by the air on the wafer (2). Then the layer is deposited on the wafer (2) and the weighing operation repeated. Alternatively a reference wafer may be used. If the material of the layer is known, the weight of the layer can be used to derive its density using a thickness measurement. Alternatively, if the density is known, the thickness can be obtained.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of Statistical Process Control for monitoring the statistical variation in properties of layers deposited on a semiconductor wafer according to a plurality of manufacturing processes, and for providing a statistical analysis of the accuracy of the processes being carried out, wherein measurement of the mass of said deposited layers is used to provide said statistical analysis. 2. A method of Statistical Process Control according to claim 1 wherein multiple properties of a layer deposited on a semiconductor wafer are determined from a single mass measurement. 3. A method of Statistical Process Control according to claim 1 wherein the mass of said deposited layer is measured taking into account the effects of buoyancy exerted upon the wafer by the air. 4. A method of Statistical Process Control according to claim 1 wherein the density of a layer is determined from the measured mass thereof, and the dielectric constant of the layer is determined by applying a predefined relationship between the density and the dielectric constant of the layer to derive from the density the dielectric constant of the layer. 5. A method of Statistical Process Control according to claim 4 wherein the dielectric constant of the material is determined from the density thereof using the following formula: .times..alpha..rho..alpha..rho. ##EQU00007## where .epsilon. is the dielectric constant, .epsilon..sub.0 is the permittivity of free space, .rho. is the density of the layer and .alpha. is a constant for the layer. 6. A method of Statistical Process Control according to claim 2 wherein the multiple properties of said layer include one or more of: the density of a layer deposited on a wafer; and the dielectric constant of a layer. 