Interactive, computer based orthodontist treatment planning, appliance design and appliance manufacturing is described. A scanner is described which acquires images of the dentition which are converted to three-dimensional frames of data. The data from the several frames are registered to each other to provide a complete three-dimensional virtual model of the dentition. Individual tooth objects are obtained from the virtual model. A computer-interactive software program provides for treatment planning, diagnosis and appliance from the virtual tooth models. A desired occlusion for the patient is obtained from the treatment planning software. The virtual model of the desired occlusion and the virtual model of the original dentition provide a base of information for custom manufacture of an orthodontic appliance. A variety of possible appliance and appliance manufacturing systems are contemplated, including customized archwires and customized devices for placement of off-the shelf brackets on the archwires, and removable orthodontic appliances.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of interactive orthodontic treatment planning and monitoring using an interactive orthodontic treatment planning system, comprising the steps of: capturing images of the dentition of a patient and processing the images to generate a full, virtual, three-dimensional model of the dentition in a malocclusion state using a scanner and associated processing system at a first location; communicating said full, virtual, three-dimensional model of the dentition in said malocclusion state from said first location to a second location utilizing a communication medium; storing said three-dimensional virtual model of the dentition of said patient in said malocclusion state in a workstation having a display, a memory and a processing unit at said second location; generating individual, virtual three-dimensional tooth objects of teeth from said three-dimensional virtual model of the dentition of said patient in said malocclusion state by executing a routine for generating individual, virtual three-dimensional tooth models in said processing unit in said workstation at said second location; providing one or more virtual models of the orthodontic appliances; enabling an user in moving said individual three-dimensional virtual tooth objects to a target situation and selecting and placing one or more virtual models of the orthodontic appliances on said virtual tooth objects in said target situation using a treatment planning and appliance design software program in said workstation at said second location, said target situation comprising a three-dimensional virtual model of said teeth at a desired occlusion; communicating, utilizing said communication medium, said individual three-dimensional virtual tooth objects and said three-dimensional virtual model of said teeth at said desired occlusion with said virtual orthodontic appliances placed thereon from said second location to said first location for review, interactive modification or approval by an orthodontist; selecting a treatment plan approved by said orthodontist; placing orthodontic appliances on the teeth of said patient in accordance with said selected treatment plan; and taking monitoring scans of the dentition of said patient with said orthodontic appliance attached thereto for measuring and quantifying progress and detecting deviations from the expected results of said selected treatment plan. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said routine for generating individual, virtual three-dimensional tooth models compares portions of said three-dimensional virtual model of the dentition to three-dimensional virtual template teeth. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said three-dimensional virtual model of the dentition is obtained from an intra-oral scanning of the dentition of the patient, and wherein said scanner is a hand-held scanner. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said first location comprises an orthodontic clinic. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said second location comprises a precision appliance manufacturing center. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein said virtual models of the orthodontic appliances partially comprises three-dimensional virtual orthodontic brackets and the treatment planning and appliance design software program further comprises a feature for enabling said user to interactively place one of said three-dimensional virtual orthodontic brackets onto the surface of an individual, virtual three-dimensional tooth model and adjust the position of said virtual bracket relative to said individual, virtual three-dimensional tooth model. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the precision appliance manufacturing center comprises a wire bending robot for customized shaping of an orthodontic archwire and a placement device for placement of orthodontic brackets at the position where the user placed the virtual bracket on the virtual three-dimensional tooth model. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein said wire bending robot comprises a six-axis wire bending robot. 9. The method of claim 7, wherein said placement device comprises a bracket placement tray formed over a three-dimensional physical model of the dentition of the patient in a malocclusion having orthodontic brackets placed on the surface of the teeth at a location specified by the user. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the three-dimensional physical model is made from a rapid prototyping method selected from the group consisting of sterelithography, laser sintering, milling, and three-dimensional printing. 