Attaching an attachment surface of an electrically conductive workpiece to an electrically conductive support surface is described. In one aspect, a biasing force is distributed at least partially around a weld region of the workpiece to urge the attachment surface of the workpiece against the support surface in a way which at least resists welding induced movement of the workpiece relative to the support arrangement. An electrode arrangement, having an electrode tip, contacts the workpiece to provide for substantially compliant movement of the electrode tip against the weld region in directions that are parallel to the support surface. In another aspect, a combined manipulation/welding arrangement is supported for controlled movement with a free end configured for engaging the workpiece to bias the workpiece against the support surface to manipulate the workpiece against the surface and to conduct an electrical current, while holding the workpiece, for welding to the support surface.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method comprising: configuring an electrically conductive workpiece to define a weld region having an attachment surface which is configured for attachment to an electrically conductive support surface that is defined by a support arrangement; distributing a biasing force using a biasing force arrangement, at least partially around the weld region of the workpiece to bias the attachment surface of the workpiece against said support surface in a way which at least resists welding induced movement of the workpiece relative to the support arrangement; and contacting the workpiece at said weld region using an electrode tip forming a distal end of an electrode in a way which provides for substantially compliant movement of the electrode tip with the weld region at least in directions that are generally parallel to the support surface while applying a welding current though said electrode, and while said biasing force arrangement applies said biasing force, so as to weld the attachment surface of the workpiece to the support surface. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of distributing the biasing force serves to symmetrically distribute the biasing force around said weld region. 3. The method of claim 1 including configuring the biasing force arrangement for movement at least in said directions that are generally parallel to the support surface while in contact with said workpiece to initially slidingly engage the attachment surface of the workpiece against said support surface for use in positional adjustment of the workpiece along the support surface. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of contacting the weld region using the electrode tip further provides for substantially compliant movement of the electrode tip in directions which are at least generally normal to the support surface. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein said electrode is formed as an elongated, electrically conductive flexible member having an elongated length extending to said electrode tip and having an opposing end that receives a resilient biasing force that is transferred to the electrode tip for maintaining contact between the electrode tip and the welding region during compliant movement of the electrode tip with the weld region. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein said elongated length of said flexible member readily flexes along its elongated length in a way which further provides for substantially compliant movement of the electrode tip in directions which are generally normal to the support surface. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein said biasing force is distributed between a plurality of isolated positions that are at least generally equi-angularly spaced around said weld region. 8. A system comprising: an electrically conductive workpiece defining a weld region having an attachment surface which is configured for attachment to an electrically conductive support surface that is defined by a support arrangement; a first arrangement for distributing a biasing force at least partially around the weld region of the workpiece to urge the attachment surface of the workpiece against said support surface in a way which at least resists welding induced movement of the workpiece relative to the support arrangement; and an electrode arrangement having an electrode tip formed at a distal end of an electrode for contacting the workpiece at said weld region in a way which provides for substantially compliant movement of the electrode tip in contact with the weld region at least in directions that are generally parallel to the support surface while applying a welding current through said electrode so as to weld the attachment surface of the workpiece to the support surface. 9. The system of claim 8 wherein said first arrangement is configured for distributing said biasing force symmetrically around said weld region. 10. The system of claim 8 wherein said first arrangement is configured for at least initially slidingly engaging the attachment surface of the workpiece against said support surface for use in positional adjustment of the workpiece against the support surface. 11. The system of claim 8 wherein the electrode arrangement is further configured for providing substantially compliant movement of the electrode tip in directions which are at least generally normal to the support surface. 12. The system of claim 8 wherein said electrode is formed as an elongated, electrically conductive flexible member having an elongated length extending to said electrode tip and having an opposing end that receives a resilient biasing force that is at least partially transferred to the electrode tip through said elongated length for maintaining contact between the electrode tip and the welding region during compliant movement of the electrode tip with the weld region. 13. The system of claim 12 wherein said electrode is configured to readily flex along its length in a way which further provides for substantially compliant movement of the electrode tip in directions which are generally normal to the support surface. 14. The system of claim 8 wherein said first arrangement is configured for distributing said biasing force between a plurality of isolated positions that are equi-angularly spaced around said weld region. 15. The system of claim 8 wherein said first arrangement is configured for applying said biasing force in a continuous region which surrounds the weld region. 16. The system of claim 15 wherein said continuous region includes a circular periphery. 17. The system of claim 8 wherein said first arrangement is configured for operation in a manipulation mode and in a locked mode such that the first arrangement slidingly engages the workpiece against the support surface in the manipulation mode for selectively positioning the workpiece along the support surface and for applying the biasing force to the workpiece in the locked mode while using the electrode arrangement to weld the workpiece to the support surface. 18. The system of claim 17 wherein said workpiece includes an engagement configuration for engaging the first arrangement in said manipulation and locked modes. 19. The system of claim 18 wherein said workpiece defines a peripheral shoulder which surrounds said welding region for engaging the first arrangement such that the first arrangement can move the workpiece during the manipulation mode in any selected direction slidingly against the support surface. 20. The system of claim 8 wherein said workpiece includes a foot having an at least generally plate-like configuration for defining said attachment surface and said weld region. 21. The system of claim 20 wherein said foot defines an opposing surface spaced-apart from the attachment surface to define a first thickness therebetween. 22. The system of claim 21 wherein said foot defines said weld region having a second thickness which is less than said first thickness for use in welding the workpiece to said support surface. 23. The system of claim 22 wherein said weld region is bounded by a peripheral shoulder that extends between the weld region and the opposing surface so as to down-set the weld region at said second thickness form the attachment surface. 24. The system of claim 23 wherein said first arrangement is configured for applying said biasing force to an annular portion of said opposing surface which surrounds said peripheral shoulder. 25. The system of claim 8 wherein said first arrangement includes a first member having an interior wall defining an elongated through-hole extending to a free end that is configured for applying said biasing force to the workpiece and at least a portion of said electrode is receivable in the through-hole for positioning said electrode tip against the weld region. 26. The system of claim 25 wherein said first member includes an outermost outline that is at least generally cylindrical in shape. 27. The system of claim 25 wherein said elongated through-hole is at least generally circular in cross-section. 28. The system of claim 25 wherein said elongated electrode includes an electrode width and said through-hole of the first member includes a first width such that the electrode width of the elongated electrode is receivable within the first width, spaced apart from the interior wall of the through-hole by a separation distance to provide for lateral movement of the electrode relative to the first member responsive to welding, without contact between the electrode and the interior wall. 29. The system of claim 25 wherein said free end of the first member includes a free end configuration and said workpiece includes an engagement configuration such that the free end configuration of the first member applies said biasing force to the workpiece which, in turn, forces the workpiece against the support surface to cause the workpiece to resist welding induced movement of the workpiece along the support surface. 30. The system of claim 29 wherein said workpiece defines a pocket having said weld region forming at least a portion of a floor thereof which is surrounded by a peripheral sidewall and said free end includes a protrusion that is receivable in said pocket for positioning the workpiece. 31. The system of claim 30 wherein said peripheral sidewall of the pocket is at least generally circular. 32. The system of claim 31 wherein said protrusion is annular in form and surrounds said through hole at the free end of the first member. 33. In a system for fixedly attaching an electrically conductive workpiece to an electrically conductive support surface that is defined by a support configuration, an apparatus comprising: a member supported for controlled movement and having a free end that is configured (i) for engaging the workpiece in a way which biases the workpiece against the support surface to manipulate the workpiece slidingly against the support surface, with said controlled movement, into an adjusted position and (ii) for use in conducting an electrical current through the workpiece and the support surface, while holding the workpiece in said adjusted position, to weld the workpiece to said support surface. 34. The arrangement of claim 33 wherein said member is integrally formed, using an electrically conductive material, to include said free end. 35. In a system for fixedly attaching an electrically conductive workpiece to an electrically conductive support surface that is defined by a support configuration, a method comprising the steps of: supporting a member for controlled movement of a free end thereof and configuring the free end (i) for engaging the workpiece in a way which biases the workpiece against the support surface to manipulate the workpiece slidingly against the support surface, with said controlled movement, into an adjusted position and (ii) for use in conducting an electrical current through the workpiece and the support surface, while holding the workpiece in said adjusted position, to weld the workpiece to said support surface. 36. The method of claim 35 including the step of integrally forming said member, including said free end, using an electrically conductive material. 37. In a system including a support configuration at least defining an electrically conductive support surface, an apparatus comprising: an electrically conductive workpiece that is configured for fixed attachment to said support surface; and an arrangement supported for controlled movement and having a free end that is configured (i) for engaging the workpiece in a way which biases the workpiece against the support surface to manipulate the workpiece slidingly against the support surface, with said controlled movement, into an adjusted position and (ii) for use in conducting an electrical current through the workpiece and the support surface, while holding the workpiece in said adjusted position, to weld the workpiece to said support surface. 38. The apparatus of claim 37 wherein said workpiece defines an attachment surface for slidingly engaging the support surface and further defines a weld region, and the free end of said arrangement is configured for distributing a biasing force at least partially around the weld region of the workpiece to urge the attachment surface of the workpiece against said support surface in a way which at least resists welding induced movement of the workpiece relative to the support configuration and said arrangement includes an electrode configuration having an electrode including an electrode tip for contacting the workpiece at said weld region in a way which provides for substantially compliant movement of the electrode tip in contact with the weld region at least in directions that are generally parallel to the support surface while applying a welding current through said electrode so as to weld the attachment surface of the workpiece to the support surface. 39. The apparatus of claim 38 wherein said electrode is formed as an elongated, electrically conductive flexible member having an elongated length extending to said electrode tip and having an opposing end that receives a resilient biasing force that is at least partially transferred to the electrode tip through said elongated length for maintaining contact between the electrode tip and the welding region dining compliant movement of the electrode tip with the weld region suck that the flexible member readily flexes along the elongated length in a way which further provides for substantially compliant movement of the electrode tip in directions which are at least generally normal to the support surface. 40. The apparatus of claim 37 wherein said arrangement is integrally formed, using an electrically conductive material, to include said free end. 41. The apparatus of claim 37 wherein said workpiece includes a configuration for receiving the free end of said arrangement to cooperate therewith in manipulating, holding and welding the workpiece to the support surface. 42. The apparatus of claim 41 wherein said configuration of the workpiece includes a peripheral sidewall which surrounds a welding region having a weld region floor for engagement with the free end of said arrangement such that the free end, in contact with the weld region floor, can move the workpiece during manipulation, in any selected direction, slidingly against the support surface and so that welding induced movement of the workpiece, relative to the support body, is resisted while the free end holds the workpiece against the support surface during welding. 43. The apparatus of claim 41 wherein said workpiece includes at least one plate-like foot which defines said configuration for receiving the free end of said arrangement. 44. The apparatus of claim 43 wherein the configuration of said foot includes a peripheral sidewall which surrounds a welding region having a weld region floor for engagement with the free end of said arrangement such that the free end, in contact with the weld region floor, can move the foot during manipulation, in any selected direction, slidingly against the support surface and so that welding induced movement of the foot, relative to the support body, is resisted while the free end holds the foot against the support surface during welding. 45. The apparatus of claim 44 wherein said foot defines an attachment surface for slidingly engaging the support surface and for welding thereto and further defines an opposing surface, outside the welding region, that is spaced-apart from the attachment surface to define a first thickness therebetween and said weld region floor is spaced-apart front said attachment surface at a second thickness that is less than said first thickness. 46. The apparatus of claim 44 wherein an annular gap is defined between the free end of said arrangement and the peripheral sidewall of the welding region with the free end centered on the weld region floor. 47. The apparatus of claim 46 wherein said peripheral sidewall of the welding region is formed having a first diameter and said free end is formed having a second diameter which is less than said first diameter. 48. The apparatus of claim 44 wherein said free end and said weld region floor cooperate to establish a first set of characteristics therebetween which limit slipping of said free end on the weld region floor for a given biasing force of the free end against the weld region floor and for a given movement fore, generally normal to said biasing force, that is intended to move the foot along said support surface, and said foot is configured to cooperate with the support surface to establish a second set of characteristics therebetween for moving the foot along the support surface at said given biasing force using said given movement force such that the foot moves along the support surface before the free end slips against the weld region floor. 49. The apparatus of claim 48 wherein said free end defines an end surface for contacting the weld region floor and at least one of said end surface and said weld region floor includes a textured finish for increasing a coefficient of friction between the end surface and the weld region floor. 50. The apparatus of claim 49 wherein said weld region floor is chemically etched to provide said textured finish. 51. The apparatus of claim 48 wherein said free end includes a first hardness coefficient and said foot includes a second hardness coefficient that is greater than the first hardness coefficient. 52. The apparatus of claim 48 wherein said free end includes a peripheral side margin that is configured to engage the peripheral sidewall of the welding region to cause the foot to resume movement slidingly along the support surface after the free end slips against the weld region floor. 53. The apparatus of claim 48 wherein said free end includes a peripheral side margin, at least a portion of which supports an insulating coating for engaging the peripheral sidewall of the welding region to cause the foot to resume movement slidingly along the support surface after the free end slips against the weld region floor and for limiting electrical contact between the free end and the peripheral sidewall. 54. The apparatus of claim 53 wherein said free end defines an end surface for contacting the weld region floor and another portion of said peripheral side margin, immediately adjacent said end surface, is free of said electrically insulating coating. 55. The apparatus of claim 54 wherein said peripheral sidewall of the welding region and the weld region floor are joined by a radius and wherein said electrically insulating coating includes a thickness that is at least equal to said radius. 56. The apparatus of claim 53 wherein at least the free end of said arrangement is electrically conductive to define an electrically conductive end surface for electrically contacting the weld region floor. 57. The apparatus of claim 48 wherein said free end includes a peripheral side margin that is configured to engage the peripheral sidewall of the welding region to cause the foot to resume movement slidingly along the support surface after the free end slips against the weld region floor and said free end further includes an inset end diameter, at an inset distance from said peripheral side margin, which delimits an end surface that is configured for electrically contacting the weld region floor, and said peripheral sidewall of the welding region and the weld region floor are joined by a radius such that said radius is no more than said inset distance. 58. In a system including a support apparatus at least defining an electrically conductive support surface, a method comprising the steps of: configuring an electrically conductive workpiece for fixed attachment to said support surface; and supporting an arrangement for controlled movement of a free end thereof; and configuring the free end (i) for engaging the workpiece in a way which biases the workpiece against the support surface to manipulate the workpiece slidingly against the support surface, with said controlled movement, into an adjusted position and (ii) for use in conducting an electrical current through the workpiece and the support surface, while holding the workpiece in said adjusted position, to weld the workpiece to said support surface. 59. The method of claim 58 wherein said workpiece is configured to define an attachment surface for slidingly engaging the support surface and further defines a weld region, and the free end of said arrangement is configured for distributing a biasing force at least partially around the weld region of the workpiece to urge the attachment surface of the workpiece against said support surface in a way which at least resists welding induced movement of the workpiece relative to the support configuration, and the step of configuring said arrangement includes the step of providing an electrode configuration having an electrode including an electrode tip for contacting the workpiece at said weld region in a way which provides for substantially compliant movement of the electrode tip in contact with the weld region at least in directions that are generally parallel to the support surface while applying a welding current through said electrode so as to weld the attachment surface of the workpiece to the support surface. 60. The method of claim 59 including the step of forming said electrode as an elongated, electrically conductive flexible member having an elongated length extending to said electrode tip and having an opposing end that receives a resilient biasing force that is at least partially transferred to the electrode tip through said elongated length for maintaining contact between the electrode tip and the welding region during compliant movement of the electrode tip with the weld region. 61. The method of claim 58 including the step of integrally forming said arrangement, to include said free end, using an electrically conductive material. 62. The method of claim 58 wherein said workpiece is formed to include a configuration for receiving the free end of said arrangement to cooperate therewith in manipulating, holding and welding the workpiece to the support surface. 63. The method of claim 62 wherein said configuration of the workpiece includes a peripheral sidewall which surrounds a welding region having a weld region floor for engagement with the free end of said arrangement such that the free end, in contact with the weld region floor, can move the workpiece during manipulation, in any selected direction, slidingly against the support surface and so that welding induced movement of the workpiece, relative to the support body, is resisted while the free end holds the workpiece against the support surface during welding. 64. The method of claim 62 including the step of forming said workpiece to include at least one plate-like foot which defines said configuration for receiving the free end of said arrangement. 65. The method of claim 64 wherein said foot is formed to include a peripheral sidewall which surrounds a welding region having a weld region floor for engagement with the free end of said arrangement such that the free end, in contact with the weld region floor, can move the foot during manipulation, in any selected direction, slidingly against the support surface and so that welding induced movement of the foot, relative to the support body, is resisted while the free end holds the foot against the support surface during welding. 66. The method of claim 65 including the steps of forming said foot to define an attachment surface for slidingly engaging the support surface and for welding thereto and for further defining an opposing surface, outside the welding region, that is spaced-apart from the attachment surface to define a first thickness therebetween and spacing said weld region floor from said attachment surface at a second thickness that is less than said first thickness. 67. The method of claim 65 including the step of defining an annular gap between the free end of said arrangement and the peripheral sidewall of the welding region with the free end centered on the weld region floor. 68. The method of claim 67 including the steps of forming the peripheral sidewall of the welding region having a first diameter and forming the free end having a second diameter which is less than said first diameter. 69. The method of claim 65 wherein said foot and said weld region floor are configured to cooperatively establish a first set of characteristics therebetween which limit slipping of said free end on the weld region floor for a given biasing force of the free end against the weld region floor and for a given movement force, generally normal to said biasing force, that is intended to move the foot along said support surface, and said foot is further configured to cooperate with the support surface to establish a second set of characteristics therebetween for moving the foot along the support surface at said given biasing force using said given movement force such that the foot moves along the support surface before the free end slips against the weld region floor. 70. The method of claim 69 wherein said free end defines an end surface for contacting the weld region floor and at least one of said end surface and said weld region floor is configured with a textured finish for increasing a coefficient of friction between the end surface and the weld region floor. 71. The method of claim 70 including the step of chemically etching said weld region floor to provide said textured finish. 72. The method of claim 69 including the steps of forming said free end to include a first hardness coefficient and forming said foot to include a second hardness coefficient that is greater than the first hardness coefficient. 73. The method of claim 69 including the step of arranging said free end to include a peripheral side margin that is configured to engage the peripheral sidewall of the welding region to cause the foot to resume movement slidingly along the support surface after the free end slips against the weld region floor. 74. The method of claim 69 wherein said free end is shaped to include a peripheral side margin, at least a portion of which supports an insulating coating for engaging the peripheral sidewall of the welding region to cause the foot to resume movement slidingly along the support surface after the free end slips against the weld region floor and for limiting electrical contact between the free end and the peripheral sidewall. 75. The method of claim 74 including the steps of using the free end to define an end surface for contacting the weld region floor and causing another portion of said side margin, immediately adjacent said end surface, to be free of said electrically insulating coating. 76. The method of claim 74 including the step of joining said peripheral sidewall of the welding region and the weld region floor using a radius such that said electrically insulating coating includes a thickness that is at least equal to said radius. 77. The method of claim 74 including the step of forming at least the free end of said arrangement to be electrically conductive so as to define an electrically conductive end surface for electrically contacting the weld region floor. 78. The method of claim 69 including the step of forming said free end to include a peripheral side margin that is configured to engage the peripheral sidewall of the welding region to cause the foot to resume movement slidingly along the support surface after the free end slips against the weld region floor and further forming said free end to include an inset end diameter, at an inset distance from said peripheral side margin, which delimits an end surface that is configured for electrically contacting the weld region floor, and joining said peripheral sidewall of the welding region and the weld region floor using a radius that is less than said inset distance. 79. The method of claim 1 including configuring said biasing force arrangement to include a biasing end that is in electrical isolation from said electrode tip and arranging said workpiece in electrical communication with a current return path for conducting a welding current from the electrode tip through the workpiece. 80. The method of claim 1 including configuring the weld region with a diameter in a range of approximately 15 30 mils. 81. The method of claim 1 including forming said electrode as an elongated, electrically conductive flexible member having an elongated length extending to said electrode tip and having an opposing end that receives a resilient biasing force that is transferred to the electrode tip for maintaining contact between the electrode tip and the welding region during compliant movement of the electrode tip with the weld region and supporting the electrode along said elongated length in a way which allows the electrode to move freely in lateral directions within a predetermined clearance from a centered position. 82. The method of claim 81 wherein said predetermined clearance is in a range from approximately 3 mils to 10 mils surrounding the electrode. 83. The method of claim 1 wherein said distributing and contacting cooperatively produce a weld between the workpiece and the support surface which shifts the position of the workpiece in a range of approximately 0.1 um to 3 um. 84. The method of claim 1 including forming said electrode as an elongated, electrically conductive flexible member having an elongated length extending to aid electrode tip and having an opposing end that receives a resilient biasing force that is transferred to the electrode tip for maintaining contact between the electrode tip such that the electrode is generally incapable of generating sufficient force to move said workpiece against the support surface. 85. The method of claim 1 wherein configuring said workpiece includes arranging the workpiece for supporting an optical component and affixing the optical component to the workpiece prior to said distributing and contacting. 86. The system of claim 8 wherein said biasing force arrangement includes a biasing end that is in electrical isolation from said electrode tip and said workpiece is in electrical communication with a current return path for conducting a welding current from the electrode tip through the workpiece. 87. The system of claim 8 wherein the weld region includes a diameter in a range of approximately 15 30 mils. 88. The system of claim 8 wherein said electrode is formed as an elongated, electrically conductive flexible member having an elongated length extending to said electrode tip and having an opposing end that receives a resilient biasing force that is transferred to the electrode tip for maintaining contact between the electrode tip and the welding region during compliant movement of the electrode tip with the weld region and said first arrangement is configured for supporting the electrode along said elongated length in a way which allows the electrode to move freely in lateral directions within a predetermined clearance from a centered position. 89. The system of claim 88 wherein said predetermined clearance is in a range from approximately 3 mils to 10 mils surrounding the electrode. 90. The system of claim 8 wherein said first arrangement and said electrode arrangement cooperative to produce a weld between the workpiece and the support surface which shifts the position of the workpiece in a range of approximately 0.1 um to 3 um. 91. The system of claim 8 wherein said electrode is an elongated, electrically conductive flexible member having an elongated length extending to said electrode tip and having an opposing end that receives a resilient biasing force that is transferred to the electrode tip for maintaining contact between the electrode tip such that the electrode is generally incapable of generating sufficient force to move said workpiece against the support surface. 92. The system of claim 8 including an optical component that is fixedly supported by the workpiece. 