A food dishing robot system capable of dealing with dishing operations of foods of various characteristics. Trays are supplied to vicinities of food dishing robots RB1 RB3 by food supplying lines L1 L3. Four food conveying containers are placed on each tray. Each of the robots RB1 RB3 handles a food conveying container containing a food on the tray to move the food conveying container over a lunch box supplied by a lunch box supplying line L4 at a predetermined position, and dishes the food on a predetermined space in the lunch box. The food contained in the food conveying container is discharged through a cutout or an opening formed at a side thereof by inclining the food conveying container. The food conveying container may have a bottom plate to be opened/closed or the robot may have an auxiliary member in the form of scoop to forcedly discharge the food from the food conveying container. After completing the dishing of the food, the food conveying container is returned on the tray. Shaped, shapeless, solid, powdery, granular and liquid food can be dished on the lunch box.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A food dishing robot system for performing a dishing operation of a food comprising: a robot having a hand for handling a food conveying container; and a controller for controlling said robot to hold the food conveying container containing the food by said hand, to carry the food conveying container held by the hand over a food dishing container, and to dish the food contained in the food conveying container on the food dishing container. 2. A food dishing robot system according to claim 1, wherein said hand holds a periphery of the food conveying container to be carried. 3. A food dishing robot system according to claim 1, wherein said hand simultaneously holds a plurality of food conveying containers to be carried. 4. A food dishing robot system according to claim 1, further comprising food supply means for supplying the food conveying container containing the food to said robot, and food dishing container supply means for supplying the food dishing container to said robot, wherein said food conveying container has a cutout on a side thereof, and said controller controls said robot to incline the food conveying container held by said hand such that the food contained in the food conveying container is discharged therefrom through said cutout. 5. A food dishing robot system according to claim 4, wherein said food supply means has a tray on which at least one food conveying container is placed and the food conveying container placed on the tray is supplied to said robot. 6. A food dishing robot system according to claim 4, wherein said food dishing container has a plurality of divided spaces, and said controller designates a space of said plurality of divided spaces to which the food contained in the food conveying container held by said hand is to be dished and controls said robot to dish the food to the designated space in the food dishing container. 7. A food dishing robot system according to claim 6, wherein said controller includes means for providing positional information on the food dishing container, and controls said robot to dish the food to the designated space in the food dishing container based on the provided positional information. 8. A food dishing robot system according to claim 1, further comprising food supply means for supplying the food conveying container containing the food to said robot, and food dishing container supply means for supplying the food dishing container to said robot, wherein said food conveying container has a cutout on a side thereof, and said hand has an auxiliary member in the form of scoop, and said controller controls said robot such that the food contained in the food conveying container is discharged through said cutout out of the food conveying container by means of said auxiliary member. 9. A food dishing robot system according to claim 1, further comprising food supply means for supplying the food conveying container containing the food to said robot, and food dishing container supply means for supplying the food dishing container to said robot, wherein said food conveying container has a spout on a side thereof, and said controller controls said robot to incline the food conveying container held by said hand such that the food contained in the food conveying container is discharged therefrom through said spout. 10. A food dishing robot system according to claim 1, further comprising food supply means for supplying the food conveying container containing the food to said robot, and food dishing container supply means for supplying the food dishing container to said robot, wherein said food conveying container has an opening/closing bottom portion, and said controller controls said robot to open said opening/closing bottom portion such that the food contained in the food conveying container is discharged therefrom. 11. A food dishing robot system according to claim 10, wherein said tray is made of heat-resistant material. 12. A food dishing robot system according to claim 1, wherein said food conveying container is made of heat-resistant material. 