A semiconductor processing system for wafers or other semiconductor articles. The system uses an interface section at an end of the machine accessible from the clean room. A plurality of processing stations are arranged away from the clean room interface. A transfer subsystem removes wafers from supporting carriers, and positions both the wafers and carriers onto a carrousel which is used as an inventory storage. Wafers are shuttled between the inventory and processing stations by a robotic conveyor which is oriented to move toward and away from the interface end. The system processes the wafers without wafer carriers.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A system for processing wafers comprising: an interface section having a plurality of positions for holding wafer carriers, with each wafer carrier having a plurality of grooves for holding an array of wafers, at the edges of the wafers; a process section including at least one process chamber; a plurality of liquid spray nozzles in the process chamber; a rotor rotatable within the process chamber; one or more combs in the rotor for holding the array of wafers within the rotor; a pair of retainer assemblies on the rotor, with each retainer assembly pivotably attached to the rotor for retaining the wafers in place in the rotor with each retainer assembly moveable along a predetermined path of travel between an open position and a closed position and with the retainer assemblies robotically actuated to move between the open and closed positions; and a robot movable between the interface section to the process section, with the robot having an arm and a wafer transfer implement at an end of the arm for picking up an array of wafers. 2. The system of claim 1 with the interface section including a front wall and an interface opening in the front wall, for loading and unloading wafers into and out of the system. 3. The system of claim 1 further comprising a plurality of spray process chambers aligned in a row. 4. The system of claim 1 with the interface section adjoining the process section. 5. The system of claim 1 wherein the process chamber has an open front end, with loading and unloading of the process chamber performed by moving wafers through the open front end of the process chamber. 6. The system of claim 1 wherein the rotor is supportable on a shaft extending through the closed back end of the chamber. 7. The system of claim 1 wherein the robot comprises a first arm section pivotably attached to a second arm section, and a third arm section pivotably attached to the second arm section. 8. The system of claim 1 with the process chamber having an open front end, and a process chamber door moveable between a closed position, for processing wafers within the chamber and an open position, for loading and unloading wafers into and out of the rotor in the process chamber. 9. The system of claim 1 with the interface section including a front wall and an interface opening in the front wall, for loading and unloading wafers into and out of the system. 10. The system of claim 1 wherein the process chamber has an open front end, with loading and unloading of the process chamber performed by moving wafers through the open front end of the process chamber. 11. The system of claim 1 wherein the rotor is supportable on a shaft extending through the closed back end of the chamber. 12. The system of claim 1 wherein the robot comprises a first arm section pivotably attached to a second arm section, and a third arm section pivotably attached to the second arm section. 13. The system of claim 1 wherein each retainer assembly is substantially a mirror image of the other. 14. A system for processing wafers comprising; an interface section having a plurality of positions for holding wafer carriers, with each wafer carrier having a plurality of grooves for holding an array of wafers; a front wall at the interface section, and an interface opening in the front wall, for loading and unloading wafers into and out of the system; a process section including at least one spray process chamber having an open front end and a substantially closed back end; a process chamber door moveable into a closed position, where the door closes off the open front end of the spray process chamber, during processing of wafers within the chamber, and with the chamber door moveable into an open position, for loading and unloading wafers into and out of the spray process chamber, through the open front end of the spray process chamber; a plurality of liquid spray nozzles in the spray process chamber; a rotor rotatable within the spray process chamber; one or more combs in the rotor for holding the array of wafers within the rotor; one or more retainer assemblies pivotably attached to the rotor and with the retainer assemblies robotically actuated to move between the open and closed positions; and a robot movable between the interface section to the process section, with the robot having an arm and a wafer transfer implement at an end of the arm for picking up an array of wafers. 15. The system of claim 14 wherein the rotor is supportable on a shaft extending through the substantially closed back end of the chamber. 16. The system of claim 14 wherein the robot comprises a first arm section pivotably attached to a second arm section, and a third arm section pivotably attached to the second arm section. 