An intuitive pressurized fluid controller using tilt/push/pull (3 axis) operator includes a swivel joint such that it can move axially and tilt. A first array of valves is arranged to be activated as the lever tilts. A second array of valves is arranged so they can be activated when the lever is pulled axially. A third array of valves is arranged so they can be activated when the lever is pushed axially. When plumbed to a plurality of pressurable positioners supporting heavy equipment, the first array of valves can control the equipment pitch and roll as the lever is tilted, and the second/third arrays of valves can control the equipment elevation as the lever is pulled/pushed.
Claims I claim: 1. A pressurized fluid control mechanism including tilt/push/pull operation comprising: a. a housing; b. a lever operator; c. a swivel joint secured to and supportive of said lever operator in a manner allowing said lever operator both tilting motion and axial motion; d. an actuator means extending radially reach of said lever operator and capable of applying actuation forces is attached to said lever operator and movable therewith; e. a first series of valves is attached to said housing and arranged about said lever operator axis so as to be selectively actuated by tiltable movement of said lever operator; f. a second series of valves is attached to said housing and arranged circularly about said lever operator and near said actuator means so as to be actuable by upward axial motion of said actuator means; g. a third series of valves is attached to said housing and arranged circularly about said lever operator and near said actuator means so as to be actuable by downward axial motion of said actuator means. 2. The pressurized fluid control mechanism including tilt/push/pull operation of claim 1, including a pressure regulator plumbed in series with each valve of said second series of valves wherein each of said valves of second series of valves can control with it's own unique pressure. 3. The pressurized fluid control mechanism including tilt/push/pull operation of claim 1, including a pressure regulator plumbed in series with each valve of said third series of valves wherein each of said valves of third series of valves can control with it's own unique pressure. 4. The pressurized fluid control mechanism including tilt/push/pull operation of claim 1, including a means surrounding said lever operator capable of assisting accurate angular alignment by said lever operator to specific valve of said first series of valves, and with minimal chance for accidental activation of other valves of said first series valves. 