A stacked three head finishing apparatus is provided. The apparatus includes a base mountable to a floor, a first head mounted to the base, a second head mounted to the base above the first head, and a third head mounted to the base above the second head. Each of the first, second, and third heads includes a rotatable wheel. A motor imparts rotation to the wheel which may then be used for finishing operations. The height of each head above the floor and the position relative to one another is pre-selected to ensure that all of the heads are within reach of a robot arm and to ensure that nothing will interfere with the movement of the robot arm.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A finishing apparatus comprising: a base adapted to stand on a floor; a first finishing head mounted to the base, the first finishing head being located above the floor; a second finishing head mounted to the base, the second finishing head being located above the first finishing head relative to the floor; and a third finishing head mounted to the base, the third finishing head being located above the second finishing head relative to the floor; wherein the base further comprises: a lower portion including: a pair of laterally spaced apart upstanding legs; and an upper support member connected to each of the laterally spaced apart legs; and an upper portion mounted on top of the lower portion, the upper portion including: a pair of laterally spaced apart upstanding side members mounted to the upper support member of the lower portion; and a plurality of cross panels extending between the pair of laterally spaced apart side members. 2. The finishing apparatus of claim 1 wherein: one of the pair of laterally spaced apart side members of the upper portion is substantially vertically aligned above one of the pair of legs of the lower portion; and the other of the pair of laterally spaced apart side members of the upper portion is laterally offset from the other of the pair of legs of the lower portion. 3. A finishing apparatus comprising: a base adapted to stand on a floor; a first finishing head mounted to the base, the first finishing head being located above the floor; a second finishing head mounted to the base, the second finishing head being located above the first finishing head relative to the floor; and a third finishing head mounted to the base, the third finishing head being located above the second finishing head relative to the floor; wherein the first finishing head further comprises: a motor mounted to the base; a wheel mounted to the base above the floor; a driving belt extending between the motor and the wheel; a pulley mounted to the base at a location laterally spaced apart from the wheel and above the floor; and a finishing belt extending between the wheel and the pulley. 4. The finishing apparatus of claim 3 wherein an axis of rotation of the wheel and an axis of rotation of the pulley are substantially located in a common horizontal plane above the floor. 5. The finishing apparatus of claim 3 wherein: the base further comprises a lower portion and an upper portion mounted on top of the lower portion; and the wheel is located at an interface of a leg of the lower portion and an upper support surface of the lower portion. 6. The finishing apparatus of claim 5 wherein the pulley is mounted to an end of the upper support surface opposite the wheel. 7. The finishing apparatus of claim 3 wherein the second finishing head further comprises: a second motor mounted to the base; a second wheel mounted to the base substantially vertically above the wheel; a second driving belt extending between the second motor and the second wheel; a second pulley mounted to the base at a location laterally spaced apart from the second wheel; and a second finishing belt extending between the second wheel and the second pulley. 8. The finishing apparatus of claim 7 wherein the second wheel is spaced apart from a front of the base by a greater distance than the wheel. 9. The finishing apparatus of claim 7 wherein an axis of rotation of the second wheel and an axis of rotation of the second pulley are substantially located in a common horizontal plane above the floor. 10. The finishing apparatus of claim 9 wherein an axis of rotation of the second motor is substantially located in the common horizontal plane above the floor. 11. The finishing apparatus of claim 7 wherein: the base further comprises a lower portion and an upper portion mounted on top of the lower portion; and the second wheel is located at a first end of a housing mounted to the upper portion of the base. 12. The finishing apparatus of claim 11 wherein the second pulley is mounted to a second end of the housing opposite the first end. 13. The finishing apparatus of claim 7 wherein the third finishing head further comprises: a third motor mounted to the base; a third wheel mounted to the base substantially vertically above the second wheel; a third driving belt extending between the third motor and the third wheel; a third pulley mounted to the base at a location laterally spaced apart from the third wheel; and a third finishing belt extending between the third wheel and the third pulley. 14. The finishing apparatus of claim 13 wherein the second and third wheels are spaced apart from a front of the base by a substantially equal distance. 15. The finishing apparatus of claim 13 wherein an axis of rotation of the third wheel and an axis of rotation of the third pulley are substantially located in a common horizontal plane above the floor. 16. The finishing apparatus of claim 15 wherein an axis of rotation of the third motor is substantially located in the common horizontal plane above the floor. 17. The finishing apparatus of claim 13 wherein: the base further comprises a lower portion and an upper portion mounted on top of the lower portion; and the third wheel is located at a first end of a housing mounted to the upper portion of the base. 18. The finishing apparatus of claim 17 wherein the third pulley is mounted to a second end of the housing opposite the first end. 19. A finishing apparatus comprising: a base adapted to stand on a floor, the base including: a lower portion including: a pair of laterally spaced apart vertical legs; and a horizontal upper support member connected to each of the laterally spaced apart legs; and an upper portion mounted on top of the lower portion, the upper portion including: a pair of laterally spaced apart vertical side members mounted to the upper support member of the lower portion, one of the pair of laterally spaced apart side members being substantially vertically aligned above one of the pair of legs of the lower portion, and the other of the pair of laterally spaced apart side members being laterally offset from the other of the pair of legs of the lower portion; and a plurality of horizontal cross panels extending between the pair of laterally spaced apart side members; a first finishing head mounted to the base, the first finishing head including: a first motor mounted to the base; a first wheel mounted to the base at an interface of the one of the pair of legs of the lower portion and the upper support surface of the lower portion; a first driving belt extending between the first motor and the first wheel; a first pulley mounted to an end of the upper support surface opposite the first wheel, an axis of rotation of the first wheel and an axis of rotation of the first pulley being substantially located in a first common horizontal plane above the floor; and a first finishing belt extending between the first wheel and the first pulley; a second finishing head mounted to the base, the second finishing head including: a second motor mounted to the base; a second wheel mounted at a first end of a first housing mounted to the upper portion of the base, the second wheel being located vertically above the first wheel and spaced apart from a front of the base by a greater distance than the first wheel; a second driving belt extending between the second motor and the second wheel; a second pulley mounted to a second end of the first housing opposite the first end, an axis of rotation of the second wheel, an axis of rotation of the second pulley, and an axis of rotation of the motor being substantially located in a second common horizontal plane above the floor; and a second finishing belt extending between the second wheel and the second pulley; and a third finishing head mounted to the base, the third finishing head including: a third motor mounted to the base; a third wheel mounted at a first end of a second housing mounted to the upper portion of the base, the third wheel being located substantially vertically above the second wheel, and the second and third wheels being spaced apart from the front of the base by a substantially equal distance; a third driving belt extending between the third motor and the third wheel; a third pulley mounted to a second end of the second housing opposite the first end, an axis of rotation of the third wheel, an axis of rotation of the third pulley, and an axis of rotation of the third motor being substantially located in a third common horizontal plane above the floor; and a third finishing belt extending between the third wheel and the third pulley. 