A shrinking arrangement for a tool holder (12) which retains a rotary tool (10) with a press fit in a central accommodating opening (20) comprises an accommodating unit (24) for accommodating the tool holder and a temperature-controlling arrangement (46, 64) at least for the thermal expansion, in particular also for subsequent cooling, of the tool holder in the region of the accommodating opening. According to the invention, the accommodating unit is arranged on a carriage (32) which is guided such that it can be displaced in the longitudinal direction of the rails of a rail system (30), which runs parallel to the axis (16) of the tool holder accommodated in the accommodating unit and is fastened on a supporting base (28), and it being possible for said carriage to be moved along its displacement path into at least one region of action of the temperature-controlling arrangement. It is preferably the case, furthermore, that a positioning/mounting unit (36) which retains the tool (10) in a radial position relative to the tool holder (12) is arranged on a further carriage (34), which is guided such that it can be displaced in the longitudinal direction of the rails of the rail system (30) independently of the first-mentioned carriage (32).
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. Shrinking arrangement for a tool holder which retains a rotary tool with a press fit in a central accommodating opening, comprising: a rail system fastened to a supporting base; a carriage coupled to the rail system; an accommodating unit, arranged on the carriage, for accommodating the tool holder such that an axis of the tool holder is substantially parallel to a longitudinal direction of the rail system; a mounting unit for mounting the rotary tool coaxially with the axis of the tool holder; a positioning drive for moving the carriage and the mounting unit relative to each other in the longitudinal direction of the rail system; and a temperature-controlling arrangement for the thermal expansion and for the subsequent cooling of the tool holder in the region of the accommodating opening, the temperature-controlling arrangement including a cooling unit and a transversely-displaceable heating unit, wherein the carriage follows a displacement path into a region of action of the temperature-controlling arrangement, and wherein the heating unit is transversely-displaced, relative to the displacement path, when the carriage is within the region of action of the cooling unit. 2. Arrangement according to claim 1, wherein the carriage occupies different axial positions along the rail system for heating and for cooling the tool holder. 3. Arrangement according to claim 1, wherein the heating unit is arranged on the supporting base and is transversely-displaceable, in an orthogonal plane to the longitudinal direction of the rail system, between at least one advanced position, in which the heating unit has been moved into the displacement path of the carriage and in which the tool holder occupies a through-passage opening of a temperature-controlling element of the heating unit, and a drawn-back position, in which the heating unit has been moved out of the displacement path of the carriage. 4. Arrangement according to claim 3, wherein the temperature-controlling element has an induction coil which, for heating purposes, encloses the region of the accommodating opening of the tool holder in an annular manner, at a radial distance therefrom. 5. Arrangement according to claim 3, wherein the temperature-controlling element has a cooling collar, through which liquid coolant flows, positioned on the tool holder and in contact therewith, for cooling purposes. 6. Arrangement according to claim 3, wherein the temperature-controlling arrangement is fitted on the supporting base in a stationary manner with respect to the longitudinal direction of the rails. 7. Arrangement according to claim 3, wherein the heating unit is linearly guided, at least in part, between the drawn-back position and the advanced position. 8. Arrangement according to claim 3, wherein the cooling unit is arranged on the supporting base and is transversely-displaceable, in an orthogonal plane to the longitudinal direction of the rail system, between at least one advanced position, in which the cooling unit has been moved into the displacement path of the carriage and in which the tool holder occupies a through-passage opening of a temperature-controlling element of the cooling unit, and a drawn-back position, in which the cooling unit has been moved out of the displacement path of the carriage. 9. Arrangement according to claim 8, wherein the cooling unit is linearly guided, at least in part, between the drawn-back position and the advanced position. 