A system for making a biochemical assay of each of plurality of provided specimens, comprising: a plurality of receptacles, a sensor for providing a resistance, a mechanism and a controller.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for making a biochemical assay of each of a plurality of provided specimens, the system comprising: a. a plurality of receptacles, each receptacle for containing a respective specimen of the plurality of specimens, each receptacle comprising a surface for binding a paramagnetic particle to the surface; b. a detector for providing a resistance responsive to paramagnetic particle proximity to the detector in accordance with a giant magnetoresistive effect; c. a mechanism for positioning each respective surface in working proximity to the detector for providing a respective resistance; d. a controller for controlling the mechanism and for recording indicia of each respective resistance; wherein said detector comprises a multiplicity of physically defined active areas for independent detecting of each of a corresponding multiplicity of specimens of the plurality of specimens; each active area comprises a plurality of sensors, each sensor comprising an independent resistance responsive to paramagnetic particle proximity to the respective sensor in accordance with a respective giant magnetoresistive effect; and said controller further records indicia of resistance of each sensor. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein a motion of a respective receptacle is substantially stopped while the respective resistance is provided by the detector. 3. The system of claim 1 wherein: a. the detector comprises for each active area an integrated circuit comprising the plurality of sensors and a serial interface; and b. the controller is coupled to each serial interface for receiving indicia of resistance. 4. The system of claim 1 wherein each respective active area is aligned below a respective specimen. 5. The system of claim 4 wherein a distance between a surface and an active area is reduced by operation of an atmospheric pressure above the surface. 6. The system of claim 1 wherein the mechanism comprises: a. a disk for holding the plurality of specimens, the disk having a face and having an axis of rotation perpendicular to the face; and b. a motor for rotating the disk about the axis to position a respective specimen held by the disk in working proximity to the detector. 7. The system of claim 6 wherein each receptacle is integral to the disk. 8. The system of claim 1 wherein the mechanism comprises: a. a base for holding the plurality of specimens, the tray having a plurality of rows; and b. a motor for positioning a respective specimen held by the base in working proximity to the detector. 9. The system of claim 1 wherein the mechanism moves the detector. 10. The system of claim 1 wherein said receptacle is discarded and said sensor reused. 11. The system of claim 1 further comprising a console for operator controls, displays, and data processing, and a chemical analysis unit for performing said biochemical assay. 12. The system of claim 1 wherein said receptacles are placed in specimen trays which facilitate mechanical protection, identification, preparation, storage, handling and disposal of multiple specimen carriers. 