An apparatus and method for transferring energy from an internal combustion engine to drive a load. The system includes a rapid response component, a valve system and an actuator. The rapid response component is configured to be operatively coupled to a combustion portion of the internal combustion engine. The rapid response component is also configured to draw a portion of energy from the combustion in the internal combustion engine and transfer the portion of energy as a fluid including pulsitile fluid flow. The valve system is operatively coupled to the rapid response component and is operable to receive and controllably direct the pulsitile fluid flow from the rapid response component. The actuator is operatively coupled to the valve system and is configured to be operatively coupled to the load. The actuator operates to receive the fluid from the valve system to drive the load operatively coupled thereto.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A valve/actuator system configured to control pulsitile fluid flow from a rapid response component associated with an internal combustion engine, the valve/actuator system comprising: a gate valve, configured to be operatively coupled to the rapid response component, having an opened and closed configuration to match the pulsitile fluid flow from the rapid response component; a proportional valve, operatively coupled to said gate valve, operable to selectively restrict said pulsitile fluid flow from said gate valve to provide a selectively restricted fluid flow from said proportional valve; a directional valve, operatively coupled to said proportional valve, operable to receive said selectively restricted fluid flow from said proportional valve and selectively direct a selectively directed fluid flow; and an actuator, operatively coupled to said directional valve, operable to receive the selectively directed fluid flow from said directional valve to drive a load coupled to said actuator. 2. The valve/actuator system of claim 1, wherein said gate valve, said proportional valve and said directional valve act in conjunction to manipulate the pulsitile fluid flow received from the rapid response component to drive said load coupled to said actuator. 3. The valve/actuator system of claim 1, wherein said gate valve, said proportional valve and said directional valve act in conjunction as a synchronized pulsitile valve system operable to handle the pulsitile flow from the rapid response component. 4. The valve/actuator system of claim 3, wherein said synchronized pulsitile valve system comprises a synchronized modulatable, pulsitile valve system operable to handle modulatable, pulsating fluid flow from the rapid response component. 5. The valve/actuator system of claim 1, wherein said gate valve is interconnected and synchronized with the operation of at least one of the rapid response component and the internal combustion engine so that said gate valve opens and closes to match said pulsitile fluid flow. 6. The valve/actuator system of claim 1, wherein said gate valve is operatively coupled to said actuator to receive exhaust fluid flow from said actuator. 7. The valve/actuator system of claim 1, further comprising an accumulator, coupled to said proportional valve, operable to accumulate excess fluid from said pulsitile fluid flow restricted by said proportional valve. 8. The valve/actuator system of claim 1, further comprising a gate controller interconnected between said gate valve and the internal combustion engine, said gate controller operable to open and close said gate valve to correspond with said pulsitile fluid flow. 9. The valve/actuator system of claim 8, wherein said gate controller includes a cam member interconnected to the internal combustion engine. 10. The valve/actuator system of claim 8, wherein said gate controller includes an electrical switch timed to open and close said gate valve to correspond with the pulsitile fluid flow. 11. The valve/actuator system of claim 1, further comprising a proportional controller interconnected to said proportional valve, said actuator and the internal combustion engine to selectively control the pulsitile fluid flow with respect to said load coupled to said actuator. 12. The valve/actuator system of claim 1, further comprising a directional controller, interconnected to said directional valve, operable to control said selectively directed fluid flow from said directional valve to direct said actuator and to drive said load coupled to said actuator. 13. The valve/actuator system of claim 12, wherein said directional controller includes a digital directional controller. 14. The valve/actuator system of claim 1, wherein said directional valve includes a four-way valve operable to drive said actuator and said load. 15. The valve/actuator system of claim 1, wherein said actuator includes a piston slidable in a cylinder, said piston operable to reciprocate and drive said load. 16. A system configured to drive a load by transferring energy from an internal combustion engine having a chamber and a piston with a combustion portion in the chamber, the chamber having at least one fuel inlet to supply fuel thereto and an exhaust outlet, the fuel configured to at least partially facilitate combustion in the combustion portion of the chamber to provide energy therein and to act upon the piston, said system comprising: a rapid response component, configured to be operatively coupled to the combustion portion of the chamber, said rapid response component configured to draw a portion of said energy from said combustion in said chamber and transfer said portion of said energy as a fluid including pulsitile fluid flow; a valve system, operatively coupled to said rapid response component, operable to receive said pulsitile fluid flow from said rapid response component and controllably direct said pulsitile fluid flow from said rapid response component; and an actuator, operatively coupled to said valve system and configured to be operatively coupled to the load, said actuator operable to receive said fluid from said valve system to drive the load operatively coupled thereto. 17. The system of claim 16, wherein said rapid response component is configured to draw said portion of said energy from said chamber during a time period from a proximate instant of said combustion and prior to the piston of the internal combustion engine reciprocating to a position at a median between a top dead center position and a bottom dead center position. 18. The system of claim 16, wherein said rapid response component is operable to pulsate to provide said pulsitile fluid flow at selected cycles of one or more cycles so that said selected cycles are non-continuous compared to that of the piston in the internal combustion engine configured to substantially continuously reciprocate in the chamber. 19. The system of claim 18, wherein said selected cycles of said pulsitile fluid flow are modulatable with respect to each other. 20. The system of claim 16, wherein said valve system comprises at least a gate valve, a proportional valve and a directional valve. 21. The system of claim 20, wherein said gate valve, said proportional valve and said directional valve act in conjunction to manipulate said pulsitile fluid flow received from said rapid response component to drive the load coupled to said actuator. 22. The system of claim 20, wherein said gate valve is operatively coupled to said rapid response component and includes an open and closed configuration to match said pulsitile fluid flow from said rapid response component. 23. The system of claim 22, wherein said proportional valve is operatively coupled to said gate valve and is operable to selectively restrict said pulsitile fluid flow from said gate valve to provide a selectively restricted fluid flow. 24. The system of claim 23, wherein said directional valve is operatively coupled to said proportional valve and is operable to receive said selectively restricted fluid flow from said proportional valve and selectively direct a selectively directed fluid flow. 25. The system of claim 24, wherein said actuator is operatively coupled to said directional valve and is operable to receive said selectively directed fluid flow from said directional valve to drive said load coupled to said actuator. 26. The system of claim 23, further comprising an accumulator, operatively coupled to said proportional valve, operable to accumulate excess fluid from said pulsitile fluid flow restricted by said proportional valve. 27. The valve system of claim 20, wherein said gate valve, said proportional valve and said directional valve act in conjunction as a synchronized pulsitile valve system operable to handle said pulsitile fluid flow from said rapid response component. 28. The valve system of claim 27, wherein said synchronized pulsitile valve system comprises a synchronized modulatable, pulsitile valve system operable to handle modulatable, pulsating fluid flow from said rapid response component. 29. A method of transferring energy from a rapid response component associated with an internal combustion engine to drive a load, the method comprising: operating the internal combustion engine so that the rapid response component pulsates with respect to combustion in the internal combustion engine to pump a fluid from the rapid response component; obtaining a pulsitile fluid flow from the rapid response component; opening and closing a gate valve operatively coupled to the rapid response component to match said pulsitile fluid flow; selectively restricting said pulsitile fluid flow through a proportional valve operatively coupled to said gate valve; and selectively directing said fluid to at least one actuator operatively coupled to the load with a directional valve operatively coupled to the proportional valve. 30. The method of claim 29, wherein said obtaining said pulsitile fluid flow comprises pulsating said pulsitile fluid flow at selective cycles of one or more cycles so that said selected cycles are modulatable with respect to each other. 31. The method of claim 30, wherein said pulsating comprises modulating said selective cycles by changing a timing of combustion in the internal combustion engine. 32. The method of claim 30, wherein said pulsating comprises modulating said selective cycles by changing an amount of fuel for combustion in the internal combustion engine. 