A microfluidic system is provided that includes a substrate, a first microchannel disposed in the substrate for providing a reactant to a reaction zone, a second microchannel disposed in the substrate, and a third microchannel disposed in the substrate, the third microchannel providing fluid communication between the first and second microchannels. The system also typically includes first and second electrodes, positioned at opposite ends of the second microchannel, for providing an electric field within the second microchannel. In operation, when the reactant is in the reaction zone, a reaction product is produced having a net electric charge different from the electric charge of the reactant.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A microfluidic device useful for analyzing a reaction, the device comprising: a substrate; at least two microchannels disposed on the substrate, wherein said microchannels are in fluid communication with each other; an immobilization zone within a first one of said microchannels, wherein at least a portion of a reactant is immobilized proximal the immobilization zone to allow for a reaction to occur so as to produce a reaction product; and a detection zone within a second one of said microchannels, wherein there is substantially no electric field within the first microchannel proximal the immobilization zone, and wherein a biasing force moves the reaction product into the detection zone within the second microchannel, wherein the reactant includes a charge-switch nucleotide probe, and wherein the probe is a nucleotide triphosphate and the terminal phosphate includes a fluorophore attached thereto. 2. The device of claim 1, wherein the biasing force includes one of an electric field, a pressure field and a combination of an electric field and a pressure field. 3. The device of claim 1, wherein the biasing force includes a pressure field in the first microchannel and an electric field within the second microchannel. 4. The device of claim 1, wherein the reaction occurs in a reaction zone proximal the immobilization zone. 5. The device of claim 4, wherein at least a portion of the reaction zone is within the first microchannel. 6. The device of claim 4, wherein at least a portion of the reaction zone is within the second microchannel. 7. The device of claim 4, further including a third microchannel fluidly coupling the first and second microchannels, wherein at least a portion of the reaction zone is within the third microchannel. 8. The device of claim 7, wherein there is substantially no electric field within said third microchannel. 9. The device of claim 4, wherein at least a portion of the reaction zone is in a flow path between the immobilization zone and the detection zone. 10. The device of claim 1, wherein the reactant is provided on a solid phase. 11. The device of claim 10, wherein the reactant includes a nucleic acid complex immobilized on the solid phase in a single molecule configuration. 12. The device of claim 10, wherein the solid phase is magnetic or magnetizable, the device further including a magnetic field generating element positioned proximal the immobilization zone for holding the solid phase. 13. The device of claim 12, wherein the magnetic field generating element includes one of a permanent magnet and one or more electric coils. 14. The device of claim 1, wherein the reaction product has a net charge different from the net charge of the reactant. 15. The device of claim 14, wherein the net electric charge of the reaction product has an opposite polarity to the electric charge of the reactant. 16. The device of claim 14, wherein the net electric charge of the reaction product has the same polarity as the electric charge of the reactant, but has a charge magnitude different that the charge magnitude of the reactant. 17. The device of claim 16, wherein the reactant product is separated from the reactant due to different mobilities in a bulk fluid flow away from the detection zone in the second microchannel based on the difference in charge magnitude between the reactant and the reaction product. 18. The system device of claim 1, wherein the reaction is one of a molecular cleavage reaction and an enzymatic cleavage reaction. 19. The device of claim 1, wherein the second microchannel has a depth within at least the detection zone of between about 0.5 .mu.m and about 1.0 .mu.m. 20. The device of claim 1, further including means for generating an evanescent excitation field within the detection zone, and wherein the second microchannel has a depth within at least the detection zone that is less than approximately four times the exponential decay constant of the evanescent excitation field within the detection zone. 21. The device of claim 1, further comprising a third microchannel, coupled to the second microchannel between the immobilization zone and the detection zone, for supplying a second reactant material to the reaction zone. 22. The device of claim 1, wherein the reaction zone is sufficiently close to the detection zone so as to maintain the order of reaction product produced in the reaction as it enters the detection zone. 23. The device of claim 1, wherein the reaction zone is not proximal the detection zone, and wherein the biasing force is sufficiently strong so as to maintain the order of reaction product produced in the reaction as it enters the detection zone. 