This invention pertains to a polishing apparatus for polishing a semiconductor wafer. The apparatus comprises a storage section that is capable of receiving a workpiece to be polished and a polished workpiece. The polishing unit that polishes the workpiece includes a primary polishing table and a secondary polishing table, wherein the polishing surface of the secondary polishing table is constructed to be arranged such that at least a portion of a surface of the workpiece being polished by the polishing surface of the secondary polishing table extends beyond an edge of the polishing surface of the secondary polishing table. Also provided is a film thickness measuring device, which measures the thickness of a film formed on a polished workpiece while the polished workpiece is held by a top ring above a pusher.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A polishing apparatus comprising: a polishing table having an abrading tool thereon; a top ring for holding a workpiece and pressing the workpiece against said abrading tool; a transfer device for transferring a workpiece to be polished to said top ring; and a film thickness measuring device located adjacent said transfer device for measuring a film thickness of a polished workpiece, wherein said transfer device comprises a pusher, with said film thickness measuring device being located above said pusher. 2. The polishing apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising: a feedback control device configured to adjust a polishing time for a next workpiece to be polished based on a film thickness of a polished workpiece as measured by said film thickness measuring device. 3. The polishing apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising: a control device configured to rearrange a polishing schedule so as to repolish a polished workpiece based on a film thickness of the polished workpiece as measured by said film thickness measuring device. 4. A polishing apparatus comprising: a polishing table having an abrading tool thereon; a top ring for holding a workpiece and pressing the workpiece against said abrading tool; a transfer device for transferring a workpiece to be polished to said top ring; and a film thickness measuring device located adjacent said transfer device for measuring a film thickness of a polished workpiece, wherein said film thickness measuring device includes an optical head for measuring the film thickness of the polished workpiece in a non-contact manner, and a positioning device for moving said optical head. 5. A polishing apparatus comprising: a cassette for storing workpieces; a polishing table having an abrading tool thereon; a top ring for holding a workpiece and pressing the workpiece against said abrading tool; a transfer mechanism disposed between said cassette and said top ring for transferring a workpiece to be polished to said top ring; and a film thickness measuring device located adjacent said transfer mechanism for measuring a film thickness of a polished workpiece, wherein said transfer mechanism comprises an inverter, a robot, and a pusher, with said film thickness measuring device being located above said pusher. 6. The polishing apparatus according to claim 5, further comprising: a feedback control device configured to adjust a polishing time for a next workpiece to be polished based on a film thickness of a polished workpiece as measured by said film thickness measuring device. 7. The polishing apparatus according to claim 5, further comprising: a control device configured to rearrange a polishing schedule so as to repolish a polished workpiece based on a film thickness of the polished workpiece as measured by said film thickness measuring device. 8. A polishing apparatus comprising: a cassette for storing workpieces; a polishing table having an abrading tool thereon; a top ring for holding a workpiece and Pressing the workpiece against said abrading tool; a transfer mechanism disposed between said cassette and said top ring for transferring a workpiece to be polished to said top ring; and a film thickness measuring device located adjacent said transfer mechanism for measuring a film thickness of a polished workpiece, wherein said film thickness measuring device includes an optical head for measuring the film thickness of the polished workpiece in a non-contact manner, and a positioning device for moving said optical head. 9. A polishing apparatus comprising: a cassette for storing workpieces; a polishing table having an abrading tool thereon; a top ring for holding a workpiece and pressing the workpiece against said abrading tool; a transfer mechanism for transferring a workpiece to be polished from said cassette to said top ring; and a film thickness measuring device located adjacent said transfer mechanism for measuring a film thickness of a polished workpiece, wherein said transfer mechanism comprises an inverter, a robot, and a pusher, with said film thickness measuring device being located above said pusher. 10. The polishing apparatus according to claim 9, further comprising: a feedback control device configured to adjust a polishing time for a next workpiece to be polished based on a film thickness of a polished workpiece as measured by said film thickness measuring device. 11. The polishing apparatus according to claim 9, further comprising: a control device configured to rearrange a polishing schedule so as to repolish a polished workpiece based on a film thickness of the polished workpiece as measured by said film thickness measuring device. 12. A polishing apparatus comprising: a cassette for storing workpieces; a polishing table having an abrading tool thereon; a top ring for holding a workpiece and pressing the workpiece against said abrading tool; a transfer mechanism for transferring a workpiece to be polished from said cassette to said top ring; and a film thickness measuring device located adjacent said transfer mechanism for measuring a film thickness of a polished workpiece, wherein said film thickness measuring device includes an optical head for measuring the film thickness of the polished workpiece in a non-contact manner, and a positioning device for moving said optical head. 