Novel means and methods for their use are provided to determine the function of the product(s) of one or more sample nucleic acids. The sample nucleic acids are synthetic oligonucleotides, DNA, or cDNA and encode polypeptides, antisense nucleic acids, or GSEs. The sample nucleic acids are expressed in a host by a vehicle to alter at least one phenotype of the host. The altered phenotype(s) is/are identified as a means to assign a biological function to the product(s) encoded by the sample nucleic acid(s).
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for determining the function of a unique nucleic acid present in a library, said method comprising: (a) providing a library of a multitude of unique expressible nucleic acids, said library including a multiplicity of compartments, each of said compartments consisting essentially of one or more adenoviral vector comprising at least one unique nucleic acid of said library in an aqueous medium, wherein said adenoviral vector is capable of introducing said nucleic acid into a host cell, is capable of expressing the product of said nucleic acid in said host cell, and is deleted in a portion of the adenoviral genome necessary for replication thereof in said host cell; (b) transducing a multiplicity of host cells with at least one adenoviral vector comprising at least one unique nucleic acid from said library; (c) incubating said host cells to allow expression of the product of said nucleic acid; and (d) determining the function of said nucleic acid. 2. A method for determining at least one function of at least one nucleic acid present in a library of claim 1, said method comprising: transducing a multiplicity of cells with at least one vehicle comprising said at least one nucleic acid from said library, and culturing said multiplicity of cells while allowing for expression of said at least one nucleic acid and determining the expressed function thereof. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein step (d) comprises observing said host cell to identify any changes in said host cell relative to a host cell that has not been transduced with an adenoviral vector comprising said nucleic acid. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the function of the expression product of all of said unique expressible nucleic acids in said library is unknown at the time said library is first made. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein none of said compartments contain any adenoviral vector capable of replication except in a packaging cell containing said deleted portion of adenoviral genome. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein said host cell is a eucaryotic cell. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one compartment comprises at least two adenoviral vectors. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein each of said compartments consists essentially of one said adenoviral vector. 9. The method of claim 5, wherein each of said compartments contains from about 0.01.times.10.sup.10 to about 10.times.10.sup.10 pfu of said adenoviral vector per ml of aqueous medium. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein each of said compartments further contains the cellular debris from packaging cell lysate. 11. The method of claim 5, wherein said adenoviral vector is a minimal vector. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein said minimal vector comprises an adenovirus encapsidation signal or a functional part, derivative and/or analogue thereof, and at least one copy of at least a functional part or a derivative of an adenoviral ITR. 13. The method of claim 5, wherein said adenoviral vector comprises adenoviral genomic sequence deleted for sequence encoding the E1-region proteins. 14. The method of claim 12 wherein said minimal vector further comprises an adeno-associated virus terminal repeat or a functional part, derivative and/or analogue thereof. 15. The method of claim 13, wherein said adenoviral vector is further deleted for sequence encoding the E2A-region proteins, or the E2B region proteins or the complete E2 region proteins. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein said adenoviral vector further comprises adenovirus genomic sequence encoding adenoviral fiber proteins from at least two serotypes of adenovirus. 17. The method according to claim 1, wherein said multiplicity of cells is divided over a multiplicity of compartments, each said compartment comprising at least one vector. 18. The method according to claim 1, further comprising selecting at least one vector having a desired function. 19. The method according to claim 1, wherein at least one of said performed steps is automated. 20. A method for obtaining an expressible nucleic acid having a desired function when expressed in a cell, said method comprising: (a) performing the method of claim 1; (b) determining which compartment in said library contains an adenoviral vector comprising a unique nucleic acid having said desired function; and (c) obtaining said vector from said compartment. 21. The method according to claim 1, wherein said multiplicity of compartments comprises a multiwell format of at least 6 wells. 22. The method according to claim 21, wherein substantially each said well consists essentially of one or more said adenoviral vector comprising said unique nucleic acid that encodes a product of unknown function. 23. The method according to claim 21, wherein said library is configured to be made and used in a substantially automated process. 24. The method according to claim 21, wherein said multiplicity of compartments comprises a multiwell format of at least 96 wells. 25. The method according to claim 24, wherein each well contains cellular debris from eucaryotic packaging cell lysate. 26. The method of claim 24, wherein none of said wells contains adenoviral vector capable of replication except in a packaging cell containing said deleted portion of adenoviral genome. 27. The method of claim 26, wherein each of said wells contains from about 0.01.times.10.sup.10 to about 10.times.10.sup.10 pfu of said adenoviral vector per ml of aqueous medium. 28. The method of claim 1, wherein each of said unique nucleic acids is derived from a member of a population of nucleic acids, said population selected from the group consisting of naturally occurring populations of messenger RNA, DNAs, cDNAs, genes, ESTs and genetic suppressor elements; synthetic oligonucleotides; and antisense nucleic acids. 29. The method of claim 10, wherein the contents of each said compartment is capable of transfecting said host cell and expressing the product of each said unique nucleic acid in said host cell. 30. The method of claim 29, wherein each said compartment is capable of providing from about 400 to about 4000 aliquots of said adenoviral vector. 31. The method of claim 27, wherein the contents of each said well is capable of transfecting said host cell and expressing the product of each said unique nucleic acid in said host cell. 32. The method of claim 31, wherein each said well is capable of providing from about 400 to about 4000 aliquots of said adenoviral vector. 33. The method of claim 12, wherein said minimal vector comprises an regulatable promoter operably linked to said unique nucleic acid. 34. The method of claim 13, wherein said adenoviral vector comprises an regulatable promoter operably linked to said unique nucleic acid. 35. The method of claim 13, wherein said adenoviral vector is further deleted for the adenoviral E3-region or a functional part thereof. 36. The method of claim 15, wherein said adenoviral vector is further deleted for the adenoviral E3-region or a functional part thereof. 37. The method of claim 35, wherein said adenoviral vector is further deleted for the adenoviral E4-region or a functional part thereof. 38. The method of claim 36, wherein said adenoviral vector is further deleted for the adenoviral E4-region or a functional part thereof. 39. The method of claim 33, wherein said promoter is repressed by an adenoviral E1 gene product. 40. The method of claim 34, wherein said promoter is repressed by an adenoviral E1 gene product. 41. The method of claim 39, wherein said promoter is an AP1 dependent promoter. 42. The method of claim 40, wherein said promoter is an AP1 dependent promoter. 43. A method according to claim 40, wherein said adenoviral vector is packaged into an adenoviral capsid. 44. The method of claim 1 wherein said function comprises a biological activity. 45. The method of claim 44 wherein said biological activity is selected from the group consisting of altered viability, morphologic changes, apoptosis, DNA synthesis, tumorigenesis, disease or drug susceptibility, chemical responsiveness, chemical secretion and protein expression. 46. The method of claim 1 wherein said unique expressible nucleic acid is derived from the group consisting of mammals, fish, nemotodes, insects, yeasts, fungi, bacteria and plants. 47. The method of claim 46 wherein said library of unique nucleic acid is derived from human placenta mRNA. 48. The method of claim 46 wherein said library of unique nucleic acid is derived from zebrafish mRNAs. 49. The method of claim 46 wherein said host cells are present in zebrafish embryos. 50. The method of claim 46 wherein said host cells are present in zebrafish adults. 51. A method for determining the function of a unique nucleic acid present in a library, said method comprising: (a) growing a plurality of cell cultures containing at least one cell, said one cell expressing adenoviral sequence consisting essentially of E1-region sequences and expressing one or more functional gene products encoded by at least one adenoviral region selected from an E2A region and an E4 region; and (b) transfecting, under conditions whereby said recombinant adenovirus vector library is produced, said at least one cell in each of said plurality of cell cultures with i) an adapter plasmid comprising adenoviral sequence coding, in operable configuration, for a functional Inverted Terminal Repeat, a functional encapsidation signal, and sequences sufficient to allow for homologous recombination with a first recombinant nucleic acid, and not coding for E1 region sequences which overlap with E1 region sequences in said at least one cell, for E1 region sequences which overlap with E1 region sequences in a first recombinant nucleic acid, for E2B region sequences other than essential E2B sequences, for E2A region sequences, for E3 region sequences and for E4 region sequences, and further comprises a unique nucleic acid sequence and promoter operatively linked to said unique nucleic acid sequence; and ii) a first recombinant nucleic acid comprising adenoviral sequence coding, in operable configuration, for a functional adenoviral Inverted Terminal Repeat and for sequences sufficient for replication in said at least one cell, but not comprising adenoviral E1 region sequences which overlap with E1 sequences in said at least one cell, and not comprising E2A region sequences or E4 region sequences expressed in said plurality of cells which would otherwise lead to production of replication competent adenovirus wherein said first recombinant nucleic acid has sufficient overlap with said adapter plasmid to provide for homologous recombination resulting in production of recombinant adenoviral vectors in said at least one cell; (c) incubating said plurality of cells under conditions which result in the lysis of said plurality of cells facilitating the release of said recombinant adenoviral vectors containing said unique nucleic acid; and (d) transferring an aliquot of said adenoviral vectors into a corresponding plurality of host cell cultures consisting of cells in which said vectors do not replicate, but in which said nucleic acids are expressible; (e) incubating said host cells to allow expression of the product of said nucleic acid; and (f) observing said host cell for changes in said host cell. 52. A method according to claim 51, further comprising (g) assigning a function to said nucleic acids, for which the expressed product thereof results in observed changes in said host cells. 53. A method according to claim 52, wherein said biological function comprises apoptosis, DNA synthesis, tumorigenesis, disease or drug susceptibility, chemical responsiveness, chemical secretion, protein expression, cell differentiation, proliferation, drug resistance, capillary formation, or cell migration. 54. A method according to claim 52, wherein said observing uses an assay selected from the group consisting of a beta-galactosidase assay, hIL3 assay, Luciferase assay, ceNOS assay, GLVR2 assay and EGFP assay. 55. A method according to claim 52 wherein said zebrafish host cells comprise embryos. 56. The method of claim 52 said zebrafish host cells comprise adult cells. 