A method for teaching production cycle project development utilizing a construction set having at least one construction set component designed to be alterable (e.g., robot) for constructing a user-definable apparatus. The teaching may include providing instructions for constructing the user-definable apparatus including at least one construction set component designed to be alterable. The instructions provided may include a task to be completed by the user-definable apparatus. A test environment for the user-definable apparatus to be tested to satisfy predefined specifications may be established. The test environment may be established on top of a desk. The user-definable apparatus may be tested in the test environment to verify that the predefined specifications are satisfied. A determination may be made as to whether the user-definable apparatus satisfies the predefined specifications. Time for redesign of the apparatus in response to the user-definable apparatus being determined not to satisfy the predefined specifications may be allotted.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for teaching production cycle project development utilizing a construction set having at least one construction set component designed to be alterable for constructing a user-definable apparatus, said method comprising: providing instructions for constructing the user-definable apparatus including at least one construction set component designed to be alterable; establishing a test environment for the user-definable apparatus to be tested to satisfy predefined specifications; testing the user-definable apparatus in the test environment to verify that the predefined specifications are satisfied; determining whether the user-definable apparatus satisfies the predefined specifications; and allotting time for the user-definable apparatus to be re-designed in response to the user-definable apparatus being determined not to satisfy the predefined specifications. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein said providing instructions includes providing a task to be completed by the user-definable apparatus. 3. The method according to claim 1, wherein said determining whether the user-definable apparatus satisfies the predefined specifications includes monitoring time for the user-defined apparatus to complete a task. 4. The method according to claim 1, wherein said establishing the test environment includes forming a test environment on top of a desk. 5. The method according to claim 1, further comprising monitoring procurement activities in the construction of the user-defined apparatus. 6. The method according to claim 1, further comprising monitoring management of material for the construction of the user-defined apparatus. 7. The method according to claim 1, further comprising monitoring quality control efforts in the construction of the user-defined apparatus. 8. The method according to claim 1, further comprising monitoring time management in the construction of the user-defined apparatus. 9. A method for teaching production cycle project development utilizing a construction set for constructing a user-definable apparatus, said method comprising: providing a requirements specification to a project developer; providing the construction set to the project developer, the construction set including at least one construction set component designed to be alterable; receiving design drawings depicting the user-definable apparatus conforming to the requirements specification to be constructed by the project developer; reviewing and providing feedback on the design drawings; and receiving the user-definable apparatus designed to conform to the requirements specification. 10. The method according to claim 9, wherein said providing the requirements specification includes providing a task to be performed by the user-definable apparatus. 11. The method according to claim 9, wherein the project developer is a student. 12. The method according to claim 9, wherein said receiving the user-definable apparatus includes entering the user-definable apparatus into a competition. 13. The method according to claim 9, further comprising instructing the project developer how to monitor usage of the alterable construct set components. 14. The method according to claim 9, further comprising grading the user-definable apparatus. 15. The method according to claim 9, further comprising receiving modified design drawings. 16. A system for teaching production cycle project development utilizing a construction set for constructing a user-definable apparatus, said system comprising: means for providing a requirement specification to a project developer; means for providing the construction set to the project developer, the construction set including at least one construction set component designed to be alterable; means for receiving design drawings depicting the user-definable apparatus to be constructed by the project developer; means for reviewing and providing feedback on the design drawings; and means for receiving the user-definable apparatus designed to meet the requirements specification. 17. A method for providing a construction set, said method comprising: receiving a construction set including construction set components, at least one construction set component designed to be alterable to produce a different construction set component, wherein the construction set is adapted for constructing a user-definable apparatus that allows a user to define a type of apparatus and the at least one construction set component designed to be alterable includes at least one user-identifiable feature enabling a user to permanently change a form of the at least one construction set component; distributing the construction set; and making available the at least one construction set component designed to be alterable to be distributed separate from the construction set to enable a user to replace the at least one construction set component designed to be alterable. 18. The method according to claim 17, wherein said receiving of the construction set includes receiving mechanical and electrical components in a container. 19. The method according to claim 17, wherein said receiving of the construction set includes at least one of manufacturing and purchasing manufactured construction set components. 20. The method according to claim 17, wherein said distributing includes making available for purchase. 21. The method according to claim 17, wherein said making available the at least one construction set component designed to be alterable includes making available for purchase. 22. The method according to claim 21, wherein the making available for purchase includes enclosing the at least one construction set component in a separate container. 23. The method according to claim 21, wherein the making available for purchase includes displaying an image on a network with an associated purchasing price. 24. The method of claim 17 wherein the construction set includes other construction set components adapted to engage features of the at least one component designed to be alterable for use in constructing a user-definable apparatus. 25. A system for providing a construction set, said system comprising: means for receiving a construction set including a complete set of construction set components, at least one construction set component designed to be alterable to produce a different construction set component, wherein the construction set is adapted for constructing a user-definable apparatus that allows a user to define a type of apparatus and the at least one construction set component designed to be alterable includes at least one user-identifiable feature enabling a user to permanently change a form of the at least one construction set component; means for distributing the construction set; and means for making available the at least one construction set component designed to be alterable to be distributed separate from the construction set to enable a user to replace the at least one construction set component designed to be alterable. 