The present invention relates to transducers, their use and fabrication. The transducers convert between mechanical and electrical energy. Some transducers of the present invention include a pre-strained polymer. The pre-strain improves the conversion between electrical and mechanical energy. The present invention also relates to devices including an electroactive polymer to convert between electrical and mechanical energy. The present invention further relates to compliant electrodes that conform to the shape of a polymer included in a transducer. The present invention provides methods for fabricating electromechanical devices including one or more electroactive polymers.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A transducer for converting between mechanical and electrical energy, the transducer comprising: at least two electrodes; a polymer arranged in a manner which causes a portion of the polymer to deflect in response to a change in electric field and/or arranged in a manner which causes a change in electric field in response to deflection of the polymer, wherein the polymer has an elastic modulus at most about 100 MPa; and a layer laminated to at least a laminated portion of one of the polymer and the at least two electrodes, end mechanically coupled to the polymer and/or one of the at least two electrodes. 2. The transducer of claim 1 wherein the transducer is included in one of an actuator, a generator, a sensor, a robot, a motor, a pump, and a toy. 3. The transducer of claim 1 wherein the layer is laminated to a portion of a first electrode and provides external mechanical protection to the first electrode. 4. The transducer of claim 3 wherein the transducer has an electromechanical efficiency greater than 80 percent. 5. The transducer of claim 1 wherein the layer distributes mechanical forces across the polymer more uniformly during deflection than mechanical forces produced in the polymer without the layer. 6. The transducer of claim 1 wherein the layer has a higher stiffness than the polymer. 7. The transducer of claim 1 wherein the at least two electrodes comprises first and second electrodes and the layer is laminated between the first and second electrodes. 8. The transducer of claim 7 wherein the layer increases breakdown strength of the transducer. 9. The transducer of claim 1 wherein the layer is made from an electrically compatible material relative to the polymer that increases breakdown strength of the laminate transducer relative to the transducer without the layer. 10. The transducer of claim 1 wherein the layer is used to compensate for manufacturing defects in the polymer. 11. The transducer of claim 1 wherein the layer improves a mechanical property of the transducer. 12. The transducer of claim 1 wherein the layer is an adhesive layer. 13. The transducer of claim 1 where the polymer is rolled or folded. 14. The transducer of claim 13 wherein the polymer is folded and the electrodes are patterned. 15. The transducer of claim 13 wherein the at least two electrodes include a grounded outer exposed electrode. 16. The transducer of claim 1 wherein the polymer is elastically pre-strained. 17. The transducer of claim 1 wherein the polymer is elastically pre-strained by a factor in the range of about 1.5 times to 50 times an original area. 18. A transducer for converting between mechanical and electrical energy, the transducer comprising: at least two electrodes; and a polymer arranged in a manner which causes a portion of the polymer to deflect in response to a change in electric field and/or arranged in a manner which causes a change in electric field in response to deflection of the polymer, wherein the polymer comprises one or more of a) a monoethylenically unsaturated monomer homopolymerizable to form a polymer having a glass transition temperature less than about 0 degrees Celsius, and b) silicone and acrylic moieties. 19. The transducer of claim 18 wherein the monoethylenically unsaturated monomer is selected from a group consisting of isooctyl acrylate, 2-ethylhexyl aerylate, decyl acrylate, dodecyl acrylate, hexyl acrylate, isononyl acrylate, isooctyl methacrylate, and 2-ethylhexyl methacrylate. 20. The transducer of claim 19 wherein the monomer contains a halogen. 21. The transducer of claim 20 wherein the halogen is fluorine. 22. The transducer of claim 18 wherein the transducer is included in one of an actuator, a generator, a sensor, a robot, a motor, a pump, and a toy. 23. The transducer of claim 18 wherein the polymer is a copolymer comprising silicone and acrylic moieties. 24. The transducer of claim 18 wherein the polymer is a polymer blend comprising a silicone elastomer and an acrylic elastomer. 