The invention provides improved methods and apparatus for control using field and control devices that provide a virtual machine environment and that communicate via an IP network. By way of non-limiting example, such field device can be an "intelligent" transmitter or actuator that includes a low power processor, along with a random access memory, a read-only memory, FlashRAM, and a sensor interface. The processor can execute a real-time operating system, as well as a Java virtual machine (JVM). Java byte code executes in the JVM to configure the field device to perform typical process control functions, e.g., for proportional integral derivative (PID) control and signal conditioning. Control networks can include a plurality of such field and control devices interconnected by an IP network, such as an Ethernet.
Claims We claim: 1. A control device for a control system, the control device comprising a processor that executes a control algorithm that at least one of (i) maintains the control system at a desired level, and (ii) drives it to that level as a function of one or more measured values and one or more setpoints, a web server that facilitates any of configuration, monitoring and maintenance of the control system or one or more other control devices, the control device further comprising any of (i) a sensor for sensing any of a temperature, level or other characteristic of a process controlled by the control system, and (ii) an actuator for the process controlled by the control system. 2. The control device of claim 1, wherein the control device comprises an interface to an IP network, and on startup, the control device registers a characteristic thereof with at least one other device on the IP network. 3. The control device of claim 2, wherein the control device issues to the IP network, via the interface, a request for assignment of an IP address. 4. The control device of claim 2, wherein the control device receives a device identification name from any of (i) a user-configured hub or other device to which the control device is coupled, (ii) a letterbug installed in the control device, (iii) a digital data processing apparatus, (iv) a software generated letterbug. 5. The control device of claim 2, wherein the control device registers the characteristic with a bulletin board on the IP network. 6. The control device of claim 5, wherein the control device registers the characteristic with in a Javaspace on the IP network. 7. The control device of claim 2, wherein the control device communicates with another device over the IP network in order to obtain configuration information. 8. The control device of claim 2, wherein the control device retains configuration information for use at startup. 9. The control device of claim 2, wherein the web server any of (i) collects process data from one or more control devices, (ii) generates source for operator displays, (iii) provides access to the control system, and (iv) hosts an applications development environment. 10. The control device of claim 9, wherein the control device comprises a configuration editor. 11. The control device of claim 2, wherein the control device is any of a control station, operator console, personal computer, handheld computer, workstation, integrator, or controller. 12. A control system comprising a plurality of control devices coupled via one or more IP networks, wherein one or more selected control devices A. execute a control algorithm that at least one of (i) maintains the control system at a desired level, and (ii) drives it to that level as a function of one more measured values and one or more setpoints, B. comprises a web server that facilitates any of configuration, monitoring and maintenance of the control system or one or more other control devices, and C. wherein at least one of the selected control device comprises any of (i) a sensor for sensing any of a temperature, level or other characteristic of a process controlled by the control system, and (ii) an actuator. 13. The control system according to claim 12, wherein a said IP network is powered. 14. The control system of claim 13, wherein one or more of the control devices receive operational power from said IP network that is powered. 15. The control system comprising of claim 12, comprising a DHCP server that furnishes IP addresses in response to request by one or more of the control devices. 16. The control system of claim 15, wherein the DHCP server is solid state. 17. The control system of claim 16, wherein the DHCP server is free of moving parts and comprises zero, one or more removable components. 18. The control system of claim 12 comprising a network enabler that is coupled to the IP network that responds to requests by the control devices to at least one of (i) register names specified by the control devices, (ii) search for names specified by the control devices, (iii) posting to a network bulletin board events specified by the control devices, (v) removing from the network bulletin board for events specified by the control devices, (vi) querying the network bulletin board for events specified by the control devices, (vii) notifying the control devices of events specified by the control devices. 19. The control system of claim 18, wherein the network enabler is any of a JINI and a JavaSpace server. 