A workpiece processing station is disclosed. The workpiece processing station has particular applicability in an electroplating process for semiconductor wafers. The apparatus includes a work processing bowl having an outer bowl and an inner cup positioned at a location slightly below the upper rim of the bowl. An annular space is provided between the sides of the processing bowl and the fluid cup. Fluid is provided to the fluid cup through an opening in the bottom of the fluid cup. The fluid overflows the fluid cup and drains down the open annular space between the process bowl and the fluid cup and passes through the opening in the bottom of the process bowl and into a fluid reservoir. A reservoir is preferably used as both the supply and the return for the process fluid. The apparatus further includes filters disposed within the bottom of each fluid cup between the bottom of the fluid cup and the process fluid inlet line such that the process fluid must flow upward through the filter before entering the upper portion of the fluid cup. In the preferred embodiment, the workpiece processing station includes a plurality of the process bowl assemblies all having a common reservoir in which process fluid may drain. The invention also includes the method of flowing process fluid into a process vessel such that it overflows and returns to a common fluid return reservoir during the semiconductor manufacturing process.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A workpiece processing apparatus, comprising: a fluid cup having an upper rim forming an overflow weir over which a processing fluid can exit the cup; an electrode in the fluid cup to facilitate electrochemical processing of a workpiece having a plating surface and a perimeter edge; and a head assembly having a workpiece holder and a rotor attached to the workpiece holder to rotate the workpiece holder, the workpiece holder being configured to hold the workpiece in a processing plane with the plating surface facing downward, and the workpiece holder including a plurality of electrodes having first portions mounted to the workpiece holder and second portions projecting from the first portions upwardly toward the processing plane such that the second portions have tips that bear against a peripheral region of the plating surface of the workpiece, wherein the first and second portions are spaced apart from the peripheral edge of the workpiece such that the electrodes only contact the plating surface of the workpiece, and wherein the head assembly is moveable along a height adjustment path to place the workpiece in the processing plane. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the workpiece holder further comprises a support assembly configured to engaged a backside of the workpiece and position the workpiece in a substantially horizontal processing plane. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the head moves up/down between a load/unload position and a processing position, and wherein the head holds a workpiece at least substantially horizontal in the processing plane. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein the head rotates in the processing plane. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a filter in the fluid cup. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the filter is configured to filter out 0.1 .mu.m particles. 7. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein the filter is positioned in the cup upstream from the weir such that the fluid passes through the filter before reaching the weir. 8. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein the filter is configured such that fluid passes upwardly through the filter and to the weir. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the cup has a circular cross-section having a first diameter in a horizontal plane and the apparatus further comprises a bowl with a circular cross-section having a second diameter in the horizontal plane that is greater than the first diameter of the cup. 10. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein the fluid flow region between the cup and the bowl is an annular space. 11. A workpiece processing apparatus, comprising: an inner vessel having an upper rim defining a weir over which a processing fluid can exit the inner vessel; an electrode in the inner vessel for processing a workpiece having a perimeter edge and a plating surface; and a head assembly having a workpiece holder and a rotor attached to the workpiece holder to rotate the workpiece holder, the workpiece holder being configured to hold the workpiece with the plating surface facing down toward the inner vessel in a substantially horizontal processing plane as the rotor rotates the workpiece holder, and the workpiece holder including a plurality of electrodes having first portions mounted to the workpiece holder and second portions projecting from the first portions upwardly toward the processing plane such that the second portions have tips that bear against a peripheral region of the plating surface of the workpiece, wherein the first and second portions are spaced apart from the peripheral edge of the workpiece such that the electrodes only contact the plating surface of the workpiece, and wherein the head assembly includes electrical circuitry connectable to an external power supply to transmit power through the head assembly to the electrical contacts. 12. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein the workpiece holder further comprises a support assembly configured to engaged a backside of the workpiece and position the workpiece in the processing plane. 13. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein the head moves between a load/unload position and the processing plane. 14. The apparatus of claim 11, further comprising a filter in the inner vessel. 15. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein the filter is configured to filter out 0.1 .mu.m particles. 16. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein the filter is positioned in the inner vessel upstream from the weir such that the fluid passes through the filter before reaching the weir. 17. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein the filter is configured such that fluid passes upwardly through the filter and to the weir. 18. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein the inner vessel has a circular cross-section having a first diameter in a horizontal plane and an outer vessel having a circular cross-section with a second diameter in the horizontal plane that is greater than the first diameter of the inner vessel. 19. The apparatus of claim 18 wherein the fluid flow region between the inner vessel and the outer vessel is an annular space. 