Known packaging machines are only able to package objects in a limited number of arrangements usually limited to a single pack type. The present invention provides a server and client arrangement in which a user makes a number of selections respectively based upon a number of criteria in order to custom design packed objects. A rendered simulation of the packed objects is displayed by the client and is viewable from user selected angles. Once designed, the user instructs the server, via the client, to control a laser printer, a cutting table and a robotic packaging machine in order to produce a selected printed pack type and pack selected objects into the selected printed pack type.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A system for controlling production of a package for enclosing at least one object, comprising: a server, comprising: input means for receiving package design criteria from a remote client device over a communications network; a processor for: generating simulation data based at least in part on the package design criteria, the simulation data including instructions for rendering a simulated image of the package; and generating fabrication control data and packaging control data based at least in part on the package design criteria; and output means for communicating the simulation data to the remote client device over the communications network, and for communicating the fabrication control data to a control unit associated with a fabrication device, the fabrication control data comprising fabrication instructions that cause the fabrication device to automatically produce at least part of the package, and for communicating the packaging control data to a control unit associated with a packaging device, the packaging control data comprising packaging instructions that cause a packaging device to automatically assemble at least part of the package. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the server is remote with respect to the fabrication device, and the output means is further for communicating the fabrication control data to the control unit associated wit the fabrication device over the communications network. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the package design criteria include at least one of the following parameters: number of objects to be packaged, dimensions of each object, shape or each object, arrangement of objects, package type, package dimensions, and package graphics. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the communications network is the Internet. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the fabrication control data comprises instructions that cause the fabrication device to automatically produce at least part of the package by performing at least one of the following actions: printing at least one carton board, and cutting the at least one carton board into at least one blank. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein the server further comprises a storage device for storing at least one of the package design criteria and the fabrication control data. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one object comprises a plurality of differently-shaped objects. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein the fabrication device comprises at least one of the following: means for cutting a package blank, and means for printing on a package blank. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein the packaging control data comprises packaging instructions that cause a packaging device to selectively position the at least one object. 10. The system of claim 9, wherein the packaging instructions that cause a packaging device to selectively position the at least one object include instructions for activating at least one electromagnet of the packaging device to grasp the at least one object. 11. The system of claim 10, wherein the at least one object is a bottle. 12. The system or claim 1, wherein the packaging control data comprises packaging instructions that cause a packaging device to fold a carton. 13. The system of claim 12, wherein the packaging instructions that cause a packaging device to fold a carton include instructions for actuating at least one motor of a folding robot. 14. The system or claim 13, wherein the packaging instructions that cause a packaging device to fold a carton include instructions for folding the carton around the at least one object. 15. The system of claim 1, wherein the packaging control data comprises packaging instructions that cause a packaging device to lock a carton. 16. The system of claim 15, wherein the packaging instructions that cause a packaging device to lock a carton include instructions for locking the carton round the at least one object. 17. A system for designing and producing a package, comprising: a client device, comprising: input means for receiving user selections of package design criteria, and for receiving simulation data from a remote server over a communications network; output means for communicating the package design criteria to the remote server over the communications network, the remote server being for: generating simulation data based at least in part on the package design criteria and communicating the simulation data to the client device; and generating fabrication control data and packaging control data based at least in part on the package design criteria, communicating the fabrication control data to a control unit associated with a fabrication device, the fabrication control data comprising fabrication instructions that cause the fabrication device to automatically produce at least part of the package, and communicating the packaging control data to a control unit associated with a packaging device, the packaging control data comprising packaging instructions that cause a packaging device to automatically assemble at least part of the package; a client processor for rendering a simulated image of the package based at least in part on the simulation data; and display means for rendering the simulation in a graphical format viewable by the user. 18. The system of claim 17, wherein the output means is further for communicating the package design criteria in response to a command received from the user. 19. The system of claim 17, wherein the fabrication device is remote with respect to the server, and the server is configured to communicate the control data to the control unit associated with the fabrication device over the communications network. 20. The system of claim 17, wherein the package design criteria include at least one of the following parameters: number of objects to be packaged, dimensions of each object, shape of each object, arrangement of objects, package type, package dimensions, and package graphics. 21. The system of claim 17, wherein the communications network is the Internet. 22. The system of claim 17, wherein the fabrication control data comprises instructions that program the fabrication device to automatically produce at least part of the package by performing at least one of the following steps: printing at least one carton board, and cutting the at least one carton board into at least one blank. 23. The system of claim 17, wherein the server further comprises a storage device for storing at least one of the package design criteria and the fabrication control data. 24. The system of claim 17, wherein the at least one object comprises a plurality of differently-shaped objects. 25. The system of claim 17, wherein the fabrication device comprises at least one of the following: means for cutting a package blank, and means for printing on a package blank. 26. A computer readable medium having stored thereon executable code which causes a server to perform a method for controlling production of a package, the method comprising: receiving package design criteria from a remote client device over a communications network; generating simulation data based at least in part on the package design criteria, the simulation data including instructions for rendering a simulated image of the package; generating fabrication control data and packaging control data based at least in part on the package design criteria; communicating the fabrication control data to a control unit associated with a remote fabrication device, the fabrication control data comprising fabrication instructions that cause the fabrication device to automatically produce at least part of the package; and communicating the packaging control data to a control unit associated with a packaging device, the packaging control data comprising packaging instructions that cause the packaging device to assemble at least part of the package. 27. The computer readable medium of claim 26, wherein receiving package design criteria comprises receiving at least one of the following parameters: number of objects to be packaged, dimensions of each object, shape of each object, arrangement of objects, package type, package dimensions, and package graphics. 28. The computer readable medium of claim 26, wherein receiving package design criteria from a remote client device over a communications network comprises receiving package design criteria over the Internet. 29. The computer readable medium of claim 26, wherein communicating the fabrication control data comprises communicating instructions that cause the fabrication device to automatically produce the package by performing at least one of die following actions: printing at least one canon board, and cutting the at least one carton board into at least one blank. 30. The computer readable medium of claim 26, wherein the method further comprises storing at least one of the package design criteria and the fabrication control data. 31. A computer readable medium having stored thereon executable code which causes a client processor to perform a method for designing and producing a package, the method comprising: receiving user selections of package design criteria; communicating the package design criteria to a remote server over a communications network, the package design criteria including information for causing the remote server to generate fabrication control data and packaging control data based at least in part on the package design criteria, the fabrication control data comprising instructions for causing a fabrication device to automatically produce at least part of the package, the packaging data comprising packaging instructions for causing a packaging device to assemble at least part of the package; receiving simulation data from the remote server based at least in part on the package design criteria; and rendering a simulated image of the package based at least in part on the simulation data. 32. The computer readable medium of claim 31, wherein the method further comprises communicating the package design criteria in response to a command received from the user. 33. The computer readable medium of claim 31, wherein receiving user selection of the package design criteria includes receiving at least one of the following parameters: number of objects to be packaged, dimensions of each object, shape of each object, arrangement of objects, package type, package dimensions, and package graphics. 34. The system of claim 31, wherein communicating the package design criteria over a communications network comprises communicating over the Internet. 35. The system of claim 31, wherein the package design criteria further includes information for causing the remote server to generate fabrication control data which includes instructions that program the fabrication device to automatically produce at least part of the package by performing at least one of the following steps: printing at least one carton board, and cutting the at least one carton board into at least one blank. 