Generally a method and apparatus for viewing images within a processing system is provided. In one embodiment, an apparatus includes a plate having a camera, transmitter and battery coupled thereto. The plate is adapted to be transported about a semiconductor processing system by a substrate transfer robot thereby allowing images within the system to be viewed remotely from the system. The viewed images may be used for system inspection and calibration of robot position, among other uses.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A vision system for a semiconductor processing system comprising: at least one robot adapted for use in a semiconductor processing system; an end effector coupled to the robot; a camera selectively positioned by the robot; a transmitter coupled to the camera; a receiver for receiving images transmitted by the camera; and a docking station for supporting the camera when not carried by the end effecter. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the robot is housed in a vacuum chamber. 3. The system of claim 1 further comprising a plate having the camera coupled thereto. 4. The system of claim 3, wherein the plate further comprises: an aperture formed therethrough; and the camera adapted to obtain an image through the aperture. 5. The system of claim 3, wherein the end effector of the robot further comprises: a hole formed therethrough adapted allow the camera to view therethrough. 6. The system of claim 3, wherein the plate further comprises: at least one locating pin extending therefrom and received in a hole formed in the end effector. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the camera is orientated to capture images above the end effector. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein the camera is orientated to capture images below the end effector. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein the semiconductor processing system further comprises: one or more processing chambers coupled to a transfer chamber, wherein the camera is adapted to capture images within the process chambers. 10. The system of claim 1 further comprising: at least one system component selected from a group consisting of a factory interface, a load lock chamber and a substrate storage cassette. 11. The system of claim 1 further comprising: a battery coupled to the transmitter. 12. The system of claim 11 further comprising: a docking station for supporting the support plate when not carried by the end effector. 13. The system of claim 1, wherein the docking station further comprises: an apparatus for recharging the battery. 14. The system of claim 13, wherein the docking station further comprises: at least one electrical contact disposed against an electrical contact formed in the plate or the battery, wherein the electrical contacts provide a current path to recharge the battery. 15. The system of claim 1 further comprising: a plate for supporting the camera; and a switch coupled to the plate for activating the transmitter. 16. The system of claim 15, wherein the switch changes state in response to the proximity of the end effector. 17. The system of claim 15, wherein the switch changes state in response to the proximity of a docking station that supports the plate when not in use. 18. The system of claim 1 further comprising: a plate disposed on the end effector; and a reflector coupled to the plate for allowing the camera to view images outside of a field of view of the camera. 19. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the camera may swivel about at least a first axis. 20. The apparatus of claim 19 further comprising a lacking mechanism to temporally fix an orientation of the camera about the first axis. 21. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the camera may swivel about two axes. 