Challenge-response and probative methods together or independent of each other enable detection of devices participating in denial of service (DOS) and distributed DOS (DDOS) attacks upon a network resource, and upon identification of devices participating in attacks, minimize the effect of the attack and/or minimize the ability of the device to continue its attack by placing the attacking devices in a state of reduced or denied service.
Claims I claim: 1. A computer implemented method for detecting denial of service attacks, comprising the steps of: issuing a bit encoded login challenge composed of human viewable images not composed of machine readable text in response to a login request to said computer from a requester of services; and responsive to an incorrect response to said challenge, said computer placing said requester in a state of limited service. 2. The computer implemented method of claim 1, further comprising the steps of: filtering out to said state of limited service iterative connection requests from a network address of a hacker device. 3. The computer implemented method of claim 1, further comprising the step of: responsive to speed, latency and average queuing network delay of connection requests, detecting and placing in a state of limited service repetitive login requests from a hacker device. 4. The computer implemented method of claim 3, further comprising the steps of: determining from said speed, latency and average queuing network delay a time-out value; and detecting as a request from a hacker device a request that does not complete within said time-out value. 5. The computer implemented method of claim 1, further comprising the steps of: issuing further challenges to subsequent requests for service from said requester and selectively responding to successful responses by continuing service at the same or improved level and to unsuccessful responses by further reduction or complete denial of service. 6. The computer implemented method of claim 1, further comprising the steps of: periodically issuing said challenges throughout connection to a requester successfully responding. 7. The computer implemented method of claim 1, comprising the step of issuing said bit-mapped challenge as logon image from which a user must select or enter a response. 8. The computer implemented method of claim 7, further comprising the step of occasionally shifting the input area for a valid response to said challenge. 9. The computer implemented method of claim 1, further comprising the step of slowing acceptance from and response to systems in a degraded service category. 10. The computer implemented method of claim 1, further comprising the step of counterattacking by executing a denial of service response to attacking systems. 11. A computer implemented method for detecting denial of service attacks, comprising the steps of: executing a bit-encoded challenge and response login procedure and a network probing test frame transmission and analysis procedure to detect a hacker denial of service attack, said bit-encoded challenge comprising human viewable images not composed of machine readable text; said network probing test frame transmission and analysis procedure including defining a signature of discrete speed, streaming speed, and latency of the connecting device failing said bit-encoded challenge-response login procedure, and adding said signature to a router based filter for filtering out login requests from said hacker responsive to said signature; and responsive to detecting said denial of service attack, placing said hacker in a lower level of service state. 12. A computer implemented method for detecting denial of service attacks, comprising the steps of: selecting sending and receiving probative test packets through a network; responsive to said packets, determining network evaluation parameters for said network; responsive to said network evaluation parameters, determining presence of network denial of service attacks, said network evaluation parameters including response time and throughput characteristics of said network, said throughput characteristics including capacity, utilization, and performance; and executing a bit-encoded challenge and response procedure to discourage and repel said attacks, said bit-encoded challenge comprising human viewable images not composed of machine readable text. 13. The computer implemented method of claim 12, further comprising the steps of: determining a latency and speed fingerprint of an offending device; responsive to said fingerprint, operating a router filtering system to reject packets from said offending device. 14. The computer implemented method of claim 13, said fingerprint comprising a rhythm of transmissions of discrete, burst, and stream packets. 15. A computer implemented probative test and analysis method for detecting and responding to denial of service attacks on a network resource, comprising the steps of: creating a template of attack patterns; determining historical, current, and predicted states of said network for each of a plurality of types of network traffic; responsive to said attack patterns, determining if a spike in network traffic is a distributed denial of service attack and, if so, determining its source; and denying full service to sources associated with said service attack. 16. The computer implemented method of claim 15, further comprising the steps of: determining unique speed and latency network attachment characteristics of devices attempting to connect to said network resource; and responsive to detection of an abusive behavior from a said device, responding to subsequent requests for service from said device by denying said full service to said device. 17. A computer program product for detecting denial of service attacks, comprising: a computer readable medium; first program instructions to issue a bit encoded login challenge comprising human viewable images not composed of machine readable text in response to a login request from a requester of services; second program instructions, responsive to an incorrect response to said challenge, to place said requester in a state of limited service; and wherein said first and second program instructions are recorded on said computer readable medium. 18. The computer program product of claim 17, further comprising: third program instructions for filtering out to said state of limited service iterative connection requests from a network address of a hacker device; and wherein said third program instructions are recorded on said computer readable medium. 19. The computer program product of claim 17, further comprising: third program instructions, responsive to speed, latency and average queuing network delay of connection requests, for detecting and placing in a state of limited service repetitive login requests from a hacker device; and wherein said third program instructions are recorded on said computer readable medium. 20. The computer program product of claim 17, further comprising: third program instructions for determining from said speed, latency and average queuing network delay a time-out value; fourth program instructions for detecting as a request from a hacker device a request that does not complete within said time-out value; and wherein said third and fourth program instructions are recorded on said computer readable medium. 21. The computer program product of claim 17, further comprising: third program instructions for issuing further challenges to subsequent requests for service from said requester and selectively responding to successful responses by continuing service at the same or improved level and to unsuccessful responses by further reduction or complete denial of service; and wherein said third program instructions are recorded on said computer readable medium. 22. The computer program product of claim 17, further comprising: third program instructions for periodically issuing said challenges throughout connection to a requester successfully responding; and wherein said third program instructions are recorded on said computer readable medium. 23. The computer program product of claim 17, further comprising third program instructions for issuing said bit-mapped challenge as logon image from which a user must select or enter a response; and wherein said third program instructions are recorded on said computer readable medium. 24. The computer program product of claim 23, further comprising fourth program instructions for occasionally shifting the input area for a valid response to said challenge; and wherein said fourth program instructions are recorded on said computer readable medium. 25. The computer program product of claim 17, further comprising third program instructions for slowing acceptance from and response to systems in a degraded service category; and wherein said third program instructions are recorded on said computer readable medium. 26. The computer program product of claim 17, further comprising third program instructions for counterattacking by executing a denial of service response to attacking systems; and wherein said third program instructions are recorded on said computer readable medium. 27. A computer program product for detecting denial of service attacks, comprising: a computer readable medium; first program instructions for executing a network probing test frame transmission and analysis procedure including requiring response of a user to presentation of human viewable images not composed of machine readable text to detect a hacker denial of service attack; second program instructions, responsive to detecting a denial of service attack, for placing said hacker in a state of lower level of service; and wherein said first and second program instructions are recorded on said computer readable medium. 28. A computer program product for detecting denial of service attacks, comprising: a computer readable medium first program instructions to selectively send and receive probative test packets through a network; second program instructions, responsive to said packets, to determine network evaluation parameters for said network; third program instructions, responsive to said network evaluation parameters, to determine presence of network denial of service attacks, said network evaluation parameters including response time and throughput characteristics of said network, said throughput characteristics including capacity, utilization, and performance; fourth program instructions to execute a bit-encoded challenge and response procedure to discourage and repel said attacks, said bit-encoded challenge comprising human viewable images not composed of machine readable text; and wherein said first, second, third, and fourth program instructions are recorded on said computer readable medium. 