An automated analyzer for performing multiple diagnostic assays simultaneously includes multiple stations, or modules, in which discrete aspects of the assay are performed on fluid samples contained in reaction receptacles. The analyzer includes stations for automatically preparing a specimen sample, incubating the sample at prescribed temperatures for prescribed periods, preforming in analyte isolation procedure, and ascertaining the presence of a target analyte. An automated receptacle transporting system moves the reaction receptacles from one station to the next. The analyzer further includes devices for carrying a plurality of specimen tubes and disposable pipette tips in a machine-accessible manner, a device for agitating containers of target capture reagents comprising suspensions of solid support material and for presenting the containers for machine access thereto, and a device for holding containers of reagents in a temperature controlled environment and presenting the containers for machine access thereto. A method for performing an automated diagnostic assay includes an automated process for isolating and amplifying a target analyte. The process is performed by automatically moving each of a plurality of reaction receptacles containing a solid support material and a fluid sample between stations for incubating the contents of the reaction receptacle and for separating the target analyte bound to the solid support from the fluid sample. An amplification reagent is added to the separated analyte after the analyte separation step and before a final incubation step.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automated system for isolating and amplifying a target nucleic acid sequence present in a fluid sample, wherein the system comprises: a separation station constructed and arranged to separate a target nucleic acid containing the target sequence from other material present in the fluid sample; an amplification station comprising one or more incubators, each of the incubators defining a temperature-controlled chamber constructed and arranged to receive a reaction receptacle containing the separated target nucleic acid and to incubate the contents of the reaction receptacle, to which one or more amplification reagents have been provided, for a period of time and under conditions sufficient to permit the target sequence to be amplified; and one or more transport mechanisms constructed and arranged to transport the reaction receptacle between stations of the system. 2. The automated system of claim 1 further comprising an immobilization station comprising one or more incubators, each of the incubators of the immobilization station defining a temperature-controlled chamber constructed and arranged to receive the reaction receptacle and to incubate the contents of the reaction receptacle, to which a solid support material has been provided, for a period of time and under conditions sufficient to permit the target nucleic acid to be immobilized by the solid support material, wherein the separation station is constructed and arranged to separate the target nucleic acid from other material present in the fluid sample by a procedure which includes isolating the solid support material within the reaction receptacle and removing the fluid sample therefrom. 3. The automated system of claim 2, wherein the immobilization and amplification stations have at least one common incubator. 4. The automated system of claim 2, wherein the immobilization and amplification stations do not have a common incubator. 5. The automated system of claim 2, wherein the incubators of the amplification station are maintained at a temperature or temperatures different than the temperature or temperatures maintained by the incubators of the immobilization station. 6. The automated system of claim 2, wherein the fluid sample is contained in a reaction receptacle present in the separation station, and wherein the separation station includes a fluid aspirator mechanism constructed and arranged to aspirate fluid sample from the reaction receptacle after isolating the solid support material. 7. The automated system of claim 6, wherein the separation station further comprises: a fluid dispense mechanism constructed and arranged to provide a wash buffer to the reaction receptacle after removing the fluid sample from the reaction receptacle; and a mixing device constructed and arranged to agitate the reaction receptacle to resuspend the solid support material after the wash buffer has been provided by the fluid dispense mechanism. 8. The automated system of claim 2 further comprising a hybridization station comprising one or more incubators, each of the incubators of the hybridization station defining a temperature-controlled chamber constructed and arranged to receive the reaction receptacle and to incubate the contents of the reaction receptacle, to which one or more probe reagents have been provided, for a period of time and under conditions sufficient to permit the probe to hybridize to the target sequence or an amplicon thereof. 9. The automated system of claim 8, wherein the amplification and hybridization stations have at least one common incubator. 10. The automated system of claim 8, wherein the amplification and hybridization stations do not have a common incubator. 11. The automated system of claim 8 further comprising a detection station constructed and arranged to detect the presence or absence of the probe hybridized to the target sequence, or an amplicon thereof, as an indication of the presence or absence of an organism or virus or one or more members of a group of organisms or viruses in the fluid sample. 12. The automated system of claim 11 further comprising a deactivation station constructed and arranged to deactivate the nucleic acid contents of the reaction receptacle after permitting the target sequence, if any, to be amplified. 13. The automated system of claim 11, wherein the stations are contained within a housing. 14. The automated system of claim 13, wherein the housing defines a self-contained, stand alone analyzer unit. 15. The automated system of claim 14, wherein the analyzer unit is movable. 16. The automated system of claim 1 further comprising a holding station for holding a plurality of reaction receptacles. 17. The automated system of claim 1, wherein the separation station comprises magnetic elements for subjecting the fluid sample to a magnetic field. 18. The automated system of claim 1 further comprising a hybridization station comprising one or more incubators, each of the incubators of the hybridization station defining a temperature-controlled chamber constructed and arranged to receive the reaction receptacle and to incubate the contents of the reaction receptacle, to which one or more probe reagents have been provided, for a period of time and under conditions sufficient to permit the probe to hybridize to the target sequence or an amplicon thereof. 19. The automated system of claim 18, wherein the amplification and hybridization stations have a common incubator. 20. The automated system of claim 18, wherein the amplification and hybridization stations do not have a common incubator. 21. The automated system of claim 18 further comprising a detection station constructed and arranged to detect the presence or absence of the probe hybridized to the target sequence, or an amplicon thereof, as an indication of the presence or absence of an organism or virus or one or more members of a group of organisms or viruses in the fluid sample. 22. The automated system of claim 21, wherein the detection station comprises a luminometer constructed and arranged to detect the amount of light emitted by the contents of the reaction receptacle. 23. The automated system of claim 21 further comprising a deactivation station constructed and arranged to deactivate the nucleic acid contents of the reaction receptacle after permitting the target sequence, if any, to be amplified. 24. The automated system of claim 21, wherein the stations are contained within a housing. 25. The automated system of claim 24, wherein the housing defines a self-contained, stand alone analyzer unit. 26. The automated system of claim 25, wherein the analyzer unit is movable. 27. The automated system of claim 1 further comprising a temperature ramping station constructed and arranged to raise or lower the temperature of the contents of the reaction receptacle prior to transporting the reaction receptacle to the amplification station. 28. The automated system of claim 1 further comprising a fluid dispensing station constructed and arranged to dispense the fluid sample into the reaction receptacle. 29. The automated system of claim 1 further comprising a deactivation station constructed and arranged to deactivate the nucleic acid contents of the reaction receptacle after permitting the target sequence, if any, to be amplified. 30. The automated system of claim 1, wherein the stations are contained within a housing. 31. The automated system of claim 30, wherein the housing defines a self-contained, stand alone analyzer unit. 32. The automated system of claim 31, wherein the analyzer unit is movable. 33. The automated system of claim 1, wherein the material includes nucleic acids other than the target nucleic acid. 34. The automated system of claim 1, wherein the reaction receptacle comprises a plurality of receptacle vessels which are formed as an integral array. 