A method, system, and apparatus for a die frame, and for transferring integrated circuit dies therewith, is described. In one aspect for making a die frame, a wafer that comprises a plurality of dies is attached to a surface of a tape structure. A grid of grooves is formed in the wafer to separate the plurality of dies on the surface of the tape structure. A portion of the tape structure that is accessible through the grooves of the grid is caused to harden into a grid shaped structure. The grid shaped structure removably holds the plurality of dies. One or more dies of the plurality of dies can be moved from the grid shaped structure onto a target surface. In an alternative aspect, when the grid of grooves is formed in the wafer to separate the plurality of dies on the surface of the tape structure, the surface of the tape structure is breached in the grooves. The breach causes a hardening material encapsulated in the tape structure to be released and to harden in the grooves into a grid shaped hardened material.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for forming a die frame, comprising: (a) attaching a wafer that comprises a plurality of dies to a surface of a tape structure; (b) forming a grid of grooves in the wafer to separate the plurality of dies on the surface of the tape structure; and (c) causing a portion of the tape structure that is accessible through the grooves of the grid to harden into a grid shaped structure; wherein the grid shaped structure removably holds the plurality of dies, wherein one or more dies of the plurality of dies can be moved from the grid shaped structure onto a target surface. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the tape structure comprises a material that hardens when exposed to light, wherein step (c) comprises: exposing the tape structure with light through the grooves of the grid. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the tape structure comprises a material that hardens when exposed to ultraviolet (UV) light, wherein said exposing step comprises: exposing the tape structure with UV light through the grooves of the grid. 4. The method of claim 2, further comprising: (d) forming the tape structure to include a layer of the material. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the material is a photoresist material, wherein step (d) comprises: (d) forming the tape structure to include the layer of the photoresist material. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein step (c) comprises: applying a material to the tape structure through the grooves of the grid, wherein the material causes the tape structure to harden. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein said applying step comprises: spraying the material onto the tape structure through the grooves of the grid. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein step (b) comprises: scribing the wafer on the surface of the tape structure. 9. A die frame formed according to the method of claim 1. 10. A system for forming a die frame, comprising: a wafer preparation module that applies a wafer to a surface of a tape structure, and forms a grid of grooves in the wafer to separate the plurality of dies on the surface of the tape structure; and a hardening agent source that causes a portion of the tape structure that is accessible through the grooves of the grid to harden into a grid shaped structure; wherein the grid shaped structure removably holds the plurality of dies, wherein one or more dies of the plurality of dies can be moved from the grid shaped structure onto a target surface. 11. The system of claim 10, wherein the tape structure comprises a material that hardens when exposed to light, wherein the hardening agent source comprises a light source that exposes the tape structure with light through the grooves of the grid. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein the tape structure comprises a material that hardens when exposed to ultraviolet (UV) light, wherein the hardening agent source exposes the tape structure with UV light through the grooves of the grid. 13. The system of claim 11, wherein the tape structure includes a layer of the material. 14. The system of claim 13, wherein the material is a photoresist material. 15. The system of claim 10, wherein the hardening agent source applies a material to the tape structure through the grooves of the grid that causes the tape structure to harden. 16. The system of claim 15, wherein the hardening agent source sprays the material onto the tape structure through the grooves of the grid. 17. A method for forming a die frame, comprising: (a) attaching a wafer that comprises a plurality of dies to a surface of a tape structure, wherein the tape structure comprises an encapsulated hardening material; (b) forming a grid of grooves in the wafer to separate the plurality of dies on the surface of the tape structure, wherein said forming step includes the step of breaching the surface of the tape structure in the grooves to cause the encapsulated hardening material to harden in the grooves into a grid shaped hardened material in the grooves of the grid. 18. The method of claim 17, further comprising: (c) removing the tape structure so that the grid shaped hardened material removably holds the plurality of dies. 19. The method of claim 17, further comprising: (c) prior to step (a), holding the tape structure with a support structure. 20. The method of claim 17, wherein step (b) comprises: using a laser to form the grid of grooves and to breach the surface of the tape structure to cause the encapsulating hardening material to be released in the grooves. 21. The method of claim 17, wherein step (b) comprises: using a saw to form the grid of grooves and to breach the surface of the tape structure cause the encapsulating hardening material to be released in the grooves. 22. A die frame formed according to the method of claim 17. 23. A system for forming a die frame, comprising: a wafer preparation module that applies a wafer to a surface of a tape structure, and forms a grid of grooves in the wafer to separate the plurality of dies on the surface of the tape structure, wherein the tape structure comprises an encapsulated hardening material, wherein the wafer preparation module breaches the surface of the tape structure in the grooves when forming the grooves to cause the encapsulated hardening material to harden in the grooves into a grid shaped hardened material in the grooves of the grid. 24. The system of claim 23, further comprising: a tape removal apparatus that removes the tape structure so that the grid shaped hardened material removably holds the plurality of dies. 25. The system of claim 23, wherein the wafer preparation module includes a laser to form the grid of grooves and to cause the encapsulating hardening material to be released in the grooves. 26. The system of claim 23, wherein the wafer preparation module includes a saw to form the grid of grooves and to cause the encapsulating hardening material to be released in the grooves. 27. A method for assembling a plurality of radio frequency identification (RFID) tags, comprising: (a) positioning a die frame closely adjacent to a surface of a substrate such that a die of a plurality of dies removably held in the die frame is closely adjacent to the substrate; and (b) transferring the die onto the closely adjacent substrate from the die frame. 28. The method of claim 27, further comprising: (c) positioning the die frame closely adjacent to a surface of another substrate such that another die of the plurality of dies removably held in the die frame is closely adjacent to the another substrate; and (d) transferring the another die onto the closely adjacent another substrate from the die frame. 29. The method of claim 28, further comprising: (e) repeating steps (c) and (d) until all dies of the plurality of dies removably held in the die frame have been transferred to a corresponding substrate. 30. The method of claim 27, wherein step (b) comprises: punching the die onto the closely adjacent substrate from the die frame. 31. The method of claim 27, wherein step (b) comprises: applying gas pressure to move the die onto the closely adjacent substrate from the die frame. 