The invention is comprised of an apparatus in form of a single transportable unit, a chamber for the main treatment, with the necessary dimensions to fit the canister drum containing the waste which is to be eliminated, and with the capacity to create and manipulate the direction of the RF plasma flows at a temperature higher than 10.000.degree. K so that it totally surrounds the container, in order to carry out its complete dissociation. The chamber has the capacity to individually collect and select the various materials by species resulting from the dissociation, transporting them by means of the plasma flow generated by an argon gas or other gasses which are injected into the chamber at the far end, where the gas conditioning/separator is situated. This chamber which carries out the main treatment process has embedded antennas which emit the radio frequency which produces and maintains the plasma core and is associated to: a) A robotic unit to load the waste drums/canisters into the main chamber.; b) A RF generator unit; c) A main chamber cooling unit and peripherals; d) Control and monitoring unit of the entire process and e) a power generator with the peripherals to regulate its functions f) Database for product compatibility/inventory The invention extends as well to the method for the elimination of waste.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An apparatus for neutrilizing and dissociate waste that is contained in a container comprising: a housing that is configured such that the apparatus is a single transportable unit; a dissociation chamber for the treatment of the container containing the waste, the chamber being configured and sized to receive and hold the container, the chamber having a plasma core generated therein and being defined as an RF coupled plasma, the chamber including a feature to manipulate the flow of the plasma such that it flows completely around the container and flows at a temperature greater than 8,000.degree. K in order to cause a dissociation of the container and the waste contained therein, the chamber including a collector/separator area for individually and selectively collecting by species various materials resulting from the dissociation of the container and waste, the species being transported by means of the plasma flow in the chamber an RF generator unit for generating sufficient power at the selected frequency to generate and maintain the plasma core in the chamber and a array of RF antennas that are embedded in a wall that defines the dissociation chamber for emitting the selected radio frequency to cause dissociation of the container and its waste due to the plasma core engulfing the container and its contents; a robotic unit for loading one or more containers that hold the waste into the dissociation chamber, the robotic unit being configured so that it recognizes and selects the proper container that is to be dissociated, the robotic unit being in communication with a database to permit inventorying prior to disassociation of the container and waste; a cooling unit associated with the chamber that serves to maintain a temperature gradient of at least the embedded RF antennas and optionally other components below a predetermined temperature in order to maintain the functional characteristics of the walls of the chamber and RF antennas; and wherein after the container is opened, the waste material is caused to flow through the plasma core as opposed to flowing around it to ensure complete dissociation. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the dissociation chamber is formed by a combination of an external surrounding wall and an internal wall that are individual modules that are fitted together with a main frame of the housing and interrelated by an articulated connection system which is activated by controllers that function to tightly secure the internal wall. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the controllers are linear motors. 4. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein both of the external and internal walls have independent cooling circuits embedded therein and form a part of the cooling unit. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the plasma core is formed of a primary plasma core that surrounds the container at homogenous temperature and a secondary plasma core that surrounds the primary plasma core in order to capture material to be dissociated and to keep the material in the plasma flow toward the collector/separator area and at a homogenous temperature. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, further including: a plasmagene gas injection device that is operable in combination with the RF generator unit to generate the plasma core in the dissociation chamber, the plasmagene gas injection device including a plasmagene gas source and injectors to introduce the gas into the dissociation chamber; and a waste particles collector, wherein the plasmagene gas injection device includes a carrier, with each of the carrier, the waste particles collector and walls that define the dissociation chamber containing a cooling unit and an RF antenna embedded therein to generate and control RF propagation. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the walls of the dissociation chamber are made of a material that is transparent to RF radiation. 8. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the walls of the dissociation chamber are formed of Beryllium Oxide. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, further including: a magneto hydrodynamic unit that operates to control a shape of the plasma core and to control a residence time of the material to be dissociated in the chamber where it is exposed to the plasma core, the residence time being sufficient to cause complete dissociation in gas phase of the container and the waste contained therein. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, further including: a plasmagene gas injection device that is operable in conjunction with the RF generator unit to generate the plasma core in the dissociation chamber, the plasmagene gas injection device including a plasmagene gas source and injectors to introduce the gas into the dissociation chamber; a waste particles collector; and a magneto hydrodynamic unit that operates to control a shape of the plasma core and to control a residence time of the material to be dissociated in the chamber where it is exposed to the plasma core, the residence time being sufficient to cause complete dissociation of the container and the waste contained therein, wherein the magneto hydrodynamic unit is disposed approximity the plasmagene gas injection device and the waste particles collector. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the magneto hydrodynamic unit includes an array of plasmagene gas tanks that are fed from a central external tank and each of the plasmagene gas tanks is supplying the plasmagene gas to the injection device by means of a gas flux controller and by a gas stream regulator for each individual injector. 12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the dissociation chamber contains an access door for the full automated loading of the container, the access door including its own cooling means and an RF antenna array unit and associated monitoring means. 13. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the predetermined temperature is 600.degree. C. 14. The apparatus of claim 11, further including at least one dopant element introduced into the dissociation chamber that enhances a characteristic of the plasma core. 15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the characteristic comprises a temperature of the plasma core. 16. The apparatus of claim 1, further including: annular metal brackets that surround the container at its ends; and means for generating a series of controlled micro explosions to assist in dismantling the container and exposing the waste in such a manner to properly direct the flow of the waste which is to be dissociated within the plasma core. 