The present invention provides methods and composition for accessing, in a generally unbaised manner, a diverse genetic pool for genes involved in biosynthetic pathways. The invention also provides compounds which can be identified by cloning biosynthetic pathways.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for detecting a compound produced by a biosynthetic pathway, comprising: i) isolating genomic DNA from a source containing uncultivated microorganisms, without an intervening step of culturing cells from the source, by mixing the source with an extraction buffer and lysing the microorganisms to obtain isolated genomic DNA; and then ii) inserting the isolated genomic DNA of step (i) into a replicable vector to obtain clones of the replicable vector comprising the isolated genomic DNA; and then iii) introducing the clones of step (ii) into host cells to obtain a library of host cells, wherein the isolated genomic DNA in at least some of the clones is at least 50 kb; and then iv) culturing the host cells of step (iii) under conditions wherein an open reading frame sequence of the isolated genomic DNA is expressed by the host cells; and then v) detecting a compound produced by the host cells as a result of expression of the open reading frame sequence of step (iv). 2. The method of claim 1, wherein step (v) comprises detecting a non-polymeric compound. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein step (v) comprises detecting a non-proteinaceous compound. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein step (v) comprises detecting a compound having a molecular weight less than 7500 amu. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein step (v) comprises detecting a compound that is a direct product of endogenous precursors for the biosynthetic pathway. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein in step (iii) the isolated genomic DNA in the clones has an average length of at least 75 kb. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein in step (iii) the isolated genomic DNA in the clones has an average length of at least 100 kb. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the source of microorganisms in step (i) includes prokaryotes. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the source of microorganisms in step (i) includes prokaryotes of the Archaea Domain. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the source of microorganisms in step (i) includes Archaea cells selected from the group consisting of Crenarachaeota, Euryarachaeota, Karachaeota, and combinations thereof. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein step (i) comprises isolating genomic DNA from a source selected from the group consisting of soil samples, insect intestines, plant rhizospheres, microbial mats, sulfur pools samples, or marine samples. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the source of microorganisms in step (i) includes prokaryotes having low G/G content genomes. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the source of uncultivated microorganisms in step (i) includes anaerobes. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein in step (iii) the library of host cells comprises a variegated population of vectors containing different isolated genomic DNA sequences. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein step (i) comprises isolating genomic DNA having an average length of at least 50 kilobases. 16. The method of claim 14, wherein in step (iii) the library of host cells comprises a variegated population of vectors including isolated genomic DNA from at least 10 different microorganism species. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein step (iii) comprises introducing the clones of step (ii) into host cells selected from the group consisting of Acetobacter, Actinomyces, Aerobacter, Agrobacterium, Azotobacter, Bacillus, Bacteroides, Bordetella, Brucella, Chlamydia, Clostridium, Corynebacterium, Erysipelothrix, Escherichia, Francisella, Fusobacterium, Haemophilus, Klebsiella, Lactobacillus, Listeria, Mycobacterium, Myxococcus, Neisseria, Nocardia, Pasteurella, Proteus, Pseudomonas, Rhizobium, Rickettsia, Salmonella, Serratia, Shigella, Spirilla, Spirillum, Staphylococcus, Streptococcus, Streptomyces, Trepanema, Vibrio, and Yersinia. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein step (iii) comprises introducing the clones of step (ii) into host cells selected from the group consisting of Escherichia and Streptomyces. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein step (iii) comprises introducing the clones of step (ii) into an Escherichia coli host cell. 20. The method of claim 1, wherein step (ii) comprises inserting the isolated genomic DNA into a low-copy number vector. 21. The method of claim 20, wherein step (ii) comprises inserting the isolated genomic DNA into a single-copy number vector. 22. The method of claim 20, wherein step (ii) comprises inserting the isolated genomic DNA into a BAC or PAC vector. 23. The method of claim 1, wherein step (v) comprises detecting the compound produced by the host cells as a result of expression of the open reading frame sequence of step (iv) by an ability of the host cell to induce a biological or biochemical response from a test cell. 24. The method of claim 23, wherein the biological or biochemical response induced in the test cell comprises: a phenotypic change, a change in gene transcriptional rates, a change in phosphorylation states, a change in 2nd messenger formation, cell quiescence, or cell death. 25. The method of claim 1, wherein step (v) comprises detecting the compound produced by the host cells as a result of expression of the open reading frame sequence of step (iv) by spectrometric detection. 26. The method of claim 1, wherein step (v) comprises detecting the compound produced by the host cells as a result of expression of the open reading frame sequence of step (iv) by chromatographic detection. 27. The method of claim 1, wherein step (v) comprises detecting the compound produced by the host cells as a result of expression of the open reading frame sequence of step (iv) using a cell-free assay. 28. The method of claim 1, wherein step (v) comprises detecting the compound produced by the host cells as a result of expression of the open reading frame sequence of step (iv) by inducing a biological or biochemical response from the host cell. 29. A method for detecting a product of a biosynthetic pathway, comprising: i) directly cloning into a replicable vector-genomic DNA isolated from a complex microbial sample without an intervening step of culturing cells from the sample, and size-fractionated prior to any enzymatic manipulation of the DNA to facilitate its insertion into the replicable vector, wherein at least some of the genomic DNA cloned into the vector is at least 50 kb long; and then ii) transforming the replicable vector of step (i) into host cells to obtain a library of host cells; and then iii) expressing open reading frame sequence(s) of the genomic DNA contained in the library of host cells of step (ii); and then iv) detecting a compound which is the product of a biosynthetic pathway that is dependent on expression of at least one of the opening reading frames of step (iii). 30. The method of claim 1, wherein step (i) comprises lysing the microorganisms and isolating the genomic DNA from the source by further treating the source with a protease and a detergent to yield a mixture, centrifuging the mixture to yield a supernatant, extracting the supernatant with chloroform in the absence of phenol to yield a chloroform fraction containing the genomic DNA, and precipitating the DNA by adding isopropanol to the chloroform fraction. 31. The method of claim 30, wherein step (i) further comprises size-fractionating the isolated genomic DNA prior to enzymatic manipulation of the DNA for insertion into the replicable vector of step (ii). 32. The method of claim 31, wherein step (i) comprises size-fractionating the isolated genomic DNA via electrophoresis. 