A mounting for a disk drive unit includes a carrier for carrying a disk drive unit during required movement of the disk drive unit. The carrier defines a space into which the disk drive unit can be inserted, and the carrier is adapted to be inserted with the disk drive unit into a receiving frame for operational use. At least two resilient devices are mounted on the carrier for securing the disk drive unit in the receiving frame when the carrier is inserted into the frame, at least one resilient device being mounted on each side of the carrier to allow movement of the device as a whole relative to the carrier, and the resilient device is arranged to secure the disk drive unit in the receiving frame by acting between the disk drive unit and the receiving frame. A method of handling the disk drive unit includes placing the disk drive unit into the carrier engaging a robotic device with a coupling structure projecting from the front of the carrier. The method then includes lifting the carrier by the robotic device and inserting the carrier into a receiving frame by a substantially horizontal movement.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A mounting for a disk drive unit having a data storage disk, a movable disk head, and a main body supporting the disk and disk head, the mounting comprising: a carrier for carrying a disk drive unit during required movement of the disk drive unit, the carrier defining a space into which the disk drive unit can be inserted, and the carrier being adapted to be inserted with the disk drive unit into a receiving frame for operational use; and at least one retaining device mounted on the carrier for securing the disk drive unit in the receiving frame when the carrier is inserted into the frame; in which the or each retaining device is movably mounted on the carrier to allow movement of the device as a whole relative to the carrier, and the or each retaining device is arranged to secure the disk drive unit in the receiving frame by acting directly between the disk drive unit and the receiving frame, in which the or each retaining device has a portion which protrudes inwardly towards the said space for the disk drive unit and which is inclined to a perpendicular to a floor of the carrier, the inclination being in a sense such that the insertion of a disk drive unit into the space causes the disk drive unit to engage with the inclined portion of the retaining device, and to progressively move the retaining device outwardly as the disk drive unit is inserted into the space. 2. A mounting according to claim 1, in which the or each retaining device is arranged to act between the disk drive unit and the receiving frame in use, by the effect of compression of the retaining device between the disk drive unit and the carrier. 3. A mounting according to claim 2, in which the or each retaining device is arranged to be compressed between the disk drive unit and the receiving frame by the effect of the movement of the carrier into the receiving frame. 4. A mounting according to claim 1, including at least one said retaining device mounted on each side of the carrier. 5. A mounting according to claim 1, in which the or each retaining device is movable between a first retracted position in which the retaining device is retracted wholly or partially outside the said space in the carrier, allowing the disk drive unit to be inserted into the carrier, and a second operating position in which the retaining device extends into the said space in the carrier and bears against the disk drive unit to a greater extent than in the first position. 6. A mounting according to claim 5, in which the or each retaining device includes an outwardly extending actuating surface adapted to cooperate with a portion of the receiving frame, in such a way that when the carrier is located in the frame, the portion of the frame bears against the said actuating surface and pushes the retaining device inwardly to bear against the disk drive unit which is located in the carrier. 7. A mounting according to claim 1, in which the or each retaining device is mounted in a wall of the carrier and extends inwardly towards the said space in the carrier for the disk drive and outwardly to engage the receiving frame when the carrier is inserted in the receiving frame. 8. A mounting according to claim 7, in which the retaining device has a portion which extends outwardly into a recess in the side of the carrier which recess is adapted to co-operate with a supporting rail on the receiving frame such that when the carrier is inserted into the receiving frame, the rail engages with the outwardly protruding portion of the retaining device, and compresses the retaining device between the rail and the disk drive unit in the carrier. 9. A mounting according to claim 1, including four said retaining devices positioned with two retaining devices towards the front of the carrier and two retaining devices towards the rear of the carrier, relative to the direction of insertion of the carrier into the receiving frame, each side of the carrier having an opening exposing the side of the disk drive unit when the disk drive unit is in the carrier, the opening being shaped to allow the disk drive unit to be deposited into or lifted from the carrier by gripping the exposed sides of the disk drive unit. 10. A mounting according to claim 1, in which the carrier has a coupling structure projecting outwardly from a front of the carrier adapted to be engaged by a robotic device for moving the carrier into and out of the frame. 11. A mounting according to any preceding claim 1, in combination with a receiving frame into which the carrier can be inserted with a disk drive unit for operational use of the disk drive unit. 12. A mounting according to claim 11, in which the receiving frame comprises a tester rack adapted to receive a plurality of carriers with respective disk drive units for testing the disk drive units. 13. A mounting according to claim 11, in which the receiving frame comprises a data storage assembly adapted to receive a plurality of carriers with respective disk drive units for operational use of the disk drive units for data storage. 14. A mounting according to claim 11, in which the receiving frame comprises a frame of a computer adapted to receive a single carrier with its associated disk drive unit for data processing. 15. A mounting according to claim 1, in which each retaining device comprises a resilient member. 16. A mounting according to claim 15, in which each resilient member is formed of a sheet of resilient material. 17. A mounting according to claim 16, in which the sheet of resilient material has at least one bend line about which the sheet is bent to provide two portions of the sheet inclined to each other at an obtuse angle, the resilience of the resilient member being provided by compressing of the resilient member by opening of the obtuse angle. 18. A mounting according to claim 17, in which the resilient member is positioned so as to act against an outer side of the disk drive unit when it is inserted in the carrier, the said bend line or lines being arranged in a plane or planes substantially parallel to the outer side of the disk drive unit when it is inserted into the carrier. 