The invention relates to a method for forming a green article for subsequent sintering or infiltration. This method includes providing a mold having an internal cavity that outlines the shape of the article, introducing metal or ceramic particles into the mold in an amount sufficient to provide the article in a desired size, adding a solution comprising an organic fluxing agent onto the particles with the solution carrying the organic fluxing agent into interstices between the particles, and freezing the solution to form a solid green article. The invention also relates to an apparatus and method for manufacturing dimensionally stable articles. The method includes providing a mold having an internal cavity that outlines the shape of the article, introducing metal or ceramic particles into the mold in an amount sufficient to provide the article in a desired size, vibrating the mold to compact the particles therein, adding a solution comprising an organic fluxing agent onto the compacted particles with the solution carrying the organic fluxing agent into interstices between the particles, freezing the solution to form a solid green article, heating the green article to vaporize the solution and fluxing agent and form a dry article, infiltrating the dry article with a molten metal having a lower temperature than that of the particles, and recovering the infiltrated article for finishing as a final article.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for forming a green article for subsequent sintering or infiltration, which comprises: providing a mold having an internal cavity that outlines the shape of the article, introducing metal or ceramic particles into the mold in an amount sufficient to provide the article in a desired size, adding an aqueous solution comprising an organic fluxing agent onto the particles with the solution carrying the organic fluxing agent into interstices between the particles, and freezing the solution by cooling to a temperature that is below 0.degree. C. (32.degree. F.) for a time sufficient to freeze the solution to form a solid green article. 2. The method of claim 1 which further comprises compacting the particles during their introduction into the mold, heating the green article to vaporize the solution and burn out the fluxing agent and form a dry article having interstices, introducing a molten metal having a lower temperature than that of the particles into the article to infiltrate the interstices, and recovering the metal infiltrated article for finishing as a final article. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the particles are compacted by vibrating the mold and the article is infiltrated by providing the molten metal beneath the article so that the molten metal is introduced into the interstices by capillary action. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the particles comprise iron, nickel, chromium, cobalt or an alloy of two or more of these and the molten metal comprises copper, or the particles comprise one or more ceramic materials and the molten metal comprises comprise iron, nickel, chromium, cobalt, copper or an alloy of two or more of these. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein dry metal or ceramic particles are introduced into the mold, and the fluxing agent comprises a sugar and the solution further comprises additives of one or more water soluble organic compounds. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the water soluble organic compounds include polyethylene glycol in an amount of about 0.02 to 2% by weight of the solution and polyvinyl pyrrolidone in an amount of about 0.02 to 2% by weight of the solution. 7. A method for manufacturing dimensionally stable articles which comprises: providing a mold having an internal cavity that outlines the shape of the article, introducing metal or ceramic particles into the mold in an amount sufficient to provide the article in a desired size, vibrating the mold to compact the particles therein, adding an aqueous solution comprising an organic fluxing agent onto the compacted particles with the solution carrying the organic fluxing agent into interstices between the particles, freezing the solution by cooling to a temperature that is below 0.degree. C. (32.degree. F.) for a time sufficient to freeze the solution to form a solid green article, heating the green article to vaporize the solution and fluxing agent and form a dry article, infiltrating the dry article with a molten metal having a lower temperature than that of the particles, and recovering the infiltrated article for finishing as a final article. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the fluxing agent comprises a sugar and the solution further comprises additives of one or more water soluble organic compounds. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein dry metal or ceramic particles are introduced into the mold and the water soluble organic compounds include polyethylene glycol in an amount of about 0.02 to 2% by weight of the solution and polyvinyl pyrrolidone in an amount of about 0.02 to 2% by weight of the solution. 10. The method of claim 7, wherein the mold is vibrated as the particles are introduced therein with the vibration conducted in a manner to avoid displacing the particles out of the mold cavity, and the introduction of particles continues until the mold is filled. 11. The method of claim 7, wherein the solution is added dropwise until it begins to wet the exposed surface of the compacted particles, and then additional particles are added to the wet surface. 12. The method of claim 7, wherein the mold includes a release agent to facilitate removal of the frozen green article therefrom, and the mold is vibrated in a direction laterally to reduce loss of particles from the mold during compaction. 13. The method of claim 7, wherein the infiltrated article, after cooling, exhibits less than 2% linear shrinkage, the recovery of the infiltrated article includes cooling the infiltrated article to room temperature and the finishing includes machining, cleaning or filling the final article to design specifications. 14. The method of claim 7, wherein the mold is formed of rubber by preparing a master component in the size and shape of the final article compensated for anticipated shrinkage, encapsulating the master component with a curable rubber composition, curing the rubber composition to form a mold and demolding the master component from the mold to provide the internal cavity. 15. The method of claim 7, wherein the green article is placed on a support as it is heated, with the heating conducted in stages including a first stage at a temperature of about 50 to 80.degree. C. for a time sufficient to remove the solution and provide the dry article, a second stage at a temperature of about 400 to 600.degree. C. for 30 minutes to 2 hours to volatize the fluxing agent, and a third stage at a temperature of about 800 to 1200.degree. C. for 10 to 90 minutes to infiltrate the dry article with the molten metal, optionally with a uniform temperature rate increase between the second to third stages. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the support is a graphite boat having a first chamber for supporting the article, a second chamber for holding the metal that is to be melted for infiltrating the article, and at least one channel for directing the molten metal beneath the article so that the article can be infiltrated by capillary action. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the heating stages are conducted under vacuum, optionally using an argon sweep gas, and the molten metal is retained in the second chamber until a predetermined temperature near that of the third stage is attained to assure that the binder is substantially completely volatized before infiltrating the article with the molten metal. 18. The method of claim 16, wherein the boat includes three channels and a sloped bottom wall in the first chamber to direct the molten metal into the channels and beneath the article. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein the first and second chambers of the boat are divided by a gate which does not extend to the bottom wall of the boat, and a metal shim located beneath the gate wherein the metal shim melts at a temperature that is lower than that of the infiltrant metal, so that upon heating, the shim melts to form an opening beneath the gate that the metal infiltrant, after melting can pass through and into the channels. 20. The method of claim 16, wherein the boat further comprises a further second chamber so that the first chamber includes second chambers positioned adjacent the first chamber on opposite sides thereof. 