A robotic vacuum cleaner (10) with a self-propelled controller (12) with a vacuum source (36, 38) and a dirt receptacle (32), a self-propelled cleaning head (14) with a suction inlet (24), and an interconnecting hose (16) is provided. The controller and cleaning head cooperatively traverse a surface area in tandem when the interconnecting hose is connected between the cleaning head and the controller. In one embodiment, the controller includes a power source (56) making the robotic vacuum autonomous. In another embodiment, the controller includes a power cord dispense/retract assembly (168) to provide access to utility power. In another aspect, the controller includes a portable vacuum (20) that is removed for manual operations. In still another aspect, a method of semi-automated environment mapping for a self-propelled robotic vacuum is provided. With respect to the method, the robotic vacuum also includes a remote control (18).
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An autonomous robotic vacuum (10), including: a self-propelled controller (12), including: a vacuum source (36, 38); a dirt receptacle (32) in fluidic communication with the vacuum source; a controller processor (74) providing mapping, localization, planning, and master control functions; and a power source (56, 268) for distributing power; a self-propelled cleaning head (14) in communication with the controller, the cleaning head including; a suction inlet (24) in fluidic communication with the dirt receptacle; and a cleaning processor (90) providing slave control functions; and an interconnecting hose (16) connecting the cleaning head to the controller and providing a suction airflow path from the suction inlet to the dirt receptacle; wherein the controller and cleaning head cooperatively traverse a surface area in tandem when the interconnecting hose is connected between the cleaning head and the controller. 2. The autonomous robotic vacuum as set forth in claim 1, further including: a remote control (18) in operative communication with the controller for driving the robotic vacuum during semi-automatic environment mapping of a surface area to be cleaned. 3. The autonomous robotic vacuum as set forth in claim 1, the controller further including: a transport module (22); and a portable vacuum (20) removably secured to the transport module, the portable vacuum including a vacuum inlet (30) and a vacuum outlet (40). 4. The autonomous robotic vacuum as set forth in claim 3, wherein the vacuum source, dirt receptacle, and power source are associated with the portable vacuum and the portable vacuum serves as a manual vacuum device after removal from the autonomous robotic vacuum when an accessory hose (115) is connected to the vacuum inlet. 5. The autonomous robotic vacuum as set forth in claim 3, wherein the vacuum source, dirt receptacle, and power source are associated with the portable vacuum and the portable vacuum serves as a manual blower device after removal from the autonomous robotic vacuum when an accessory hose (115) is connected to the vacuum outlet. 6. The autonomous robotic vacuum as set forth in claim 3, wherein the vacuum source and dirt receptacle are associated with the portable vacuum and the portable vacuum serves as a manual vacuum device after removal from the autonomous robotic vacuum when an accessory hose (115) is connected to the vacuum inlet and an accessory power cord (213) is connected to a power connector (256) associated with the portable vacuum and a standard utility power receptacle. 7. The autonomous robotic vacuum as set forth in claim 3, wherein the vacuum source and dirt receptacle are associated with the portable vacuum and the portable vacuum serves as a manual blower device after removal from the autonomous robotic vacuum when an accessory hose (115) is connected to the vacuum outlet and an accessory power cord (213) is connected to a power connector (256) associated with the portable vacuum and a standard utility power receptacle. 8. The autonomous robotic vacuum as set forth in claim 1, further including: a tensioning mechanism (108) supporting the interconnecting hose when the interconnecting hose is connected between the cleaning head and the controller. 9. The autonomous robotic vacuum as set forth in claim 1, the controller further including: a power cord dispense/retract assembly (172) for connection to a standard utility power receptacle to power the robotic vacuum and to recharge the power source; and a power distribution (70) for distributing power from the power cord dispense/retract assembly. 10. The autonomous robotic vacuum as set forth in claim 1, the controller further including: a power connector (256) for connecting an accessory power cord (213) between a standard utility power receptacle and the robotic vacuum to recharge the power source. 11. The autonomous robotic vacuum as set forth in claim 1, the interconnecting hose including: wires to distribute power from the controller to the cleaning head. 12. The autonomous robotic vacuum as set forth in claim 1, the cleaning head further including: a power source (87) providing power to the cleaning head. 13. The autonomous robotic vacuum as set forth in claim 1, the cleaning head further including: a hose sensor (94) in communication with the cleaning processor to detect an obstruction in the suction airflow path. 14. The autonomous robotic vacuum as set forth in claim 13, wherein the hose sensor is a differential pressure sensor and distinguishes between a full obstruction, a partial obstruction, an obstruction caused by a full dirt receptacle, and an obstruction caused by a full primary filter. 15. The autonomous robotic vacuum as set forth in claim 1, the cleaning head further including: a floor loss sensor (96) in communication with the cleaning processor to detect a drop off in a portion of the surface area that would cause the cleaning head to hang up or fall. 16. The autonomous robotic vacuum as set forth in claim 15, wherein the floor loss sensor includes at least two infrared sensors. 17. The autonomous robotic vacuum as set forth in claim 1, the cleaning head further including: a floor type sensor (97) in communication with the cleaning processor to detect whether a portion of the surface area is carpeted or non-carpeted. 18. The autonomous robotic vacuum as set forth in claim 17, wherein the floor type sensor includes is a sonar type sensor. 19. The autonomous robotic vacuum as set forth in claim 1, the cleaning head further including: a brush motor (100) controlling a brush (54) to assist in collection of dirt and dust particles through the suction inlet; and a current sense circuit breaker (98) in communication with power distribution, the cleaning processor, and the brush motor to apply and remove power to the brush motor and, when power is applied, to detect an over current condition. 20. The autonomous robotic vacuum as set forth in claim 19, wherein the brush motor and brush are combined to form a belt-less brush. 21. The autonomous robotic vacuum as set forth in claim 19, wherein the cleaning head further including: a three-phase motor controller in communication with power distribution, the cleaning processor, and the brush motor, wherein the brush motor is a brush-less DC motor. 22. The autonomous robotic vacuum as set forth in claim 1, the interconnecting hose including: wires to communicate control signals between the controller and the cleaning head. 23. The autonomous robotic vacuum as set forth in claim 1, further including: a first transceiver (380) in the controller and in communication with the controller processors; and a second transceiver (392) in the cleaning head and in communication with the first transceiver and the cleaning processor for wirelessly communicating control signals between the controller and the cleaning head. 24. A self-propelled robotic vacuum (10), including: a self-propelled controller (12), including: a vacuum source (36, 38); a dirt receptacle (32) in fluidic communication with the vacuum source; a controller processor (74) providing mapping, localization, planning, and master control functions; a power cord dispense/retract assembly (172) for connection to a standard utility power receptacle; and a power distribution (70) for distributing power from the power cord dispense/retract assembly; a self-propelled cleaning head (14) in communication with the controller, including; a suction inlet (24) in fluidic communication with the dirt receptacle; and a cleaning processor (90) providing slave control functions; and an interconnecting hose (16) connecting the cleaning head to the controller and providing a suction airflow path from the suction inlet to the dirt receptacle; wherein the controller and cleaning head cooperatively traverse a surface area in tandem when the interconnecting hose is connected between the cleaning head and the controller. 25. The self-propelled robotic vacuum as set forth in claim 24, the cleaning head further including: a power source (87) providing power to the cleaning head. 26. The self-propelled robotic vacuum as set forth in claim 25, wherein the power source in the cleaning head includes at least one of a battery and a fuel cell. 27. The self-propelled robotic vacuum as set forth in claim 24, the controller further including: a transport module (22); and a portable vacuum (20) removably secured to the transport module, the portable vacuum including a vacuum inlet (30), a vacuum outlet (40), and a power source (56). 28. The self-propelled robotic vacuum as set forth in claim 27, wherein the vacuum source and dirt receptacle are associated with the portable vacuum and the portable vacuum serves as a manual vacuum device after removal from the autonomous robotic vacuum when an accessory hose (115) is connected to the vacuum inlet. 29. The self-propelled robotic vacuum as set forth in claim 27, wherein the vacuum source and dirt receptacle are associated with the portable vacuum and the portable vacuum serves as a manual blower device after removal from the autonomous robotic vacuum when an accessory hose (115) is connected to the vacuum outlet. 30. The self-propelled robotic vacuum as set forth in claim 27, wherein the power source in the portable vacuum includes at least one of a battery and a fuel cell. 31. The self-propelled robotic vacuum as set forth in claim 24, the controller further including: a transport module (22); and a portable vacuum (20) removably secured to the transport module, the portable vacuum including a vacuum inlet (30), a vacuum outlet (40), and a power connector (256). 32. The self-propelled robotic vacuum as set forth in claim 31, wherein the vacuum source and dirt receptacle are associated with the portable vacuum and the portable vacuum serves as a manual vacuum device after removal from the autonomous robotic vacuum when an accessory hose (115) is connected to the vacuum inlet and an accessory power cord (213) is connected to the power connector associated with the portable vacuum and a standard utility power receptacle. 33. The self-propelled robotic vacuum as set forth in claim 31, wherein the vacuum source and dirt receptacle are associated with the portable vacuum and the portable vacuum serves as a manual blower device after removal from the autonomous robotic vacuum when an accessory hose (115) is connected to the vacuum outlet and an accessory power cord (213) is connected to the power connector associated with the portable vacuum and a standard utility power receptacle. 34. The self-propelled robotic vacuum as set forth in claim 24, the controller further including: a transport processor (82) in communication with the controller processor for controller movement and steering for the controller; a first wheel (46); a first brush-less DC drive motor (85) in operative communication with the first wheel; and a first three-phase motor controller in communication with power distribution, the transport processor, and the first drive motor for controlling speed and direction of the first drive motor. 35. The self-propelled robotic vacuum as set forth in claim 34, the controller further including: a second wheel (46), wherein the first brush-less DC drive motor is in operative communication with the second wheel; a first caster (48); and a steering mechanism (84) in communication with the transport processor for turning the first caster about a vertical axis to steer the controller. 36. The self-propelled robotic vacuum as set forth in claim 34, the controller further including: a second wheel (46); a second brush-less DC drive motor (85) in operative communication with the second wheel; and a second three-phase motor controller in communication with power distribution, the transport processor, and the second drive motor for controlling speed and direction of the second drive motor; wherein the transport processor steers the controller by controlling first and second three-phase motor controllers. 37. The self-propelled robotic vacuum as set forth in claim 24, the cleaning further including: a first wheel (50); a first brush-less DC drive motor (104) in operative communication with the first wheel; and a first three-phase motor controller in communication with power distribution, the cleaning processor, and the first drive motor for controlling speed and direction of the first drive motor. 38. The self-propelled robotic vacuum as set forth in claim 37, the controller further including: a second wheel (50), wherein the first brush-less DC drive motor is in operative communication with the second wheel; a first caster (52); and a steering mechanism (102) in communication with the cleaning processor for turning the first caster about a vertical axis to steer the cleaning head. 39. The self-propelled robotic vacuum as set forth in claim 37, the controller further including: a second wheel (50); a second brush-less DC drive motor (104) in operative communication with the second wheel; and a second three-phase motor controller in communication with power distribution, the cleaning processor, and the second drive motor for controlling speed and direction of the second drive motor; wherein the cleaning processor steers the cleaning head by controlling first and second three-phase motor controllers. 40. A method of semi-automated environment mapping in a self-propelled robotic vacuum (10), the robotic vacuum including a self-propelled controller (12), a self-propelled cleaning head (14) in communication with the controller, and a hose (16) providing an airflow path from the cleaning head to the controller, a remote control (18) in operative communication with the controller, wherein the controller and cleaning head cooperatively traverse a surface area in tandem when the hose is connected between the cleaning head and the controller, the method including the steps: a) driving the robotic vacuum across a surface area of an environment to be mapped using the remote control; b) detecting characteristics of the environment, including existing obstacles, using localization sensors (78); c) mapping the environment from the detected characteristics and storing an environment map in a controller processor (74); and d) determining a route for the robotic vacuum to traverse in order to clean the surface area based on the environment map. 41. The method as set forth in claim 40, further including the step: e) storing the route for future reference during subsequent robotic operations, including robotic cleaning operations. 42. An autonomous robotic vacuum (10), including: a self-propelled controller (12) providing mapping, localization, planning, and master control functions, including: a transport module (22); and a portable vacuum (20) removably secured to the transport module, the portable vacuum; a self-propelled cleaning head (14) in communication with the controller; and an interconnecting hose (16) connecting the cleaning head to the controller and providing a suction airflow path from the cleaning head to the controller; wherein the controller and cleaning head cooperatively traverse a surface area in tandem when the interconnecting hose is connected between the cleaning head and the controller. 43. The autonomous robotic vacuum as set forth in claim 42, further including: a remote control (18) in operative communication with the controller for driving the robotic vacuum during semi-automatic environment mapping of a surface area to be cleaned. 44. The autonomous robotic vacuum as set forth in claim 42, the portable vacuum further including: a vacuum source (36, 38); a dirt receptacle (32) in fluidic communication with the vacuum source; and a power source (56, 268) for distributing power. 45. The autonomous robotic vacuum as set forth in claim 44, wherein the portable vacuum serves as a manual vacuum device after removal from the autonomous robotic vacuum when an accessory hose (115) is connected to including a vacuum inlet (30) associated with the portable vacuum. 46. The autonomous robotic vacuum as set forth in claim 44, wherein the portable vacuum serves as a manual blower device after removal from the autonomous robotic vacuum when an accessory hose (115) is connected to a vacuum outlet (40) associated with the portable vacuum. 47. The autonomous robotic vacuum as set forth in claim 44, wherein the portable vacuum serves as a manual vacuum device after removal from the autonomous robotic vacuum when an accessory hose (115) is connected to a vacuum inlet (30) associated with the portable vacuum and an accessory power cord (213) is connected to a power connector (256) associated with the portable vacuum and a standard utility power receptacle. 48. The autonomous robotic vacuum as set forth in claim 44, wherein the vacuum source and dirt receptacle are associated with the portable vacuum and the portable vacuum serves as a manual blower device after removal from the autonomous robotic vacuum when an accessory hose (115) is connected to including a vacuum outlet (40) associated with the portable vacuum and an accessory power cord (213) is connected to a power connector (256) associated with the portable vacuum and a standard utility power receptacle. 49. The autonomous robotic vacuum as set forth in claim 42, further including: a tensioning mechanism (108) supporting the interconnecting hose when the interconnecting hose is connected between the cleaning head and the controller. 50. The autonomous robotic vacuum as set forth in claim 42, the controller further including: a power connector (256) for connecting an accessory power cord (213) between a standard utility power receptacle and the robotic vacuum to recharge the power source. 51. The autonomous robotic vacuum as set forth in claim 42, the cleaning head further including: a power source (87) providing power to the cleaning head. 52. The autonomous robotic vacuum as set forth in claim 42, the cleaning head further including: a hose sensor (94) in communication with the cleaning processor to detect an obstruction in the suction airflow path. 53. The autonomous robotic vacuum as set forth in claim 42, the cleaning head further including: a floor loss sensor (96) in communication with the cleaning processor to detect a drop off in a portion of the surface area that would cause the cleaning head to hang up or fall. 54. The autonomous robotic vacuum as set forth in claim 42, the cleaning head further including: a floor type sensor (97) in communication with the cleaning processor to detect whether a portion of the surface area is carpeted or non-carpeted. 55. The autonomous robotic vacuum as set forth in claim 42, the cleaning head further including: a brush motor (100) controlling a brush (54) to assist in collection of dirt and dust particles through the suction inlet; and a current sense circuit breaker (98) in communication with power distribution, the cleaning processor, and the brush motor to apply and remove power to the brush motor and, when power is applied, to detect an over current condition. 56. The autonomous robotic vacuum as set forth in claim 55, wherein the brush motor and brush are combined to a belt-less brush. 57. The autonomous robotic vacuum as set forth in claim 55, wherein the cleaning head further including: a three-phase motor controller in communication with power distribution, the cleaning processor, and the brush motor, wherein the brush motor is a brush-less DC motor. 