First sensing means senses the three-dimensional position of a microscope, with an operating site as the origin. Second sensing means senses the three dimensional position of a surgical instrument with respect to the microscope. On the basis of the sensing results of the first sensing means and second sensing means, computing means calculates the three-dimensional position of the surgical instrument, with the operating site as the origin.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A medical apparatus comprising: a medical instrument used for medical practice; an optical image capturing device, including an objective, for picking up an optical image of an object through the objective; a first detector, placed in a desired position, for detecting positional information of the optical image capturing device in three dimensions; a second detector, mounted at a predetermined position of the the optical image capturing device, for detecting positional information of the medical instrument with respect to the predetermined position of the optical image capturing device in three dimensions; and a processor configured to indirectly calculate a three-dimensional position of the medical instrument with respect to the first detector based on the detected positional information of the optical image capturing device and the detected positional information of the medical instrument. 2. The medical apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising an arm operatively coupled with the optical image capturing device. 3. The medical apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the first detector is spatially separated from the optical image capturing device. 4. The medical apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the medical instrument comprises a functional part configured to conduct a medical operation. 5. The medical apparatus according to claim 1, wherein: the medical instrument comprises a first medical instrument and a second medical instrument, and positional information of the second medical instrument is detected by the first detector or the second detector. 6. The medical apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising a monitor configured to display a three-dimensional image including an image of an operation part to undergo a medical operation performed at least by the medical instrument, wherein the monitor displays the image such that the position of the medical instrument is overlaid on the three-dimensional image based on a calculation result provided by the processor. 7. The medical apparatus according to claim 1, wherein: the second detector comprises a robotic manipulator which operates in accordance with a desired input signal, and the robotic manipulator holds the medical instrument and is attached to a predetermined position of the optical image capturing device. 8. The medical apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising a memory configured to store a three-dimensional image including an image of an operation part to undergo a medical operation performed at least by the medical instrument, wherein the processor correlates the medical instrument and the three-dimensional image based on the positional information of the optical image capturing device and the positional information of the medical instrument. 9. The medical apparatus according to claim 8, wherein the processor calculates the three-dimensional position of the medical instrument on three-dimensional coordinates which are correlated with the three-dimensional image. 10. The medical apparatus according to claim 9, further comprising: a monitor configured to display an image based on the calculation performed by the processor, wherein the monitor displays the image such that the position of the medical instrument is overlaid on the three-dimensional image. 11. The medical apparatus according to claim 10, wherein: the medical instrument comprises a functional part configured to conduct a medical operation, the three-dimensional position of the medical instrument calculated by the processor is a position of the functional part, and the monitor displays the image such that at least the position of the functional part is overlaid on the three-dimensional image. 12. The medical apparatus according to claim 1, wherein: the medical instrument comprises a first medical instrument and a second medical instrument, the first detector detects positional information of the second medical instrument, and the processor calculates a three-dimensional position of the second medical instrument with respect to the first detector based on the positional information of the second medical instrument. 13. The medical apparatus according to claim 1, wherein: the medical instrument comprises a first medical instrument and a second medical instrument, the second detector detects positional information of the second medical instrument, and the processor calculates a three-dimensional position of the second medical instrument with respect to the second detector based on the positional information of the second medical instrument. 14. A medical apparatus comprising: a medical instrument used for medical practice; a first detector configured to detect positional information of the medical instrument in three dimensions; a second detector configured to detect positional information of the first detector in three dimensions; and a processor for indirectly calculating a three-dimensional position of the medical instrument with respect to the second detector based on the positional information of the medical instrument detected by the first detector and the positional information of the first detector detected by the second detector. 15. The medical apparatus according to claim 14, further comprising: an optical image capturing device, including an objective, for picking up an optical image of an object through the objective; and an arm operatively coupled with the optical image capturing device; wherein the first detector is provided at a specific position of the optical image capturing device, and the second detector is spatially separated from the optical image capturing device. 16. The medical apparatus according to claim 14, wherein the second detector is spatially separated from the optical image capturing equipment. 17. The medical apparatus according to claim 14, wherein: the medical instrument comprises a first medical instrument and a second medical instrument, and positional information of the second medical instrument is detected by the first detector or the second detector. 18. The medical apparatus according to claim 14, further comprising a monitor configured to display a three-dimensional image including an image of an operation part to undergo a medical operation performed the medical instrument, wherein the monitor displays the image such that the position of the medical instrument is overlaid on the three-dimensional image based on a calculation result provided by the processor. 19. The medical apparatus according to claim 14, further comprising a memory configured to store a three-dimensional image including an image of an operation part to undergo a medical operation performed at least by the medical instrument, wherein the processor correlates the medical instrument and the three-dimensional image based on the positional information of the medical instrument and the first detector. 20. The medical apparatus according to claim 19, wherein the processor calculates the three-dimensional position of the medical instrument on three-dimensional coordinates which are correlated with the three-dimensional image. 21. The medical apparatus according to claim 20, further comprising a monitor configured to display an image based on a calculation performed by the processor, wherein the monitor displays the image such that the position of the medical instrument is overlaid on the three-dimensional image. 22. The medical apparatus according to claim 21, wherein: the medical instrument comprises a functional part configured to conduct a medical operation, the three-dimensional position of the medical instrument calculated by the processor is a position of the functional part, and the monitor displays the image such that at least the position of the functional part is overlaid on the three-dimensional image. 23. The medical apparatus according to claim 14, wherein: the medical instrument comprises a first medical instrument and a second medical instrument, the first detector detects positional information of the second medical instrument, and the processor calculates a three-dimensional position of the second medical instrument with respect to the second detector based on the positional information of the second medical instrument. 24. A medical apparatus comprising: a medical instrument used for medical practice; a first detector configured to detect positional information of the medical instrument in three dimensions; an optical image capturing device, on which the first detector is mounted and which includes an objective, for picking up an object through the objective; a second detector configured to detect positional information of the optical image capturing device in three dimensions; and a processor configured to indirectly calculate a three-dimensional position of the medical instrument with respect to the second detector based on the detected positional information of the optical image capturing device and the detected positional information of the medical instrument. 25. The medical apparatus according to claim 24, further comprising: an arm operatively coupled with the optical image capturing device. 26. The medical apparatus according to claim 24, wherein the second detector is spatially separated from the optical image capturing device. 27. The medical apparatus according to clam 24, wherein: the medical instrument comprises a first medical instrument and a second medical instrument, and positional information of the second medical instrument is detected by the first detector or the second detector. 28. The medical apparatus according to claim 24, further comprising a monitor configured to display a three-dimensional image including an image of an operation part to undergo a medical operation performed at least by the medical instrument, wherein the monitor displays the image such that the position of the medical instrument is overlaid on the three-dimensional image based on a calculation result provided by the processor. 29. The medical apparatus according to claim 24, further comprising a memory configured to store a three-dimensional image including an image of an operation part to undergo a medical operation performed at least by the medical instrument, wherein the processor correlates the medical instrument and the three-dimensional image based on the positional information of the medical instrument and the positional information of the optical image capturing device. 30. The medical apparatus according to claim 29, wherein the processor calculates the three-dimensional position of the medical instrument on three-dimensional coordinates which are correlated with the three-dimensional image. 31. The medical apparatus according to claim 30, further comprising a monitor configured to display an image based on a calculation performed by the processor, wherein the monitor displays the image such that the position of the medical instrument is overlaid on the three-dimensional image. 32. The medical apparatus according to claim 31, wherein: the medical instrument comprises a functional part configured to conduct a medical operation, the three-dimensional position of the medical instrument calculated by the processor is a position of the functional part, and the monitor displays the image such that at least the position of the functional part is overlaid on the three-dimensional image. 33. The medical apparatus according to claim 24, wherein: the medical instrument comprises a first medical instrument and a second medical instrument, the first detector detects positional information of the second medical instrument, and the processor calculates a three-dimensional position of the second medical instrument with respect to the second detector based on the positional information of the second medical instrument. 34. A medical apparatus comprising: a medical instrument used for medical practice, an optical image capturing device, including an objective, for picking up an optical image of an object through the objective; first detecting means for detecting positional information of the optical image capturing device in three dimensions, second detecting means for detecting positional information of the medical instrument with respect to the optical image capturing device in three dimensions; and means for indirectly calculating a three-dimensional position of the medical instrument with respect to the first detecting means based on the detected positional information of the optical image capturing device and the detected positional information of the medical instrument. 35. A medical apparatus comprising: a medical instrument used for medical practice; first detecting means for detecting positional information of the medical instrument in three dimensions; an optical image capturing device, to which the first detecting means is attached and which includes an objective, for picking up an optical image of an object through the objective; second detecting means for detecting positional information of the optical image capturing device in three dimensions; and means for indirectly calculating a three-dimensional position of the medical instrument with respect to the second detecting means based on the detected positional information of the medical instrument and the detected positional relationship of the optical image capturing device. 