Guide mechanism and method for axially directing an annular transponder unit segment by segment to an adhesive application station for subsequent attachment of the annular transponder unit segment by segment to an annular tire surface, the transponder unit being of a type having a sensor housing coupled to an annular antenna. The guide mechanism includes opposed fingers proximately positioned adjacent to an adhesive application station. The opposed fingers pivot to capture the annular assembly therebetween and slideably direct the assembly segment by segment to the adhesive application station. The guide mechanism is adjustable to a preferred proximal height from the annular surface of a tire and presents the annular transponder unit to the adhesive application station at a specified diameter and height above the tire surface.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A guide mechanism for directing an annular transponder unit segment by segment toward an adhesive application station, the transponder unit being of a type having a transponder housing coupled to an elongate annular antenna, the guide mechanism comprising: opposed first and second fingers proximately positioned adjacent to the adhesive application station, the opposed fingers capturing the annular transponder unit segment by segment therebetween and directing the annular transponder unit segment by segment to the adhesive application station. 2. A guide mechanism according to claim 1, wherein the opposed fingers are pivotally mounted to move between an open relative orientation to allow admittance of a segment of the annular transponder unit and a closed relative orientation to capture the segment therebetween. 3. A guide mechanism according to claim 1, wherein the guide mechanism is proximally located to a surface of a tire and presents the annular transponder unit segment to the adhesive application station at a specified height above the tire surface. 4. A guide mechanism according to claim 3 wherein the guide mechanism further comprising adjustment means for adjusting the separation distance of the guide mechanism from the tire surface. 5. A guide mechanism according to claim 4 wherein the guide mechanism pivot reciprocally between the open and closed orientations. 6. A method for guiding and feeding an annular transponder unit segment by segment between a guide mechanism and an adhesive application station for attachment of the annular transponder unit segment by segment to a tire surface, the method comprising the steps: moving opposed fingers of the guide mechanism into an open position for admittance of a segment of the annular transponder unit therebetween; closing the opposed fingers into a closed position whereby capturing the annular transponder unit in a channel between the opposed fingers in the closed position; sliding the annular transponder unit segment by segment through the channel to the adhesive application station. 7. A method according to claim 6, further comprising the step of adjusting the distance of the guide mechanism from the tire surface to a predetermined preferred height. 8. A method according to claim 7, further comprising the step of moving the guide mechanism opposed fingers to the open position subsequent to attachment of the annular transponder unit to the tire surface. 