Methods for operating robotic devices (i.e., "robots") that employ adaptive behavior relative to neighboring robots and external (e.g., environmental) conditions. Each robot is capable of receiving, processing, and acting on one or more multi-device primitive commands that describe a task the robot will perform in response to other robots and the external conditions. The commands facilitate a distributed command and control structure, relieving a central apparatus or operator from the need to monitor the progress of each robot. This virtually eliminates the corresponding constraint on the maximum number of robots that can be deployed to perform a task (e.g., data collection, mapping, searching). By increasing the number of robots, the efficiency in completing the task is also increased.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for operating a robotic device capable of receiving at least one multi-device primitive command, the method comprising the steps of: monitoring, by the robotic device, of its operational readiness to complete at least one predetermined task; determining, by the robotic device, a deficiency in its operational readiness; and executing, by the robotic device, a contingency task based at least in part on the deficiency. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the deficiency comprises a reduced power supply level and the contingency task comprises returning to a charging station. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the deficiency comprises an operational failure and the contingency task comprises transmitting an out of service message. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein the out of service message is conveyed to at least one backup robotic device. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein the at least one backup robotic device executes the at least one predetermined task. 6. A method for operating a robotic device capable of receiving at least one multi-device primitive command, the method comprising the steps of: monitoring, by a monitoring device, of an operational readiness of the robotic device to complete at least one predetermined task; determining, by the monitoring device, a deficiency in the operational readiness of the robotic device; and executing, by the monitoring device, a contingency task based at least in part on the deficiency. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein the deficiency comprises a loss of communication between the monitoring device and the robotic device. 8. The method of claim 6 wherein the contingency task comprises causing at least one backup robotic device to execute the at least one predetermined task. 9. The method of claim 6 wherein the monitoring device is a leader robotic device. 10. A method for configuring a plurality of robotic devices capable of receiving at least one multi-device primitive command, the method comprising the steps of: defining a first robotic device and a remainder of robotic devices in the plurality of robotic devices; conveying configuration data to the first robotic device; and propagating the configuration data from the first robotic device to at least one of the remainder of robotic devices. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein the step of propagating the configuration data occurs in a predetermined sequence. 12. A method for monitoring a plurality of robotic devices capable of receiving at least one multi-device primitive command, the method comprising the steps of: equipping each robotic device with at least one of an optical transmitter and an audio transmitter; defining at least one of (i) a plurality of optical signals, and (ii) a plurality of audio signals, corresponding at least in part to a state of each robotic device; transmitting, by each robotic device, at least one of the optical signal and the audio signal; and observing a plurality of transmitted signals to ascertain inconsistencies therein. 13. A system of robotic devices configured to perform at least one task, the system comprising: a plurality of robotic devices capable of receiving at least one multi-device primitive command, the plurality comprising a first robotic device and a remainder of robotic devices; a control apparatus capable of conveying configuration data to the first robotic device; and a propagation apparatus capable of conveying the configuration data from the first robotic device to at least one of the remainder of robotic devices; wherein each robotic device comprises: a sensing apparatus capable of receiving data based at least in part on a location occupied by each robotic device; a receiving apparatus capable of receiving data from at least one of the control apparatus and at the least one of the remainder of robotic devices; and a transmitting apparatus capable of transmitting data to at least one of the control apparatus and at the least one of the remainder of robotic devices. 14. The robotic devices of claim 13 wherein the sensing apparatus comprises at least one of an optical sensor, an audio sensor, a radio frequency receiver, a positional sensor, a tactile sensor, an environmental sensor, and an electromagnetic sensor. 15. The robotic devices of claim 13 wherein the receiving apparatus comprises at least one of an optical receiver, an audio receiver, a radio frequency receiver, and a hardwire port. 16. The robotic devices of claim 13 wherein the transmitting apparatus comprises at least one of an optical transmitter, an audio transmitter, a radio frequency transmitter, a stigmergy transmitter, and a hardwire port. 17. The robotic devices of claim 13 wherein the receiving apparatus and the transmitting apparatus are integrated in a single apparatus. 18. The robotic devices of claim 13 wherein the at least one task comprises at least one of data collection, mapping, and searching. 