Affordable methods and apparatus are disclosed for inputting position, attitude (orientation) or other object characteristic data to computers for the purpose of Computer Aided Design, Painting, Medicine, Teaching, Gaming, Toys, Simulations, Aids to the disabled, and internet or other experiences. Preferred embodiments of the invention utilize electro-optical sensors, and particularly TV Cameras, providing optically inputted data from specialized datum's on objects and/or natural features of objects. Objects can be both static and in motion, from which individual datum positions and movements can be derived, also with respect to other objects both fixed and moving. Real-time photogrammetry is preferably used to determine relationships of portions of one or more datums with respect to a plurality of cameras or a single camera processed by a conventional PC.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for designing an object comprising the steps of: a) providing a computer having a display; b) providing a physical surrogate of said object; c) providing in said computer a data base of said object; d) using said data base, displaying a 3D representation of said object; e) determining the position of a member positioned by a person designing said object; f) determining a position of said surrogate; and g) from said determined position, determining changes to said object data base to be made in said computer. 2. A method according to claim 1, wherein said surrogate is a model of an object. 3. A method according to claim 1, wherein said determining the position of said member is made electro-optically. 4. A method according to claim 1, wherein said electro-optical determination is made using at least one TV camera. 5. A method according to claim 4, wherein a stereo pair of TV cameras are employed. 6. A method according to claim 1, wherein datums on said member are sensed. 7. A method according to claim 1, wherein datums on said surrogate are sensed. 8. A method according to claim 1, wherein datums are sensed in relation to the position of said surrogate. 9. A method according to claim 1, wherein said member is positioned based on determination of information on said 3D display. 10. A method according to claim 1, wherein changes in the data base are reflected in changes to said 3D display. 11. A method according to claim 1, wherein said steps f and g are repeated to effect a continued change in said data base and the display thereof. 12. A method according to claim 1, wherein said steps e to g are repeated to effect a continued change in said data base and the display thereof. 13. A method according to claim 1, including the further step of creating a new surrogate using said changed data base. 14. A method according to claim 1, including the further step of sensing orientation as well as position of at least one of said surrogate or said member. 15. A method according to claim 1, wherein the relative position of said member with respect to said surrogate is sensed. 16. A method according to claim 1, wherein said changes to said data base effect a change in a surface shape of said 3D representation of said object. 17. A method according to claim 1, wherein said surrogate is stationary. 18. A method according to claim 1, wherein said surrogate is moved in executing said design. 19. A method according to claim 1, wherein said surrogate is rotated in executing said design. 20. A method according to claim 1, wherein said surrogate is held in a hand of said person. 21. A method according to claim 1, wherein said member is said person's finger. 22. A method according to claim 1, wherein said member is said person's hand. 23. A method according to claim 1, wherein said member is held in a hand of said person. 24. A method according to claim 1, wherein said member has a known shape which is used to change said data base when moved by said person. 25. A method according to claim 1, wherein information concerning said member is electro-optically communicated to said computer. 26. A method according to claim 1, wherein said data base is downloaded from a file. 27. A method according to claim 1, wherein said data base is generated electro-optically from a physical object. 28. A method according to claim 1, where said surrogate is an arbitrary object. 29. A method according to claim 2 wherein said surrogate is a vehicle model. 30. A method for designing an object comprising the steps of: providing a computer having a display; providing a physical surrogate of said object; providing in said computer a data base of said object; using said data base, displaying a 3D representation of said object; determining the orientation of a member positioned by a person designing said object; determining the orientation of said surrogate; and from said determined orientation, determining changes to said object data base to be made in said computer. 31. A method according to claim 30, including the further step of determining the position of said surrogate and/or said member. 32. A method according to claim 30, wherein said orientation of said surrogate is determined electro-optically. 33. A method according to claim 31, wherein said position is determined electro-optically. 34. A method according to claim 30, wherein said electro-optical determination employs at least one TV camera. 35. A method for designing an object comprising the steps of: providing a computer having a display; providing a physical surrogate of said object; providing in said computer a data base of said object; using said data base, displaying a 3D representation of said object; determining the relative position of a member positioned by a person designing said object with respect to said surrogate; and from said determined relative position, determining changes to said object data base to be made in said computer. 36. A method according to claim 35, including the further step of determining the relative orientation of said surrogate and/or said member. 37. A method according to claim 35, wherein said relative position is determined electro-optically. 38. A method according to claim 36, wherein said relative orientation is determined electro-optically. 39. A method according to claim 35, wherein said member is said person's finger. 40. A method according to claim 35, wherein said member is said person's hand. 41. A method according to claim 35, wherein said member is held in a hand of said person. 