An active-constraint robot (4), particularly for surgical use, is controlled by means of a series of motorized joints to provide a surgeon with real-time tactile feedback of an operation in progress. The robot system holds, in memory, a series of constraint surfaces beyond which it would be dangerous for the surgeon to go, and a resistive force is applied to the cutting tool (14) as the surgeon approaches any such surface. To improve the overall quality of feedback experienced by the surgeon, the resistive force applied to the cutting tool (14) depends upon the point of intersection (I) between the force factor applied by the surgeon and the surface. Further improvements are achieved by adjusting the tangential resistive force, when the tool is adjacent to the surface, in dependence upon the surrounding shape of the surface.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of controlling an active-constraint robot, comprising: providing an active-constraint robot (4) including a tool (14) for operating on element, and a drive unit (20,28,38) for controlling movement of the tool; providing a model including a NURBS surface describing a constraint surface associated with the element; determining the imaginary point (I) of intersection of a force vector (V) representative of a force applied by a user to the tool and the NURBS surface; and controlling the drive unit (20,28,38) by resisting movement of the tool according to the determined point of intersection. 2. A method as claimed in claim 1 in which the NURBS surface is tessellated in determining the point (I) of intersection. 3. A method as claimed in claim 2 in which tessellations of a first resolution and at least one higher, second resolution are generated, the tessellations of the first resolution enabling a first determination of the point (I) of intersection and the tessellations of the second resolution enabling a second, more accurate, determination of the point (I) of intersection. 4. A method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims in which movement is resisted by applying a constraining force which is a function of the distance between the imaginary point of intersection and the tool (14), and of the force being applied by the user. 5. A method of controlling an active-constraint robot, comprising: providing an active-constraint robot (4) including a tool (14) for operating on element, and a drive unit (20,28,38) for controlling movement of the tool; providing a model including a model surface describing a constraint surface associated with the element; determining the imaginary point (I) of intersection of a force vector (V) representative of a force applied by a user to the tool and the model surface; and controlling the drive unit (20,28,38) by resisting movement of the tool according to the determined point of intersection. 6. A method as claimed in claim 5 in which the model surface is tessellated in determining the point (I) of intersection. 7. A method as claimed in claim 6 in which tessellations of a first resolution and at least one higher, second resolution are generated, the tessellations of the first resolution enabling a first determination of the point (I) of intersection and the tessellations of the second resolution enabling a second, more accurate, determination of the point (I) of intersection. 8. A method as claimed in any one of claims 5 to 7 in which movement is resisted by applying a constraining force which is a function of the distance between the imaginary point of intersection and the tool (14), and of the force being applied by the user. 9. An active-constraint robot (4) including: a tool (14) for operating on an element; a drive unit (20,28,38) for controlling movement of the tool; means for holding a model including a NURBS surface describing a constraint surface associated with the element; means for determining the imaginary point (I) of intersection of a force vector (V) representative of a force applied by a user to the tool and the NURBS surface; and a control for controlling the drive unit (20,28,38) by resisting movement of the tool according to the determined point of intersection. 10. A robot as claimed in claim 9 including means for tessellating the NURBS surface in determining the point (I) of intersection. 11. A robot as claimed in claim 10 in which tessellations of a first resolution and at least one higher, second resolution are generated, the tessellations of the first resolution enabling a first determination of the point (I) of intersection and the tessellations of the second resolution enabling a second, more accurate, determination of the point (I) of intersection. 12. A robot as claimed in any one of claims 9 to 11 in which the controller resists movement by applying a constraining force which is a function of the distance between the imaginary point of intersection and the tool (14), and of the force being applied by the user. 13. An active-constraint robot (4) including: a tool (14) for operating on an element and a drive unit (20,28,38) for controlling movement of the tool; means for holding a model including a model surface describing a constraint surface associated with the element; means for determining the imaginary point (I) of intersection of a force vector (V) representative of a force applied by a user to the tool and the model surface; and a control for controlling the drive unit (20,28,38) by resisting movement of the tool according to the determined point of intersection. 14. A robot as claimed in claim 13 including means for tessellating the model surface in determining the point (I) of intersection. 15. A robot as claimed in claim 14 in which tessellations of a first resolution and at least one higher, second resolution are generated, the tessellations of the first resolution enabling a first determination of the point (I) of intersection and the tessellations of the second resolution enabling a second, more accurate, determination of the point (I) of intersection. 16. A robot as claimed in any one of claims 13 to 15 in which the controller resists movement by applying a constraining force which is a function of the distance between the imaginary point of intersection and the tool (14), and of the force being applied by the user. 17. A method of controlling an active-constraint robot, comprising: providing an active constraint robot (4) including a tool (14) for operating on an element, and a drive unit (20,28,38) for controlling movement of the tool; providing a model describing a constraint surface associated with the element; and controlling the drive unit by resisting movement of the tool in a direction tangential to an adjacent constraint surface in dependence upon the shape of the constraint surface in a region surrounding the position of the tool. 18. A method as claimed in claim 17 in which the tangential direction is defined as that direction perpendicular to the shortest line normal to the constraint surface which intersects the tool. 19. A method as claimed in claim 18 in which the amount of resistance is dependent upon the length of the tangential vector between the tool and a point at which it intersects the constraint surface. 20. A method as claimed in claim 17 or claim 18 in which a plurality of points lying on the surface and within the region are considered, the amount of constraint being a function of the distance of each point to the tool and the angle between a normal to the surface at each point and a line extending between each said point and the tool. 21. A method as claimed in claim 20 in which a separate value is calculated for each said point, with the amount of resistance applied to the tool being set at the maximum value for all the said points. 22. A method as claimed in claim 17 or claim 18 in which a separate resistance value is calculated for a plurality of points lying on the surface and within the region, the amount of resistance applied to the tool being determined in dependence upon the largest of the said separate resistance values. 23. An active constraint robot (4) including: a tool (14) for operating on an element; a drive unit (20,28,38) for controlling movement of the tool; means for holding a model describing a constraint surface associated with the element; and control means for controlling the drive unit by resisting movement of the tool in a direction tangential to an adjacent constraint surface in dependence upon the shape of the constraint surface in a region surrounding the position of the tool. 24. A robot as claimed in claim 23 in which the tangential direction is defined as that direction perpendicular to the shortest line normal to the constraint surface which intersects the tool. 25. A robot as claimed in claim 24 in which the amount of resistance is dependent upon the length of the tangential vector between the tool and a point at which it intersects the constraint surface. 26. A robot as claimed in claim 23 or claim 24 in which the control means considers a plurality of points lying on the surface and within the region, the amount of constraint being a function of the distance of each point to the tool and the angle between a normal to the surface at each point and a line extending between each said point and the tool. 27. A robot as claimed in claim 26 in which a separate value is calculated for each said point, with the amount of resistance applied to the tool being set at the maximum value for all the said points. 28. A robot as claimed in claim 23 or claim 24 in which the control means calculates a separate resistance value for a plurality of points lying on the surface and within the region, the amount of resistance applied to the tool being determined in dependence upon the largest of the said separate resistance values. 