A motion system comprising a motion enabled device, an event source, a plurality of message transceivers, and a motion services system. The motion enabled device performs motion operations based on motion commands. The event source generates motion messages upon the occurrence of events, where the motion messages correspond to motion operations. The motion messages are transmitted among the plurality of message transceivers. The motion services system maps motion messages transmitted between the plurality of message transceivers to motion commands based on motion operations corresponding to mapped motion messages. The motion services system performs motion operations based on motion commands corresponding to mapped motion messages.
Claims We claim: 1. A motion system comprising: a motion enabled device that performs motion operations based on motion commands; an event source that generates motion messages upon the occurrence of events, where the motion messages correspond to motion operations; a plurality of message transceivers between which motion messages are transmitted; and a motion services system for mapping motion messages transmitted between the plurality of message transceivers to motion commands based on motion operations corresponding to mapped motion messages; whereby the motion services system performs motion operations based on motion commands corresponding to mapped motion messages. 2. A motion system as recited in claim 1, which the plurality of message transceivers allow motion messages to be transmitted over the computer network. 3. A motion system as recited in claim 2, in which the message transceivers instantly transmit motion messages over the computer network, network latencies notwithstanding. 4. A motion system as recited in claim 1, in which the message transceivers transmit motion messages in a predetermined format. 5. A motion system as recited in claim 1, in which the message transceivers and the motion services system are separate. 6. A motion system as recited in claim 1, in which the motion services system incorporates at least one of the message transceivers. 7. A motion system as recited in claim 1, in which the motion enabled device incorporates the motion services system. 8. A motion system as recited in claim 1, in which the motion enabled device incorporates at least one of the message transceivers. 9. A motion system as recited in claim 7, in which the motion enabled device incorporates at least one of the message transceivers. 10. A motion system as recited in claim 1, further comprising a plurality of motion enabled devices. 11. A motion system as recited in claim 10, in which at least one message transceiver is associated with each motion enabled device. 12. A motion system as recited in claim 10, in which at least one motion services system is associated with each motion enabled device. 13. A motion system as recited in claim 11, in which at least one message transceiver is associated with each motion enabled device. 14. A motion system as recited in claim 1, further comprising first and second networks and a server, where the server allows motion messages to be transmitted between the first and second networks. 15. A motion system as recited in claim 13, in which at least one message transceiver is connected to the first network and at least one message transceiver is connected to the second network. 16. A motion system as recited in claim 13, in which the event source is connected to the first network and the motion enabled device is connected to the second network. 17. A motion system as recited in claim 1, in which the event source is a speech to text converter that converts human speech into motion messages. 18. A motion system as recited in claim 16, in which the message transceivers and the motion services system are separate. 19. A motion system as recited in claim 16, in which the motion services system incorporates at least one of the message transceivers. 20. A motion system as recited in claim 16, in which the motion enabled device incorporates the motion services system. 21. A motion system as recited in claim 16, in which the motion enabled device incorporates at least one of the message transceivers. 22. A motion system as recited in claim 20, in which the motion enabled device incorporates at least one of the message transceivers. 