Methods and systems for monitoring semiconductor fabrication processes are provided. A system may include a stage configured to support a specimen and coupled to a measurement device. The measurement device may include an illumination system and a detection system. The illumination system and the detection system may be configured such that the system may be configured to determine multiple properties of the specimen. For example, the system may be configured to determine multiple properties of a specimen including, but not limited to, an adhesion characteristic and a thickness. In this manner, a measurement device may perform multiple optical and/or non-optical metrology and/or inspection techniques.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system configured to determine at least two properties of a specimen during use, comprising: a stage configured to support the specimen during use, wherein the specimen is a product wafer; a measurement device coupled to the stage, comprising: an illumination system configured to direct energy toward an upper surface and a bottom surface of the specimen simultaneously during use; and a detection system coupled to the illumination system and configured to detect energy propagating from the upper surface and the bottom surface of the specimen simultaneously during use, wherein the measurement device is configured to generate one or more output signals responsive to the detected energy during use; and a processor coupled to the measurement device and configured to determine a first property, a second property, a third property, and a fourth property of the specimen from the one or more output signals during use, wherein the first property comprises an adhesion characteristic of a structure on the upper surface at the specimen, wherein the second property comprises a thickness of the structure, wherein the third property comprises a presence of macro defects on the bottom surface of the specimen, and wherein the fourth property comprises a presence of micro defects on the upper surface of the specimen. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the stage is further configured to move laterally during use. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the stage is further configured to move rotatably during use. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the stage is further configured to move laterally and rotatably during use. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the measurement device further comprises a photo-acoustic device. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein the measurement device further comprises a spectroscopic ellipsometer. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the measurement device further comprises an ellipsometer. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein the measurement device further comprises an X-ray reflectometer. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein the measurement device further comprises a grazing X-ray reflectometer. 10. The system of claim 1, wherein the measurement device further comprises an X-ray diffractometer. 11. The system of claim 1, wherein the measurement device further comprises a photo-acoustic device and an ellipsometer. 12. The system of claim 1, wherein the measurement device further comprises at least a first measurement device and a second measurement device, and wherein the first and second measurement devices are selected from the group consisting of a photo-acoustic device, a spectroscopic ellipsometer, an ellipsometer, an X-ray reflectometer, a grazing X-ray reflectometer, an X-ray diffractometer, and an eddy current device. 13. The system of claim 1, wherein the measurement device further comprises at least a first measurement device and a second measurement device, and wherein elements of the first measurement device comprise elements of the second measurement device. 14. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to determine a fifth property of the specimen from the one or more output signals during use, and wherein the fourth fifth property is selected from the group consisting of a roughness of the specimen, a roughness of a layer on the upper surface of the specimen, and a roughness of a feature on the upper surface of the specimen. 15. The system of claim 14, wherein the system is coupled to a process tool selected from the group consisting of a lithography tool, an atomic layer deposition tool, a cleaning tool, and an etch tool. 16. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is further configured to determine the at least two properties of the specimen substantially simultaneously during use. 17. The system of claim 1, wherein the illumination system is further configured to direct energy to multiple locations on the upper surface of the specimen substantially simultaneously, and wherein the detection system is further configured to detect energy propagating from the multiple locations on the upper surface of the specimen substantially simultaneously such that one or more of the at least two properties of the specimen can be determined at the multiple locations substantially simultaneously. 18. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is coupled to a process tool. 19. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is coupled to a process tool, and wherein the system is disposed within the process tool. 20. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is coupled to a process tool, and wherein the system is arranged laterally proximate to the process tool. 21. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is coupled to a process tool, and wherein the process tool comprises a wafer handler configured to move the specimen to the stage during use. 22. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is coupled to a process tool, and wherein the stage is further configured to move the specimen from the system to the process tool during use. 23. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is coupled to a process tool, and wherein the stage is further configured to move the specimen to a process chamber of the process tool during use. 24. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is coupled to a process tool, and wherein the system is further configured to determine at least the two properties of the specimen while the specimen is waiting between process steps. 25. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is coupled to a process tool, wherein the process tool comprises a support device configured to support the specimen during a process step, and wherein an upper surface of the support device is substantially parallel to an upper surface of the stage. 26. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is coupled to a process tool, wherein the process tool comprises a support device configured to support the specimen during a process step, and wherein an upper surface of the stage is angled with respect to an upper surface of the support device. 27. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is coupled to a process tool, and wherein the process tool is selected from the group consisting of an etch tool, an ion implanter, a chemical vapor deposition tool, a physical vapor deposition tool, an atomic layer deposition tool, a thermal tool, a cleaning tool, and a plating tool. 28. The system of claim 1, wherein the system further comprises a measurement chamber, wherein the stage and the measurement device are disposed within the measurement chamber, and wherein the measurement chamber is coupled to a process tool. 29. The system of claim 1, wherein the system further comprises a measurement chamber, wherein the stage and the measurement device are disposed within the measurement chamber, and wherein the measurement chamber is disposed within a process tool. 30. The system of claim 1, wherein the system further comprises a measurement chamber, wherein the stage and the measurement device are disposed within the measurement chamber, and wherein the measurement chamber is arranged laterally proximate to a process chamber of a process tool. 31. The system of claim 1, wherein the system further comprises a measurement chamber, wherein the stage and the measurement device are disposed within the measurement chamber, and wherein the measurement chamber is arranged vertically proximate to a process chamber of a process tool. 32. The system of claim 1, wherein a process tool comprises a process chamber, wherein the stage is disposed within the process chamber, and wherein the stage is further configured to support the specimen during a process step. 33. The system of claim 32, wherein the processor is further configured to determine at least the two properties of the specimen during the process step. 34. The system of claim 32, wherein the processor is further configured to obtain a signature characterizing the process step during use, and wherein the signature comprises at least one singularity representative of an end of the process step. 35. The system of claim 32, wherein the processor is further coupled to the process tool and is further configured to alter a parameter of one or more instruments coupled to the process tool in response to at least one of the first, second, third, and fourth properties using an in situ control technique during use. 36. The system of claim 1, wherein a process tool comprises a first process chamber and a second process chamber, and wherein the stage is further configured to move the specimen from the first process chamber to the second process chamber during use. 37. The system of claim 36, wherein the system is further configured to determine at least the two properties of the specimen as the stage is moving the specimen from the first process chamber to the second process chamber. 38. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to compare at least one of the first, second, third, and fourth properties of the specimen and properties of a plurality of specimens during use. 39. The system or claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to compare at least one of the first, second, third, and fourth properties of the specimen to a predetermined range for the at least one or the first, second, third, and fourth properties during use. 40. The system of claim 39, wherein the processor is further configured to generate an output signal if the at least one of the first, second, third, and fourth properties of the specimen is outside or the predetermined range. 41. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to alter a sampling frequency of the measurement device in response to at least one of the first, second, third, and fourth properties of the specimen during use. 42. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to alter a parameter of one or more instruments coupled to the measurement device in response to at least one of the first, second, third, and fourth properties using a feedback control technique during use. 43. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to alter a parameter of one or more instruments coupled to the measurement device in response to at least one of the first, second, third, and fourth properties using a feedforward control technique during use. 44. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to generate a database during use, wherein the database comprises the first, second, third, and fourth properties of the specimen, and wherein the processor is further configured to calibrate the measurement device using the database during use. 45. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to generate a database during use, wherein the database comprises the first, second, third, and fourth properties of the specimen, and wherein the processor is further configured to monitor output signals generated by measurement device using the database during use. 46. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to generate a database during use, wherein the database comprises the first, second, third, and fourth properties of the specimen, and wherein the database further comprises first, second, third, and fourth properties of a plurality of specimens. 47. The system of claim 46, wherein the first, second, third, and fourth properties of the plurality of specimens are determined using a plurality of measurement devices, wherein the processor is further coupled to the plurality of measurement devices, and wherein the processor is further configured to calibrate the plurality of measurement devices using the database during use. 48. The system of claim 46, wherein the first, second, third, and fourth properties of the plurality of specimens are determined using a plurality of measurement devices, wherein the processor is further coupled to the plurality of measurement devices, and wherein the processor is further configured to monitor output signals generated by the plurality of measurement devices using the database during use. 49. The system of claim 1, further comprising a stand alone system coupled to the system, wherein the stand alone system is configured to be calibrated with a calibration standard during use, and wherein the stand alone system is further configured to calibrate the system during use. 50. The system of claim 1, further comprising a stand alone system coupled to the system and at least one additional system, wherein the stand alone system is configured to be calibrated with a calibration standard during use, and wherein the stand alone system is further configured to calibrate the system and at least the one additional system during use. 51. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is further configured to determine at least the two properties of the specimen at more than one position on the specimen, and wherein the processor is further configured to alter at least one parameter of one or more instruments coupled to a process tool in response to at least one of the first, second, third, and fourth properties of the specimen at the more than one position on the specimen to reduce within wafer variation of the at least one of the first, second, third, and fourth properties. 52. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further coupled to a process tool. 53. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further coupled to a process tool, and wherein the processor is further configured to alter a parameter of one or more instruments coupled to the process tool in response to at least one of the first, second, third, and fourth properties using a feedback control technique during use. 54. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further coupled to a process tool, and wherein the processor is further configured to alter a parameter of one or more instruments coupled to the process tool in response to at least one of the first, second, and third, and fourth properties using a feedforward control technique during use. 55. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further coupled to a process tool, and wherein the processor is further configured to monitor a parameter of one or more instruments coupled to the process tool during use. 56. The system of claim 55, wherein the processor is further configured to determine a relationship between at least one of the first, second, third, and fourth properties and at least one of the monitored parameters during use. 57. The system of claim 56, wherein the processor is further configured to alter a parameter of at least one of the one or more instruments in response to the relationship during use. 58. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further coupled to a plurality of measurement devices, and wherein at least one of the plurality of measurement devices is coupled to a process tool. 59. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further coupled to a plurality of process tools, and wherein the processor is further configured to alter a parameter of one or more instruments coupled to at least one of the plurality of process tools during use. 60. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor comprises a local processor coupled to the measurement device and a remote controller computer coupled to the local processor, wherein the local processor is configured to at least partially process the one or more output signals during use, and wherein the remote controller computer is configured to further process the at least partially processed one or more output signals during use. 61. The system of claim 60, wherein the local processor is further configured to determine the first, second, third, and fourth properties of the specimen during use. 62. The system of claim 60, wherein the remote controller computer is further configured to determine the first, second, third, and fourth properties of the specimen during use. 63. A method for determining at least two properties of a specimen. comprising: disposing the specimen upon a stage, wherein the specimen is a product wafer, wherein the stage is coupled to a measurement device, and wherein the measurement device comprises an illumination system and a detection system; directing energy toward an upper surface and a bottom surface of the specimen simultaneously using the illumination system; detecting energy propagating from the upper surface and the bottom surface of the specimen simultaneously using the detection system; generating one or more output signals responsive to the detected energy; and processing the one or more output signals to determine a first property, a second property, a third property, and a fourth property of the specimen, wherein the first property comprises en adhesion characteristic of a structure on the upper surface of the specimen, wherein the second property comprises a thickness of the structure, wherein the third property comprises a presence of macro defects on the bottom surface of the specimen, and wherein the fourth property comprises a presence of micro defects on the upper surface of the specimen. 64. A computer-implemented method for controlling a system configured to determine at least two properties of a specimen during use, wherein the system comprises a measurement device, comprising: controlling the measurement device, wherein the measurement device comprises an illumination system and a detection system, and wherein the measurement device is coupled to a stage, comprising: controlling the illumination system to direct energy toward an upper surface and a bottom surface of the specimen simultaneously, wherein the specimen is a product wafer; controlling the detection system to detect energy propagating from the upper surface and the bottom surface of the specimen simultaneously; and generating one or more output signals responsive to the detected energy; and processing the one or more output signals to determine a first property, a second property, a third property, and a fourth property of the specimen, wherein the first property comprises an adhesion characteristic of a structure on the upper surface of the specimen, wherein the second properly comprises a thickness of the structure, wherein the third property comprises a presence of macro defects on the bottom surface of the specimen, and wherein the fourth property comprises a presence of micro defects on the upper surface of the specimen. 65. A method for fabricating a semiconductor device, comprising: forming a portion of the semiconductor device upon a specimen, wherein the specimen is a product wafer; disposing the specimen upon a stage, wherein the stage is coupled to a measurement device, and wherein the measurement device comprises an illumination system and a detection system; directing energy toward an upper surface and a bottom surface of the specimen simultaneously using the illumination system; detecting energy propagating from the upper surface and the bottom surface of the specimen simultaneously using the detection system; generating one or more output signals responsive to the detected energy during use; and processing the one or more output signals to determine a first property, a second property, a third property, and a fourth property of the portion of the semiconductor device, wherein the first property comprises an adhesion characteristic of a structure on the upper surface of the specimen, wherein the second property comprises a thickness of the structure, wherein the third property comprises a presence of macro defects on the bottom surface of the specimen, and wherein the fourth property comprises a presence of micro defects on the upper surface of the specimen. 66. A system configured to determine at least two properties of a specimen during use, comprising: a stage configured to support the specimen during use, wherein the specimens a product wafer; a measurement device coupled to the stage, comprising: an illumination system configured to direct energy toward an upper surface and a bottom surface of the specimen simultaneously during use; and a detection system coupled to the illumination system and configured to detect energy propagating from the upper surface and the bottom surface of the specimen simultaneously during use, wherein the measurement device is configured to generate one or more output signals responsive to the detected energy during use; a local processor coupled to the measurement device and configured to at least partially process the one or more output signals during use; and a remote controller computer coupled to the local processor, wherein the remote controller computer is configured to receive the at least partially processed one or more output signals and to determine a first property, a second property, a third property, and a fourth property of the specimen from the at least partially processed one or more output signals during use, wherein the first property comprises an adhesion characteristic of a structure on the upper surface of the specimen, wherein the second property comprises a thickness of the structure, wherein the third property comprises a presence of macro defects on the bottom surface of the specimen, and wherein the fourth property comprises a presence of micro defects on the upper surface of the specimen. 67. A method for determining at least two properties of a specimen, comprising: disposing the specimen upon a stage, wherein the specimen is a product wafer, wherein the stage is coupled to a measurement device, and wherein the measurement device comprises an illumination system and a detection system; directing energy toward an upper surface and a bottom surface of the specimen simultaneously using the illumination system; detecting energy propagating from the upper surface and the bottom surface of the specimen simultaneously using the detection system; generating one or more output signals responsive to the detected energy; and processing the one or more output signals to determine a first property, a second property, a third property, and a fourth property of the specimen, wherein the first property comprises an adhesion characteristic of a structure on the upper surface of the specimen, wherein the second property comprises a thickness of the structure, wherein the third property comprises a presence of macro defects on the bottom surface of the specimen, and wherein the fourth property comprises a presence of micro defects on the upper surface of the specimen, comprising: at least partially processing the one or more output signals using a local processor, wherein the local processor is coupled to the measurement device; sending the at least partially processed one or more output signals from the local processor to a remote controller computer; and further processing the at least partially processed one or more output signals using the remote controller computer. 