The invention provides structure and method for achieving a uniformly polished or planarized substrate such as a semiconductor wafer including achieving substantially uniform polishing between the center of the semiconductor wafer and the edge of the wafer. In one aspect the invention provides a polishing apparatus including a housing, a carrier for mounting a substrate to be polished, a retaining ring circumscribing the carrier for retaining the substrate, a first coupling attaching the retaining ring to the carrier such that the retaining ring may move relative to the carrier, a second coupling attaching the carrier to the housing such that the carrier may move relative to the housing, the housing and the first coupling defining a first pressure chamber to exert a pressure force against the retaining ring, and the housing and the second coupling defining a second pressure chamber to exert a pressure force against the subcarrier. In one embodiment, the couplings are diaphragms. The invention also provides a retaining ring having a special edge profile that assists in smoothing an pre-compressing the polisihng pad to increase polisihng uniformity. A method for polisihing and a semiconductor manufacture is also provided.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of planarizing a semiconductor wafer, said method including: supporting a back-side surface of said wafer with a wafer support subcarrier; applying a polishing force against said support subcarrier to press a front surface of said wafer against a polishing pad; disposing a retaining ring that defines a chamfered outer edge about a portion of said wafer support subcarrier and said wafer so as to restrain movement of said wafer from said support subcarrier during polishing, said chamfered outer edge including a transition region between a first surface substantially parallel to said pad and a fourth surface substantially perpendicular to said pad, said transition region presenting a second surface at a first angle relative to said first surface and a third surface at a second angle relative to said fourth surface, wherein said first and second angles are each 20.+-.4 degrees; and applying a pad conditioning force to said retaining ring to press a front surface of said retaining ring against said polishing pad. 2. The method in claim 1, wherein said pad conditioning force is applied independently of said polishing force. 3. The method in claim 1, wherein said pad conditioning force is coupled to said polishing force. 4. The method according to claim 1, wherein said pad conditioning force applied to said retaining ring is applied such that a component of said pad conditioning force is communicated to said polishing pad at an angle non-orthogonal to said pad and such that the pad conditioning force applied to said pad transitions to increase the orthogonal component of the force at a leading edge of said retaining ring just prior to that portion of said pad contacting said wafer and to decrease the orthogonal component in the region over which said pad is flat when that portion of the retaining ring is contacting a trailing edge portion of said wafer. 5. A method of polishing a substrate said method including: supporting a back-side surface of said substrate with a support subcarrier; applying a polishing force against said support subcarrier to press a front surface of said substrate against a polishing pad; disposing a retaining ring that defines a chamfered outer edge about a portion of said support subcarrier and said substrate so as to restrain movement of said wafer from said support subcarrier during polishing, said chamfered outer edge including a transition region between a first surface substantially parallel to said pad and a fourth surface substantially perpendicular to said pad, said transition region presenting a second surface at a first angle relative to said first surface and a third surface at a second angle relative to said fourth surface; and said retaining ring having a thickness of 0.25 inches, the second surface of the retaining ring extending upward from the first surface a distance of 0.034 inches, and the second surface extending upward 0.060 inches before meeting the fourth surface; and applying a pad conditioning force against said retaining ring to press a front surface of said retaining ring against said polishing pad. 6. The method in claim 5, wherein said pad conditioning force is applied independently of said polishing force. 7. The method in claim 6, wherein said pad conditioning force is coupled to said polishing force. 8. The method of claim 5 wherein said substrate comprises a semiconductor wafer. 9. The method of claim 5 wherein said substrate comprises a glass substrate. 10. The method of claim 5 wherein said polishing planarizes said substrate. 11. The method according to claim 5, wherein the pad conditioning force applied to said retaining ring is applied such that a component of said pad conditioning force is communicated to said polishing pad at an angle non-orthogonal to said pad and such that the pad conditioning force applied to said retaining ring transitions to increase a first orthogonal component of the force at a leading edge of said retaining ring just prior to that portion of said pad contacting said wafer and to decrease a second orthogonal component of the force at a region over which said pad is flat when that portion of the retaining ring is contacting a trailing edge portion of said wafer. 12. A method according to claim 5, wherein said first and second angles are each 20.+-.4 degrees. 13. A method of planarizing a semiconductor wafer, said method including: supporting a back-side surface of said wafer with a wafer support subcarrier; applying a polishing force against said support subcarrier to press a front surface of said wafer against a polishing pad; disposing a retaining ring that defines a chamfered outer edge about a portion of said wafer support subcarrier and said wafer so as to restrain movement of said wafer from said support subcarrier during polishing, said chamfered outer edge including a transition region between a first surface substantially parallel to said pad and a fourth surface substantially perpendicular to said pad, said transition region presenting a second surface at an angle of 20.+-.4 degrees relative to a said first surface and a third surface at an angle of 20.apprxeq.4 degrees relative to said fourth surface; and applying a pad conditioning force to said retaining ring to urge a front surface thereof against said polishing pad such that a component of said pad conditioning force is communicated to said polishing pad at an angle non-orthogonal to said pad and such that the pad conditioning force applied to said retaining ring transitions to increase a first orthogonal component of the force at a leading edge of said retaining ring just prior to that portion of said pad contacting said wafer and to decrease a second orthogonal component of the force at a region over which said pad is flat when that portion of the retaining ring is contacting a trailing edge portion of said wafer. 14. A method of planarizing a semiconductor wafer according to claim 13, wherein said retaining ring has a thickness of 0.25 inches, the second surface of the retaining ring extending upward from the first surface a distance of 0.034 inches, and the second surface extending upward 0.060 inches before meeting the fourth surface. 15. A method of processing a substrate, said method including: supporting a back-side surface of said substrate with a substrate support subcarrier; applying a polishing force against said support subcarrier to press a front surface of said substrate against a polishing pad; disposing a retaining ring that defines a chamfered outer edge about a portion of said substrate support subcarrier and said substrate so as to restrain movement of said substrate from said support subcarrier during polishing, said chamfered outer edge including a transition region between a first surface substantially parallel to said pad and a fourth surface substantially perpendicular to said pad, said transition region presenting a second surface at a first angle relative to said first surface and a third surface at a second angle relative to said fourth surface, wherein said first and second angles are each 20.+-.4 degrees; and applying a pad conditioning force to said retaining ring to press a front surface of said retaining ring against said polishing pad. 16. The method of processing a substrate as in claim 15, wherein the substrate is a substrate selected from the set of substrates consisting of a semiconductor wafer substrate, and a glass substrate. 