A method for detecting leaks in a plugged honeycomb structure includes directing a gas at a first end face of the honeycomb structure at a temperature that is different from a temperature of the honeycomb structure and observing a temperature distribution at a second end face of the honeycomb substrate using an infrared detector, wherein the gas directed at the first end face of the honeycomb structure emerges preferentially at the second end face of the honeycomb structure at locations where the cells in the honeycomb structure are defective and appear as thermal spots in the temperature distribution.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for detecting leaks in a plugged honeycomb structure comprising: directing a gas at a first end face of the honeycomb structure at a temperature that is different from a temperature of the honeycomb structure; detecting infrared emissions at a second end face of the honeycomb structure, the infrared emissions being representative of a temperature distribution at a second end face of the honeycomb structure; the gas being directed at the first end face of the honeycomb structure emerging at the second end face of the honeycomb structure selectively or non-uniformly at locations where the cells in the honeycomb structure are defective, said locations appearing as thermal spots in the temperature distribution; and; marking the locations where the cells of the honeycomb are defective on the second end face. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining a time at which the temperature of the honeycomb structure would be at equilibrium with the temperature of the gas. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein observing the temperature distribution occurs before the time at which the temperature of the honeycomb structure would be at equilibrium with the temperature of the gas. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising disposing the honeycomb structure in an insulating medium to limit effect of surrounding temperature on the temperature distribution at the second end face. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein observing the temperature distribution comprises generating an image of the infrared emissions at the second end face. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the locations in the image where the cells are defective have a different intensity than the remainder of the image. 7. The method of claim 5, further comprising generating a visual representation of the image, wherein the locations where the cells are defective appear as thermal spots in the visual representation. 8. The method of claim 1, further comprising repairing the cells that are defective. 9. The method of claim 1, further comprising providing reference markers on the second end face which aid in marking the locations where the cells are defective. 10. A system for detecting leaks in a plugged honeycomb structure comprising: a holder which supports the honeycomb structure; a gas conditioner positioned to direct gas at a first end face of the honeycomb structure at a temperature that is different from a temperature of the honeycomb structure; an infrared detector positioned to detect infrared emissions at a second end face of the honeycomb structure, the infrared emissions being representative of a temperature distribution at the second end face of the honeycomb structure; and means for marking defective cells in the honeycomb structure based on an output of the infrared detector. 11. The system of claim 10, wherein the infrared detector comprises infrared goggles. 12. The system of claim 10, wherein the infrared detector comprises an infrared imaging device. 13. The system of claim 10, wherein the holder comprises an inflatable bladder for sealing off an exterior of the honeycomb structure. 14. The system of claim 10, further comprising a processor which receives signals representative of the temperature distribution at the second end face of the honeycomb structure from the infrared detector. 15. The system of claim 14, wherein the processor generates a visual representation of the temperature distribution. 16. The system of claim 14, wherein the processor generates coordinates of defective cells in the honeycomb structure based on the temperature distribution. 17. The system of claim 10, further comprising means for transporting honeycomb structures to the vicinity of the holder. 18. The system of claim 17, further comprising means for placing the honeycomb structure in the holder. 