An apparatus for measuring and fixing the three-dimensional location of medical instrument that can be easily placed at a desired location by a user. In addition, a medical apparatus for measuring the three-dimensional locations of an apparatus fixed at an end portion of a cancer and an external apparatus and fixing the apparatus at an end portion of the cancer, which can be easily placed at a desired location by a user and carries out the location-fixing and measuring at the same time. The apparatus is applicable for various medical fields such as the measurement of the location and orientation of an external apparatus, the measurement of relative locations of a medical instrument contacted to an end-portion of a cancer and the object body, and the fixation of the instrument at a desired location.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for measuring and fixing a three-dimensional location of medical instrument, which can be easily placed at a desired location by a user and carry out measuring and fixing the location simultaneously, comprising: a link device, having multi-degrees-of-freedom with comprising numbers of rotational joints, interlocked with PC, an external controller, and able to communicate through a CAN (control area network) bus; a balancing means, of which a weight and a spring is installed at each joint, for compensating the movement and self-weight of said link device for a user to actuate the link device easily; a module means for modularizing location-detection means and fixing means including controllers applied to said joints for easy assembly, repair and replacement; a dispersed control system comprising a main controller and dispersed controllers installed at said joints for instrumental calculation by packet transmission through said CAN bus with said PC, an external controller; an electric breaking means, controlled to be operated by an external switch or program, for enabling said link device to be moved freely and fixing the location of said link device; and at least two or more fixing pins constituted at the end-section of said link device and a pin-hole means at the base of said link device, where the fixing pins can be assembled, for enlightening the origin of said link device, characterized in that said apparatus is able to enlighten the origin of said link device and measure the relative coordinates of said link device and an external device by fabricating a pin-hole means, possibly being assembled with said fixing pins constituted at the end-section of said link device, at said external device. 2. An apparatus for measuring and fixing the three-dimensional location of medical instrument as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that said link device having multi-degrees-of-freedom has 6-degrees-of-freedom or containing a link device for a limited motion having the function or a spatial-spherical movement. 3. An apparatus for measuring and fixing the three-dimensional location of medical instrument as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that said balancing means uses either a balancing weight or a balancing spring alone in the case of a light link device, and in the case of a heavy link device, it can use a balancing weight and a balancing spring together. 4. An apparatus for measuring and fixing the three-dimensional location of medical instrument as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that said module means further comprises a location detection sensor and an additional device having the function of temperature sensing. 5. An apparatus for measuring and fixing the three-dimensional location of medical instrument as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that either wired- or wireless-type communication system such as a CAN bus, an USB (universal serial bus), a ProfiBus, or a BlueTooth is applied to said dispersed control system. 6. An apparatus for measuring and fixing the three-dimensional location of medical instrument as claimed in claim 1 or 5, characterized in that said dispersed control system uses a PC, a micro-controller or a special CPU having the function of digital signal processing (DSP) as a main controller and a micro-controller or a special CPU having the function of DSP as a dispersed controller. 7. An apparatus for measuring and fixing the three-dimensional location of medical instrument as claimed in claim 6, characterized in that said dispersed controllers take charge of interfacing the sensor only and all the calculations are being carried out by said main controller, or some calculations are carried out by said dispersed controllers having the function of data conversion and signal processing and the other calculations are carried out by said main controller. 8. An apparatus for measuring and fixing the three-dimensional location of medical instrument as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that said external switch of said electric breaking means is installed at the end or the base of said link device or constituted to be independent of said link device by using an extra cable. 9. An apparatus for measuring and fixing the three-dimensional location of medical instrument as claimed in claim 1 or 8, characterized in that the control on said electric breaking means is carried out by either an independent control mechanism, in which said external switch is connected to the enable port of the break amplifier or the electric power is directly connected to the break amplifier, or a control mechanism controlling the switch signal using a main controller and dispersed controllers. 10. An apparatus for measuring and fixing the three-dimensional location of medical instrument as claimed in claim 9, characterized in that the self-control of said electric breaking means can be carried out in a way that the break is released with power being applied and tightened with power being cut or vice versa. 11. An apparatus for measuring and fixing the three-dimensional location of medical instrument as claimed in claim 9, characterized in that a solenoid, a hydraulic break using a speed control valve, a break using magneto-hydraulic fluids or a break using electro-hydraulic fluids can be used as said electric breaking means. 12. An apparatus for measuring and fixing the three-dimensional location of medical instrument as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that said fixing pins have the shape of a cylinder, a tapered cylinder, or a rectangle, and the origin enlightening function of said pins is carried out by using a hall sensor or an absolute-angle measuring encoder used in an industrial robot. 13. An apparatus for measuring and fixing the three-dimensional location of medical instrument as claimed in claim 1, wherein said external apparatus includes a general apparatus, selected from a group consisting of a table and an x-ray apparatus, and the installing location is the location where said general apparatus can be assembled to the end-section of said link device. 