The methods and devices described below allow users of CMP tools to quickly calibrate Spindle Force, Wafer Force, and Retaining Ring Force using mechanisms, load cells, a control computer, and force equations. The control computer can test a variety of pressures in the inflatable seal or the inflatable membrane, depending on the wafer carrier configuration, to determine a unique calibration in real time for the particular wafer carrier that is being tested and used during the polishing process.
Claims We claim: 1. A system for calibrating a CMP tool comprising: a CMP tool; a first mechanism disposed in the CMP tool capable of measuring a downward force of a spindle generated by an actuation system; a second mechanism in said CMP tool capable of measuring a wafer force component of said downward force; and a control computer programmed to: control, measure, and record the downward force of the spindle generated by the actuation system; measure and record the wafer force component of said downward force; determine a retaining ring force component of said downward force. 2. The system of claimed 1 wherein said mechanism comprises a first load cell able to measure the downward force of the spindle. 3. The system of claim 1 wherein the second mechanism comprises a second load cell able to measure the wafer force component of the downward force. 4. The system of claim 1 wherein the second mechanism comprises a plurality of load cells able to measure the wafer force component of the downward force. 5. The system of claim 1 wherein the second mechanism comprises two supports and the second load cell. 6. The system of claim 1 wherein said actuation system comprises a bellows. 7. The system of claim 6 wherein the actuation system further comprises a bellows pressure generating the downward force and the control computer is further programmed to: measure the bellows pressure corresponding to the downward force; record the bellows pressure corresponding to the downward force; and generate a calibration table corresponding bellows pressure to downward force. 8. The system of claim 1 or claim 7 wherein the control computer is further programmed to control the wafer force component of the downward force. 9. The device of claim 8 wherein the wafer force component is generated in a wafer carrier by a back plate or inflatable membrane having an inflatable membrane pressure. 10. The system of claim 9 wherein said control computer is further programmed to create a table corresponding the wafer force component to the inflatable membrane pressure generating the wafer force component. 11. The system of claim 1 or claim 7 wherein said control computer is further programmed to control the retaining ring force component. 12. The system of claim 11 wherein the retaining ring force component is generated by an inflatable retaining ring seal having a ring seal pressure in a wafer carrier. 13. The system of claim 12 wherein said control computer is further programmed to create a table corresponding the retaining ring force component to the respective ring seal pressure generating the retaining ring force component. 14. A method for calibrating a CMP comprising: positioning a spindle with a wafer carrier above a mechanism able to measure a downward force of the spindle generated by an actuation system and able to measure a wafer force component of said downward force; bringing said wafer carrier onto the mechanism with an amount of downward force; and calibrating the actuation system to the downward force. 15. The method of claim 14 further comprising calibrating the wafer force component of the downward force. 16. The method of claim 14 or claim 15 further comprising calibrating a retaining ring force component of the downward force. 17. The method of claim 14 wherein said step of calibrating the downward force further comprises pressurizing a spindle bellows in the actuation system with a bellows pressure, measuring the downward force with a first load cell in the mechanism, recording the downward force, and recording the bellows pressure corresponding to the downward force. 18. The method of claim 17 further comprising comparing the bellows pressure to the downward force and generating a spindle calibration curve. 19. The method of claim 15 wherein the step of calibrating a wafer force further comprises setting said spindle force to a known amount of force and pressurizing an inflatable membrane behind a wafer with a membrane pressure generating the wafer force component. 20. The method of claim 19 further comprising measuring said spindle force with the first load cell, measuring the wafer force with a second load cell, and recording the wafer force component and said membrane pressure. 21. The method of claim 20 further comprising comparing the membrane pressure with the wafer force component and generating a calibration curve. 22. The method of claim 17 wherein said step of calibrating a retaining ring force further comprises setting said spindle force to a known force, pressurizing a retaining ring seal behind a retaining ring with an ring seal pressure generating a retaining ring force. 23. The method of claim 22 further comprising measuring the downward force with the first load cell, measuring the wafer force component with the second load cell, determining the retaining ring force component, and recording the retaining ring force component and the corresponding ring seal pressure. 24. The method of claim 23 further comprising comparing said ring seal pressure with said retaining ring force component and generating a calibration curve. 