A clamp device including a support frame member, a lower clamp unit and an upper clamp unit supported by the support frame member. The lower clamp unit has a pair of lower jaws and a first actuator for actuating at least one of the lower jaws between clamped and unclamped positions. The upper clamp unit has a first upper jaw and a second upper jaw, and a second actuator for actuating one or more of the upper jaws between clamped and unclamped positions, the first upper jaw being fixed for movement with one of the lower jaws.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of processing first and second work pieces, comprising the steps of: providing a work piece location; positioning a plurality of clamp devices around the work piece location in order to clamp the first and second work pieces at different clamping sites thereon, the work pieces having substantially common peripheries and the clamp devices extending inwardly toward the work piece location; providing each clamp device with a lower clamp unit and an upper clamp unit; providing the lower clamp unit of each clamp device with a pair of lower jaws, each lower jaw having a distal end for engaging a work piece and a proximal end, at least one of the lower jaws being pivotally mounted near its proximal end for rotational movement about a first pivot axis relative to the other of the lower jaws between a clamped position and an unclamped position; actuating each of the lower clamp units to clamp the first work piece by pivoting said at least one pivotally mounted lower jaw between the clamped and unclamped positions, firstly to separate the adjacent distal ends of the lower jaws of each lower clamp unit in order for the lower clamp units to receive the first work piece, and secondly to clamp the distal ends of the adjacent lower jaws of each lower clamp unit against a corresponding location near a peripheral region of the first work piece at a first elevation; providing the upper clamp unit of each clamp device with a pair of upper jaws, each upper jaw having a distal end for engaging a work piece and a proximal end, one of the upper jaws being pivotally mounted near its proximal end for rotational movement about a second pivot axis relative to the other of the upper jaws between a clamped position and an unclamped position; mounting the other of the upper jaws on the pivotally mounted lower jaw for travel therewith; actuating each of the upper clamp units to clamp the second work piece by pivoting the pivotally mounted upper jaws between the clamped and unclamped positions, thirdly to separate the adjacent distal ends of the upper jaws of each upper clamp unit in order for the upper clamp units to receive the second work piece, and fourthly to clamp the distal ends of the adjacent upper jaws of each upper claim unit against a corresponding location near a peripheral region of the second work piece at a second elevation, the second elevation being relatively above the first elevation. 2. A method as defined in claim 1, further comprising the step of rendering the upper clamp unit inoperable during the actuation of the lower clamp unit. 3. A method as defined in claim 1, further comprising the step of conducting at least one process operation on the first work piece. 4. A method as defined in claim 1, further comprising the step of conducting at least one process operation on the second work piece. 5. A method as defined in claim 1, further comprising the step of offsetting one of the clamp units at an angle relative to the other of the clamp units on selected ones of said clamp devices. 6. A method as defined in claim 1, further comprising the steps of providing a support frame member adjacent the work piece location, mounting a lower anchor portion on the support frame member and pivotally mounting a first of the lower jaws of the lower clamp unit for movement relative to the lower anchor portion. 7. A method as defined in claim 6, further comprising the step of mounting a second lower jaw to the lower anchor portion. 8. A method as defined in claim 7, further comprising the step of changing the first and second lower jaws to provide each of the first and second lower jaws with different templates for different groups of work pieces. 9. A method as defined in claim 6, further comprising the steps of mounting an upper anchor portion on the support frame member and pivotally mounting said one of the upper jaws for movement relative to the upper anchor portion. 10. A method as defined in claim 9, further comprising the step of changing the first and second upper jaws to provide each of the first and second upper jaws with different templates for different groups of work pieces. 11. A method as defined in claim 1, wherein the actuating steps include the step of actuating a linear or rotary, hydraulic or pneumatic drive member. 12. A method as defined in claim 11, further comprising the step of providing a controller for controlling the drive member, and operating the controller in: a first phase to actuate the lower clamp unit between unclamped and clamped positions; a second phase to actuate the second upper clamp member between the unclamped position and an inoperative position; and a third phase to actuate the upper clamp unit between the unclamped and clamped positions. 