A milking parlor for presenting an animal to be milked rearwardly loads the animal into a milking stall through an ingress/egress gate and forwardly unloads the animal from the milking stall through the same ingress/egress gate to pass along a unique exit path to a released area.
Claims This invention claimed is: 1. A method of presenting an animal to be milked, the method comprising: (a) loading a first animal onto a transport cart; (b) translating the transport cart to align with an unoccupied milking stall; and (c) rearwardly loading the first animal into the unoccupied milking stall from the transport cart. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising translating the transport cart along a direction transverse to a longitudinal dimension of the milking stall. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising forwardly unloading the first animal from the milking stall. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising forwardly unloading the first animal from the milking stall into a released area. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising forwardly unloading the first animal from the milking stall into a released area along a unique path. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising loading a second animal onto the transport cart prior to unloading the first animal. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising moving a moveable platform from a first position spaced from the milking stall to a second position adjacent a rear end of the milking stall. 8. The method of claim 1, further comprising aligning a milking robot with the milking stall. 9. The method of claim 1, further comprising acquiring animal specific data from the first animal on the transport cart. 10. The method of claim 1, further comprising reading a radio frequency identification tag on the first cow when the first cow is in the transport cart. 11. A method of presenting an animal to be milked in a milking parlor, the method comprising: (a) moving a first animal to be milked onto a first animal transport cart; (b) translating the first animal transport cart along a predetermined path relative to a plurality of milking stalls to operably locate the transport cart with respect to an unoccupied milking stall; and (c) moving the animal from the transport cart and into the unoccupied milking stall. 12. The method of claim 11, further comprising forming a released area adjacent the plurality of milking stalls. 13. The method of claim 11, further comprising operably locating a robotic arm with respect to the milking stall to dispose a milking claw into the milking stall. 14. The method of claim 11, further comprising translating a second animal transport cart relative to the plurality of milking stalls. 15. The method of claim 11, further comprising loading a plurality of animals onto the first animal transport cart. 16. The method of claim 11, further comprising moving an ingress/egress gate from an open position to a closed position upon rearwardly loading the animal into the milking stall. 17. The method of claim 11, further comprising acquiring data specific to a given animal during translation of the first animal transport cart. 18. The method of claim 11, further comprising operably connecting a radio frequency identification reader to the first animal cart. 19. The method of claim 11, further comprising urging the animal rearwardly into the milking stall by a distance independent of an adjacent milking stall. 