A pick-and-place tool releasably retains a part during a pick-and-place operation by an automated device. The pick-and-place tool includes a front structure having a first bore disposed therein for receiving a shaft extending from the part. A plurality of locking mechanisms is disposed within the front structure. The plurality of locking mechanisms are evenly spaced around the inner surface and are in fluid communication with a common fluid source. Each locking mechanism in the plurality of locking mechanisms includes a bearing disposed proximate an aperture in the inner surface, and a piston in mechanical communication with the bearing. Movement of the piston in response to a fluid pressure at the common fluid source forces the bearing to extend through the aperture and retain the shaft within the first bore. In one aspect, a resilient member is disposed between the front structure and a tool holder coupled to the automated device. The resilient member absorbs at least a portion of a force applied to the front structure.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A pick-and-place tool for releasably retaining a part during a pick-and-place operation by an automated device, the part including a shaft, the pick-and-place tool comprising: a tool holder portion configured for coupling to the automated device; a front structure having a first bore disposed therein for receiving the shaft, the first bore extending from a free end of the front structure and along a longitudinal axis of the front structure, the first bore defining an inner surface of the front structure; a first sleeve rigidly coupled to the tool holder portion and extending along the longitudinal axis of the front structure; the front structure further having a second sleeve extending from an end of the front structure opposite the free end, the second sleeve being disposed within the first sleeve; a coupling feature disposed at the end of the front structure opposite the free end forming thereat a portion of a coupling structure integral to the pick-and-place tool; a resilient member disposed between the front structure and the tool holder portion, the resilient member being disposed within the second sleeve and being configured to absorb at least a portion of a force applied to the front structure; and a plurality of locking mechanisms disposed within the front structure, the plurality of locking mechanisms being evenly spaced around the inner surface and in fluid communication with a common fluid source, each locking mechanism in the plurality of locking mechanisms including: a bearing disposed proximate an aperture in the inner surface, and a piston in mechanical communication with the bearing and in fluid communication with the common fluid source, and wherein movement of the piston in response to a first fluid pressure at the common fluid source forces the bearing to extend through the aperture and retain the shaft within the first bore. 2. The pick-and-place tool of claim 1, wherein the piston includes a recessed portion formed thereon, and wherein movement of the piston in response to a second fluid pressure at the common fluid source positions the recessed portion proximate the bearing to allow the shalt to be removed from the first bore. 3. The pick-and-place tool of claim 2, wherein each locking mechanism in the plurality of locking mechanisms include: a spring configured to bias the piston against the first and second fluid pressures. 4. The pick-and-place tool of claim 1, wherein an internal portion of the first sleeve is in fluid communication between the plurality of locking mechanisms and the common fluid source. 5. The pick-and-place tool of claim 1, wherein the second sleeve being slidably coupled to the tool holder portion. 6. The pick-and-place tool of claim 5, wherein the second sleeve includes: a circumferential slot extending around at least a portion of a circumference of the second sleeve, an open slot extending between the circumferential slot and a shoulder formed on the second sleeve, and a half open slot connected to the circumferential slot; and wherein the tool holder portion includes: a bore disposed therein, the bore receives the second sleeve, a pin extending from the tool holder portion within the bore, the half open slot accepting the pin to retain the second sleeve within the bore. 7. The pick-and-place tool of claim 1, wherein the free end of the front structure includes an alignment hole disposed therein for receiving an alignment pin extending from the part. 8. A pick-and-place tool for releasably retaining a part during a pick-and-place operation by an automated device, the part including a shaft, the pick-and-place tool comprising: a tool holder portion configured for coupling to the automated device; a front structure having a first bore disposed therein for receiving the shaft, the first bore extending from a free end of the front structure and along a longitudinal axis of the front structure, the first bore defining an inner surface of the front structure; a first sleeve rigidly coupled to the tool holder portion and extending along the longitudinal axis of the front structure; the front structure further having a second sleeve extending from an end of the front structure opposite the free end, the second sleeve being disposed within the first sleeve; a coupling feature disposed at the end of the front structure opposite the free end forming thereat a portion of a coupling structure integral to the pick-and-place tool; a flange extending from the first sleeve, the coupling feature comprising a collar secured to the front structure and disposed around the flange; a resilient member disposed between the front structure and the tool holder portion, the resilient member being disposed within the second sleeve and being configured to absorb at least a portion of a force applied to the front structure; and a plurality of locking mechanisms disposed within the front structure, the plurality of locking mechanisms being evenly spaced around the inner surface and in fluid communication with a common fluid source, each locking mechanism in the plurality of locking mechanisms including: a bearing disposed proximate an aperture in the inner surface, and a piston in mechanical communication with the bearing and in fluid communication with the common fluid source, and wherein movement of the piston in response to a first fluid pressure at the common fluid source forces the bearing to extend through the aperture and retain the shaft within the first bore. 9. The pick-and-place tool of claim 8, further comprising: a pin disposed on the front structure, the pin extends through the flange to prevent the first sleeve from rotating relative to the second sleeve. 10. A pick-and-place tool for releasably retaining a part during a pick-and-place operation by an automated device, the pick-and-place tool comprising: a front structure having a first bore disposed therein for receiving at least a portion of the part, the first bore extending from a free end of the front structure and along a longitudinal axis of the front structure; a plurality of locking mechanisms disposed at the front structure so as to act with equal force on a shaft of a retained part thereby causing the shaft to be aligned with the longitudinal axis; a tool holder portion disposed between the front structure and the automated device; a first sleeve rigidly coupled to the tool holder portion and extending along the longitudinal axis of the front structure; the front structure further having a second sleeve extending from an end of the front structure opposite the free end, the second sleeve being disposed within the first sleeve; a resilient coupling structure coupling the front structure to the tool holder portion; and a resilient member disposed between the front structure and the tool holder portion, the resilient member being disposed within the second sleeve and being configured to absorb at least a portion of a force applied to the front structure. 11. The pick-and-place tool of claim 10, wherein an internal portion of the first sleeve forms a chamber for fluid communication between the tool holder portion and the front structure. 12. The pick-and-place tool of claim 10, wherein: the coupling structure comprises a collar disposed around a flange extending from the first sleeve, the collar being secured to the front structure. 13. The pick-and-place tool of claim 12, further comprising: a pin disposed on the front structure, the pin extends through the flange to prevent the first sleeve from rotating relative to the second sleeve. 14. The pick-and-place tool of claim 10, wherein the second sleeve being slidably coupled to the tool holder portion. 15. The pick-and-place tool of claim 14, wherein the second sleeve includes: a circumferential slot extending around at least a portion of a circumference of the second sleeve, an open slot extending between the circumferential slot and a shoulder formed on the second sleeve, and a half open slot connected to the circumferential slot; and wherein the tool holder portion includes: a bore disposed therein, the bore receives the second sleeve, a pin extending from the tool holder portion within the bore, the half open slot accepting the pin to retain the second sleeve within the bore. 16. The pick-and-place tool of claim 10, wherein the free end of the front structure includes an alignment hole disposed therein for receiving an alignment pin extending from the part. 17. An automated device configured to pick-and-place a part including a shaft, the automated device comprising: a manipulator; and a pick-and-place tool disposed on an end of the manipulator, the pick-and-place tool including: a tool holder portion coupled to the automated device; a front structure having a first bore disposed therein for receiving the shaft, the first bore extending from a free end of the front structure and along a longitudinal axis of the front structure, the first bore defining an inner surface of the front structure; a first sleeve rigidly coupled to the tool holder portion and extending along the longitudinal axis of the front structure; the front structure further having a second sleeve extending from an end of the front structure opposite the free end, the second sleeve being disposed within the first sleeve; a resilient member disposed between the front structure and the tool holder portion, the resilient member being disposed within the second sleeve and being configured to absorb at least a portion of a force applied to the front structure; a coupling feature disposed at the end of the front structure opposite the free end forming thereat a portion of a coupling structure integral to the pick-and-place tool; and a plurality of locking mechanisms disposed within the front structure, the plurality of locking mechanisms being evenly spaced around the inner surface and in fluid communication with a common fluid source, each locking mechanism in the plurality of locking mechanisms including: a bearing disposed proximate an aperture in the inner surface, and a piston in mechanical communication with the bearing and in fluid communication with the common fluid source, and wherein movement of the piston in response to a first fluid pressure at the common fluid source forces the bearing to extend through the aperture and retain the shaft within the first bore. 18. The automated device of claim 17, wherein the piston includes a recessed portion formed thereon, and wherein movement of the piston in response to a second fluid pressure at the common fluid source positions the recessed portion proximate the bearing to allow the shaft to be removed from the first bore. 19. The pick-and-place tool of claim 17, wherein the front structure further includes a sleeve extending from an end of the second sleeve being slidably coupled to the tool holder portion. 20. The pick-and-place tool of claim 19, wherein the second sleeve includes: a circumferential slot extending around at least a portion of a circumference of the second sleeve, an open slot extending between the circumferential slot and a shoulder formed on the second sleeve, and a half open slot connected to the circumferential slot; and wherein the tool holder includes: a bore disposed therein, the bore receives the second sleeve, a pin extending from the tool holder within the bore, the half open slot accepting the pin to retain the second sleeve within the bore. 