A system and method for testing substrates is generally provided. In one embodiment, a test system for testing a substrate includes a load lock chamber, a transfer chamber and a test station. The load lock chamber and the test station are disposed on top of one another and coupled to the transfer chamber. The transfer chamber includes a robot adapted to transfer a substrate between the load lock chamber, which is at a first elevation, and the test station, which is at a second elevation. In another embodiment, a test station is provided having a turntable adapted to rotate the substrate. The turntable enables the range of motion required to test the substrate to be substantially reduced while facilitating full test and/or inspection of the substrate.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for testing a substrate comprising: a load lock chamber having a passage selectively sealed by a slit valve; a transfer chamber coupled to the load lock chamber by the passage; a test station stacked at least partially above the load lock chamber and coupled to the transfer chamber; and a robot disposed in the transfer chamber adapted to transfer substrates between the load look chamber and the test station, wherein the test station further comprises: a positioning table adapted to move the substrate within a pre-defined planar range of motion; and a test mechanism adapted to selectively interact with discrete areas of the substrate positioned substantially thereunder by the positioning table. 2. The test mechanism of claim 1, wherein the test mechanism is a camera. 3. The test mechanism of claim 2, wherein the camera is mounted to a robotic mechanism adapted to position the camera over the substrate. 4. The test system of claim 1, wherein the positioning table is an X/Y table. 5. The test system of claim 4 further comprising: a turntable coupled to the X/Y table, the turntable adapted to rotate the substrate through a pre-defined angle. 6. The test system of claim 1, wherein the test station further comprises a frame having one or more windows adapted to urge the substrate against the positioning mechanism. 7. The test system of claim 6, wherein the frame further comprises: a plurality of electrical connections adapted to provide a controller with a test characteristic of a device formed in the substrate. 8. The test system of claim 7, wherein the test mechanism is one or more electron beam generators. 9. The test system of claim 8, wherein the test mechanisms are two electron beam generators disposed in a spaced-apart relation. 10. The test system of claim 7, wherein the test characteristic is a voltage change measured between two or more of the electrical connections across the device formed in the substrate. 11. The test system of claim 1 further comprising: a vision system adapted to view pre-determined areas of the substrate disposed in the test station. 12. The test system of claim 1 further comprising: a pumping system coupled to the load lock chamber and configured to control pressure within the load lock chamber relative to the test station. 13. The system of claim 1 further comprising: a pumping system coupled to the load lock chamber and configured to control pressure within the load lock chamber relative to the test station. 14. The test system of claim 1, wherein the load lock chamber is adapted to retain two or more substrates therein. 15. The test system of claim 1, wherein the test station is stacked on top of the load lock chamber. 16. A method for testing a substrate comprising: evacuating a load lock chamber containing a substrate; transferring the substrate from the evacuated load lock chamber to a transfer chamber; elevating the substrate within the transfer chamber; transferring the elevated substrate from the transfer chamber to a test station stacked at least partially above the load lock chamber; and testing the elevated substrate, wherein the step of testing further comprises: capturing an image of discrete portions of the substrate. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the step of testing further comprises: displaying the captured image. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein the step of testing further comprises: comparing the captured image to Images stored in memory of a controller. 19. The method of claim 16, wherein the steps of transferring the substrate from the load lock chamber to the transfer chamber and transferring the substrate from the transfer chamber to the substrate test station move the substrate in opposite directions. 20. A method for testing a substrate comprising: evacuating a load lock chamber containing a substrate; transferring the substrate from the evacuated load lock chamber to a transfer chamber; elevating the substrate within the transfer chamber; transferring the elevated substrate from the transfer chamber to a test station stacked at least partially above the load lock chamber; and testing the elevated substrate, wherein the step of testing further comprises: interacting with discrete portions of the substrate with an electron beam. 21. The method of claim 20, wherein the step of testing further comprises: detecting a change in voltage across a discrete portion of the substrate. 22. The method of claim 20, wherein the step of testing further comprises: energizing a pixel formed on the substrate with the electron beam. 23. The method of claim 20, wherein the steps of transferring the substrate from the load lock chamber to the transfer chamber and transferring the substrate from the transfer chamber to the substrate test station move the substrate in opposite directions. 24. A method for testing a substrate comprising: evacuating a load lock chamber containing a substrate; transferring the substrate from the evacuated load lock chamber to a transfer chamber; elevating the substrate within the transfer chamber; transferring the elevated substrate from the transfer chamber to a test station stacked at least partially above the load lock chamber; and testing the elevated substrate, wherein the step of testing comprises: determining a defect on the substrate; and capturing an image of the defect. 25. The method of claim 24, further comprising: moving the substrate to a repair station coupled to the transfer chamber. 26. The method of claim 24, wherein the steps of transferring the substrate from the load lock chamber to the transfer chamber and transferring the substrate from the transfer chamber to the substrate test station move the substrate in opposite directions. 27. A method for testing a substrate comprising: evacuating a load lock chamber containing a substrate; transferring the substrate from the evacuated load lock chamber to a transfer chamber; elevating the substrate within the transfer chamber; transferring the elevated substrate from the transfer chamber to a test station stacked at least partially above the load lock chamber; and testing the elevated substrate, wherein the stop of testing further comprises: moving the substrate through an X/Y planar motion. 28. The method of claim 27 further comprising: rotating the substrate through a pre-determined angle. 29. The method of claim 27, wherein the steps of transferring the substrate from the load lock chamber to the transfer chamber and transferring the substrate from the transfer chamber to the substrate test station move the substrate in opposite directions. 30. A method for testing a substrate comprising: evacuating a load lock chamber containing a substrate; transferring the substrate from the evacuated load lock chamber to a transfer chamber; elevating the substrate within the transfer chamber; transferring the elevated substrate from the transfer chamber to a test station stacked at least partially above the load lock chamber; and testing the elevated substrate, wherein the step of testing further comprises: testing a first portion of the substrate; rotating the substrate; and testing a second portion of the substrate. 31. The method of claim 30, wherein the steps of transferring the substrate from the load lock chamber to the transfer chamber and transferring the substrate from the transfer chamber to the substrate test station move the substrate in opposite directions. 