A terminal assembly for active implantable medical devices includes a structural pad, in the form of a substrate or attached wire bond pad, for convenient attachment of wires from the circuitry inside the implantable medical device.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A feedthrough terminal assembly for an active implantable medical device, comprising: a conductive ferrule conductively coupled to a housing of the active implantable medical device; a conductive terminal pin extending through the ferrule in non-conductive relation; an insulator disposed between the terminal pin and the ferrule; a structural pad disposed adjacent to the insulator; and a lead wire conductively coupled to the terminal pin by means of the structural pad. 2. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the structural pad is mechanically attached to the terminal pin. 3. The assembly of claim 2, wherein the structural pad is threaded onto an end of the terminal pin. 4. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the structural pad comprises a substrate disposed adjacent to a planar surface of the insulator. 5. The assembly of claim 4, wherein the substrate comprises a ceramic-based material. 6. The assembly of claim 4, wherein the substrate is selected from an alumina, ceramic, berrylia, aluminum nitride, Fosterite, polyimide, cyanate ester, barium titanate, epoxy or fiber-reinforced material. 7. The assembly of claim 4, wherein the substrate includes a conductive surface trace having a bonding area. 8. The assembly of claim 7, wherein the lead wire is attached to the bonding area. 9. The assembly of claim 7, including a wire bond pad conductively coupled to the wire bonding area. 10. The assembly of claim 4, wherein the substrate includes a conductive wire bond pad attached thereto, to which the lead wire is conductively coupled. 11. The assembly of claim 10, wherein the wire bond pad includes a first portion conductively coupled to the substrate, and a second portion conductively coupled to the lead wire. 12. The assembly of claim 11, wherein the first and second portions of the wire bond pad are angularly displaced relative to one another. 13. The assembly of claim 4, wherein the substrate includes a recess configured for receiving corresponding conductive wire bond pads therein. 14. The assembly of claim 4, wherein the substrate includes a tapered edge. 15. The assembly of claim 4, wherein the substrate includes an aperture, hold or slot for facilitating laser welding of the substrate to the terminal pin. 16. The assembly of claim 4, including a wire bond pad attached to the substrate through which the terminal pin at least partially extends, the wire bond pad being conductively coupled to the terminal pin, and having an extension to which the lead wire is attached. 17. The assembly of claim 4, wherein the substrate includes multiple apertures therethrough for passage of multiple terminal pins, including a ground pin, and wire bond pads conductively coupled to each terminal pin. 18. The assembly of claim 17, wherein the wire bond pads each include an aperture for receiving a respective terminal pin therethrough, each respective terminal pin and wire bond pad being conductively attached to one another. 19. The assembly of claim 18, wherein the terminal pins and the wire bond pads are welded to one another. 20. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the structural pad comprises a substrate having an aperture into which the terminal pin extends. 21. The assembly of claim 20, wherein the substrate aperture is substantially lined with conductive material to define an electrical path from the terminal pin to the lead wire. 22. The assembly of claim 21, including a conductive insert disposed within a substrate recess for conductively coupling the substrate with the terminal pin. 23. The assembly of claim 22, wherein the insert comprises a conductive insert ring disposed within the recess in the substrate, the insert ring being conductively coupled to the terminal pin and the substrate. 24. The assembly of claim 23, wherein the substrate includes a conductive trace conductively coupled to the insert ring, and defining a lead wire bonding area on a surface of the substrate. 25. The assembly of claim 24, including a wire bond pad conductively coupled to the bonding area. 26. The assembly of claim 20, wherein a portion of the terminal pin extending from the substrate is bent, and the wire bond pad is configured for placement over the bent portion of the terminal pin. 27. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the structural pad comprises a conductive wire bond pad conductively coupled to the terminal pin. 28. The assembly of claim 27, wherein the wire bond pad is comprised of Kovar or Alloy 42. 29. The assembly of claim 27, wherein the end of the terminal pin and the wire bond pad are conductively attached to one another. 30. The assembly of claim 29, wherein the wire bond pad includes a socket for receiving an end of the terminal pin therein. 31. The assembly of claim 30, wherein the socket comprises an aperture, hole or slot extending at least partially through the wire bond pad. 32. The assembly of claim 29, wherein the wire bond pad is laser welded to the terminal pin. 33. The assembly of claim 32, Wherein the wire bond pad includes a through-hole or slot to facilitate laser melting of a tip of the terminal pin. 34. The assembly of claim 29, wherein the wire bond pad is disposed over an end of the terminal pin. 35. The assembly of claim 27, wherein the wire bond pad includes an aperture through which the terminal pin extends. 36. The assembly of claim 27, wherein the wire bond pad includes an extension to which the lead wire is attached. 37. The assembly of claim 27, wherein the lead wire is mechanically attached to the wire bond pad. 38. The assembly of claim 37, including a screw to mechanically attach the lead wire to the wire bond pad. 39. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the structural pad includes embedded conductive circuit traces extending from the terminal pin to a conductive wire bonding area on a surface of the structural pad. 40. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the structural pad comprises a rectilinear multilayer substrate. 41. A feedthrough terminal assembly for an active implantable medical device, comprising: a conductive ferrule conductively coupled to a housing of the active implantable medical device; a conductive terminal pin extending through the ferrule in non-conductive relation; an insulator disposed between the terminal pin and the ferrule; a wire bond pad conductively coupled to the terminal pin; and a lead wire conductively coupled to the wire bond pad. 42. The assembly of claim 41, wherein the wire bond pad includes a socket for receiving an end of the terminal pin therein. 43. The assembly of claim 42, wherein the socket comprises an aperture, hole or slot extending at least partially through the wire bond pad. 44. The assembly of claim 41, wherein the wire bond pad is mechanically attached to the terminal pin. 45. The assembly of claim 44, wherein the structural pad is threaded onto an end of the terminal pin. 46. The assembly of claim 41, wherein the wire bond pad includes first and second portions, the lead wire being attached to the second portion. 47. The assembly of claim 46, wherein the first and second portions of the wire bond pad are angularly displaced relative to one another. 48. The assembly of claim 41, wherein a portion of the terminal pin extending from the insulator is bent, and the wire bond pad is configured for placement over the bent portion of the terminal pin. 49. The assembly of claim 41, wherein the wire bond pad is comprised of Kovar or Alloy 42. 50. The assembly of claim 41, wherein the end of the terminal pin and the wire bond pad are conductively attached to one another. 51. The assembly of claim 50, wherein the wire bond pad is laser welded to the terminal pin. 52. The assembly of claim 51, wherein the wire bond pad includes a through-hole or slot to facilitate laser melting of a tip of the terminal pin. 53. The assembly of claim 41, wherein the wire bond pad is disposed over an end of the terminal pin. 54. The assembly of claim 41, wherein the wire bond pad includes an aperture through which the terminal pin extends. 55. The assembly of claim 41, wherein the wire bond pad includes an extension to which the lead wire is attached. 56. The assembly of claim 41, wherein the lead wire is mechanically attached to the wire bond pad. 57. The assembly of claim 56, including a screw to mechanically attach the lead wire to the wire bond pad. 58. A feedthrough terminal assembly for an active implantable medical device, comprising: a conductive ferrule conductively coupled to a housing of the active implantable medical device; a conductive terminal pin extending through the ferrule in non-conductive relation; an insulator disposed between the terminal pin and the ferrule; a substrate disposed adjacent to the insulator and including a conductive circuit or surface trace conductively coupled to the terminal pin; and a lead wire conductively coupled to the terminal pin by means of the conductive trace. 59. The assembly of claim 58, wherein the substrate is selected from an alumina, ceramic, berrylia, aluminum nitride, Fosterite, polyimide, cyanate ester, barium titanate, epoxy or fiber-reinforced material. 60. The assembly of claim 58, wherein the substrate includes a conductive surface trace having a bonding area for bonding the lead wire or a wire bond pad. 61. The assembly of claim 60, wherein a wire bond pad is attached to the conductive surface trace bonding are, and wherein the lead wire is conductively coupled to the wire bond pad. 62. The assembly of claim 61, wherein the wire bond pad includes a first portion conductively coupled to the substrate conductive surface trace, and a second portion conductively coupled to the lead wire. 63. The assembly of claim 62, wherein the first and second portions of the wire bond pad are angularly displaced relative to one another. 64. The assembly of claim 61, wherein the wire bond pad is comprised of Kovar or Alloy 42. 65. The assembly of claim 61, wherein the wire bond pad includes an extension to which the lead wire is attached. 66. The assembly of claim 61, wherein the lead wire is mechanically attached to the wire bond pad. 67. The assembly of claim 66, including a screw to mechanically attach the lead wire to the wire bond pad. 68. The assembly of claim 58, wherein the substrate includes an aperture into which the terminal pin extends. 69. The assembly of claim 68, wherein the substrate aperture is substantially lined with conductive material to define an electrical path from the terminal pin to the lead wire. 70. The assembly of claim 69, including a conductive insert disposed within a substrate recess for conductively coupling the substrate with the terminal pin. 71. The assembly of claim 70, wherein the insert comprises a conductive insert ring disposed within the recess in the substrate, the insert ring being conductively coupled to the terminal pin and the substrate. 72. The assembly of claim 71, wherein the conductive trace is conductively coupled to the insert ring, and defines a lead wire or wire bond pad bonding area on a surface of the substrate. 73. The assembly of claim 58, wherein the substrate includes a tapered edge. 74. The assembly of claim 58, wherein the substrate includes an aperture, hold or slot for facilitating laser welding of the substrate to the terminal pin. 75. The assembly of claim 58, wherein the substrate includes multiple apertures therethrough for passage of multiple terminal pins, including a ground pin, and wire bond-pads conductively coupled to each terminal pin. 76. The assembly of claim 58, wherein the structural pad includes embedded conductive circuit traces extending from the terminal pin to a conductive wire bonding area on a surface of the structural pad. 77. The assembly of claim 58, wherein the structural pad comprises a rectilinear multilayer substrate. 78. A feedthrough terminal assembly for an active implantable medical device, comprising: a conductive ferrule conductively coupled to a housing of the active implantable medical device; a conductive terminal pin extending through the ferrule in non-conductive relation; an insulator disposed between the terminal pin and the ferrule; a substrate disposed adjacent to the insulator; a wire bond pad attached to the substrate so as to be conductively coupled to the terminal pin; and a lead wire conductively coupled to the terminal pin by means of the wire bond pad. 79. The assembly of claim 78, wherein the substrate is selected from an alumina, ceramic, berrylia, aluminum nitride, Fosterite, polyimide, cyanate ester, barium titanate, epoxy or fiber-reinforced material. 80. The assembly of claim 78, wherein the substrate includes a conductive surface trace having a bonding area to which the wire bond pad is attached. 81. The assembly of claim 78, wherein the wire bond pad includes a first portion conductively coupled to the substrate, and a second portion conductively coupled to the lead wire. 82. The assembly of claim 81, wherein the first and second portions of the wire bond pad are angularly displaced relative to one another. 83. The assembly of claim 78, wherein the substrate includes an aperture into which the terminal pin extends. 84. The assembly of claim 83, wherein the substrate aperture is substantially lined with conductive material to define an electrical path from the terminal pin to the wire bond pad and the lead wire. 85. The assembly of claim 78, including a conductive insert disposed within a substrate recess for conductively coupling the substrate with the terminal pin. 86. The assembly of claim 85, wherein the insert comprises a conductive insert ring disposed within the recess in the substrate, the insert ring being conductively coupled to the terminal pin and the substrate. 87. The assembly of claim 86, wherein the substrate includes a conductive trace conductively coupled to the insert ring, and defining a lead wire bonding area on a surface of the substrate. 88. The assembly of claim 87, wherein the wire bond pad is conductively coupled to the bonding area. 89. The assembly of claim 78, wherein the substrate includes a recess configured for receiving a corresponding conductive wire bond pad therein. 90. The assembly of claim 78, wherein a portion of the terminal pin extending from the substrate is bent, and the wire bond pad is configured for placement over the bent portion of the terminal pin. 91. The assembly of claim 78, wherein the substrate includes a tapered edge. 92. The assembly of claim 78, wherein the wire bond pad is comprised of Kovar or Alloy 42. 93. The assembly of claim 78, wherein the wire bond pad includes a socket for receiving an end of the terminal pin therein. 94. The assembly of claim 93, wherein the socket comprises an aperture, hole or slot extending at least partially through the wire bond pad. 95. The assembly of claim 94, wherein the wire bond pad is laser welded to the terminal pin. 96. The assembly of claim 94, wherein the wire bond pad includes an aperture through which the terminal pin extends. 97. The assembly of claim 78, wherein the wire bond pad includes an extension to which the lead wire is attached. 98. The assembly of claim 78, wherein the substrate includes an aperture, hold or slot for facilitating laser welding of the substrate to the terminal pin. 99. The assembly of claim 78, wherein the lead wire is mechanically attached to the wire bond pad. 100. The assembly of claim 99, including a screw to mechanically attach the lead wire to the wire bond pad. 101. The assembly of claim 78, including a wire bond pad attached to the substrate through which the terminal pin at least partially extends, the wire bond pad being conductively coupled to the terminal pin, and having an extension to which the lead wire is attached. 102. The assembly of claim 78, wherein the substrate includes multiple apertures therethrough for passage of multiple terminal pins, including a ground pin, and wire bond pads conductively coupled to each terminal pin. 103. The assembly of claim 102, wherein the wire bond pads each include an aperture for receiving a respective terminal pin therethrough, each respective terminal pin and wire bond pad being conductively attached to one another. 104. The assembly of claim 103, wherein the terminal pins and the wire bond pads are welded to one another. 105. The assembly of claim 78, wherein the structural pad includes embedded conductive circuit traces extending from the terminal pin to a conductive wire bonding area on a surface of the structural pad. 106. The assembly of claim 78, wherein the structural pad comprises a rectilinear multilayer substrate. 