A high-density multichannel microwire electrode array is disclosed. The array can comprise a variable number of electrodes. A method of assembling the array is further disclosed. Additionally, a plurality of devices employing the array are disclosed, including an intelligent brain pacemaker and a closed loop brain machine interface.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A real time closed loop brain-machine interface comprising: (a) a multichannel microwire electrode array for acquiring neural signals from a plurality of single neurons comprising: (i) a plurality of microwire electrodes; (ii) one or more printed circuit boards in electrical connection with the microwire electrodes comprising: (1) a plurality of conductive traces spaced apart about 0.015 inches (center to center) or less; and (2) a plurality of conductive pads in electrical connection with the one or more conductive traces; and (iii) one or more connectors in communication with conductive pads and having contacts spaced apart about 0.030 inches (center to center) or less; (b) a signal processing mechanism adapted to communicate with the multichannel microwire electrode array and adapted to form extracted motor commands from the extracellular electrical signals; and (c) an actuator adapted to communicate with the signal processing mechanism and to respond to the extracted motor commands by effecting a movement, and to provide sensory feedback to the subject. 2. The real time closed loop brain-machine interface of claim 1, wherein the microwire electrodes comprise a material selected from the group consisting of stainless steel, tungsten, noble metals, conductive alloys and conductive polymers. 3. The real time closed loop brain-machine interface of claim 1, wherein the microwire electrodes are substantially coated with a material selected from the group consisting of TEFLON.RTM., S-lsonel, polymers, plastics and non-conductive materials. 4. The real time closed loop brain-machine interface of claim 1, wherein the one or more printed circuit boards are flexible and about 0.01 inch thick. 5. The real time closed loop brain-machine interface of claim 1, wherein the one or more printed circuit boards are substantially rigid and about 0.08 inches thick. 6. The real time closed loop brain-machine interface of claim 1, wherein the one or more printed circuit boards comprise a plurality of the circuit boards secured together in a superimposed stacked relationship. 7. The real time closed loop brain-machine interface of claim 1, wherein the one or more printed circuit boards each comprise one or more removable support tabs. 8. The real time closed loop brain-machine interface of claim 1, wherein the conductive traces are substantially insulated. 9. The real time closed loop brain-machine interface of claim 1, wherein the one or more connectors are zero insertion force (ZIF) connectors. 10. The real time closed loop brain-machine interface of claim 1, wherein the one or more connectors are low insertion force (LIF) connectors. 11. The real time closed loop brain-machine interface of claim 1, wherein the one or more connectors comprise a plurality of connectors soldered to the plurality of conductive pads. 