The present invention pertains to control systems and provides a run time configurable control system for selecting and operating one of a plurality of operating room devices from a single input source, the system comprising a master controller having a voice control interface and means for routing control signals. The system additionally may include a plurality of slave controllers to provide expandability of the system. Also, the system includes output means for generating messages to the user relating to the status of the control system in general and to the status of devices connected thereto.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An operating room voice command system comprising: a first medical device having a first device lexicon of verbal device commands associated therewith; a second medical device having a second device lexicon of verbal device commands associated therewith; and a control system in electrical communication with the first medical device and the second medical device, the control system having a voice interface for receiving a verbal device selection command included in a device selection lexicon, the device selection lexicon including a first device selection command and a second device selection command, the control system directing a command signal to a selected device in response to the verbal device selection command, the selected device being either the first medical device or the second medical device, the voice interface also for receiving a verbal device command associated with the selected device, the command signal corresponding to the device command, the control system identifying the device command from among the first device lexicon when the selected device is the first medical device, and the control system identifying the device command from among the second device lexicon when the selected device is the second medical device. 2. The operating room voice command system of claim 1, wherein the first medical device includes an operating room lighting system. 3. The operating room voice command system of claim 2, wherein the first device lexicon includes room lighting commands. 4. The operating room voice command system of claim 2, wherein the second medical device includes an operating room table. 5. The operating room voice command system of claim 1, wherein the second medical device includes an operating room table. 6. The operating room voice command system of claim 1, wherein the first medical device includes at least one of an insufflator, a robot arm for holding and manipulating an endoscope, and a laser. 7. The operating room voice command system of claim 1, wherein the voice interface identifies speech of a user as a member selected from the group consisting of: a device selection command, a device command for the selected device, and other speech. 8. The operating room voice command system of claim 7, wherein the voice interface differentiates between other speech and device commands using the lexicon associated with the selected device, and wherein the lexicon associated with the selected device is stored on a memory of the selected device. 9. The operating room voice command system of claim 8, wherein the voice interface comprises a master controller with a muter controller memory, the first medical device has a first slave controller with a first memory and the second medical device has a second slave controller with a second memory, and the voice interface differentiates between different device selection commands of the device selection lexicon while the device selection lexicon is stored on the master controller memory. 10. The operating room voice command system of claim 1, wherein the control system identifies a plurality of devices in electrical or wireless communication therewith, the plurality of devices including the first medical device and the second medical device, and wherein the control system determines the device selection lexicon in response to the identified devices, the device selection lexicon including a device selection command associated with each identified device. 11. The operating room voice command system of claim 10, wherein the control system is configured to identify the plurality of devices at a start-up. 12. The operating room voice command system of claim 1, further comprising a third medical device having a third device lexicon of verbal commands associated therewith, the voice interface capable of transmitting command signals to the third medical device corresponding with verbal commands of the third device lexicon when the third medical device is in electrical communication with the control system, wherein the third medical device is not in electrical communication with the control system and the control system does not generate command signals corresponding to the third device lexicon. 13. The operating room voice command system of claim 1, further comprising a video monitor coupled to the control system, the video monitor displaying communications with the selected device. 