Methods and systems for determining a dissolution profile of a sample material, and for solubilization screening of a library defined by an array comprising multiple sample materials are disclosed. The methods and systems are particularly advantageous for sampling and evaluation of very small samples, and can be advantageously applied in connection with evaluation of drug candidates.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for determining a dissolution profile for a sample material, the method comprising dissolving at least a portion of the sample material in a solvent over a period of time to form a solution, the period of time defining a dissolution period, the solution having a concentration of the sample material that varies during the dissolution period, sampling a portion of the solution at least twice during the dissolution period, the solution being sampled at a first time within the dissolution period to obtain a first aliquot of the solution, and at a later second time within the dissolution period to obtain a second aliquot of the solution, subsampling a portion of the first aliqout of the solution to obtain a first sub-aliquot of the solution resulting in a remainder portion of the first aliquot, determining the concentration of the sample material in the first sub-aliquot of the solution, returning the remainder portion of the first aliquot to the solution, subsampling a portion of the second aliqout of the solution to obtain a second sub-aliquot of the solution resulting in a remainder portion of the second aliquot, determining the concentration of the sample material in the second sub-aliquot of the solution, and returning the remainder portion of the second aliquot to the solution. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising providing a first make-up aliquot of a liquid media to the solution, the first make-up aliquot having a volume about the same as the volume of the first sub-aliquot, the first make-up aliquot being provided after sampling to obtain the first aliquot of the solution, and before sampling to obtain the second aliquot of the solution, and providing a second make-up aliquot of a liquid media to the solution, the second make-up aliquot having a volume about the same as the volume of the second sub-aliquot, the second make-up aliquot being provided after sampling to obtain the second aliquot of the solution. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein the liquid media for each of the first make-up aliquot and the second make-up aliquot is a solvent that is the same as the solvent in which at least a portion of the sample material is initially dissolved. 4. The method of claim 2 wherein the liquid media for each of the first make-up aliquot and the second make-up aliquot is a cosolvent that has a chemical composition that is different from the solvent in which at least a portion of the sample material is initially dissolved, whereby the solution has a solvent composition that varies over time during the dissolution period. 5. The method of claim 2 wherein the liquid media for each of the first make-up aliquot and the second make-up aliquot is pH-adjusting agent, whereby the solution has a pH that varies over time during the dissolution period. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the solution is sampled at least three times during the dissolution period, the method further comprising sampling a portion of the solution at a third time within the dissolution period to obtain a third aliquot of the solution, subsampling a portion of the third aliquot of the solution to obtain a third sub-aliquot of the solution, and determining the concentration of the sample material in the third sub-aliquot of the solution, wherein the third time is after the second time. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein the sampling frequencies defined by the difference in time between the first time and the second time, and by the difference in time between the second time and the third time, are each not more than about 1 minute. 8. The method of claim 6 further comprising combining the sample material with the solvent at an initiation time, t.sub.o, to initiate dissolution of the sample material in the solvent, wherein the first time at which the solution is sampled to obtain the first aliquot is within about 1 minute after the initiation time, t.sub.o, the sampling frequencies defined by the difference in time between the first time and the second time, and by the difference in time between the second time and the third time, are each not more than about 1 minute. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein the solution is sampled at least six times during the dissolution period, the method further comprising sampling a portion of the solution at a fourth time within the dissolution period to obtain a fourth aliquot of the solution, subsampling a portion of the fourth aliquot of the solution to obtain a fourth sub-aliquot of the solution, and determining the concentration of the sample material in the fourth sub-aliquot of the solution, sampling a portion of the solution at a fifth time within the dissolution period to obtain a fifth aliquot of the solution, subsampling a portion of the fifth aliquot of the solution to obtain a fifth sub-aliquot of the solution, and determining the concentration of the sample material in the fifth sub-aliquot of the solution, sampling a portion of the solution at a sixth time within the dissolution period to obtain a sixth aliquot of the solution, subsampling a portion of the sixth aliquot of the solution to obtain a sixth sub-aliquot of the solution, and determining the concentration of the sample material in the sixth sub-aliquot of the solution, wherein the fourth time is after the third time, the fifth time is after the fourth time, and the sixth time is after the fifth time. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein the sampling frequencies defined by the difference in time between the fourth time and the fifth time, and by the difference in time between the fifth time and the sixth time, are each not more than about 1 minute. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein the solution is sampled at least six times over at least two distinct sampling intervals during the dissolution period, a first sampling interval comprising the first time, the second time and the third time, and a second sampling interval comprising the fourth time, the fifth time and the sixth time, the first and second sampling intervals being separated in time by a non-sampling interval during which no sampling of the solution occurs, the non-sampling interval being defined by a period of time having a duration not less than about two times the longest of the sampling frequencies. 12. The method of claim 1 wherein the sampling frequency defined by the difference in time between the first time and the second time is not more than about 1 minute. 13. The method of claim 1 further comprising combining the sample material with the solvent at an initiation time, t.sub.0, to initiate dissolution of the sample material in the solvent, wherein the first time at which the solution is sampled to obtain the first aliquot is within about 1 minute after the initiation time, t.sub.o. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein the first time at which the solution is sampled to obtain the first aliquot is within about 30 seconds after the initiation time, t.sub.o. 15. The method of claim 13 wherein the first time at which the solution is sampled to obtain the first aliquot is within about 10 seconds after the initiation time, t.sub.o. 16. The method of claim 1 wherein the solution is sampled using an automated sampling probe, the sampling probe having a distal end and a proximate end, the distal end of the sampling probe being positionable in fluid communication with the solution in the sample container for sampling a portion of the solution to obtain sampled aliquots, the proximate end of the sampling probe being in fluid communication through a flow path with a sub-sampling device for obtaining the sub-sampled sub-aliquots, the method further comprises filtering the first aliquot of the solution during or after sampling to obtain a filtered first aliquot of the solution, and filtering the second aliquot of the solution during or after sampling to obtain a filtered second aliquot of the solution, the sampled aliquots being filtered with an in-line filter integral with the sampling probe or in fluid communication with the proximate end of the sampling probe in the flow path providing fluid communication to the sub-sampling device, the remainder portion of the first sub-aliquot and the remainder portion of the second sub-aliquot are returned from the sub-sampling device to the solution through the flow path and the sampling probe in a reverse flow direction, and the remainder portions of the sub-aliquots backflush the in-line filter while being returned to the solution in the reverse flow direction. 17. The method of claim 1 wherein the sample material is a solid. 18. The method of claim 17 further comprising combining the solid sample material with the solvent to initiate dissolution and to form a dispersion comprising the solution and undissolved solid sample material dispersed in the solution. 19. The method of claim 18 wherein the dispersion is a substantially uniform dispersion. 20. The method of claim 1 wherein the sample material comprises a drug candidate. 21. The method of claim 20 wherein the sample material consists essentially of a drug candidate. 22. The method of claim 22 wherein the sample material comprises a drug composition comprising one or more drug candidates and one or more excipients. 23. The method of claim 1 further comprising combining not more than about 50 mg of the sample material with the solvent to initiate dissolution of the sample material in the solvent. 24. The method of claim 23 wherein not more than tout 20 mg of the sample material is combined with the solvent. 25. The method of claim 23 wherein not more than about 10 mg of the sample material is combined with the solvent. 26. The method of claim 23 wherein not more than about 5 mg of the sample material is combined with the solvent. 27. The method of claim 23 wherein not more than tout 2 mg of the sample material is combined with the solvent. 28. The method of claim 23 wherein not more than about 1 mg of the sample material is combined with the solvent. 29. The method of claim 23 wherein not more than about 0.5 mg of the sample material is combined with the solvent. 30. The method of claim 23 wherein the sample material is combined with an amount of solvent effective for forming a solution having a detectable concentration of sample material in the solution. 31. The method of claim 23 wherein the sample material is combined with an amount of solvent effective for forming solution having a concentration of sample material in the solution ranging from about 0.01 mg/ml to about 10 mg/ml. 32. The method of claim 23 wherein an amount of sample material ranging from 0.01 mg to 0.5 mg is combined with an amount of solvent ranging from 1 ml to 10 ml. 33. The method of claim 1 wherein the surface area of the sample material is known or determined, the method further comprising determining an intrinsic dissolution rate for the sample material for one or more times during the dissolution period. 34. The method of claim 1 wherein the sample material is a first sample material, the method further comprising repeating each step of the method for at least one other distinct second sample material, and comparing a relative dissolution rate for the first sample material and the second sample material for one or more times during the dissolution period. 35. The method of claim 1 further comprising generating a data set that defines the dissolution profile, the data set being generated by a protocol that comprises defining a first data point of the dissolution profile by associating the determined concentration of sample material in the first aliquot with the first time, and defining a second data point of the dissolution profile by associating the determined concentration of sample material in the second aliquot with the second time. 36. The method of claim 1 wherein the sample material is a one member of an array of sample materials, the method further comprising repeating each step of the method for at least one other member of the array. 37. The method of claim 36 wherein the array of sample materials comprises four or more sample materials, the method further comprising for each of the four or more sample materials, combining the sample material with the solvent in an individual, separate container, the container for each of the four or more sample materials being selected from four or more containers that are formed in or supported on a common substrate. 38. The method of claim 36 wherein for each of the four or more sample materials, at least one of the sample material or the solvent are provided to the container by an automated dispensing probe at the initiation time, t.sub.o, and the solution is sampled at the first time to obtain the first aliquot using an automated sampling probe. 39. The method of claim 36 wherein the array of sample materials comprises four or more sample materials, each of the four or more sample materials having a chemical composition that is different from each other. 40. The method of claim 36 wherein the array of sample materials comprises two or more sample materials, each of the two or more sample materials having a crystalline structure different from each other. 41. The method of claim 36 wherein the array of sample materials comprises two or more sample materials, each of the two or more sample materials having the same chemical composition and having a crystalline structure different from each other. 42. The method of claim 36 wherein the ray of sample materials comprises four or more sample materials that are substantially the same, the method further comprising combining each of the four or more sample materials with a different dissolution environment. 43. A method for determining a dissolution profile for a sample material, the method comprising dissolving at least a portion of the sample material in a solvent over a period of time to form a solution, the period of time defining a dissolution period, the solution having a concentration of the sample material that varies during the dissolution period, the dissolving including combining the sample material with the solvent in a container to initiate dissolution of the sample material in the solvent, at least one of the sample material or the solvent being provided to the container by an automated dispensing probe at an initiation time, t.sub.o, using an automated sampling probe for sampling the solution at least twice during the dissolution period, the solution being sampled at a first time within the dissolution period to obtain a first aliquot of the solution, and at a later second time within the dissolution period to obtain a second aliquot of the solution, subsampling a portion of the first aliqout of the solution to obtain a first sub-aliquot of the solution, determining the concentration of the sample material in the first sub-aliquot of the solution, subsampling a portion of the second aliqout of the solution to obtain a second sub-aliquot of the solution, and determining the concentration of the sample material in the second sub-aliquot of the solution. 44. The method of claim 43 further comprising controlling the dispensing probe independently of the sampling probe. 45. A method for determining a dissolution profile for a sample material, the method comprising dissolving at least a portion of the sample material in a solvent over a period of time to form a solution, the period of time defining a dissolution period, the solution having a concentration of the sample material that varies during the dissolution period, sampling a portion of the solution at least twice during the dissolution period, the solution being sampled at a first time within the dissolution period to obtain a first aliquot of the solution, and at a later second time within the dissolution period to obtain a second aliquot of the solution, including filtering the first aliquot of the solution during or after sampling to obtain a filtered first aliquot of the solution, and filtering the second aliquot of the solution during or after sampling to obtain a filtered second aliquot of the solution, subsampling a portion of the first aliquot of the solution to obtain a first sub-aliquot of the solution, determining the concentration of the sample material in the first sub-aliquot of the solution, subsampling a portion of the second aliquot of the solution to obtain a second sub-aliquot of the solution, and determining the concentration of the sample material in the second sub-aliquot of the solution. 46. The method of claim 45 wherein the solution is sampled using an automated sampling probe, the sampling probe having a distal end and a proximate end, the distal end of the sampling probe being positionable in fluid communication with the solution in the sample container for sampling a portion of the solution to obtain sampled aliquots, and the sampled aliquots are filtered with an in-line filter integral with the sampling probe or in fluid communication with the proximate end of the sampling probe. 47. A method for determining a dissolution profile for a sample material, the method comprising dissolving at least a portion of the sample material in a solvent over a period of time to form a solution, the period of time defining a dissolution period, the solution having a concentration of the sample material that varies during the dissolution period, the dissolving including varying a property of the solvent over time during the dissolution period, sampling a portion of the solution at least twice during the dissolution period, the solution being sampled at a first time within the dissolution period to obtain a first alipuot of the solution, and at a later second time within the dissolution period to obtain a second aliquot of the solution, subsampling a portion of the first aliquot of the solution to obtain a first sub-aliquot of the solution, determining the concentration of the sample material in the first sub-aliquot of the solution, subsampling a portion of the second aliquot of the solution to obtain a second sub-aliquot of the solution, and determining the concentration of the sample material in the second sub-aliquot of the solution. 48. The method of claim 47 further comprising varying the chemical composition of the solvent over time during the dissolution period. 49. The method of claim 47 further comprising varying the pH of the solvent over time during the dissolution period. 50. The method of claim 47 further comprising varying the temperature of the solvent over time during the dissolution period. 51. A method for generating data defining a dissolution profile for a sample material, the method comprising dissolving at least a portion of the sample material in a solvent over a period of time to form a solution, the period of time defining a dissolution period, the solution having a concentration of the sample material that varies during the dissolution period, sampling a portion of the solution at a first time within the dissolution period to obtain a first aliquot of the solution, subsampling a portion of the first aliquot of the solution to obtain a first sub-aliquot of the solution, such subsampling thereby also resulting in a remainder portion of the first aliquot, returning the remainder portion of the first aliquot to the solution, sampling a portion of the solution at a later second time within the dissolution period after the remainder portion of the first aliquot is returned to the solution, to obtain a second aliquot of the solution, subsampling a portion of the second aliquot of the solution to obtain a second sub-aliquot of the solution, such subsampling thereby also resulting in a remainder portion of the second aliquot, returning the remainder portion of the second aliquot to the solution, determining the concentration of the sample material in the first sub-aliquot of the solution, whereby a first data point of the dissolution profile is defined by association of the concentration determined in the first sub-aliquot with the first time, and determining the concentration of the sample material in the second sub-aliquot of the solution, whereby a second data point of the dissolution profile is defined by association of the concentration determined in the second sub-aliquot with the second time. 52. The method of claim 51 further comprising providing a first make-up aliquot of a liquid media to the solution, the first make-up aliquot having a volume about the same as the volume of the first sub-aliquot, the first make-up aliquot being provided after sampling to obtain the first aliquot of the solution, and before sampling to obtain the second aliquot of the solution, and providing a second make-up aliquot of the liquid media to the solution, the second make-up aliquot having a volume about the same as the volume of the second sub-aliquot, the second make-up aliquot being provided after sampling to obtain the second aliquot of the solution. 53. A system for determining a dissolution profile for a sample material, the system comprising a sample container for dissolving at least a portion of the sample material in a solvent over a dissolution period of time to form a solution that has a concentration of the sample material that varies during the dissolution period, an automated sampling probe for sampling a portion of the solution at least twice during the dissolution period, the solution being sampled at first and second times within the dissolution period to obtain fist and second aliquots of the solution, respectively, the sampling probe having a distal end positionable in fluid communication with the solution in the sample container, and having a proximate end, a sub-sampling device including a sampling valve in fluid communication with the proximate end of the sampling probe, the sub-sampling device being configured for subsampling a portion of each of the first and second aliquots of the solution to obtain first and second sub-aliquots of the solution, and an analytical unit for determining the concentration of the sample material in the first and second sub-aliquots of the solution. 54. The system of claim 53 further comprising an automated dispensing probe for providing the sample material to the container. 55. The system of claim 53 further comprising an automated dispensing probe for providing the sample material to the container, and a control system for independently controlling the automated sampling probe and the automated dispensing probe. 56. The system of claim 53 further comprising a microprocessor having automation software for controlling the automated sampling probe and the sub-sampling device. 57. The system of claim 53 further comprising an in-line filter for filtering the first and second aliquots of the solution during or after sampling to obtain filtered first and second aliquots of the solution, respectively, the in-line filter being integral with the sampling probe or in fluid communication with the proximate end of the sampling probe in the flow path providing fluid communication to the sub-sampling device. 58. The system of claim 53 wherein the automated sampling probe is a component of an automated liquid handling system, the liquid-handling system further comprising a robotic arm for translating the automated sampling probe, and a pump in continuous or selectable fluid communication with the sampling probe for providing a motive force for withdrawing a portion of the solution into the probe to effect sampling. 59. The system of claim 58 wherein the pump is a positive displacement pump. 60. The system of claim 58 wherein the pump is a reciprocating pump. 61. The system of claim 58 wherein the pump is a syringe pump. 62. The system of claim 58 wherein the pump is in fluid communication with the sampling valve such that the sampling valve provides continuous or selectable fluid communication between the pump and the proximate end of the sampling probe, and the analytical unit comprises a detector in fluid communication with the sampling valve. 63. The system of claim 62 wherein the sampling valve comprises a sample loop, and the sampling valve is configured so that in a first selectable position, the pump is in fluid communication with the proximate end of the sampling probe through a flow path that includes the sample loop, and so that in a second selectable position, the pump is in fluid communication with the proximate end of the sampling probe through a flow path that bypasses the sample loop. 64. The system of claim 63 further comprising an in-line filter for filtering the first and second aliquots of the solution during or after sampling to obtain filtered first and second aliquots of the solution, respectively, the in-line filter being integral with the sampling probe or in fluid communication with the proximate end of the sampling probe in the flow path providing fluid communication to the sampling valve, such that when the sampling valve is in the first selectable position, at least part of the filtered sampled aliquot is loaded into the sample loop, and such that when the sampling valve is in the second selectable position, a remainder portion of the filtered sampled aliquot not loaded into the sample loop is returned to the solution in a reverse flow direction through the flow path that bypasses the sample loop and backflushes the in-line filter. 65. The system of claim 62 wherein the sampling valve comprises a sample loop, and the sampling valve is configured so that in a first selectable position, the sample loop is selectably aligned to a sampling flow pat for loading at least part of the sampled aliquot into the sample loop, and so that in a second selectable position, the sample loop is selectably aligned to a detection flow path for discharging the contents the sample loop as a sub-aliquot of the sampled aliquot to the detector. 66. The system of claim 62 wherein the pump is a first pump and the sampling valve is a multi-port sampling valve comprising a sample loop, the sampling valve being configured in a first selectable position for loading at least part of the sampled aliquot into the sample loop through a sampling flow path from the proximate end of sampling probe to the first pump, the sampling valve being configured in a second selectable position for returning a remainder portion of the sampled aliquot not loaded into the sample loop to the container through a remainder-return flow path from the first pump to the proximate end of the sampling probe, and the sampling valve being further configured in one of the selectable positions for discharging the contents the sample loop as a sub-aliquot of the sampled aliquot through a detection flow path from a second pump to the detector. 67. The system of claim 62 wherein the pump is a first pump and the sampling valve is a multi-port sampling valve comprising a first sample loop and a second sample loop, the sampling valve being configured in a first selectable position for loading at least part of the sampled aliquot into the first sample loop through a sampling flow path from the proximate end of sampling probe to the first pump, the sampling valve being configured in the second selectable position for returning a remainder portion of the sampled aliquot not loaded into the first sample loop to the container through a remainder-return flow path from the first pump to the proximate end of the sampling probe, the sampling valve being further configured in the second selectable position for loading a make-up liquid media into the first sample loop and simultaneously advancing the contents of the first sample loop to a second sample loop, the sampling valve being further configured in the first selectable position for discharging the contents the second sample loop as a sub-aliquot of the sampled aliquot through a detection flow path from a second pump to the detector, the sampling valve being further configured in the first selectable position for providing the make-up liquid media loaded into the first sample loop as a make-up aliquot through a make-up flow path from a third pump to the proximate end of the sampling probe for delivery to the solution in the container. 68. The system of claim 62 wherein the analytical unit further comprises a separation device in fluid communication with the sampling valve and with the detector, the separation device being adapted for separating one or more components of the subsampled sub-aliquots discharged from the sampling valve from other components thereof, the detector being adapted for detecting a property of the one or more separated components. 69. The system of claim 68 wherein the separation device is a liquid chromatography column. 70. The system of claim 68 wherein the separation device is a liquid chromatography column, and the detector is selected from one or more of a light-scattering detector, a refractive index detector, a fluorescence detector, an infrared detector, and a spectroscopic detector. 71. The system of claims 53 or 62 wherein the analytical unit comprises a flow detector in fluid communication with the sub-sampling device. 72. The system of claims 53 or 62 wherein the analytical unit further comprises a separation device in fluid communication with the sub-sampling device. 73. The system of claims 53 or 62 wherein the analytical unit comprises a liquid chromatography system or a flow-injection analysis system. 