The present invention includes a microplate for performing crystallography studies. In particular, the microplate has a frame that includes a plurality of wells formed therein. Each well includes a first well and a second well. The first well includes a relatively large reservoir capable of receiving a reagent solution. The second well includes a relatively small reservoir having a substantially concaved form capable of receiving a protein solution and a reagent solution. The second well is suspended above the first well such that space on the plate is conserved and to enable protein crystal growth utilizing a hanging drop vapor diffusion crystallization process.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A multiwell plate, comprising: a frame including a plurality of wells formed therein, each well including: a first well having a relatively large volume; a second well having a relatively small volume positioned such that the second well is suspended above at least some portion of the first well; and said second well has a hole therethrough at a lower most point whereby said hole is sized such that liquid is prevented from passing through due to surface tension. 2. The multiwell plate of claim 1, wherein each well further comprising an access port that allows fluid communication between the first well and an external environment. 3. The multiwell plate of claim 1, wherein said second well has a concave shape. 4. The multiwell plate of claim 1, wherein said frame has a footprint capable of being handled by a robotic handling system. 5. The multiwell plate of claim 1, wherein each well is positioned on said frame so as to enable a liquid handling system to automatically deposit a sample solution into said second well and to automatically deposit a reagent solution into said first well. 6. The multiwell plate of claim 1, further comprising a seal that is positioned over said plurality of wells. 7. The multiwell plate of claim 1, wherein said frame and said plurality of wells are manufactured from cyclo-olefin. 8. The multiwell plate of claim 1, wherein said frame and said plurality of wells form a multi well high-throughput protein crystallography plate. 9. A protein crystallography plate, comprising: a frame including a plurality of wells formed therein, each well including: a first well capable of receiving a reagent solution; a second well having a substantially concaved form capable of receiving a protein solution and a reagent solution; said second well located over at least a portion of said first well; said second well has a hole therethrough at a lower most point whereby said hole is sized such that the protein solution and the reagent solution are prevented from passing through due to surface tension; wherein the reagent solution in said first well has a higher concentration than the reagent solution within said second well; and wherein the protein solution and the reagent solution within said second well interact with the reagent solution within said first well via a vapor diffusion process which enables the formation of protein crystals within said second well. 10. The multiwell plate of claim 9, wherein each well further comprising an access port that allows fluid communication between the first well and an external environment. 11. The protein crystallography plate of claim 9, wherein said frame has a footprint capable of being handled by a robotic handling system. 12. The protein crystallography plate of claim 11, wherein said robotic handling system is a Society of Biomolecular Screening compatible robotic handling system. 13. The protein crystallography plate of claim 9, wherein each well is positioned on said frame so as to enable a liquid handling system to automatically deposit the protein solution and the reagent solution into said second well and to automatically deposit the reagent solution into said first well. 14. The protein crystallography plate of claim 9, further comprising a seal that is positioned over said plurality of wells. 15. The protein crystallography plate of claim 9, wherein said frame and said plurality of wells are manufactured from cyclo-olefin. 16. A method for using a microplate to form protein crystals, said method comprising the steps of: prepping the microplate which includes a frame having a plurality of wells formed therein, each well including: a first well having a relatively large volume; a second well having a relatively small volume positioned such that the second well is suspended above at least some portion of the first well; and said second well has a hole therethrough at a lower most point whereby said hole is sized such that liquid is prevented from passing through due to surface tension, said step of prepping further includes: depositing into the first well a reagent solution; and depositing into the second well a protein reagent and a reagent solution; and sealing an opening of each well to enable the protein solution and the reagent solution within said second well to interact with the reagent solution within said first well via a vapor diffusion process which enables the formation of protein crystals within said second well. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein each well has an access port which is used to deposit the reagent solution into said first well. 18. A multiwell plate, comprising: a frame including a plurality of wells formed therein, each well including: a first well having a relatively large volume; a second well having a relatively small volume positioned such that the second well is located above at least some portion of the first well; and said second well has a hole therethrough. 