A medical system which has a robotic arm that can move a surgical instrument. The surgical instrument is coupled to a tool driver of the arm that allows for a quick connect and disconnect of the instrument. The system does not require any tools to attach the surgical instrument to the tool driver. The instrument has an end effector that is actuated by the driver.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A medical robotic system, comprising: a robotic arm; a tool driver coupled to the robotic arm; a surgical instrument removably coupled to the tool driver without using a tool, said surgical instrument having an end effector that is actuated by the tool driver; and a controller in electrical communication with the robotic arm. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein said controller is also in electrical communication with the tool driver. 3. The system of claim 1 wherein movement at the controller produces a proportional movement of the robotic arm and the surgical instrument. 4. The system of claim 1 wherein the tool driver is a rear loading tool driver. 5. The system of claim 4 wherein the surgical instrument comprises a pivot linkage disposed intermediate and pivotally engaging a proximal portion with a distal portion. 6. The system of claim 1 wherein the tool driver is a front loading tool driver. 7. The system of claim 6 wherein the surgical instrument comprises a pivot linkage disposed intermediate and pivotally engaging a proximal portion with a distal portion. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein the tool driver includes: a housing to couple to the surgical instrument; and a motor coupled to the housing and adapted to actuate the end effector. 9. The tool driver of claim 8 wherein the housing includes an aperture to receive the surgical instrument. 10. The tool driver of claim 9 wherein the housing includes a tube such that the aperture is formed through the housing and the tube. 11. The tool driver of claim 10 wherein the tube is a sheath. 12. The tool driver of claim 9 wherein the surgical instrument seats through a rear and engages the tool driver. 13. The system of claim 8, wherein the tool driver includes: a sensosr that senses a counteractive force applied to the end effector. 14. The tool driver of claim 13 wherein the sensor provides a feedback signal responsive to sensing the counteractive force. 15. The tool driver of claim 14 wherein the sensor is a load cell coupled to the motor. 16. The tool driver of claim 15 further comprising a lead screw and a lead screw nut coupled between the motor and the load cell. 17. The tool driver of claim 16 further comprising a gear box coupled between the motor and the lead screw. 18. The tool driver of claim 17 further comprising a piston coupled to the load cell to actuate the end effector. 19. The tool driver of claim 13 further comprising an encoder to receive an electrical signal from a controller and, responsive thereto, to cause rotational movement of the motor to actuate the end effector. 20. The tool driver of claim 13 further comprising a housing that houses the motor and the sensor. 21. The tool driver of claim 20 wherein the housing includes an aperture to receive the surgical instrument. 22. The tool driver of claim 21 wherein the surgical instrument seats through a rear and engages the tool driver. 