An acoustic-based system, such as a touchscreen system, is provided. The system comprises an acoustic substrate and an acoustic transducer operably coupled to the substrate. The transducer exhibits a higher order odd resonant frequency that is equal to the operating frequency of the system. As a result of using the higher resonant frequency that is substantially equal to the operating frequency, the thickness of the transducer can be increased, and thus made more durable.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A touch sensor having an operating frequency, comprising: a touch sensitive substrate; and a piezoelectric element operably coupled to the substrate, wherein the piezoelectric element is characterized by a higher order odd resonant frequency approximately equal to the operating frequency, the higher order frequency being selected from a frequency consisting of a third, fifth, and seventh order resonant frequency. 2. The touch sensor of claim 1, wherein the higher order resonant frequency is a third order resonant frequency. 3. The touch sensor of claim 1, wherein the piezoelectric element is a shear-mode piezoelectric element. 4. The touch sensor of claim 3, wherein the piezoelectric element is configured for transmitting or receiving a horizontally polarized acoustic shear wave in the substrate. 5. The touch sensor of claim 4, wherein the shear wave is selected from a wave consisting of a Love wave, a Zero Order Horizontally Polarized Shear (ZOHPS) wave, and a Higher Order Horizontally Polarized Shear (HOPS) wave. 6. The touch sensor of claim 1, wherein the piezoelectric element is a pressure-mode transducer. 7. The touch sensor of claim 6, wherein the piezoelectric element is configured for transmitting or receiving an acoustic wave having a longitudinal component in the substrate. 8. The touch sensor of claim 7, wherein the wave is selected from a wave consisting of a Rayleigh wave and a Lamb wave. 9. The touch sensor of claim 1, wherein the substrate is transparent. 10. The touch sensor of claim 1, wherein the substrate is opaque. 11. The touch sensor of claim 1, further comprising an acoustic transmit/receive assembly operably coupled to the substrate for transmitting and receiving acoustic waves along at least one set of parallel paths. 12. A method of sensing touches on a touch sensor, comprising: transmitting an acoustic wave across an acoustic substrate with a piezoelectric element, the acoustic wave having a frequency approximately equal to a higher order odd resonant frequency of the piezoelectric element, the higher order frequency being selected from a frequency consisting of a third, fifth, and seventh order resonant frequency; receiving the acoustic wave from the substrate; and processing the acoustic wave at the higher order odd resonant frequency to determine whether the substrate has been touched. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the higher order odd resonant frequency is a third order resonant frequency. 14. The method of claim 12, wherein the acoustic wave is a horizontally polarized acoustic shear wave. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the shear wave is selected from a wave consisting of a Love wave, a Zero Order Horizontally Polarized Shear (ZOHPS) wave, and a Higher Order Horizontally Polarized Shear (HOHPS) wave. 16. The method of claim 12, wherein the acoustic wave is an acoustic wave with a longitudinal component. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the wave is selected from a wave consisting of a Rayleigh wave and a Lamb wave. 18. The method of claim 12, wherein the substrate is transparent. 19. The method of claim 12, wherein the substrate is opaque. 20. The method of claim 12, further comprising processing the acoustic wave at the higher order odd resonant frequency to determine the location on the substrate that is touched. 