A robot gripping device 10 for holding and gripping a variety of electronic components. The robot gripping device comprises a guide frame 12, a drive motor 34 and gripping blocks 24, 26 having fingers 42, 44. Finger 42 has prongs 66, 68 and 70 on fingertip 60. Finger 44 has prongs 76 and 78 on fingertip 62. The fingertips 60, 62 accommodate axial resistor-type components at v-grooves 80 and radial capacitor-type components are accommodated by fingertip portions 82, 84, 85 and 86. Cylindrical can shaped components are accommodated by a slight beveling at fingertip portions 82, 84, 85 and 86 as well as a set back of portion 83 on prong 68. The fingers are capable of controlled movements to various centered positions by means of motor 34. When the fingers are brought together they interlock.
Claims I claim: 1. A robotic device for gripping and holding a variety of electronic components comprising: (a) a guide frame; (b) a motor having a rotatable shaft, attached to said guide frame; (c) a first gripper block movably attached to said guide frame and connected for movement to said rotatable shaft wherein said first gripper block comprises a three prong finger portion, each prong having a fingertip portion and a `v` groove portion and in which the three prongs comprise a right side prong, a center prong and a left side prong wherein the center prong is set back from the right and left prongs to accommodate cylindrical can shaped components; and (d) a second gripper block movably attached to said guide frame and connected for movement to said rotatable shaft wherein the second gripper block comprises a finger portion of at least two finger prongs having fingertip portions and `v` groove portions, and wherein the two finger prongs are spaced to interlock with said three finger prongs of said first gripper block. 2. The robotic device of claim 1 wherein the guide frame further comprises guide shafts for directing movement of the first and second gripper blocks. 3. The robotic device of claim 1 further comprising pressure sensors for limiting movement of the gripper blocks. 4. The robotic device of claim 1 wherein the robotic device is less than 10 inches long, less than 7 inches wide and less than 7 inches high. 5. The robotic device of claim 1 wherein a left and right hand threaded leadscrew comprises a rotatable connection between said first and second gripper blocks and said rotatable shaft. 6. The robotic device of claim 1 wherein said motor comprises a direct current servo motor. 7. The robotic device of claim 1 wherein the finger prongs of the second gripper block are opposingly beveled to accommodate cylindrical can shaped components. 8. A robotic device for gripping and holding a variety of electronic components comprising: (a) a guide frame; (b) a motor attached to said guide frame, the motor having a rotatable shaft; (c) a first gripper block movably attached to said guide frame and connected for movement to said rotatable shaft wherein said first gripper block comprises a finger portion having a u-shaped finger for grasping can shaped components; and (d) a second gripper block movably attached to said guide frame and connected for movement to said rotatable shaft wherein the second gripper block comprises at least two finger portions having opposingly beveled fingertips for grasping can shaped components and wherein the two finger portions are spaced to interlock with said finger portion of said first gripper block. 9. The robotic device of claim 8 wherein the guide frame further comprises guide shafts for directing movement of the first and second gripper blocks. 10. The robotic device of claim 8 further comprising pressure sensors for limiting movement of the gripper blocks. 11. The robotic device of claim 8 wherein said finger portions of both of said gripper blocks further comprise v-groove portions for holding certain components. 