The range of objects from a television camera is obtained by projecting a series of patterns of uniquely coded stripes of light onto the objects at an oblique angle to the optical axis of the camera and capturing in the camera the coded light signals reflected by the objects. Through proper selection and scaling of a coordinate system and related coding of the light stripes, the range of the object is determined for each pixel by simply subtracting one coordinate of the pixel from the binary coded light signal reflected into the pixel.
Claims I claim: 1. A method of determining the range of a plurality of points on objects arranged in three-dimensional object space using a projector and a television camera having a plurality of pixel locations at which light can be detected arranged in an array in an X-Y plane and an optical axis perpendicular to said X-Y plane, said method comprising the steps of: establishing an X-Y-Z set of coordinates in the object space with the X and Y axes parallel to the corresponding axes in the pixel array of the television camera and with the Z axis extending parallel to the optical axis of the camera; projecting a series of patterns of coded stripes of light which are parallel to the Y axis of the set of coordinates into the object space and onto the objects along an axis which intersects the X and Z axes at an oblique angle such that some of the light is reflected by the objects toward the television camera; setting the scales on the X and Z axes of the set of coordinates as the width of the oblique intersection of the stripes with the respective axes, and setting the scale on the X axis of the pixel array as a function of the scale set on the X axis of the set of coordinates; coding each of said stripes by selectively making the stripe dark and bright in said series of patterns in a unique sequence representative of a binary number, and with the stripes coded in consecutive numerical order across the pattern from the origin of the X-Y-Z set of coordinates; and calculating the distance in the direction of the Z axis of the point reflecting light toward each pixel by subtracting the X coordinate of the pixel from the coded light signal detected at that pixel location. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the pattern of stripes is spatially repeated side-by-side. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the origin of the X-Y-Z set of coordinates is positioned approximately in the center of the object space and wherein the stripes are coded in positive numerical sequence proceeding in one direction from the origin and in a negative sequence in the opposite direction along the X axis with the stripe passing through the origin coded as the numeral zero. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein the pattern of stripes of light is spatially repeated side-by-side with the corresponding stripes in each repetition coded the same. 5. The method of claim 3 including the steps of projecting an additional pattern of said stripes coded to generate a selected parity bit for each stripe, calculating the parity value of the coded light signal detected at each pixel and eliminating the distance calculated for the coded light signal detected at any pixel which does not have the selected parity value. 6. The method of claim 3 wherein said stripes which are coded as negative numbers are coded in 2's complement notation. 7. The method of claim 6 including the steps of projecting an additional pattern of said stripes coded to provide an odd parity bit for each stripe, calculating for each pixel location the parity value for each coded light signal detected and eliminating the distances calculated for any pixel for which the coded light signal detected does not have an odd parity value. 8. Apparatus for determining the location in the Z direction of points on objects in an X-Y-Z coordinate system, comprising: a television camera having a plurality of light receiving pixels arranged in an X-Y array parallel to the X-Y plane of the coordinate system and with the optical axis of the television camera parallel to the Z axis, said television camera having means for generating X coordinate signals in binary form for each pixel location; a projector for projecting a series of uniquely coded patterns of stripes of light onto said objects along an axis which intersects the optical axis of the television camera at an oblique angle such that some coded light is reflected by the objects toward said television camera, the scales on the X and Z axes of the coordinate system being set by the width of the oblique intersection of the stripes with the respective axes and with the scale of the X axis of the pixel array being set by the scale on the X axis of the coordinate system; means for uniquely coding each stripe by selectively making the stripe dark and bright in said series of patterns in a unique sequence representative of a binary number, and with the stripes coded in consecutive numerical order across the pattern; and means for calculating the Z location of the points on said objects by subtracting for each pixel in the television camera the X coordinate signal from the coded reflected light signal received by that pixel. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein said projector includes means for spatially repeating said series of patterns of stripes of light side-by-side and wherein said coding means includes means for coding corresponding stripes in each repetition with the same code. 10. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein the optical axis of the television camera is aligned so as to be coextensive with the Z axis of the coordinate system, wherein the projector projects said patterns of stripes such that they cross the X axis of the coordinate system with some stripes on one side of the origin, others on the other side of the origin and one stripe passing through the origin, and wherein said coding means codes said some stripes as consecutive positive binary numbers, said other stripes as consecutive negative binary numbers and the stripe passing through the origin as zero. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein said coding means codes said other stripes as negative binary numbers using 2's complement notation. 12. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein said projector projects an additional pattern of stripes of light, wherein said coding means codes said additional pattern as an odd parity bit for each stripe and wherein said calculating means also calculates the parity of the coded light signal received by each pixel and rejects those which do not have odd parity. 13. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein said projector includes means for repeating said series of patterns of stripes of light spatially side-by-side and wherein said coding means includes means for coding corresponding stripes in each repetition with the same code. 