An optical distance measuring system which utilizes binocular optics with a mosaic sensor to simulate stereo imaging so that distance can be determined by noting the apparent displacement between left and right images in the stereo pair. The binocular optics comprise spaced shutter mechanisms which are alternatively actuated, the first such image information on the sensor being stored for ultimate comparison with information from the sensor as obtained through the other shutter mechanism, such compared information enabling distance or depth to be determined through the use of appropriate mathematical equations.
Claims I claim: 1. An optical distance measuring system comprising in combination, a detector array having a multiplicity of detector elements in a single plane directed along a line of sight for a given field of view, each of said elements providing an electrical signal corresponding to information at a predetermined separate location in the field of view, an optical system interposed between said array and said field of view including a pair of shutter mechanisms spaced from each other laterally of said line of sight for alternately exposing said array to said field through spaced apertures in said mechanisms respectively, means for comparing the signals from said array from said alternate exposures to determine the displacement from one exposure to the other of predetermined signals as a measure of distance including means for insuring registration of said alternate exposures to accurately determine the displacement of a foreground object with respect to background objects from one to another of said exposures and for providing an indication of any misregistration .delta. developed from the equation ##EQU2## where .alpha. is a constant whose value is to be adjusted experimentally, but whose value is very nearly equal to unity, .DELTA. is the center-to-center spacing of pixels, mi,j denotes the measured signal value for the (i,j).sup.TH pixel on the frame with one shutter open and m'i,j is the measured signal value for the (i,j).sup.TH pixel on the frame with the other shutter open, and the sum over i,j includes all of the pixels in the region of interest for which the range is to be determined, and readout means affording an indication of the said displacement. 2. An optical distance measuring system according to claim 1 wherein once an image displacement .delta. is known, the range R to the said object is derived from the equation where the plus or minus sign is chosen according to the sense of the image displacement .delta., the quantity R.sub.0 denotes the range for which an object in the field-of-view is exactly focused by the optics onto the mosaic array, the quantity F denotes the distance from the optics to the mosaic array, and the quantity S denotes the center-to-center separation of the two shuttered regions behind the two shutters. 3. An optical distance measuring system according to claim 2 wherein the spacing between said shutter mechanisms and apertures therein can be varied as desired. 4. The method of making a distance measurement comprising the steps of, providing a detector array having a multiplicity of detector elements within a single plane directed along a line of sight for a given field of view having objects of interest whose range is to be determined relative to some reference distance, providing an optical system between said array and field of view having at least two shutter mechanisms spaced from each other laterally of said line of sight, causing said shutter mechanisms to be alternately actuated to expose said array to said field of view through laterally spaced apertures, determining the displacement of the images of said objects as shown from one exposure to another as an indication of distance to said objects, according to the equation ##EQU3## where .alpha. is a constant whose value is to be adjusted experimentally, but whose value is very nearly equal to unity, .DELTA. is the center-to-center spacing of pixels, mi,j denotes the measured signal value for the (i,j).sup.TH pixel on the frame with one shutter open and m'i,j is the measured signal value for the (i,j).sup.TH pixel on the frame with the other shutter open, and the sum over i,j includes all of the pixels in the region of interest for which the range is to be determined, and determining the range from the displacement according to the equation where the plus or minus sign is chosen according to the sense of the image displacement .delta., the quantity R.sub.0 denotes the range for which an object in the field-of-view is exactly focused by the optics onto the mosaic array, the quantity F denotes the distance from the optics to the mosaic array, and the quantity S denotes the center-to-center separation of the two shuttered regions behind the two shutters. 5. The method according to claim 4 wherein memory means is provided for storing information from said detector array from preceding exposures for comparison with succeeding exposures. 