A separable fastener system has a first separable member that includes a series of metal hook sheets disposed in stacked relation that defines an array of hook elements on its broad surface. Each hook sheet is a planar metal member of uniform thickness and has a body portion with a series of hook elements formed along one edge of the body. Each hook element includes a stem portion, a deflecting surface portion, and a latch portion. Metal spacer sheets are disposed between the hook sheets and may be varied in thickness and in number to control the density of the hook elements on the broad surface of the first fastener member. The hook and spacer sheets are secured together in stacked relation. A second fastener member has a surface of complementary engaging elements extending along its broad surface which are releasably interengageable with the hook elements of the first fastener member, the deflecting surfaces of the hook elements of the first fastener member tending to deflect hook engaging portions of the second fastener member and the latch portions of the hook elements of the first fastener member engaging portions of the second fastener member in fastening relation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A separable fastener device comprising a fastener member that includes a series of metal hook sheets disposed in stacked relation, each said hook sheet having a planar body portion and a series of hook elements disposed along one edge of said body portion, each said hook element having a stem portion and a head portion that includes a deflecting surface for deflecting a fastener portion of a cooperating fastener member and a latch portion for engaging a portion of a cooperating fastener member in fastening relation. 2. The fastener of claim 1 wherein the head portion of each hook element includes two symmetrical deflecting surfaces slanting downward towards said body portion from the stem and a latch portion disposed between each said deflection surface and said body portion. 3. The fastener of claim 1 wherein each said hook element includes a stem portion with a head portion laterally projecting from one side thereof, said head portion including an inclined deflecting surface portion and a latch surface located between said deflecting surface portion and said body portion. 4. The fastener of claim 1 wherein each said hook element has a flexible stem portion and an upwardly inclined extension portion, the outer surface of said extension portion defining said deflecting surface, and the inner surface of said extension portion defining said latch surface portion. 5. The fastener of claim 1 wherein the head portion of each hook element is of asymmetrical configuration and said deflecting surface slants downward towards said body portion from the stem and said latch portion is disposed between said deflection surface and said body portion. 6. The fastener of claim 1 wherein each said hook element is an extension of said planar body portion and lies in the same plane as said body portion. 7. The fastener of claim 1 and further including metal spacer sheets interposed between adjacent hook sheets to laterally space hook elements of adjacent hook sheets, and means securing said hook sheets and said spacer sheets together. 8. The fastener of claim 7 wherein the thickness of each said hook sheet is less than about 0.5 millimeter and said spacer sheets space adjacent hook sheets at least about 0.5 millimeter apart. 9. The fastener of claim 8 wherein said hook sheets and spacer sheets are made of a refractory metal selected from the class of niobium, molybdenum, tantalum, tungsten and alloys of those metals. 10. The fastener of claim 8 wherein each said hook element is an extension of said planar body portion and lies in the same plane as said body portion. 11. The fastener of claim 10 wherein the deflection surface portion of each said hook element is inclined and said latch surface is located between said deflecting surface portion and said body portion. 12. The fastener of claim 11 wherein the head portion of each hook element includes two symmetrical deflecting surfaces slanting downward towards said body portion from the item and a latch portion disposed between each said deflection surface and said body portion. 13. The fastener of claim 11 wherein the head portion of each hook element is of asymmetrical configuration and the deflecting surface of each said head portion slants downward towards said body portion from the stem. 14. The fastener of claim 13 wherein the stem portion of each said hook element is flexible and its head portion includes an upwardly inclined extension portion, the outer surface of said extension portion defining said deflecting surface, and the inner surface of said extension portion defining said latch surface. 15. A tile structure for use in an environment of high thermal flux, said tile structure having a front surface, a plurality of projections protruding from its rear surface, and fastener structure mounted on each said projection, each said fastener structure including a series of metal hook sheets disposed in stacked relation, each said hook sheet having a planar body portion and a series of hook elements extending along one edge of said body portion, each said planar hook element having a stem portion and a head portion that includes a deflecting surface for deflecting a loop portion of a cooperating fastener member and a latch portion for engaging a loop of a cooperating fastener member in fastening relation. 16. A tile structure for use in an environment of high thermal flux, said tile structure having a front surface, a plurality of projections protruding from its rear surface, and fastener structure mounted on each said projection, each said fastener structure including a series metal hook sheets disposed in stacked relation, each said hook sheet having a planar body portion and a series of hook elements extending along one edge of said body portion as an extension of said planar body portion and lying in the same plane as said body portion, each said hook element including a stem portion with a head portion laterally projecting from one side thereof, said head portion including an inclined deflecting surface portion and a latch surface located between said deflecting surface portion and said body portion, the number of hook sheets being at least five, metal spacer sheets interposed between adjacent hook sheets to laterally space hook elements of adjacent hook sheets, and means securing said hook sheets and said spacer sheets together. 17. The structure of claim 16 wherein the thickness of each said hook sheet is less than about 0.5 millimeter and said spacer sheets space adjacent hook sheets at least about 0.5 millimeter apart. 18. A separable fastener system comprising a first member that includes a series of metal hook sheets disposed in stacked relation, each said hook sheet having a planar body portion and a series of hook elements disposed along one edge of said body portion, each said hook element having a stem portion and a head portion that includes a deflecting surface for deflecting a fastener portion of a cooperating fastener member and a latch portion for engaging a portion of a cooperating fastener member in fastening relation, and a cooperative second fastener member, said second fastener member having complementary engaging metal elements extending from the broad surface of its base which are releasably interengageable with the hook elements of said first fastener member. 19. The fastener system of claim 18 wherein the deflecting surface portion of each said head portion is inclined and its associated latch surface is located between said deflecting surface portion and said body portion. 20. A separable fastener system comprising a first member that includes a series of metal hook sheets disposed in stacked relation, each said hook sheet having a planar body portion and a series of hook elements disposed along one edge of said body as an extension of said planar body portion and lying in the same plane as said body portion, each said hook element including a stem portion with a head portion laterally projecting from one side thereof, said head portion including an inclined deflecting surface portion and a latch surface located between said deflecting surface portion and said body portion, the number of hook sheets being at least five, metal spacer sheets interposed between adjacent hook sheets to laterally space hook elements of adjacent hook sheets, means securing said hook sheets and said spacer sheets together, and a cooperative second fastener member, said second fastener member having complementary engaging metal elements extending from the broad surface of its base which are releasably interengageable with the hook elements of said first fastener member. 21. The fastener system of claim 20 wherein the thickness of each said hook sheet is less than about 0.5 millimeter and said spacer sheets space adjacent hook sheets at least about 0.5 millimeter apart. 22. The fastener system of claim 20 wherein the head portion of each hook element includes two symmetrical deflecting surfaces slanting downward towards said body portion from the stem and a latch portion disposed between each said deflection surface and said body portion. 23. The fastener system of claim 20 wherein the head portion of each hook element is of asymmetrical configuration and includes a deflecting surface slanting downward towards said body portion from the stem and a latch portion disposed between said deflection surface and said body portion. 24. The fastener system of claim 23 wherein a stem portion of each said hook element is flexible and its head portion includes an upwardly inclined extension portion, the outer surface of said extension portion defining said deflecting surface, and the inner surface of said extension portion defining said latch surface. 25. The fastener system of claim 23 wherein said hook sheets are stacked so that the directions of said hook elements alternate. 