A freely programmable multi-axis articulated manipulating arm unit having arm elements disposed along different longitudinal axes especially for use as an industrial robot is provided with a drive system and a brake system for each of individual rotational or translational axes; the drive systems belonging to the rotational or translational axes of the manipulating arm unit are each provided with a hydraulically actuated locking brake which functions in a play-free manner, when in the operating braking state. Each of these brakes fixes adjacent arm-elements with respect to each other. Said adjacent arm elements are able to move about the rotational axes relative to each other when the said brakes are not operative. The arm elements are fixed directly in every position, that is, without the use of intermediate elements.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A multi-axis manipulating arm unit in the form of an articulated industrial robot arm having a high force generating means for generating a high force about one axis of said multi-axis unit; said robot arm having a plurality of arm elements, at least two adjacent arm elements being disposed along different but connected longitudinal axes, said at least two arm elements being connected at a joint; said joint having a drive system comprising an actuator for providing movement about an axis of said joint and a braking and locking arrangement, said braking and locking arrangement comprising: first braking means comprising a device for stopping movement at said joint; second braking means comprising a hydraulically operated brake for hydraulically applying braking force for braking and stopping said at least two arm elements about their corresponding joint; said second braking means for applying force being substantially free of play about said joint when actuated for locking said at least two arm elements substantially rigidly with respect to one another such that forces are transmittable through said joint, which exceed many times the forces required to lock said plurality of arm elements substantially rigidly against the force of gravity and which exceed by many times the braking forces provided by said first braking means when said first braking means is actuated; said first braking means and said second braking means both including means for permitting said adjacent arm elements to move substantially freely relative to each other when the braking force of both said brake means is deactuated; said first braking means having portions; said second braking means having portions; said first braking means being disposed at said joint; some of said portions of said first braking means being disposed on and directly attached to one of said adjacent arm elements, and some of said portions of said first braking means being disposed on and directly attached to the other of said adjacent arm elements to act directly upon said portions of said one of said adjacent arm elements; said second braking means being disposed at said joint and a first of said portions of said second braking means being disposed on and directly attached to one of said arm elements for rotating with one of said adjacent arm elements, and a second of said portions of said second braking means being disposed on and directly attached to the other of said adjacent arm elements to act directly upon said portions of said one of said adjacent arm elements; said means of said second braking means for permitting said adjacent arms to move substantially freely comprising flexible means; said second braking means having at least a first braking surface means and at least a second braking surface means; said flexible means having said first braking surface means attached thereto, said flexible means being firmly attached to said first of said portions of said second braking means; said second braking surface means being disposed on and firmly attached to said second of said portions of said second braking means; said flexible means for making braking contact and withdrawing braking contact between said first braking surface means and said second braking surface means; actuator means for actuating and deactuating said flexible means by flexing said flexible means to make braking contact and withdrawing said braking contact between said first braking surface means and said second braking surface means; said flexible means being flexible in one direction to make said braking contact and withdrawing said braking contact and being substantially rigid in a direction other than said one direction; said flexible means being disposed such that said rigid direction is disposed in a direction of rotation of said adjacent arm elements, whereby there is no substantial play between said first and said second of said portions of said second braking means when said second braking means is actuated and also whereby, there is no substantial play between said adjacent arm elements when said second braking means is actuated; said flexible means of said second braking means includes a brake piston made in the form of a circular braking element, having an axially elastic but rotationally stiff portion and said first braking surface means with a friction surface disposed thereon; said actuator means comprising a hydraulic volume adjacent said brake piston for admitting hydraulic oil under pressure to flex said elastic portion and move said friction surface means thereon; and said second braking surface means having a friction surface and being disposed on a disc element adjacent said circular braking element; said second braking surface means comprising an annular element having a friction surface adjacent a side of said disc element opposite said brake piston; said annular element being connected to rotate with said brake piston; said disc element being axially elastic but rotationally stiff so that a pressure from said brake piston urges another friction surface of said disc element against said friction surface of said annular element; said friction surface of said brake piston being disposed to transmit a frictional torque, without substantial play, to said adjacent disc element which is freely rotatable relative to said friction surfaces when the second braking means is not actuated; said friction surfaces of said braking surface means of said brake piston and said disc element are full circumferential ringshaped braking surfaces; said multi-axis manipulating arm unit comprising a plurality of joints and a plurality of drive systems, at least some of said joints being rotary joints. 2. The multi-axis manipulating arm unit in accordance with claim 1, wherein said actuator includes a motor with a housing and wherein the flexible means comprises a resilient body which is operatively attached to a part of the motor housing. 3. The multi-axis manipulating arm unit in accordance with claim 1, including control means having means for ending a crawl-speed path movement on reaching a required position, to activate said first braking means, said crawl-speed movement and any overswinging resulting from the stiffness of the arm in use is minimized. 4. The multi-axis manipulating arm unit in accordance with claim 1, including control means having means for drawing up the second braking means during positioning, to increase the frictional damping already present. 5. The multi-axis manipulating arm unit in accordance with claim 4, wherein the control means includes means for activating said second braking means in proportion to the speed movement of a drive system. 6. The multi-axis manipulating arm unit in accordance with claim 1, wherein certain rotary joints are provided with a double shaft-end and two-sided power take-off, and including a plurality of first braking means and a plurality of second braking means wherein one of the first braking means of said plurality of first braking means and one of the second braking means of said plurality of said second braking means are arranged to lie symmetrically on each end of at least a predetermined one of said certain rotary joints. 7. The multi-axis manipulating arm unit in accordance with claim 1, wherein said drive systems associated with said plurality of joints are each provided with said first braking means which comprises a hydraulically released spring operated brake. 8. The multi-axis manipulating arm unit in accordance with claim 7, wherein said spring operated holding brakes include means to activate the braking action of said spring operated brake upon a loss of hydraulic pressure. 9. The multi-axis manipulating arm unit in accordance with claim 1, wherein each second braking means of each of the rotary joints is provided with more than one braking disc and thus has more than two friction faces. 10. The multi-axis manipulating arm unit in accordance with claim 2, including control means having means for ending a crawl-speed path movement on reaching a required position, to activate said first braking means, said crawl-speed movement and any overswinging resulting from the stiffness of the arm in use is minimized. 11. The multi-axis manipulating arm unit in accordance with claim 10, wherein said control means has means for drawing up the second braking means during positioning, to increase the frictional damping already present. 12. The multi-axis manipulating arm unit in accordance with claim 11, wherein the control means includes means for activating said second braking means in proportion to the speed of movement of a drive system. 13. The multi-axis manipulating arm unit in accordance with claim 11, wherein certain rotary joints are provided with a double shaft-end and two-sided power take-off, and including a plurality of first braking means and a plurality of second braking means wherein one of the first braking means of said plurality of first braking means and one of the second braking means of said plurality of said second braking means are arranged to lie symmetrically on each end of at least a predetermined one of said certain rotary joints. 14. The multi-axis manipulating arm unit in accordance with claim 13, wherein said drive systems associated with said plurality of joints are each provided with said first braking means which comprises a hydraulically released spring operated brake. 15. The multi-axis manipulating arm unit in accordance with claim 14, wherein said spring operated holding brakes include means to activate the braking action of said spring operated brake upon a loss of hydraulic pressure. 16. The multi-axis manipulating arm unit in accordance with claim 15, wherein each second braking means of each of the rotary joints is provided with more than one braking disc and thus has more than two friction faces. 