A pattern recognition system which produces from any object a diffraction pattern-typically an optical Fourier transform of the object, on a high resolution detector. Different points in the detector can be addressed by a scanning device to produce an electrical signal which can be digitized if required before being processed and compared with reference signals in a processor. A reduction in the formation to be scanned and pattern matched is obtained by using an optical Fourier transform or the like of the original object. A further reduction in the information needed to classify each of a known group of objects is obtained by a method which involves the presentation of each of the group members to the apparatus, the computation from each scanning of a discriminant function by multivariate analysis of the signal produced by the scanning and the use of the discriminant function to determine the points in the scanning of subsequent unknown members of the group which are required (and the weighting to be attributed to the signal at each such point) to allow for the reliable classification of each such unknown member of the group.
Claims I claim: 1. An optical inspection system for analyzing the object content of a field of view comprising: an optical system adapted to produce either from the said object content or an image thereof, a diffraction pattern; a light level detection means on which the diffraction pattern is focussed for producing electrical signals corresponding to the light intensity at different points within the pattern; electrical circuit means response to said electrical signals comprising means for storing a plurality of different reference signal patterns and comparison means for comparing the electrical signals from the light level detection means produced from a subsequent field of view with each of the stored reference signal patterns to facilitate the identification of the subsequent signal pattern. 2. An optical inspection system as set forth in claim 1 for use with 2 -dimensional objects comprising a coherent light source for illuminating the objects directly and forming thereby the said diffraction patterns thereof. 3. An optical inspection system as set forth in claim 1 wherein the optical system comprises: i: a first focussing system for forming an optical image of an object to be inspected, ii: means for forming a 2-dimensional reproduction of the said optical image; iii: means for illuminating the said 2-dimensional reproduction with coherent light, the said 2-dimensional reproduction constituting a spatial light modulator to produce a diffraction pattern from the content of the optical image. 4. An optical inspection system as set forth in claim 3 wherein the said spatial light modulator comprises a liquid crystal device. 5. An optical inspection system as set forth in claim 1 wherein the said reference pattern comprises a set of electrical signals stored in a form which can be addressed for subsequent comparison and which have been obtained by presenting a specimen object to the system previously. 6. An optical inspection system as set forth in claim 5 further comprising means for introducing effective relative rotation between the reference pattern of signals and the electrical signals obtained from the light level detection means. 7. An optical inspection system as set forth in claim 6 in which the light level detection means comprises a photosensitive detector having different regions or elements which can be addressed separately to allow a scanning to be performed over the area on which the diffraction pattern is formed, and relative rotation is effected by altering the control signals employed to effect the said scanning. 8. An optical inspection system as set forth in claim 1 wherein the diffraction pattern comprises a Fourier transform of said object content. 9. An optical inspection system as claimed in claim 1 further comprising computing means programmed to perform multivariate analysis of signal patterns supplied thereto, and wherein means is provided for supplying the said electrical signals to the input of the computing means in a learning mode, whereby a discriminant function can be obtained for a set of objects (forming a training set) by presenting each object in the training set in turn to the inspection system in the learning mode. 10. An optical inspection system as set forth in claim 9 wherein further means is provided responsive to the said discriminant function to identify selected points within the area of the said detection means, so as to effect a reduction in the number of points within the said area which must be inspected during subsequent scans to enable the classification of diffraction patterns to be made during the said subsequent scans, thereby to speed up the said classification proceedure. 11. An optical inspection system as set forth in claim 9 wherein the said computing means is programmed so as to perform a least mean square analysis of the electrical signals derived from each of the diffraction patterns from a training set of objects. 12. An optical inspection system as set forth in claim 9 further comprising a memory associated with the said computing means, in which reference information obtained using the discriminant function for different objects in the training set is stored in the form of a look-up table, so that subsequently computed values for the discriminant function (using different subsequent objects) can be compared with the reference information stored in the memory, and each subsequent object identified according to the identity stored in the look-up table. 13. A method of identifying the object content of a field of view comprising the steps of: i. producing a diffraction pattern of the said object; ii. imaging the diffraction pattern onto a detector adapted to generate a first electrical signal one parameter of which varies independence on the light level at different points in the diffraction pattern image, and iii. comparing the said first electrical signal with one or more stored signals, the output of the comparison determining the identity of the said object content. 14. A method as set forth in claim 13 wherein a second electrical signal is derived from the said first electrical signal and identity comparison is effected between the said second electrical signal and the said stored signal or signals. 15. A method as set forth in claim 13 comprising means for selecting some of the regions of the detector on which the image of the diffraction pattern is focussed, and generating the said first electrical signal from the light level in the diffraction pattern at the selected regions. 16. A method of selecting regions of a detector in an optical inspection system in which a diffraction pattern of object content to be inspected is focussed on to the detector and in which an electrical signal is generated having a parameter which varies in dependence on the light level at selected points in the said diffraction pattern, comprising the steps of: i. presenting to the inspection system one of a plurality of objects from a group; ii. producing a diffraction pattern of the object content in the field of view as each object is presented to the system; iii. imaging the diffraction pattern onto a detector having a plurality of different light sensitive regions and generating from a scanning of the said regions a first electrical signal for each different diffraction pattern; iv. supplying the said first electrical signals to computing means programmed to produce from such electrical signals a discriminant function, the discriminant function determining the positions within the image area of the said detector, of selected ones of a plurality of regions therein, from which the said first signal is to be generated during subsequent inspection scans, and v. limiting the electrical signals from the said detector means during inspection scans to electrical signals arising from the said selected regions in the detector to thereby reduce the amount of information which must be processed during the inspection scans to permit identification of the objects of the said group when presented to the inspection system. 17. A method as set forth in claim 16 wherein the said limitation is effected by replacing the detector with one which is only sensitive at the positions of the said selected regions thereof. 18. A method as set forth in claim 16 wherein the said limitation is effected by masking the said detector with a mask having windows therein which correspond in position to the selected regions. 19. A method as set forth in claim 16 wherein electrical control signals are generated to effect a scanning of the regions of the detector, and the limitation is effected by adjusting the control signals so as to cause only the selected regions within the detector to be addressed. 20. In an optical inspection system comprising optical means for forming a diffraction pattern of the object content of the field of view of the system, light level detection means on which the diffraction pattern is focussed for producing electrical signals corresponding to light intensity at different points within the diffraction pattern, electrical circuit means responsive to the said electrical signals for comparing selected signals with a reference pattern, the outcome of each such comparison determining the identity of the object content of the field of view, an improved method of operation for reducing the time to identify objects of a given class, comprising the steps of: i. presenting to the system examples from the said group of objects so that each said object occupies the said field of view in turn, ii. forming a diffraction pattern of the object content of each said field of view and at least temporarily storing the first electrical signal obtained from the detector for each said field of view, iii. computing from the stored signals a discriminant function for the group and determining therefrom the positions of selected windows in the diffraction pattern image from which information must be derived to permit identification of the different objects within the group, iv. storing the discriminant function or signals which will allow for identification or creation of said selected windows, and v. utilising the stored function or signals to limit the information presented to the said electrical circuit means during subsequent inspections, to the electrical signals derived from the said selected windows in the diffraction pattern. 