A sensor for measuring the position and orientation (POSE) of an object and related method involving the utilization of a target affixed to an object and including three mutually perpendicular intersecting planar surfaces, a base, a mechanism coupled to that base for directing a pair of light beams onto each of the planar surfaces, and an additional mechanism coupled to the base for detecting the reflection positions of the resultant reflections of each of the light beams, the reflection positions thereby being available to determine the POSE of the target relative to the POSE of the base.
Claims We claim: 1. A sensor for measuring the position and orientation (POSE) of an object relative to the POSE of a base, comprising: (a) a target fixed to one of said object and base and including three mutually intersecting planar surfaces; (b) means, coupled to the other of said object and said base, for directing a pair of light beams onto each of said planar surfaces; and (c) means, coupled to said other of said object and said base, for detecting the reflection positions of the resultant reflections of each of said light beams, said reflection positions thereby being available to determine the POSE of said object relative to the POSE of said base. 2. A sensor of claim 1 including means for determining the POSE of said object as a function of said reflection positions. 3. A sensor of claim 1 wherein said planes are mutually perpendicular to each other. 4. A sensor of claim 1 wherein said means for detecting includes three additional mutually perpendicular planar surfaces and a two-dimensional light position sensitive detector located on the inside-facing surface of each of said additional planar surfaces. 5. A sensor of claim 4 wherein said means for detecting comprises three pairs of light sources, with one pair mounted on each of said inside-facing surfaces of said additional planar surfaces. 6. A sensor of claim 5 wherein said light sources of each of said pairs are positioned on axes in said inside-facing surfaces orthogonal to each other and which have their origin at the center of the corresponding detector. 7. A sensor for measuring the position and orientation (POSE) of an object relative to a base, comprising: (a) a target fixed to one of said object and said base and including first, second and third mutually perpendicular planes; (b) light means, coupled to the other of said object and said base, said other of said object and base having a primary coordinate system (X.sub.M,Y.sub.M,Z.sub.M), for directing a pair of intersecting light beams onto each of said planar surfaces, said light means including first and second light sources corresponding to each of said first, second and third planes, the position of said light sources being definable by first, second and third coordinate systems which are orthogonal to said primary coordinate system, which each have their Z-axes aligned with said X.sub.M, Y.sub.M and Z.sub.M axes of said primary coordinate system, respectively, which each have an origin displaced d.sub.0 from the origin of said primary coordinate system, and with said light sources located at points (x.sub.E,0,0), (0,y.sub.E,0), and with said light sources aligned to intersect the Z axis of said first, second and third coordinate systems at (0,0,z.sub.M); (d) detection means, coupled to said other of said object and said base, for detecting the reflection positions (X.sub.r1, Y.sub.r1) and (X.sub.r2, Y.sub.r2) of the resultant reflections of each of said light beams for each of said three planes, said detector means including a position sensitive detector located in each of the XY planes of said first, second, and third coordinate systems; and (e) means for determining the POSE of said object relative to the POSE of said base as a function of said reflection positions. 8. A sensor of claim 7 wherein .sub.C X.sub.M, .sub.C Y.sub.M and .sub.C Z.sub.M define the location of the mutual point of intersection of said first, second and third planes relative to said primary coordinate system and wherein said means for determining includes means for calculating .sub.C X.sub.M, .sub.C Y.sub.M and .sub.C Z.sub.M using the following relationships: ##EQU31## 9. A sensor of claim 8 wherein n, s and a define the orientation of said first, second and third planes relative to said primary coordinate system, wherein: ##EQU32## 10. A method of measuring the position and orientation (POSE) of an object relative to the POSE of a base, comprising the steps of: (a) shining two light beams onto each of three mutually intersecting reflective planes fixed to one of said object and said base; (b) detecting the reflection positions of said light beams; (c) calculating the POSE of said object as a function of said reflective positions. 11. A method of claim 10 including the additional step of utilizing the outputs of a plurality of light position sensitive detectors during said step of detecting. 12. A method of claim 11 including the additional steps of: (a) calibrating said light sensitive position detectors prior to said step of utilizing by shining beams of light onto said detectors at known positions and obtaining error signals therefrom; and (b) modifying said outputs during said step of utilizing as a function of said error signals. 13. A method of claim 11 including the additional step of measuring the actual position and alignment of said light beams prior to said step of detecting by: (a) measuring the actual POSE of said reflective planes by utilizing a coordinate measuring technique; (b) measuring the actual reflection positions of said light beams with said reflecting planes in said measured POSE; (c) determining the expected reflection positions of said light beams with said reflecting planes in said measured POSE; (d) calculating the difference between said actual position and alignment of said light beams and the expected position and alignment of said light beams as a function of the difference between said actual reflection positions and said expected reflection positions; and (e) adjusting the result of said step of calculating as a function of the difference between said actual position and alignment of said light beams and said expected position and alignment of said light beams. 