Method and apparatus are disclosed for the automated filling of a container mounted on a vehicle with a fluid. In one embodiment of the fluid fill device the container is part of an engine cooling system, and in the other embodiment of the fluid fill device the container is part of an air conditioning system. Each of the fluid fill devices includes a housing in which a pair of spool valves are mounted. One of the spool valves controls the flow of vacuum and the other spool valve controls the flow of the fluid. A coupling mechanism including a movable piston releasably and fluidly connects its respective device to its container during evacuation and filling cycles. The device receives control signals from a pressurized air source to control movement of the spool valves and the pistons. If the container and the vehicle on which it is mounted are particularly well located, the device can be utilized in a hard automation system. Alternately, the device may be utilized as an end effector for mounting at the distal end of a robot arm. When utilized with the robot, the programmed motion of the robot is automatically adjusted by optically measuring the position of the container. Preferably, a compliance mechanism is interposed between the robot arm and the device to compensate for small amounts of misalignment between the device and the container.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for the automated filling of a container fixedly mounted on a vehicle to move therewith at a work station, the method utilizing a robot system which includes at least one robot having an arm provided with a device movable relative to at least three control axes for putting fluid into the container, the method comprising the steps of: moving the vehicle into the work station; locating the vehicle at the work station so that the container is positioned at an expected container location; automatically moving the device through a predetermined motion relative to the three control axes to the expected container location so that the device mates with the container; and automatically controlling the device so that the device puts the fluid into the container. 2. The method for automated filling of a container mounted on a vehicle to move therewith at a work station the method utilizing a robot system which includes at least one robot having an arm provided with a device movable relative to at least three control axes for putting a fluid into the container, the method comprising the steps of: moving the vehicle into the work station; automatically moving the device through a variable programmed motion relative to the three control axes to the actual container location so that the device mates with the container; and automatically controlling the device so that the device puts the fluid into the container, wherein said step of moving the device includes the step of automatically adjusting said variable programmed motion towards the actual container location. 3. The method as claimed in claim 2 wherein said step of adjusting includes the step of optically measuring the three-dimensional position of the container at the work station. 4. The method as claimed in claim 2 wherein said step of adjusting includes the steps of: optically measuring the two-dimensional position of the container; and aligning the device with the container. 5. A device for using in an automated fluid fill system including a fluid source, a first controller for providing control signals, a robot having an arm adapted to support the device for movement relative to at least three control axes so that the robot moves the device at a work station relative to the three control axes to permit the device to automatically put the fluid into a container located at the work station, the device comprising: a housing adapted to be connected to the robot arm for movement relative to the three control axes and having at least one supply passage extending therethrough; coupling means adapted to receive a first control signal from the first controller for releasably and fluidly connecting the device to the container; and a control valve mounted within said housing and adapted to receive a second control signal from the first controller to open said fluid supply passage during the fill cycle to put the fluid into the container. 6. An end effector for use in an automated fluid fill system including a fluid source, a first controller for providing control signals, a robot having an arm and a second controller for controlling the robot so that the robot moves the end effect at a work station relative to at least three control axes to permit the end effector to automatically put the fluid into a container located at the work station during a fill cycle, the end effector comprising: a housing adapted to be connected to the digital end of the robot arm for movement relative to the three control axes and having at least one supply passage extending therethrough; coupling means adapted to receive a first control signal from the first controller for releasably and fluidly connecting the end effector to the container; and a control valve mounted within said housing and adapted to receive a second control signal from the first controller to open said supply passage during the fill cycle to put the fluid in the container. 7. The invention as claimed in claim 5 or claim 6 further comprising a compliance mechanism connected to said housing to compensate for a relatively small amount of misalignment between said coupling means and the container, said coupling means being adapted to mate with the container. 8. The invention as claimed in claim 5 or claim 6 wherein said valve comprises a spool valve mounted within said housing to move between at least two positions, said spool valve opening said supply passage in one of said positions. 9. The invention as claimed in claim 5 or claim 6 wherein said coupling means includes a piston mounted within said housing to move between connect and disconnect positions in response to said first control signal. 10. The invention as claimed in claim 9 including feedback means adapted to be coupled to the second controller and mounted on said housing to provide a feedback signal to indicate said fluid connection to the container, said piston being in said connect position. 11. A method for the automated filling of a container fixedly mounted on a vehicle to move therewith at a work station, the method utilizing a robot system which includes at least one robot having an arm provided with a device movable relative to at least three control axes for evacuating the container and putting a fluid into the container, the method comprising the steps of: moving the vehicle into the work station; locating the vehicle at the work station so that the container is positioned at an expected container location; automatically moving the device through a predetermined motion relative to the three control axes to the expected container location so that the device mates with the container; automatically controlling the device so that the device evacuates the container during an evacuation cycle whereby the interior of the container is at a subatmospheric pressure; and automatically controlling the device so that the device puts the fluid into the container during the fill cycle after said step of evacuating. 12. The method for the automated filling of a container mounted on a vehicle to move therewith at a work station, the method utilizing a robot system which includes at least one robot having an arm provided with a device movable relative to at least three control axes for evacuating the container and putting a fluid into the container, the method comprising the steps of: moving the vehicle into the work station; automatically moving the device through a variable programmed motion relative to the three control axes to the actual container location so that the device mates with the container; automatically controlling the device so that the device evacuates the container during an evacuation cycle whereby the interior of the container is at a subatmospheric pressure; and automatically controlling the device so that the device puts the fluid into the container during a fill cycle after said step of evacuating, wherein said step of moving the device includes the step of automatically adjusting said variable programmed motion towards the actual container location. 13. The method as claimed in claim 12 wherein said step of adjusting includes the step of optically measuring the three-dimensional position of the vehicle at the work station. 14. The method as claimed in claim 12 wherein said step of adjusting includes the steps of: optically measuring the two-dimensional position of the container; and aligning the device with the container. 15. The method as claimed in claim 11 or claim 12 including the step of maintaining the subatmospheric pressure within the container during the fill cycle. 16. A device for use in an automated fluid fill system including a vacuum source, a fluid source, a first controller for providing control signals, a robot having an arm adapted to support the device for movement relative to at least three control axes and a second controller for controlling the manipulator so that the manipulator moves the device at a work station relative to the three control axes to permit the device to automatically evacuate a container located at the work station during an evacuation cycle and to put the fluid into the container during a fill cycle after the evacuation cycle, the device comprising: a housing adapted to be connected to the robot arm for movement relative to the three control axes and having vacuum and fluid supply passages extending therethrough; coupling means adapted to receive a first control signal from the first controller for releasably and fluidly connecting the device to the container; a first control valve mounted within said housing and adapted to receive a second signal from the first controller to open said vacuum supply passage during the evacuation cycle to evacuate the container; and a second control valve mounted within said housing and adapted to receive a third signal from the first controller to open said fluid supply passage during the fill cycle to put the fluid into the container. 17. An end effector for use in an automated fluid fill system including a vacuum source, a fluid source, a first controller for providing control signals, a robot having an arm and a second controller for controlling the robot so that the robot moves the end effector at a work station relative to at least three control axes to permit the end effector to automatically evacuate a container located at the work station during an evacuation cycle and put the fluid into the container during a fill cycle after the evacuation cycle, the end effector comprising: a housing adapted to be connected to the distal end of the robot arm for movement relative to the three control axes and having vacuum and fluid supply passages extending therethrough; coupling means adapted to receive a first control signal from the first controller for releasably and fluidly connecting the end effector to the container; a first control valve mounted within said housing and adapted to receive a second control signal from the first controller to open said vacuum supply passage during the evacuation cycle to evacuate the container; and a second control valve mounted within said housing and adapted to receive a third control signal from the first controller to open and close said fluid supply passage during the fill cycle to put the fluid in the container. 18. The invention as claimed in claim 17 or claim 16 further comprising a compliance mechanism connected to said housing to compensate for a relatively small amount of misalignment between said coupling means and the container, said coupling means being adapted to mate with the container. 19. The invention as claimed in claim 17 or claim 16 wherein the control signals are pressurized air signals. 20. The invention as claimed in claim 17 or claim 16 wherein at least one of said valves comprises a spool valve mounted within said housing to move between at least two positions, said spool valve opening one of said supply passages in one of said positions. 21. The invention as claimed in claim 17 or claim 16 wherein said coupling means includes a piston mounted within said housing to move between connect and disconnect positions in response to said first control signal. 22. The invention as claimed in claim 21 including feedback means adapted to be coupled to the second controller and mounted on said housing to provide a feedback signal to indicate said fluid connection to the container, said piston being in said connect position. 