A method and apparatus for forming articles of filament reinforced thermosetting plastic, wherein the articles have a core member and the filament reinforcement is applied by a filament placement process. The filament reinforcement is attached to the core member by means of staples especially in concaved portions of the core member. The thermosetting resin may be applied to the article, before, during, or after the filaments are attached to the core member. The filament placement and attachment of the fasteners are carried out by robots that can be adjusted for various shapes by means of programmable controls.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for fabricating a filament-reinforced part using a core member having recesses defined in the surface thereof, said method comprising: mounting the core member; placing filament matrix means against said recesses formed in the surface of said core member; and fastening the filament matrix means in place in said recesses of said core member. 2. An apparatus for fabricating a filament-reinforced part using a core member having recesses formed in the surface thereof, said apparatus comprising: support means for carrying said core member; filament placement means, said filament placement means having a moveable arm; first drive means, said drive means being connected to said arm to move said arm; filament matrix supply means, said supply means adapted to supply filament matrix means to said arm; control means, said control means being coupled to said first drive means to actuate said arm to position said filament matrix means against said core member; fastener means, said fastener means being carried by said moveable arm, and second drive means coupled to said fastener means to position said fastener means adjacent said filament matrix means. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said filament placement means comprises an industrial robot having teach-in programming. 4. The method of claim 1 and the additional step of forming said core member from a plurality of individual pieces and fastening said pieces together to form said core. 5. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said support means has at least one axis of rotation for rotating said core member relative to said filament placement means. 6. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said arm of said filament placement means has at least three axes of movement relative to said core member. 7. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said filament matrix supply means is secured to said arm of said filament placement means. 8. A method for fabricating a filament reinforced part using a core member having recesses defined in the surface thereof, said method comprising: placing filament matrix means against at least a portion of said core member having said recesses, and fastening at least a portion of said filament matrix means to said at least a portion of said core member having said recesses. 