A robot laser work cell combines a plurality of systems which include an orthogonal axis manipulator system, a laser beam delivery system, a safety enclosure system, a coolant chiller for the laser beam delivery system, an air filtration and drying system in communication with the laser beam delivery system, an exhaust system for removing toxic fumes from the area proximate the output of the laser beam delivery system and a variety of precision table and other fixturing means which can be used in combination to function as the work cell of this invention. In an alternative embodiment, a laser package is mounted by a modular wrist onto the Z-axis of the orthogonal axis manipulator and the laser beam delivery system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot laser work cell comprising in combination: a robotic system having one or more mechanical joints defining at least in part a first axis of motion and a second axis of motion, which axes of motion define a contour path through the robotic system's geometric range of motion, wherein each of said mechanical joints defines in part a frame member; an integral laser beam delivery system for the delivery of a beam along any point within said geometric range of motion, said integral laser beam delivery system including a plurality of optical joints and tubular members disposed between adjacent optical joints and through which tubular members the beam passes as it travels from optical joint to optical joint, wherein the optical joints of the laser beam delivery system have a housing with a reflective surface disposed therein mounted on the frame member of each mechanical joint of the robot so as to be in synchronous association with each mechanical joint and wherein the tubular members disposed between adjacent optical joints and through which tubular member the beam passes as it travels from optical joint to optical joint are expansible and collapsible with respect to each other and are rigidly attached between the frame member of each mechanical joint with which said adjacent optical joints are in synchronous association, wherein said reflective surface establishes a constant geometric relation between the segment of the beam impinging on the reflective surface and the axis of motion associated with the mechanical joints whereby the optical joints along with the tubular members disposed therebetween and each axis of motion of the robot are synchronous and incapable of mutual interference; an air filtration and drying system in communication with said tubular members of the laser beam delivery system, said air filtration and air drying system rendering a preferred environment within the tubular members which is substantially free of dust and condensation during the system's operation; and a safety enclosure system substantially surrounding a work envelope defined by the geometric range of motion of the robot which safety enclosure functions both as a line of defense against unauthorized entrance into the work envelope and as an early warning system to individuals proximate the work cell should the safety enclosure be contacted by laser energy. 2. A robot laser work cell comprising in combination: a robotic system having one or more mechanical joints defining at least in part a first axis of motion and a second axis of motion, which axes of motion define a contour path through the robotic system's geometric range of motion, wherein each of said mechanical joints defines in part a frame member; an integral laser beam delivery system for the delivery of a beam along any point within said geometric range of motion, said integral laser beam delivery system including a plurality of optical joints and tubular members disposed between adjacent optical joints and through which tubular members the beam passes as it travels from optical joint to optical joint; and an air filtration and drying system in communication with said tubular members of the laser beam delivery system, said air filtration and air drying system rendering an environment within the tubular members which is substantially free of dust and condensation during the system's operation. 3. The robot laser work cell according to claim 1 wherein the laser is a 10.6 micron CO.sub.2 laser. 4. The robot laser work cell according to claim 1 wherein the safety enclosure means includes work cell access means having interlock means which provide a signal indicating whether the work cell access means are opened or closed. 5. The robot laser work cell according to claim 4 wherein the safety enclosure means includes plexiglass panels. 6. The robot laser work cell according to claim 3 wherein the optical joints of the laser beam delivery system are in communication with a cooling water delivery system for effecting the temperature control thereof. 7. A robot laser work cell according to claim 1 including an exhaust system comprising duct means disposed proximate the Z-axis of said manipulator for drawing from the work area proximate thereto fumes generated by a laser metal processing procedure. 8. A robot laser work cell comprising in combination: a robotic system having one or more mechanical joints defining at least in part a first axis of motion and a second axis of motion, which axes of motion define a contour path through the robotic system's geometric range of motion, wherein each of said mechanical joints defines in part a frame member; a modular robotic wrist system operably associated with said robot; a laser package mounted onto said module robotic wrist of the robotic system; an exhaust system comprising duct means disposed approximate said laser package for drawing from the work area approximate thereto fumes generated by a laser metal processing procedure; and a safety enclosure system substantially surrounding a work envelope defined by the geometric range of motion of the robot which safety enclosure functions both as a line of defense against unauthorized entrance into the work envelope and as an early warning system to individuals proximate the work cell should the safety enclosure be contacted by laser energy. 9. A robot laser work cell comprising in combination: a robotic system having one or more mechanical joints defining at least in part a first axis of motion and a second axis of motion, which axes of motion define a contour path through the robotic system's geometric range of motion, wherein each of said mechanical joints defines in part a frame member; an integral laser beam delivery system for the delivery of a beam along any point within said geometric range of motion, said integral laser beam delivery system including a plurality of optical joints and tubular members disposed between adjacent optical joints and through which tubular members the beam passes as it travels from optical joint to optical joint; an air filtration and drying system in communication with said tubular members of the laser beam delivery system, said air filtration and air drying system rendering a preferred environment within the tubular members which is substantially free of dust and condensation during the system's operation; a safety enclosure system substantially surrounding a work envelope defined by the geometric range of motion of the robot which safety enclosure functions both as a line of defense against unauthorized entrance into the work envelope and as an early warning system to individuals proximate the work cell should the safety enclosure be contacted by laser energy; and an exhaust system comprising duct means disposed proximate a termination point of the laser beam delivery system for drawing from a work area proximate thereto fumes generated by a laser metal processing procedure. 10. The robot laser work cell according to claim 8 including a precision table means disposed within the work envelope of the manipulator. 11. The robot laser work cell according to claim 8 including robot control means operatively associated with said robot. 12. The robot laser work cell combination of claim 9 wherein the optical joints of the laser beam delivery system have a housing with a reflective surface disposed therein mounted on the frame member of each mechanical joint of the robot so as to be in synchronous association with each mechanical joint and wherein the tubular members disposed between adjacent optical joints and through which tubular member the beam passes as it travels from optical joint to optical joint comprise tubular member which are expansible and collapsible with respect to each other and are attached between the frame member of each mechanical joint with which said adjacent optical joints are in synchronous association, wherein said reflective surface establishes a constant geometric relation between the segment of the beam impinging on the reflective surface and the axis of motion associated with the mechanical joints whereby the optical joints along with the tubular members disposed therebetween and each axis of motion of the robot are synchronous and incapable of mutual interference. 13. The robot laser work cell according to claim 9 wherein the laser is a 10.6 micron CO.sub.2 laser. 14. The robot laser work cell according to claim 9 wherein the safety enclosure means includes work cell access having interlock means which provide a signal indicating whether the work cell access means are opened or closed. 15. The robot laser work cell according to claim 9 wherein the safety enclosure means includes plexiglass panels. 16. The robot laser work cell according to claim 9 wherein the optical joints of the laser beam delivery system are in communication with a cooling water delivery system for effecting the temperature control thereof. 17. A robot laser work cell according to claim 9 including an exhaust system comprising duct means disposed proximate said manipulator for drawing from the work area proximate thereto fumes generated by a laser metal processing procedure. 18. The robot laser work cell according to claim 9 including a precision table means disposed within the work envelope of the manipulator. 19. The robot laser work cell according to claim 9 including robot control means operatively associated with said robot. 