A reconfigurable toy assembly is disclosed which is adapted to be reversibly transformed to provide two kinds of configurations entirely different from each other between a first position and a second position by only swinging operation. Typically, the reconfigurable toy assembly is constructed in such a manner to provide a vehicle form by folding the toy assembly and a robotic humanoid form by unfolding.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A reconfiguration toy assembly having a vehicle configuration in a first position and a robotic humanoid configuration in a second position, comprising: a first element configured to simulate a front portion and front wheel portion of the vehicle in a first position and a robotic humanoid trunk in a second position; a second element pivotally and movable connected through a link means to said first element, said second element being configured to simulate a rear base of the vehicle in a first position and a robotic humanoid head in a second position; a pair of third elements pivotally connected to two sides of said first element, said third elements being configured to simulate an upper periphery of a central portion of the vehicle in a first position and a pair fo robotic humanoid arms in a second position; a pair of fourth elements pivotally connected to a lower side of said first element, said fourth elements being configured to simulate a central chassis of the vehicle in a first position and a pair of robotic humanoid legs in a second position; and a pair of fifth elements each pivotally connected to a lower end of each respective fourth elements, said fifth element being configured to simulate a rear chassis and rear wheels of the vehicle in a first position and a pair of robotic humanoid feet in a second position. 2. A reconfigurable toy assembly as defined in claim 1, wherein said toy assembly forms a fire engine configuration in a first position. 3. A reconfigurable toy assembly as defined in claim 2 further comprising a sixth element pivotally connected with respect to said first element, said sixth element being configured to simulate rescue ladder of the vehicle in a first position and a robotic humanoid back in a second position. 4. A recofnigurable toy assembly that can simulate a fire truck configuration in a first pposition and a robotic humanoid in a second position comprising: a divisble frame member; means, operatively connected to the frame member, for translating the toy assembly across a support surface; means for repositioning the rear of the frame member to simulate robotic humanoid feet in the second positions; robotic humanoid head member movable positioned above the rear of the frame member, and a housing member movably connected to the frame member and simulating a cab of a fire truck in the first position and the trunk of a robotic humanoid in the second position, the robotic humanoid head member being moved relative to the frame member to be positioned above the housing member in the second position. 5. A reconfigurable toy assembly having a vehicle configuration in a first position and a robotic humanoid configuration in a second position, comprising: means mounted on the assembly for translating the vehicle configuration across a support surface; a first element configured to simulate a front portion of the vehicle in a first position and a robotic humanoid trunk in a second position; a second element movably connected to said first element, said second element being configured to simulate a rear base of the vehicle in a first position and a robotic humanoid head in a second position; a pair of third elements pivotally connected to two sides of said first element, said third elements being configured to simulate the upper periphery of a central portion of the vehicle in a first position and a pair of robotic humanoid arms in a second positions; a pair of fourth elements pivotally connected to a lower side of said first element, said fourth element being configured to simulate a central chassis of the vehicle in a first position and a pair of robotic humanoid legs in a second position; and a pair of fifth elements each pivotally connected to a lower end of each respective fourth elements, said fifth elements being configured to simulate a rear chassis of the vehicle in a first position and a pair of robotic humanoid feet in a second position. 6. A reconfigurable toy assembly as defined in claim 5, wherein said toy assembly elements are configured to form a simulated fire engine configuration in a first position. 7. A reconfigurable toy assembly as defined in claim 6 further comprising a sixth element pivotally connected with respect to said first element, said sixth element being configured to simulate a rescue ladder of the vehicle in a first position and a robotic humanoid back in a second position. 