Self-contained apparatus able to move along a non-horizontal surface and comprising a first train and a second train (48) connected to the first train by devices allowing to obtain a relative displacement by translation and rotation in a plane parallel to the surface, and first and second holding devices (2) carried respectively by the first and the second trains and able to fix removably the apparatus on the surface, wherein the holding devices carried by at least one of the trains are connected to the train through devices capable of displacing said train with respect to the holding devices in a direction perpendicular to the surface. Preferably, the holding devices (2) of the first train are comprised of a plurality of adherence devices forming a polygon and arranged outside the center of the holding devices of the second train, and the apparatus further comprises a processing or inspection tool (60) mounted so as to pivot with respect to the first train.
Claims I claim: 1. A mobile robot capable of moving and working along a non-planar surface, comprising a first support means and a second support means, means for operably connecting said second means to said first means for translation and rotation relative thereto; first and second gripping means mounted on said first and said second support means, respectively, said first gripping means comprising spaced devices forming a polygon which are arranged externally to the center of a second polygon defined by said second gripping means; means capable of displacing one of said first and said second means in a direction generally perpendicular to the surface; and an articulated arm means extending beyond the first support means and operably mounted on said second support means so as to be movable therewith, said articulated means comprising third selectively movable gripping means and means for holding a tool for working the surface, said second gripping means and said third gripping means cooperating to increase stability and adherence during movement of the robot along the surface. 2. The robot of claim 1, wherein said arm is capable of extending over said first means so as to perform work along the path which the robot will move. 3. The robot of claim 1, wherein said first gripping means comprises three spaced gripping devices. 4. The robot of claim 1, wherein said first polygon is a triangle. 5. The robot of claim 1, further comprising displacement sensing means associated with at least one of said first, second, and third gripping means. 6. The robot of claim 1, wherein at least one of said first, second, and third gripping means each comprise devices including magnetic gripping means. 7. The robot of claim 1, wherein at least one of said first, second, and third gripping devices each include devices including suction means. 8. The robot of claim 1, wherein at least one of said first, second, and third gripping means includes device comprising magnetic gripping means and suction means. 9. The robot of claim 1, wherein at least one of said first, second, and third gripping means comprise permanent magnets associated with a chamber of variable pressure, the wall of said chamber being turned towards the surface and comprising a flexible element so as to form a suction cup when the chamber is under partial vacuum and to exert a force generally perpendicular to the surface when the chamber is under high pressure so as to push said 10. The robot of claim 1, designed for amphibious use and further comprising a turbine operably connected to said arm proximate said two holding means, said turbine being immersed in water, and when actuated cooperating with the water to exert a force on the arm generally directed toward the surface. 11. An independent apparatus capable of moving along a non-planar surface, comprising a first train to which a second train is connected by means which allow a relative displacement to be obtained by translation and by rotation with a plane parallel to the surface, as well as first and second holding means supported respectively by the first and second train, capable of fixing the apparatus onto the surface in a removable manner; the said holding means of the first train being made of several grip-on devices which form a polygon and are arranged externally to the center of a polygon defining the holding means of the second train; the holding means supported by at least one of the trains being connected to the said train by means capable of displacing the said train in relation to the said holding means in a direction perpendicular to the surface; an inspection tool, the tool being mounted on an articulated arm associated with one of the trains in such a way as to be capable of moving from a working position to another working position by a pivoting movement relative to said arm, in a plane parallel to the said surface and in relation to the said first train, said tool also having third holding means thereon cooperating with said first and second holding means; said third holding means comprising permanent magnets associated with a chamber of variable pressure, the wall of said chamber, turned toward the surface, being constituted by a flexible wall which forms a suction cup when the chamber is under partial vacuum and pushes the surface magnets away from each other when the chamber is under high pressure. 