An apparatus in which a threaded fastener is automatically attached to an article. The apparatus positions the threaded fastener in contact with the article and applies a torque thereon. A signal is generated indicating the torque level. The signal is compared to preset limits. Different preset torque limits are set for tapping threads in a hole in the article and securing the fastener thereto.
Claims I claim: 1. A method of automatically attaching a threaded fastener to an article, including the steps of: holding releasably the threaded fastener adjacent an untapped hole in the article; applying a torque on the threaded fastener; generating a signal indicative of the torque being applied on the threaded fastener; and controlling the torque applied on the threaded fastener in response to the signal indicative of the torque applied on the threaded fastener so that the torque applied on the threaded fastener does not exceed a first pre-determined level as the threaded fastener taps threads in the hole in the article and a second pre-determined level after the threads have been tapped in the hole during the securing of the the threaded fastener to the article wherein said step of controlling includes the step of maintaining the first pre-determined torque level at a higher level than the second pre-determined torque level. 2. A method according to claim 1, further including the steps of: storing a supply of threaded fasteners in a container; and moving a bit from a first position for obtaining one of the threaded fasteners from the container to a second position locating the threaded fastener adjacent the hole in the article. 3. A method according to claim 2, further including the step of maintaining a low pressure in the bit to hold the threaded fastener therein. 4. A method according to claim 3, further including the step of: measuring the angular rotation of the threaded fastener; and generating a signal indicative of the angular rotation of the threaded fastener. 5. A method according to claim 4, wherein said step of controlling includes the steps of: receiving the signal indicative of the angular rotation of the threaded fastener; and comparing the signal indicative of the torque being applied on the threaded fastener to the first pre-determined torque level over a first angular rotation of the threaded fastener and to the second pre-determined torque level over a second angular rotation of the threaded fastener. 6. A method according to claim 5, wherein said step of controlling includes the step of de-energizing the apparatus if the signal indicative of the measured torque level exceeds the first pre-determined torque level over the first angular rotation of the threaded fastener or the second pre-determined level over the second angular rotation of the threaded fastener. 