The physical location of a surface in six degrees of freedom relative to the nominal location of a nominal surface is uniquely defined automatically by a measurement system provided with a processing unit, if sufficient asymmetric curvature exists in the surface to uniquely locate three points on the surface. Useful in inspection and material handling applications, a master model of the surface with a known location is defined. Two points are selected on the surface and then a plane is passed through the points, preferably perpendicular to the surface if no edge is present. Then a third point is selected along the curve of intersection so that the three points form a unique triangular template that locates the points along the curve. If the three points are on a sharp edge of the surface this may be adequate information. Otherwise a plane is passed through one of the points (or two planes, one through each of the two points), preferably perpendicular to the first plane, and two additional points are selected along the curve of intersection so that the three points form a unique triangular template that locates the points in the direction orthogonal to the direction of the first curve. Thus, depending on the surface curvature, as few as three points are chosen and measurements made in those relative locations on the surface to be located. By fitting the measured data to the nominal model surface, the location of the surface relative to the model can be determined.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for uniquely locating an object based on the asymmetric properties of its surface comprising the steps of: selecting a master object similar to the object whose location is to be determined; determining the number of points and locations upon said master object that form a unique location template with adequate sensitivity to positional error; defining quantitatively said points representative of the master object surface relative to a frame of reference; measuring areas on said object whose location is to be determined, said measured areas being in the relative locations determined to provide a unique location template, the size of the areas and their relative locations describing accurately the object's surface in each of the template point locations over the areas of uncertainty in location; and fitting the location template to said measured surface areas to establish the location of the object. 2. A method for uniquely locating an object based on the asymmetric properties of its surface comprising the steps of: selecting a master object similar to the object whose location is to be determined; defining quantitatively the master object by data points or by equations representative of the surface relative to a frame of reference; determining the number of points and locations upon said master object that form a unique location template with adequate sensitivity to positional error; measuring points on the object to be located, said points being in relative locations for providing a unique location template; and fitting the measured points to the master object surface as described by said quantitative definition step to establish the location of the object. 