Disclosed is a method of placing a measured amount of tracer material into a release agent solution so that the concentration of tracer material in the release agent as applied to a mold surface is an indication of the amount and distribution of the release agent on the mold surface. The release agent can be applied and/or re-applied until the amount of the tracer material reaches a predetermined value. In the embodiment disclosed the tracer material is a UV dye which will re-emit light when activated by a UV light source and the intensity level of the re-emitted light is a function of the amount of release agent applied. Curing of the release agent preferrably taken place after each layer in multiple layer applications. Also disclosed is a spray head (12) connected to a source (20) of release agent with UV dye therein for coating a mold surface (28). A source of UV light (30,32) activates the UV dye to re-emit visable light which is measured by a photometer (34) to practice the above method. Also disclosed is a method and apparatus by which release agent degradation can be detected and corrected before the release agent is applied to the mold surface. Also disclosed is a completely automatic release agent application cell wherein a release agent spraying robot (10) and a traveling oven (62) automatically processes mold surfaces with a release agent under the operation and control of a computer (64).
Claims I claim: 1. A method of measuring the amount of release agent applied to the surface of a mold comprising the steps of, placing a known amount of tracer material in the release agent, applying said release agent including said tracer material onto said surface, measuring the concentration of tracer material on said surface as an indication of the amount and distribution of the release agent on said surface. 2. The method as claimed in claim 1 including the further step of continuing to apply said release agent to said surface until the concentration of tracer material on said surface reaches a predetermined value. 3. The method as shown in claim 2 further including the step of curing said release agent. 4. The method as claimed in claim 1 further including the step of continuing to apply said release agent in certain areas and not in others until the concentration of tracer material is the same throughout the area of said surface. 5. The method as claimed in claim 1 wherein said tracer material is a material which reacts to energy applied thereto and then including the further step of directing energy onto said surface and measuring the intensity level of the reaction as an indication of the amount and distribution of the release agent on said surface. 6. The method as claimed in claim 5 including the step of continuing to apply said release agent in certain areas and not in others until the predetermined value of said reaction is the same throughout the total area of said surface. 7. The method as claimed 1 wherein said tracer material is a fluorescing dye and then including the step of directing a light of a known characteristic onto said surface and measuring the intensity level of the re-emitted light from said surface as an indication of the amount and distribution of the release agent on said surface. 8. The method as claimed in claim 7 including the further step of continuing to apply said release agent in certain areas until the intensity of the re-emitted light from said surface reaches a predetermined value is the same throughout the total area of said surface. 9. The method as claimed in claim 8 wherein said fluorescing dye is ultraviolet and where the light source is an ultraviolet light source. 10. A method of measuring the amount of release agent applied to the surface of a mold comprising the steps of, placing a known amount of UV dye in the release agent solution, spraying said release agent including said UV dye onto said surface, directing a UV light source onto said surface, measuring the concentration of UV dye as a function of the amount of release agent applied to the surface by measuring the visible light emitted from said surface, and continuing to spray said surface with release agent until the entire surface is coated with the selected amount of release agent according to the intensity of the visible light emitted from said surface. 11. The method as claimed in claim 10 including the further step of curing the applied release agent. 12. An apparatus for coating a measured amount of release agent having a predetermining amount of tracer material therein onto a mold surface comprising, a spray gun connected to a source of release agent solution and positioned to spray a coat of release agent onto the mold surface, means for activating a tracer material in said release agent on said mold surface, and means for measuring the activation of said tracer material to determine the amount and distribution of the coating sprayed on said mold surface. 13. The apparatus claimed in claim 12 further including means for controlling the output of said spray gun according to the reaction of said tracer material. 14. The apparatus as claimed in claim 12 wherein said tracer material is a UV dye, the means for activating the tracer material is a UV light source and the means for measuring the quantity and distribution of said coating is a photometer. 15. The apparatus as claimed in claim 13 further including means for determining the quality of the release agent being fed to the spray gun and means for bypassing any unqualified release agent back to the release agent source. 16. The apparatus claimed in claim 14 wherein said means for determining the quality of the release agent is a nephelometer. 17. An apparatus for coating a mold surface with a predetermined amount of release agent, said release agent having a UV dye of a known amount therein, said apparatus including, applicator means for coating said mold surfaces, means for directing UV light toward said mold surface, means for measuring the re-emitted light from said mold surface as a function of the quantity and distribution of said coating mold, heating means for heat treating said coating material, means for moving said applicator means to and from a position to apply said release agent to said mold surface, and means for moving said heating means to and from said mold surface to be treated. 18. The apparatus as claimed in claim 17 further including computer means to control the movement and operation of said applicator means and said heating means. 