An accurate high speed gripper assembly for use in handling articles in an automated manufacturing process. The gripper assembly includes a pair of movable fingers which depend from movable carriages mounted in a housing rotatably mounted on the end of a robot arm. A pair of stepper motors are mounted in the housing and are connected to rotary actuators which displace the fingers in discrete incremental steps toward or away from one another when rotated. Compliant elements provided on each finger cooperate with force/torque sensors for determining the proximity of the fingers to an article to be gripped and the gripping force applied by the fingers. The sensors generate signals which are processed in a controller that regulates operation of the stepper motors so as to achieve desired finger movements and gripper forces.
Claims We claim: 1. For use in connection with a robotic article handling apparatus, a gripper assembly for handling an article, comprising: a housing, a pair of fingers depending from said housing, guided carriage means in said housing mounting said fingers for independent selective movement toward and away from one another, a separate stepper motor operable in response to discrete electrical pulses and drivably connected to each finger for effecting said movement thereof in discrete incremental steps of predetermined extent and at selected step rates proportional to the rates of said electrical pulses, said step rates including a relatively high approach rate at which said finger is driven toward an article to be handled and a relatively low closing rate at which said finger is driven when in proximity with the article, proximity sensing means associated with each finger for sensing its proximity with said article, force sensing means associated with each finger for sensing the gripping forces generated by gripping engagement between the finger and said article, compliant means associated with each finger for undergoing progressive displacement in respones to increase of said gripping forces, digital-type control means connected to each said motor and sensing means for so controlling the rate of said electrical pulses as to cause said motor to vary the step rate of said incremental movement of said finger driven thereby, said control means being operable in response to sensed proximity of said finger to said article to cause reduction of the rate of movement of said finger from its said approach rate to its said closing rate, and said control means being operable to cause cessation of movement of said finger when a predetermined magnitude of gripping force has been sensed by said force sensing means. 2. A gripper assembly according to claim 1 wherein said proximity sensing means includes said force sensing means. 3. A gripper assembly according to claim 1 wherein said control means includes means for monitoring said pulses and for thereby determining the position of the finger driven by each said motor. 4. A gripper assembly according to claim 1 wherein said compliant means includes an elastomeric element having a predetermined spring rate. 5. A gripper assembly according to claim 4 wherein said elastomeric element is mounted on said finger. 6. A gripper assembly according to claim 5 wherein both fingers are of like construction and cooperate with their respective stepper drive motors and control means to grip an article frictionally therebetween. 7. A gripper assembly according to claim 5 wherein said proximity sensing means includes a contact element normally extending beyond said finger and said elastomeric element thereon for engaging the article before said elastomeric element engages the article, and resilient means mounting said contact element for retractive movement in response to its said engagement with the article. 8. A gripper assembly according to claim 7 wherein said resilient means has a spring rate which is substantially lower than the spring rate of said elastomeric element. 9. A gripper assembly according to claim 8 wherein said resilient means is a leaf spring mounted to said finger for movement relative thereto and relative to said elastomeric element. 10. A gripper assembly according to claim 1 wherein said proximity sensing means and said force sensing means each includes a force/torque sensor connected between said finger and its guided carriage means. 11. A gripper assembly according to claim 1 wherein the incremental steps of movement of said finger include whole steps and partial steps, and wherein said control means is operable in response to sensed proximity of said article to said finger to change the incremental movement of said finger from whole to partial steps. 12. A gripper assembly according to claim 1 including means carried by said housing for detecting the rotational displacement of each of said motors and producing signals in response to said rotation for providing finger position sensing information. 13. In a gripper assembly for use in combination with robotic article handling apparatus, said gripper assembly including a housing, a pair of gripper fingers depending from said housing, and means mounting said fingers for independent movement relative to each other and relative to an article to be gripped, the improvement comprising: a pair of stepper-type drive motors operatively connected to respective ones of said fingers for, in response to discrete electrical input pulses directed thereto, causing said fingers to undergo said independent movement in discrete incremental steps of preselected magnitudes and at preselected step rates, said rates including a relatively high approach rate adapted for use as a finger approaches an article to be gripped, and a relatively low closing rate adapted for use as the finger moves into gripping engagement with the article, proximity sensing means for sensing proximity of each of said fingers to an article, force sensing means for sensing gripping forces generated by engagement between said fingers of an article, compliant means associated with each finger for undergoing progressive displacement in response to increased gripping forces generated by engagement between said finger and said article, and control means operatively associated with said sensing means and motors for effecting changes in the rate and magnitude of the incremental steps of movement of said fingers. 14. A gripper assembly according to claim 13 wherein said compliant means includes at least first and second elastic elements having different spring rates, the first element having the lower spring rate and being mounted on the finger for engaging the article and comprising part of said proximity sensing means. 15. A gripper assembly according to claim 13 wherein said second elastic element includes an elastomeric pad mounted on said finger, and said first elastic element includes a protrusion extending laterally from said finger beyond said elastomeric pad, and means mounting said protrusion to said finger for displacement relative to said 16. A gripper assembly according to claim 13 wherein each of said finger mounting means includes a carriage slidable on a track, and including force/torque sensor means mounted between said carriage and the finger depending therefrom for sensing forces and torques applied to the finger when engaged with the article. 17. In a gripper assembly for use in combination with robotic article handling apparatus, said gripper assembly including a housing, a pair of gripper fingers depending from said housing, and means mounting said fingers for independent movement relative to each other and relative to an article to be gripped, the improvement comprising: a pair of stepper-type drive motors operatively connected to respective ones of said fingers for, in response to discrete electrical input pulses directed thereto, causing said fingers to undergo said independent movement in discrete incremental steps of preselected magnitudes, force sensing means for sensing forces generated by contact with said fingers of an article, compliant means associated with each finger for undergoing progressive displacement at a predetermined spring rate in response to increased contact forces generated by engagement between said finger and said article, and control means operatively associated with said sensing means and said motors for effecting selected changes in the magnitude of the incremental steps of movement of said fingers. 18. In a method of picking an article for placement in an automated assembly process, wherein a pair of fingers are displaced relative to one another for engaging spaced surfaces on the article, the improvement wherein said finger displacing step is effected by causing a stepper motor operatively coupled to each finger to advance through a series of discrete angular positions about its axis of rotation at a predetermined step rate for causing each finger to approach the article surfaces at a predetermined rate, sensing the proximity of each finger to the confronting article surface, and in response to the sensed proximity, reducing the step rate of the stepper motor to a closing step rate less than said predetermined approach step rate, interposing between the fingers compliant means having a predetermined compressive spring rate, sensing said compression of said compliant means, and in response to a predetermined compression of said compliant means arresting further angular displacement of said stepper motor. 19. The method according to claim 18 wherein said proximity and compression sensing steps include the step of engaging an elastomeric pad on the fingers against the article and measuring the force and torque applied to the fingers. 20. The method according to claim 18 including the step of decreasing the step rate between said approach rate and said closing rate at a predetermined ramp rate. 21. The method according to claim 18 wherein said stepper motor advances through 200 angular steps per revolution, said approach step rate is less than about 7000 steps per second, and said closing step rate is less than about 1000 steps per second. 22. The method according to claim 18 wherein said proximity sensing step includes the step of contacting the article with a deflectable member carried by the finger at a location spaced from the finger before the finger engages the article, and measuring the force on the finger caused by deflection of said deflectable member relative to the finger. 23. The method according to claim 18 including the steps of supplying discrete pulses to the stepper motors, counting the pulses supplied, and in response thereto, determining the position of the fingers relative to the article. 24. The method according to claim 18 wherein said compression sensing step includes the step of measuring the force exerted by the article on each finger when engaged therewith, and displacing one finger relative to the other for substantially equalizing the forces on the fingers. 