A toy for use in conjunction with a toy doll that can simulate both a robot and a vehicle is presented. The toy transforms from the configuration of a vehicle to that of a robot by rotating or moving upper and lower leg members with respect to each other until they are disposed in approximately a vertical position. A torso member rotatably coupled to the upper leg members simulates a robotic humanoid head and trunk. Side arms operably coupled to the torso member are adapted to either hang vertically simulating the arms of a robot or to be positioned adjacent the robot's head to simulate the front of a vehicle. When the side arms are disposed in the latter position, the toy can be folded into a compact configuration simulating a vehicle such as an all terrain vehicle. A toy doll can be placed on top of the toy when it simulates a vehicle and used in conjunction with handles extending from the side arms.
Claims We claim: 1. A toy comprising: a base member having two sides and a bottom forming a compartment; lower leg members each having one end thereof rotatably coupled to one of said two sides; upper leg members each having one end thereof rotatably coupled to the other end of one of said lower leg members, said lower and upper leg members capable of being rotated and moved to a position within said compartment; a torso member simulating a robotic humanoid head and trunk rotatably coupled to the other end of each of said upper leg members; and side arm means operably coupled to said torso member for selective simulating a pair of arms for said robotic humanoid head and trunk and a front end of a vehicle. 2. The toy of claim 1 further comprising wheels rotatably coupled to said base member, said wheels supporting said toy. 3. The toy of claim 2 wherein said side arm means includes: two side arms each having a rod attached at one end thereof and a handle with a simulating member rotatably coupled to the other end thereof; and two cylindrical members, each of said two cylindrical members being rotatably coupled to said torso member and to one of said rods attached to one of said two side arms. 4. The toy of claim 3 wherein said two cylindrical members are rotatably coupled to said torso member by ball joints. 5. The toy of claim 2 wherein said side arm means includes: two side arms each having a rod attached at one end thereof and a handle with a simulating member rotatably coupled to the other end thereof; a first pair of cylindrical members, each of said first pair of cylindrical members being rotatably coupled to one of said rods attached to one of said two side arms; and a second pair of cylindrical members, each of said second pair of cylindrical members being rotatably coupled to one of said first pair of cylindrical members and to said torso member. 6. A toy for use in conjunction with a toy doll comprising: a base member having two sides and a bottom forming a compartment and wheels rotatably coupled thereto; lower leg members rotatably coupled to said base member; upper leg members each having one end thereof rotatably coupled to one of said lower leg members, said lower and upper leg members capable of being rotated and moved to a position within said compartment; a torso member simulating a robotic humanoid head and trunk rotatably coupled to the other end of each of said upper leg members, said torso member having a generally concave surface on one side thereof capable of supporting said toy doll; and side arm means operably coupled to said torso member for selectively simulating a pair of arms for said robotic humanoid head and trunk and a front end of a vehicle, said side arms capable of being positioned adjacent one end of said torso member in order to simulate said vehicle and capable of hanging vertically from said torso member in order to simulate said pair of arms. 7. The toy of claim 6 wherein said side arm means includes: two side arms each having a rod attached at one end thereof and a handle with a simulating member rotatably coupled to the other end thereof, each of said handles capable of operably engaging and providing support for said toy doll; and two cylindrical members, each of said two cylindrical members being rotatably coupled to said torso member and to one of said rods attached to one of said two side arms. 8. The toy of claim 7 wherein said two cylindrical members are rotatably coupled to said torso member by ball joints. 9. The toy of claim 6 wherein said side arm means includes: two side arms each having a rod attached at one end thereof and a handle with a simulating member rotatably coupled to the other end thereof, each of said handles capable of operably engaging and providing support for said toy doll; a first pair of cylindrical members, each of said first pair of cylindrical members being rotatably coupled to one of said rods attached to one of said two side arms; and a second pair of cylindrical members, each of said second pair of cylindrical members being rotatably coupled to one of said first pair of cylindrical members and to said torso member. 10. A toy for use in conjunction with a toy doll which can be used to simulate a robot and a vehicle comprising: a base member having a bottom, two sides extending upward from said bottom and supporting members attached to said bottom and said two sides, said bottom, said two sides and said supporting members forming a compartment; wheels rotatably coupled to said two sides, said wheels operably engaging a supporting surface; two lower leg members, each of said two lower leg members having one end thereof rotatably coupled to one of said two sides; two upper leg members, each of said two upper leg members having one end thereof rotatably coupled to the other end of one of said lower leg members, said lower and upper leg members capable of being rotated and moved to a position within said compartment; a torso member simulating a robotic humanoid head and trunk rotatably coupled to the other end of each of said upper leg members, said torso member having a generally concave surface on one side thereof capable of supporting said toy doll; two side arms operably coupled to said torso member each having a rod attached at one end thereof and a handle with a simulating member rotatably coupled to the other end thereof, each of said handles capable of operably engaging and providing support for said toy doll; and means for operably coupling said two side arms to said torso member in order to selectively simulate a pair of arms for said robotic humanoid head and trunk and a front end of a vehicle. 11. The toy of claim 10 wherein said means for coupling said two side arms includes two cylindrical members and two ball joints attached to said cylindrical members, each of said two cylindrical members being rotatably coupled to one of said rods attached to one of said two side arms. 12. The toy of claim 10 wherein said means for coupling said two side arms includes: a first pair of cylindrical members, each of said first pair of cylindrical members being rotatably coupled to one of said rods attached to one of said two side arms; and a second pair of cylindrical members, each of said second pair of cylindrical members being rotatably coupled to one of said first pair of cylindrical members and to said torso member. 