Two identical prism telescopes each comprised of a train of right angle prisms are used to spread out a laser beam to the maximum width of an acousto-optic cell and reconverge the beam to original dimensions. The first telescope increases the beam size along one dimension while bending the beam through 90.degree.. The second telescope reduces the beam size and multiplies the angle of deflection while redirecting the beam through another 90.degree.. There is a 180.degree. fold in optical path and this configuration is compact, has low losses, and is easy to mount and align.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A light beam deflection system comprising: an acousto-optic deflector which has an active region and deflects an incident beam of light through a range of angles; a light source providing a substantially symmetrical input beam; incident prism telescope means comprised of a train of optical prisms to expand said input beam along one dimension to fill said active region and maximize deflector resolution while redirecting the expanded beam through 90.degree.; and exit prism telescope means comprised of a second train of optical prisms to reduce the beam size while multiplying the angle of deflection and redirecting the reduced beam through an additional 90.degree. such that the output beam is folded through 180.degree. and is scanned along one axis. 2. The deflection system of claim 1 wherein all of said optical prisms are 45-90-45 degree right angle prisms. 3. The deflection system of claim 2 wherein there are an odd number of prisms, greater than three and less than nine, in each prism telescope. 4. The deflection system of claim 2 wherein every prism has a face on which light is incident at Brewster's angle to reduce losses. 5. The deflection system of claim 1 wherein every prism has opposing flat bases, and at least one prism is rotated slightly about an axis perpendicular to its bases in order to adjust the angular path of the beam precisely. 6. The deflection system of claim 1 wherein all of said prisms are right angle prisms, and a recessed patterned mounting plate to which said acousto-optic deflector and prisms are secured, said plate having stops to assure alignment of said prisms. 7. The deflection system of claim 1 further comprising a scanner operable to scan said output beam along a second axis orthogonal to the first. 8. A folded beam deflection system comprising: an acousto-optic deflector cell which has an active region and deflects and scans an incident beam of light through a range of angles; a laser source providing a cylindrically symmetric input beam; incident prism telescope means comprised of a train of prisms to progressively increase the input beam size along one dimension to the maximum width to fill the active region and maximize resolution of said acousto-optic cell while redirecting the expanded beam through 90.degree.; exit prism telescope means comprised of a second train of prisms to progressively reduce the size of the beam emerging from said acousto-optic cell by a given factor while increasing the angle of deflection by the same factor and redirecting the reduced beam through an additional angle of 90.degree., such that the output beam is folded through 180.degree. relative to the input beam and has the original dimensions and is scanned along one axis; and a recessed patterned mounting plate to which said acousto-optic cell and both trains of prisms are secured in proper alignment. 9. The deflection system of claim 8 wherein said prisms are all 45-90-45 degree prisms and one face of each is operated at Brewster's angle. 10. The deflection system of claim 9 wherein said incident and exit prism telescope means have identical, mirror image trains of prisms. 11. The deflection system of claim 8 wherein said mounting plate is patterned with triangular stops to receive and align said prisms. 12. The deflection system of claim 11 wherein at least one prism in both trains of prisms is rotated slightly about an axis perpendicular to a supporting base to adjust the angular path of the beam precisely. 13. The deflection system of claim 8 further comprising means to scan said output beam along a second axis orthogonal to said first axis. 14. The deflection system of claim 13 wherein said scanning means is a mirror controlled by a galvanometer. 