A wire container for use with a robot-arm-manipulated wire routing tool in the fabrication of wire harnesses. The container is adapted to hold various cables, single wires and twisted pair wires of different lengths and wire sizes, and having different contact configurations on the ends thereof.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Wire containing apparatus comprising: first and second members each having a cylindrical drum and a flange of circular cross section concentric with said drum and disposed on one end thereof; said drum of said first member having an outer diameter substantially equal to the inner diameter of said drum of said second member and being positioned within said drum of said second member; retainer means disposed between said drums of said first and second members to retain the drum of said first member within the drum of said second member while permitting rotational motion therebetween; container registration means situated at the axis of said flanges of said first and second members respectively, anti-rotation means disposed between the inner side of said flange of said second member and the inner wall of said drum of said first member; and wire clamping means disposed on the side wall flange of said first and second members. 2. Wire containing apparatus as defined in claim 1 wherein said wire clamping means comprise first and second flat leaf spring mechanisms fastened to and recessed within said flanges of said first and second members respectively. 3. Wire containing apparatus as defined in claim 2 wherein said drum of said first member has a groove formed about its outer circumferential surface and said drum of said second member has a groove formed about its inner circumferential surface, and wherein said retainer means is a retaining wire positioned within the groove of said first member, said retaining wire having a diameter sized so as to extend above the groove about said drum of said first member and fit within the groove about said drum of said second member. 4. Wire containing apparatus as defined in claim 3 wherein said container mounting and registration means comprise a first D-shaped hole formed at the rotational axis of said flange of said first member, and a D-shaped hole formed at the rotational axis of said flange of said second member. 5. Wire containing apparatus as defined in claim 4 wherein said anti-rotation means comprises a leaf spring affixed to the flange of said second member, and a bearing ring formed about the inner circumference of the drum of said first member, the free end of said leaf spring applying a frictional force against a surface of said bearing ring. 6. Wire containing apparatus as defined in claim 1 wherein said wire clamping means are affixed to the rims of said flanges of said first and second members and extend outwardly therefrom. 