A sealed joint having two adjacent, axially aligned sleeves separated by a rotating seal, one joint being movable with respect to the other. The joints contain a tubular passageway surrounded by a motor and a harmonic drive. A tachometer and a brake help to control the motor and a position encoder measures rotational motion between the sleeves. All components are mounted in sealed relation with respect to the outside of the sleeves. A sealable port communicates with the interior of the tubular passageway for each sleeve so that control cables and fluid conduits may pass into the joint through one port, along the tubular passageway and out of the other port.
Claims We claim: 1. A sealed joint as for a robot comprising, first and second closed, laterally adjacent sleeves mounted for a rotation about a common axis, the sleeves separated by a rotary seal having two contacting members, one associated with each sleeve, and means for adjustably positioning the seal between the sleeves, a motor having a rotor and a stator mounted within the first sleeve, the rotor parallel to the axis of the sleeves, the second sleeve having a driven member, the two sleeves having a link member internally joining the rotor and the driven member, whereby the rotor transfers power to the link member so that the first sleeve drives the second sleeve, and means for sealing the two sleeves containing the motor, driven member, and link member assembly, and a fluid coolant tube extending into a sealable port of the first sleeve and communicating thermally with said motor. 2. The sealed joint of claim 1 wherein said link member is a member of a harmonic drive, the harmonic drive having a circular spline member, a flexible spline member and a wave generator, the circular spline, the flexible spline member and the wave generator coaxially enclosed within said sleeves. 3. The sealed joint of claim 1 wherein said first sleeve has a tachometer means in electrical communication with the motor for reporting motor velocity. 4. The sealed joint of claim 1 wherein said second sleeve has an internally mounted position encoder, the position encoder having a first encoder member movable with the first sleeve and a second encoder member movable with the second sleeve. the relative motion between the first and second encoder members yielding position information. 5. The sealed joint of claim 1 wherein the first sleeve includes a brake means for locking the rotor in place. 6. The sealed joint of claim 1 wherein each sleeve has sealable port means between the interior and exterior of the sleeve for sealed connection to robot arm members and a tube with open ends is axially disposed within the first sleeve, coaxially spaced from said rotor and coaxially spaced from and having an end near said driven member of the second sleeve, said driven member having a passageway from said tube end to the sealable port of the second sleeve, the opposite end of the tube communicating with the sealable port of the first sleeve, thereby defining a path from one sealable port,through the sleeves and to the other sealable port for passage of cables and conduits therethrough. 7. The sealed joint of claim 1 wherein said first sleeve has a tachometer means in electrical communication with the motor for reporting motor velocity and said second sleeve has an internally mounted position encoder, the position encoder having a first encoder member movable with the first sleeve and a second encoder member movable with the second sleeve, the relative motion between the first and second encoder members yielding position information, the tachometer and position encoder providing electrical signals for motor servo control. 8. The sealed joint of claim 2 wherein said rotor transfers rotary energy to said flexible spline member through said wave generator, said wave generator being a ball member mounted between the rotor and the flexible spline member. 9. The sealed joint of claim 5 wherein said brake means comprises an annular cone shaped member mounted on the rotor and a wedge mounted in fixed relation to the first sleeve, said wedge normally biased against the annular cone shaped member by a spring, said brake means having an electromagnetic coil means for retracting the wedge when electrical power is applied to the motor. 10. The sealed joint of claim 1 wherein sealable ports on the first and second sleeves are sealed and a negative pressure is applied to the interior of said sleeves. 11. A robot joint linking two robot arm members comprising, first and second closed sleeves mounted for rotation about a common axis, the sleeves separated by a rotating seal having two contacting members, one associated with each sleeve, and means for adjustably positioning the seal between the sleeves, the sleeves internally joined by a gear means for transferring power from the first sleeve to the second sleeve, a motor mounted in said first sleeve and having a rotor and a stator, the rotor parallel to the sleeve axis and connected to the gear means for power transfer thereto, brake means associated with said motor for stopping rotor motion when driving current is not applied to said motor, means for sealing the two sleeves containing the gear means, motor, and brake means, and a fluid coolant tube extending into a sealable port of the first sleeve and communicating thermally with said motor. 12. The robot joint of claim 11 wherein said motor has an annular rotor and stator surrounding a centrally disposed tube having an axis common with said sleeves. 13. The robot joint of claim 12 wherein said brake means comprises a pair of annular friction members surrounding said centrally disposed tube and having an axis common with said sleeves. 14. The robot joint of claim 11 wherein said gear means comprises a harmonic drive having a circular spline, a flexible spline and a wave generator, all surrounding said centrally disposed tube, the circular and flexible splines having an axis common with said sleeves. 15. The robot joint of claim 11 wherein said second sleeve has an annular drive flange connected to said tube, the flange having an axis common with said sleeves whereby said drive flange and said tube form a passageway through said sleeves along said axis. 16. The robot joint of claim 11 wherein a negative pressure is applied to the interior of said sleeves. 17. A sealed robot joint comprising, first and second coaxially adjacent closed sleeves mounted for rotation about a common axis, the sleeves separated by a rotary seal having two contacting members, one associated with each sleeve, and means for adjustably positioning the seal between the sleeves, a motor, a harmonic drive speed reducer receiving power from the motor, a tachometer and a brake both associated with the motor, all annularly disposed at least partially within the first sleeve, the motor having an annular rotor coupled to the harmonic drive speed reducer which, in turn, is coupled to the second sleeve, and position encoder means annularly disposed within the second sleeve for measuring the position of the second sleeve relative to the first sleeve, means for sealing the two sleeves containing the motor, harmonic drive, tachometer, and brake, and a fluid coolant tube extending into a sealable port of the first sleeve and communicationg thermally with said motor. 18. The sealed joint of claim 17 wherein a tube is disposed along said axis within the annular space of said motor, harmonic drive, tachometer and brake, said second sleeve having an annular drive flange along said common axis, said tube connected to said flange thereby forming a passageway along said axis through the first and second sleeves, said sleeves having sealable ports in spatial communication with said passageway. 19. The sealed joint of claim 17 where a negative pressure is applied to the interior of said sleeves. 