A self-contained work center for automatic spray finishing of parts, having an elevated platform with a turntable mounted thereon which is rotatable about a vertical axis, a robot manipulator fixedly mounted relative to the vertical axis, wherein the turntable ends are rotatable through a circular path, at least part of which includes a partially protected booth for collecting paint residue and overspray. The robot manipulator has a movable arm and spray applicator capable of movement over a limited range so as to provide a predetermined envelope of possible work areas for spray finishing, and a portion of the turntable end path and at least a portion of the spray booth are included with this envelope. The apparatus includes an access position to the turntable for mounting and removing parts associated with the spray finishing operation. A service enclosure is located beneath the elevated platform for housing electrical and hydraulic components for cooperatively operating the robot manipulator and turntable.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A self-contained work center for the automatic application of coatings to products, comprising: (a) a framework having an elevated platform; (b) a turntable rotatably affixed above said platform for rotation about a first vertical axis; said turntable having a plurality of stations thereon for affixing products thereto; (c) means for driving said turntable about said first vertical axis; (d) a robotic manipulator affixed above said turntable, and having means for rotating about said first vertical axis, said manipulator having attached thereto a coating applicator, and said manipulator having controllable freedom of motion for positioning said applicator at any point within a predetermined volume envelope, and means for driving said applicator; and (e) control means connected to said means for driving said turntable and to said means for driving said applicator, said control means having prestored means for coordinating the respective positions of said turntable and said applicator. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said control means further comprises a computer processor. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein said means for driving said turntable further comprises a ring gear attached to said turntable and motor drive gear means engaged against said ring gear. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein said motor drive gear means further comprises two motors and gears engaged against said ring gear in respective opposite driving directions. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein said two motors further comprise hydraulic motors, and further comprising means for selectively directing pressurized hydraulic oil to both of said motors. 6. The apparatus of claim 3, further comprising a rotational transducer geared to said ring gear. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein said rotational transducer further comprrses a resolver having a shaft affixed to a first gear, and having a second gear rotatable about said shaft and having a coil spring connected between said first and second gear. 8. A self-contained work center for the automatic application of coatings to products, comprising: (a) a framework having an elevated platform; (b) a turntable rotatably affixed above said platform for rotation about a first vertical axis; (c) means for controllably driving said turntable about said first vertical axis; (d) a robotic manipulator affixed above said turntable, said manipulator having attached thereto a coating applicator and said manipulator having controllable freedom of motion for positioning said applicator at any point within a predetermined volume envelope; (e) an enclosure attached to said framework and having an open side facing toward said robotic manipulator and positioned such that at least a portion of said volume envelope encroaches into said enclosure through said open side; and (f) a plurality of parts mounting stations on said turntable, mounted at positions such that rotation of said turntable causes said stations to rotate through at least a portion of said volume envelope. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein said robotic manipulator further comprises means for rotating about a second vertical axis. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein said second vertical axis is displaced from said first vertical axis. 11. The apparatus of claim 8, further comprising a plurality of openings through said elevated platform proximate said enclosure open side, and a lower air duct positioned beneath said openings. 12. The apparatus of claim 11, further comprising an air ventilation hood on said enclosure and a further air duct coupled between said hood and said lower air duct. 13. The apparatus of claim 8, further comprising means for circulating water through openings extending across the width of said enclosure and proximate the top of said enclosure opening, said means for circulating including a water collection tank positioned beneath said platform. 14. The apparatus of claim 8, further comprising a safety fence about the periphery of said platform. 15. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein said means for controllably driving said turntable further comprises means for controllably driving said robot manipulator. 16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein said means for controllably driving further comprises a computer processor having electromechanical connections to said coating applicator for selectively actuating said applicator for dispensing coating materials. 