A snap-together latch mechanism for a television cabinet consists of at least one pair of oppositely-disposed, flexible latch fingers secured to the cabinet front and a corresponding number of oppositely-disposed, rigid stops disposed on the back cover. To attach the back cover, it is simply aligned with the cabinet front and inserted to lock it in place.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A television cabinet comprising: a pair of cabinet halves defining an enclosure when said halves are inserted into each other along a path; a pair of oppositely-disposed, relatively flexible latch fingers secured side-by-side to one of said cabinet halves such that said latch fingers are encompassed within said enclosure when said cabinet halves are assembled together; each of said latch fingers having a major surface disposed substantially parallel to said insertion path; each of said latch fingers further having, toward the free end thereof, a protruding edge that extends away from the respective one of said major surfaces and substantially at right angles thereto; said latch fingers being mounted such that said latch fingers are offset with respect to each other in a direction parallel to said major surfaces thereof, and such that said protruding edges are oppositely disposed with respect to said insertion path; a pair of oppositely-disposed, relatively rigid stops secured side-by-side to the other of said cabinet halves such that said stops are encompassed within the confines of said enclosure when said cabinet halves are assembled together; each of said stops having a protruding edge which is disposed substantially orthogonally to said insertion path; said stops being mounted on said other member such that they engage and deflect said flexible latch fingers in opposite directions as said cabinet halves are assembled together until said protruding edges of said stops capture the respective ones of said protruding edges of said latch fingers to releasably secure said cabinet halves to each other; and said cabinet enclosure being additionally equipped with a window for providing a limited access to said latch fingers when said cabinet halves are assembled to each other; said limited access window being dimensioned such that entry of human fingers into said window is precluded, while allowing introduction of an implement into said window to cause deflection of said latch fingers in opposite directions in a manner causing disengagement thereof from said stops. 2. The cabinet as defined in claim 1 wherein said limited access window is disposed on said other cabinet half provided with said rigid stops. 3. The cabinet as defined in claim 1 wherein said limited access window provides access to said latch fingers in a direction parallel to said insertion path. 4. The cabinet as defined in claim 1 wherein said flexible latch fingers are additionally offset with respect to each other in a direction perpendicular to said major surfaces thereof. 5. The cabinet as defined in claim 1 wherein each of said flexible latch fingers is further provided with a beveled outer surface which extends from said protruding edge thereof to said free end thereof in order to facilitate said deflection of said latch fingers during said assembly. 6. The cabinet as defined in claim 1 wherein said latch fingers are dimensioned such that their free ends extend beyond the respective ones of said protruding edges of said stops in order to further facilitate manipulation of said latch fingers with said implement to cause said disengagement. 7. The cabinet as defined in claim 1 wherein each of said rigid stops is additionally provided with an inclined outer surface extending from said protruding edge thereof to the terminal end thereof in order to facilitate said deflection of said latch fingers during said assembly. 8. The cabinet as defined in claim 1 wherein said cabinet halves are injection molded from a thermoplastic material; wherein said flexible latch fingers are integrally molded with respect to said one cabinet half. 9. The cabinet as defined in claim 1 wherein said flexible latch fingers are disposed on a base, which is glued to said one cabinet half. 10. The display device cabinet as defined in claim 1 wherein said cabinet halves are injection molded from a thermoplastic material; wherein said rigid stops are integrally molded with respect to said other cabinet half. 11. The cabinet as defined in claim 1 further including a second pair of flexible latch fingers and rigid stops having substantially the same configuration as said first mentioned latch fingers and stops; said second pair of latch fingers and stops being secured to the respective ones of said cabinet halves in substantially the same manner as said first mentioned latch fingers and stops; said enclosure being provided with a second limited access window of substantially the same configuration as said first mentioned window. 