An automatic lead sensing and fine-forming system is disclosed for preparing the leads of electronic compnents so that they are ready to be inserted by robots into holes on printed circuit boards. The positions of the lead tips and the positions of the holes are sensed and compared to determine if any leads need to be bent. These leads are then bent and the force on the leads and their displacement are sensed and recorded during the process. The data recorded is then used for subsequent bendings, where necessary, for bending the leads to the target locations so that all the leads fit simultaneously into the holes. To simplify image processing, the lead tips are illuminated by light originating from substantially isotropic directions from locations substantially coplanar with the region of the lead tips. A telecentric lens system is used in the optical sensing of the position of the lead tips so that measurement of the distances between leads is unaffected by variations in the separation between the lead tips and the sensing device.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus for determining whether any leads of a first component having two or more leads with a lead configuration needs to be bent in order for all the leads to fit into predetermined holes in a second component, wherein the leads of the first component have approximately the same length, said apparatus comprising: means for sensing the positions of the tips of the leads of the first component; and means for comparing the positions of the leads to the positions of the predetermined holes before the leads are inserted into the holes and for determining from the comparison which leads, if any, need to be bent so that, for a variety of lead configurations, after such leads have been bent, all the leads of the first component will fit simultaneously into the holes without requiring any further bending. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the comparing and determining means also determines the distances that said leads need to be bent and the directions of the bending in order for all the leads of the components to fit simultaneously into the holes. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said comparing and determining means compares the positions of the tips of the leads to the hole positions to associate each hole with the tip of a lead. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein said comparing and determining means associated the position of a lead tip with a hole position by normalizing the positions and orientations of the holes and matching lead tips with holes such that the sum of the distances between the normalized hole positions and their corresponding normalized lead tips is minimized. 5. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the tips of the leads are substantially in a first plane and the holes are substantially in a second plane. 6. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein said comparing and determining means determines the leads that do not need bending by comparing the distance between each pair of holes and the distance between the pair of tips of leads corresponding to the pair of holes to develope an association graph and to find a largest clique of the graph, so that the tips of the leads not in the clique are the ones that need bending in order for all the lead tips to fit simultaneously into the corresponding holes. 7. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein said comparing and determining means determines the distance that said leads need to be bent and the directions of the bending by spatially transforming the positions of the holes identified with lead tips which do not need bending to coincide with the corresponding lead tips, wherein said comparing and determining means transforms the positions of said holes into the frame of reference of the lead tips, so that the distance between the transformed position of each such hole and the actual position of the corresponding lead tip gives the distance such lead needs to be bent in order for all the lead tips to fit simultaneously into the corresponding holes. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the comparing and determining means performs the transformation by representing each of the lead tip and hole positions by a vector, and by multiplying each vector by a matrix. 9. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein when the comparing and determining means determines that one or more leads need bending, said comparing and determining means generates one or more control signals indicating the distances and directions for bending said one or more leads, said apparatus further comprising means responsive to the control signals for bending the one or more leads in accordance with the control signals so that all the leads will fit simultaneously into the corresponding holes. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein when all but one lead needs bending, the control signal indicates that each lead that needs bending is to be bent so that its tip is at substantially the transformed position of the hole corresponding to such lead tip. 11. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein when all but two leads need bending, the control signal indicates that each lead that needs bending is to be bent so that its tip is at a position of distances to the two leads substantially equal to the distances between the hole corresponding to such lead tip and the tips of the two leads needing no bending, and that the position is such as to minimize the distance for bending such lead. 12. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein at least three leads need no bending, the control signal indicates that each lead which needs bending is to be bent to a position of distances to the tips of the at least three leads substantially equal to the distances between the hole corresponding to such lead tip and the tips of the at least three leads. 13. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said sensing means includes telecentric lens means having an axis, so that the distances between positions in directions substantially normal to the axis sensed remain substantially the same despite variations in the axial distance between the telecentric lens means and the first component. 14. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the comparing and determining means is such that it minimizes the number of leads that need to be bent in order for all the leads to fit, after bending, into the predetermined holes. 15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the comparing and determining means also determines the distances that said leads need to be bent and the directions of the bending so that the amount of bending of the leads are minimized to minimize any potential damage to the first component caused by the bending. 16. A method for determining whether any leads of a first component having two or more leads with a lead configuration needs to be bent in order for all the leads to fit into predetermined holes in a second component, wherein the leads of the first component are approximately of the same length, said method comprising: sensing the positions of the tips of the leads of the first component; and comparing the positions of the leads to the positions of the predetermined holes before the leads are inserted into the holes and for determining from the comparison which leads, if any, need to be bent so that, for a variety of lead configurations, after such leads have been bent, all the leads of the first component will fit simultaneously into the holes without requiring any further bending. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the comparing and determining step also determines the distances that said leads need to be bent and the directions of the bending in order for all the leads of the components to fit simultaneously into the holes. 18. An apparatus for bending one or more leads of a first component so that, after bending, the leads of the first component will fit simultaneously into predetermined holes in a second component, wherein the leads of the first component are approximately of the same length, said apparatus comprising: means for sensing the positions of the tips of the leads of the first component; means for comparing the positions of the leads to the positions of the predetermined holes before the leads are inserted into the holes and for determining from the comparison information related to which leads, if any, need to be bent so that, for a variety of lead configurations, after such leads have been bent, all the leads of the first component will fit simultaneously into the holes without requiring any further bending; means for detecting the position of a portion of each lead to be bent determined by the comparing and determining means, and for generating an output signal to indicate said position; controller means for producing a control signal in response to the detecting means output signal and to the information; and bending means for bending said lead in response to said control signal so that, after sequential bending of the leads to be bent as determined by the comparing and determining means, the leads of the first component can simultaneously fit into the predetermined holes. 19. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein said detecting means detects the position of the lead portion optically. 20. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein said detecting means includes a camera. 21. A method for bending one or more leads of a first component so that, after bending, the leads of the first component will fit simultaneously into predetermined holes in a second component, wherein the leads of the first component are approximately of the same length, said method comprising: sensing the positions of the tips of the leads of the first component; comparing the positions of the leads to the positions of the predetermined holes before the leads are inserted into the holes and for determining from the comparison information related to which leads, if any, need to be bent so that, for a variety of lead configurations, after such leads have been bent, all the leads of the first component will fit simultaneously into the holes without requiring any further bending; detecting the position of a portion of each lead to be bent determined by the comparing and determining means, and for generating an output signal to indicate said position; producing a control signal in response to the output signal and to the information; and bending said lead in response to said control signal so that, after sequential bending of the leads need to be bent as determined by the comparing and determining means, all the leads of the first component simultaneously fit into the predetermined holes. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein said detecting step detects the position of the lead portion optically. 23. An apparatus for determining whether any leads of a first component having two or more leads needs to be bent in order to fit into predetermined holes in a second component, said apparatus comprising: means for sensing the positions of the tips of the leads of the first component, said sensing means including a light sensitive array and telecentric lens means for focusing light from the lead tips onto the array so that the distance between lead tips sensed is not affected by variations in the separation between the tips and the array; and means for comparing the positions of the leads to the positions of the predetermined holes. 24. The apparatus of claim 23, wherein said comparing means also determines from the comparison which leads, if any, need to be bent in order for all the leads of the component to fit simultaneously into the holes. 