The position sensor senses the position of a movable finger in relation to a cooperating finger. The position sensor includes a variable reactance device including two cooperating relatively movable reactance elements. One of the reactance elements is mechanically coupled to the movable finger and the other one of the reactance elements is mechanically coupled to a cooperating finger. The relative movement between the reactance elements is effective to vary the reactance of the variable reactance device. An oscillator circuit is connected with the variable reactance device so that the frequency of the oscillator circuit varies to provide a variable frequency output which represents the position of the movable finger with respect to the cooperating finger.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. In a robot system having at least one finger element which is movable in opposition to at least one cooperating finger element to grasp an object to be manipulated, a drive mechanism coupled to said movable finger element, a position sensing means for sensing the position of said movable finger element in relation to said cooperating finger element, said position sensing means comprising a variable reactance device including two cooperating reactance elements, at least one of said reactance elements being movable with respect to the other one of said reactance elements and being mechanicaly coupled to said movable finger element for movement therewith, the other one of said reactance elements being mechanically coupled to said cooperating finger element, the relative movement between said reactance elements being effective to vary the reactance of said variable reactance device, an oscillator circuit connected with said variable reactance device, the frequency of said oscillator circuit being variable in response to the variation in the reactance of said variable reactance device to thereby provide a frequency output signal which represents a measure of the position of said movable finger element with respect to said cooperating finger element. 2. A system as claimed in claim 1 wherein said drive mechanism is coupled to said cooperating finger element to drive said cooperating finger element for movement in opposition to said movable finger element. 3. A system as claimed in claim 1 wherein one of said two cooperating reactance elements of said variable reactance device comprises a hollow cylindrical tube member and the other one of said cooperating reactance elements comprises a cylindrical plunger member, the relative movement between said reactance elements being effective to cause said plunger element to have varying positions of penetration into said tube member. 4. A system as claimed in claim 3 wherein said tube member and said plunger member are each composed essentially of electrically conductive material and said members are electricaly insulated from one another and form a variable capacitive reactance device. 5. A system as claimed in claim 3 wherein said tube member comprises a coil form and includes an inductive winding thereon, and wherein said plunger member is composed of a magnetic material so that said plunger member is effective to change the inductive reactance of said winding depending upon the axial position of said plunger member within said tube member so that said cooperating reactance elements form a variable inductive reactance device. 6. A system as claimed in claim 3 wherein said oscillator circuit includes a parallel resonance circuit. 7. A system as claimed in claim 3 which includes a frequency-to-voltage convertor to convert the frequency output to a voltage output. 