An animated figure toy having a lower torso with a trunnion member coupled for rotatable movement, the trunnion including hinge couplers connectable to mating hinge portions on the interior of front and rear halves of the upper torso. A spring is positioned beneath the trunnion for coaction with an actuating post slidingly captively retained within the trunnion for limited axial movement, the post having pivotably attached thereto a head supporting member with a head thereon. Engaging interlocking fingers on the interior of the front and rear halves of the torso hold the parts together, with an actuating member slidably mounted on one of the fingers engageable by a plate portion on the front torso for separation of the arms and movement of the post under force of the spring to pivot the parts outwardly.
Claims I claim: 1. In a figure toy, the combination comprising: an upper torso having first and second portions configured for forming a generally hollow interior; lower torso means; coupling means attached to said lower torso means for hingedly coupling said first and second portions of said upper torso thereto; post means moveably connected to said coupling means; spring means coupled for biasing said post means to a first position and for enabling manual actuation of said post means against the bias to a second position; interconnecting means on said first and second portions for coaction with said post means for maintaining said post means in said second position against the force of the bias of said spring means and for detachably retaining said halves in an assembled position with said post means in said second position; and actuating means coacting with said interconnecting means for detachment thereof for enabling actuation of said post means to said first position for pivotally separating said first and second halves. 2. The toy according to claim 1 wherein said coupling means includes means for providing pivotal movement between said upper torso and said lower torso means. 3. The toy according to claim 2 wherein said coupling means is a trunnion member having an opening therein receiving said post means. 4. The toy according to claim 3 wherein said spring means is a spring member within said lower torso means beneath said post means. 5. The toy according to claim 4 wherein said post means is a post member, and said toy further includes head means coupled to the upper end of said post member. 6. The toy according to claim 1 wherein said interconnecting means are finger members on the interior of said first and second portions of said upper torso, said finger members having barb means on the ends thereof and being positioned for interlocking engagement. 7. In a figure toy, the combination comprising: an upper torso having first and second halves; lower torso means; coupling means attached to said lower torso means for hingedly coupling said first and second halves of said upper torso thereto; post means having one end thereof captively connected to said coupling means for movement along the longitudinal centerline of the toy; spring means coupled for biasing said post means to a first position and for enabling manual actuation of said post means against the bias to a second position; head means coupled to the other end of said post means for movement therewith; interconnecting means on said first and second halves for coaction with said post means for maintaining said post means in said second position against the force of the bias of said spring means and for detachably retaining said halves in an assembled position with said post means in said second position; and means on said upper torso adapted for coaction with said interconnecting means for enabling actuation of said post means to said first position for pivotally separating said first and second halves. 8. The toy according to claim 7 wherein said coupling means includes means for enabling relative pivoting of said upper torso and said lower torso means. 9. The toy according to claim 7 wherein said interconnecting means includes detachably engaging finger members formed on the interiors of said first and second halves. 10. The toy according to claim 7 wherein said coupling means is a trunnion member pivotably coupled to said lower torso means. 11. In a figure toy, the combination comprising: an upper torso having first and second halves; lower torso means; a trunnion member pivotably coupled to said lower torso means for hingedly coupling said first and second halves of said upper torso thereto, said trunnion member including an opening therein; post means moveably captively connected to said coupling means said post means being slidably captively coupled within said opening; spring means coupled for biasing said post means to a first position and for enabling manual actuation of said post means against the bias to a second position; head means coupled to said post means for movement therewith; interconnecting means on said first and second halves for detachably retaining said halves in an assembled position with said post means in said second position; and means on said upper torso adapted for coaction with said interconnecting means for enabling actuation of said post means to said first position for pivotally separating said first and second halves. 12. The toy according to claim 11 wherein said trunnion member includes hinge means for coaction with mating hinge means on said first and second halves of said upper torso. 13. The toy according to claim 12 wherein said spring means includes a spring member mounted within said lower torso means beneath said opening for coaction with said post means. 14. The toy according to claim 13 wherein said head means includes a head support member and a head member attached thereto, said head support member being pivotably coupled to said post means. 15. The toy according to claim 14 wherein said toy further includes arm members pivotally coupled to said head support member. 16. In a figure toy, the combination comprising: an upper torso having first and second halves; a lower torso having leg members coupled thereto; a trunnion member pivotably coupled to said lower torso, and including means for hingedly coupling said first and second halves of said upper torso thereto, said trunnion having an opening therein in alignment with the longitudinal centerline of the toy; a post member moveably captively connected to said trunnion within said opening; spring means within said lower torso coupled for biasing said post member to a first position and for enabling manual actuation of said post member against the bias to a second position; head means coupled to said post member for movement therewith; interconnecting means on said first and second halves of said upper torso for detachably retaining said halves in an assembled position with said post member in said second position; and means on said upper torso adapted for coaction with said interconnecting means for enabling actuation of said post means to said first position for pivotally separating said first and second halves. 17. The toy according to claim 16 wherein said interconnecting means includes detachably engaging finger members formed on the interiors of said first and second halves. 18. The toy according to claim 17 wherein said means on said upper torso for coaction with said interconnecting means includes an actuating member slidably coupled to one of said finger members. 19. In a figure toy, the combination comprising: an upper torso having first and second portions configured for forming a generally hollow interior; lower torso means; coupling means attached to said lower torso means for hingedly coupling said first and second portions of said upper torso thereto; a slotted post member moveably connected to said coupling means; spring means coupled for biasing said post means to a first position and for enabling manual actuation of said post means against the bias to a second position; interconnecting means including finger members on the interior of said first and second portions of said upper torso member, said finger members having barb means on the ends thereof and being positioned for interlocking engagement, said finger members, in the interlocked position, extending into and coacting with the slot of said post member for retaining said post means in said second position and detachably retaining said portions in an assembled position with said post means in said second position; and actuating means coacting with said interconnecting means for detachment thereof for enabling actuation of said post means to said first position for pivotally separating said first and second portions. 20. In a figure toy, the combination comprising: an upper torso having first and second halves; lower torso means; coupling means attached to said lower torso means for hingedly coupling said first and second halves of said upper torso thereto; post means moveably captively connected to said coupling means; spring means coupled for biasing said post means to a first position and for enabling manual actuation of said post means against the bias to a second position; head means coupled to said post means for movement therewith; interconnecting means including detachably engaging finger members formed on the interiors of said first and second halves for detachably retaining said halves in an assembled position with said post means in said second position; and means on said upper torso including an actuating member slidably coupled to one of said finger members for coaction with said interconnecting means for enabling actuation of said post means to said first position for pivotally separating said first and second halves. 21. The toy according to claim 20 wherein said actuating member includes a depressible plate portion on said upper torso. 22. In a figure toy having a longitudinal centerline, the combination comprising: an upper torso having first and second portions configured for forming a generally hollow interior; lower torso means; coupling means attached to said lower torso means for coupling said first and second halves of said upper torso thereto for pivotal movement about axes generally perpendicular to the longitudinal centerline; post means having an end thereof connected to said coupling means for movement along the longitudinal centerline; spring means coupled for biasing said post means to a first position and for enabling manual actuation of said post means against the bias to a second position; interconnecting means on the interior of said first and second portions for coaction with said post means for maintaining said post means in said second position against the force of bias of said spring means and for detachably retaining said portions in an assembled position with said post means in said second position; and actuating means coacting with said interconnecting means for detachment thereof for enabling actuation of said post means to said first position for pivotally separating said first and second halves. 23. The toy according to claim 22 wherein said toy further includes head means connected to the other end of said post means, said first and second portions of said upper torso being configured for receiving said head means therebetween. 24. The toy according to claim 22 wherein said coupling means is a trunnion member for providing pivotal movement between said upper torso and said lower torso means. 25. The toy according to claim 24 wherein said trunnion member has an opening therein for slidably receiving said post means. 26. The toy according to claim 22 wherein said interconnecting means includes finger members projecting from the interior of said portions, said finger members including barbed ends configured for interlocking engagement. 