A carrier for circuit boards and the like provides an adjustable, rigid, precision aligned structure having only three types of elements held together by a few screw fasteners. Rigidly straight glide plates have rows of partially punched out glide lugs which provide low friction, nonjamming insertion and removal of boards by automatic equipment.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A circuit board carrier, comprising: a base; a cover superposed above said base in parallel spaced relationship thereto; first and second glide plates in laterally opposed spaced alignment between said base and cover, each said glide plate comprising one or more coplanar glide panels having spaced parallel rows of inwardly facing, inwardly extending, partially punched out glide lugs for glideable support of a plurality of circuit boards; a plurality of vertically disposed glide plate supports fixedly attached to said first glide plate, and attached at its lower and upper end to said base and cover, respectively; and a plurality of vertically disposed glide plate supports fixedly attached to said second glide plate, and attached at its lower and upper end to said base and cover, respectively. 2. The circuit board carrier according to claim 1, wherein: said glide lugs are partially punched out to provide a continuous web bonding said glide panel to the entire interfacial perimeter of each said glide lug. 3. The circuit board carrier according to claim 2, wherein: said web has a mean thickness which is 15-50 percent of the thickness of said glide panel. 4. The circuit board carrier according to claim 1 wherein: said inward extension of said lugs from said panels is greater at the leading end than at the trailing end of said lugs. 5. The circuit board carrier according to claim 1 wherein: the total aggregate length of said lugs in each row on said guide panel comprises less than 70 percent of the total length of said panel. 6. The circuit board carrier according to claim 1 wherein: the total aggregate length of said lugs in each row on said glide panel comprises less than 60 percent of the total length of said panel. 7. The circuit board carrier according to claim 1, wherein: said glide lugs comprise generally bullet-shaped extrusions having a rounded leading end as viewed perpendicularly from said glide panel. 8. The circuit board carrier according to claim 1, wherein: said glide lugs comprise generally bullet-shaped extrusions having a rounded leading end and a narrowed tapering trailing end, as viewed perpendicularly from said glide panel. 9. The circuit board carrier according to claim 1, wherein: the endmost glide lugs in each said row of glide lugs have a rounded leading end directed toward the nearest end of said row. 10. The circuit board carrier according to claim 1, wherein: each said glide lug in each said glide plate has a rounded leading end directed toward the nearest end of said glide plate. 11. The circuit board carrier according to claim 1, wherein: said glide lugs in said glide plates have rounded leading ends directed toward the end wherein circuit boards are to be inserted. 12. The circuit board carrier according to claim 1, wherein: the front and/or rear edge of each said glide panel is bent outwardly at an angle to provide a ramp for inserting circuit boards from the front and/or rear edge of said glide plate. 13. The circuit board carrier according to claim 12, wherein: said angle of said ramp is 8-35 degrees. 14. The circuit board carrier according to claim 1, wherein said glide panels are metal. 15. The circuit board carrier according to claim 1, wherein: said glide lugs in a glide panel are punched out in a single operation. 16. The circuit board carrier according to claim 1, wherein: said vertically disposed glide plate supports attached to at least one of said glide plates are moveably attached at said lower and upper end to said base and cover, respectively, for controllably adjusting the spacing between said first and second glide plates to accommodate different circuit board widths. 17. A circuit board carrier, comprising: a base with a floor and two or more transverse raised rails elevated above said floor; a cover with a deck and two or more transverse inverted rails suspended below said deck, said cover superposed above said base in parallel spaced relationship thereto; first and second glide plates in laterally opposed spaced alignment between said base and cover, each said glide plate comprising one or more coplanar glide panels having spaced parallel rows of inwardly facing, inwardly extending, partially punched out glide lugs for glideable support of a plurality of circuit boards; a plurality of vertically disposed glide plate supports fixedly attached to said first glide plate to form a first glide assembly extending between said raised rails of said base and said inverted rails of said cover; a plurality of vertically disposed glide plate supports fixedly attached to said second glide plate to form a second glide assembly extending between said raised rails of said base and said inverted rails of said cover; and attachment means for attaching the lower portion of each said glide plate support to a raised rail on said base, and for attaching the upper portion of each said glide plate support to an inverted rail suspended from said cover. 18. The circuit board carrier according to claim 17, wherein: said raised rails and inverted rails have apertures therein; said glide plate supports have apertures at the lower and upper ends corresponding to said apertures in said raised and inverted rails, respectively; and said glide plate supports are attached to said raised rails and inverted rails by screwed fasteners passing through corresponding apertures. 19. The circuit board carrier according to claim 18, wherein: said glide plate supports of at least one said glide assembly are moveably attached to said raised and inverted rails for controllably adjusting the spacing between said first and second glide plates to accommodate different circuit board widths. 20. The circuit board carrier according to claim 19, wherein: apertures in said rails comprise one or more slots in each said rail for movably attaching said glide plate supports to said rails. 21. The circuit board carrier according to claim 17, wherein: each said glide plate support comprising a channel-shaped member having a first, a second, and a third support wall integrally formed from a single sheet or plate, said first support wall including an extended tab at each end for communication with and attachment to a raised rail and a corresponding inverted rail, said second support wall attached to said glide plate, and each terminal edge of said second and third support walls abutting the adjacent rail. 22. The circuit board carrier according to claim 17, wherein: said base is integrally formed from a single sheet or plate with a front edge, a back edge, and first and second side edges, to provide a floor and a plurality of spaced transverse rails raised above said floor and extending from said first side edge to said second side edge, each said raised rail comprising a portion of said base forming an elevated platform joined to front and rear vertically disposed parallel raised rail walls, one or both of said raised rail walls joining said elevated platform to said floor, and one or both of said rail walls having apertures therein for attaching glide plate supports to said raised rails. 23. The circuit board carrier according to claim 17, wherein: said cover is integrally formed from a single sheet or plate with a front edge, a back edge, and first and second side edges, to provide a deck and a plurality of spaced transverse rails suspended below said deck and extending from said first side edge to said second side edge, each said suspended rails comprising a portion of said cover forming a suspended platform joined to front and rear vertically disposed parallel suspended rail walls, one or both of said suspended rail walls joining said suspended platform to said deck, and one or both of said parallel rail walls having apertures therein for attaching glide plate supports to said suspended rails. 24. The circuit board carrier according to claim 17, wherein: said base and cover are interchangeable. 25. The circuit board carrier according to claim 17, wherein: said base and cover are interchangeable, said first and second glide plates are interchangeable, and said glide plate supports are interchangeable. 26. The circuit board carrier according to claim 17, wherein: said cover is a mirror image of said base. 27. The circuit board carrier according to claim 17, wherein: said base and cover are formed from metal sheet or plate. 28. The circuit board carrier according to claim 17, further comprising indicia marks on one or more of said raised rails and/or inverted rails to indicate spacing between said first and second glide plates. 29. The circuit board carrier according to claim 17, wherein: the number of rails in each said base and cover is two to four. 30. The circuit board carrier according to claim 17, wherein: the number of rails in each said base and cover is three. 31. The circuit board carrier according to claim 17, wherein: said glide lugs are partially punched out to provide a continuous web bonding said glide panel to the entire interfacial perimeter of each said glide lug. 32. The circuit board carrier according to claim 17, wherein: said web has a mean thickness which is 15-50 percent of the thickness of said glide panel. 33. The circuit board carrier according to claim 17, wherein: said inward extension of said lugs from said glide panels is greater at the leading end than at the trailing end of said lugs. 34. The circuit board carrier according to claim 17, wherein: the total aggregate length of said lugs in each row on said glide panel comprises less than 70 percent of the total length of said panel. 35. The circuit board carrier according to claim 17, wherein: the total aggregate length of said lugs in each row on said glide panel comprises less than 60 percent of the total length of said panel. 36. The circuit board carrier according to claim 17, wherein: said glide lugs comprise generally bullet-shaped extrusions having a rounded leading end as viewed perpendicularly from said glide panel. 37. The circuit board carrier according to claim 17, wherein: said glide lugs comprise generally bullet-shaped extrusions having a rounded leading end and a narrowed tapering trailing end, as viewed perpendicularly from said glide panel. 38. The circuit board carrier according to claim 17, wherein: the endmost glide lugs in each said row of glide lugs have a rounded leading end directed toward the nearest end of said row. 39. The circuit board carrier according to claim 17, wherein: each said glide lug in each said glide plate has a rounded leading end directed toward the nearest end of said glide plate. 40. The circuit board carrier according to claim 17, wherein: said glide lugs in said glide plates have rounded leading ends directed toward the end wherein circuit boards are to be inserted. 41. The circuit board carrier according to claim 17, wherein: the front and/or rear edge of each said glide panel is bent outwardly at an angle to provide a ramp for inserting circuit boards from the front and/or rear edge of said glide panel. 42. The circuit board carrier according to claim 41, wherein: said angle of said ramp is 8-35 degrees. 43. The circuit board carrier according to claim 17, wherein: said glide panels are metal. 