Several embodiments of a method and apparatus for accurately positioning solid components for a robotic pickup mechanism having a floating gripper head, are described. In a first arrangement, connectors are transported along a guide track, with linear arrays of solid projections depending from each connector received in slots formed in the track. Conveyance of the connector is completed when a leading projection contacts an accurately positioned stop wall located in one of the projection receiving slots. An alignment bar, generally coextensive with the linear array of solid projections, presses the projections against a track wall communicating with the slot. In a second arrangement, a gauge block is elevated to receive the solid projections of the connector, and is thereafter translated to a final loading position adjacent a robotic pickup mechanism. In a third embodiment, a shuttle mechanism for use with a gauge block is disclosed. The shuttle mechanism includes latching arms for retaining the connector against the upper movement of the gauge block, the latch arms being pivotable to clear the top surface of the connector, allowing presentation of the connector to a component pickup apparatus.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of accurately positioning a solid body from a loading station to a remote mounting station on a mounting surface by means of a robotic arm, said body having an external surface defined between a pair of opposed external edges, and at least one linear array of projections having a predetermined configuration depending from said external surface located between said external edges, said mounting surface including a linear array of projection-receiving apertures having a configuration corresponding to that of said linear array of said projections, said robotic arm having a head which engages said external edges of said solid body, a pick up and thereby withdraw said solid body from said loading station, moving said solid body to said remote mounting station so as to overlie said array of projection-receiving apertures, and lowering said solid body so as to insert said solid projections in said apertures, wherein the improvement comprises: positioning said linear array of projections along a reference line a-b having a configuration corresponding to that of said linear array of projections, where a is a position of a lead projection; positioning the head to overlie said connector at a given orientation with respect to said reference line; gripping said edges of said solid body independent of the orientation of said head; raising said arm and withdrawing said solid body from said loading station, and moving said solid body to said mounting station; orienting said head such that said projections overlie and are aligned with said linear array of mounting holes; and lowering said head and inserting said solid projections in said apertures. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of positioning said linear array of projections along a line 1-b, where a is the position of the lead terminal, comprises the steps of: positioning said lead projection against a stop wall defining said position a; and positioning said linear array of projections laterally against a straight reference surface defining said line a-b. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein said step of positioning said linear array of projections along a line a-b, where a is the position of the lead terminal, comprises: positioning a gauge block beneath said body, said gauge block having an upper surface defining a linear array of projection-receiving gauging apertures having a configuration corresponding to said linear array of mounting apertures; moving said gauge block toward said solid body so as to engage and receive said solid projections therein; and positioning said gauge block so that said linear array of gauging apertures are congruent to said line a-b. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein said step of withdrawing said connector from said loading station comprises the step of fixing said gauge block in a predetermined position, and moving said body so as to withdraw said projections therefrom. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein said straight reference surface includes an accurately dimensioned linear array of projection receiving and straightening recesses formed in said reference surface, and said positioning step including the step of aligning said projections with respect to each other and with respect to said reference surface. 6. The method of claim 3 further comprising the step of, subsequent to said engagement of said projections with said gauge block, advancing said gauge block to said loading station. 7. The method of claim 3 further including the step of restraining the upper surface of said solid body against movement away from said gauge block as said gauge block engages said solid projections. 8. The method of claim 7 further comprising the step of advancing said gauge block with said solid projections engaged therein, from a first position upwardly to a second release position adjacent said loading station, where said solid body is freed for upward withdrawal. 