A pair of fingers are operated by air cylinders at different rates in accordance with a given wiring function. In one function, one finger engages, supports and aligns an IDT at low pressure prior to insertion of the wire by the other finger at high pressure. The opening and closing of the fingers is also at high pressure. The closing of the fingers captivates the wire in alignment therewith as the tool travels from terminal to terminal. The wire is severed from the last terminal in the wiring sequence by an air operated knife. The tool is adapted to be connected to a robotic arm.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A pneumatic wire insertion tool for inserting a wire into electrical engagement with an insulation displacement terminal (IDT) on a substrate, said terminal including a set of spaced tines extending in a given direction for receiving said wire at one end thereof and further including tine support structure at the other end thereof for securing said tines to a post extending approximately normal to said direction, said tool comprising: a support adapted to be attached to an automatic insertion tool head which locates and moves the tool relative to said IDT; a first element movably secured to the support having an open state and a terminal support state, said element including a portion having a groove therein adapted for receiving and mating with said tine support structure in said support state, said groove and support structure being dimensioned such that said receiving groove tends to align said tines relative to said groove; a second element having an open state and a wire insertion state movably secured to the support spaced from the first element, said second element including a wire insertion member adapted to mate with said tines in said insertion state for pushing said wire into said electrical engagement with said aligned tines; wire feed means secured to the support for feeding said wire between and aligned with said groove and said insertion member; and pneumatic actuating means coupled to the support and elements for initially pneumatically moving said first element from its open state to its support state at a first rate sufficiently low to seat and align said tine support structure in said groove and thereby align said tines relative to said second element and for then pneumatically moving said second element in said insertion state at a second rate significantly greater than said first rate to push said wire into said engagement toward the first element, said first element supporting said tines at said tine support structure during said wire pushing. 2. The tool of claim 1 wherein said actuating means includes a first pneumatic means for placing and maintaining said first element in the support state; and a second pneumatic means for moving the second element into said insertion state after placing the first element in said support state. 3. The tool of claim 1 wherein said actuating means includes first and second pneumatic means responsive to a fluid applied as an input thereto for respectively moving said first and second elements and flow restriction means coupled to the second pneumatic means adapted to reduce the flow of said applied pressurized fluid to said second pneumatic means an amount sufficient to cause the applied fluid to move the first element into the support state from its open state prior to the commencement of said second element insertion state. 4. The tool of claim 3 wherein said actuating means includes pressure control means coupled to said first and second pneumatic means adapted to reduce the pressure of said applied fluid during the moving of said first element to the support state and for significantly increasing the pressure of the applied fluid after the first element reaches said support state to move the second element in the insertion state. 5. The tool of claim 1 further including a blade movably secured to one of said elements and facing the other element, said other element including a cutting anvil facing and adapted to mate with said blade, said feed means including means for feeding said wire between said blade and anvil, said actuating means including pneumatic means for selectively moving said blade an amount sufficient to sever said wire passing between said blade and anvil. 6. The tool of claim 1 wherein said elements include channel means for embracing said fed wire at a location adjacent to the insertion member and groove in a wire captivating state to retain said fed wire in alignment with said elements after the attachment of said wire to said terminal; and said actuating means including stop means secured to said support and coupled to the elements for stopping the movement of said elements in said open state in one element movement direction and in said wire captivating state in a second element movement direction. 7. The tool of claim 1 wherein said pneumatic means includes pneumatic element drive means coupled to the support for moving each said elements in response to applied pressurized fluid, and control means and valve means responsive to said control means for selectively applying said pressurized fluid as an input to said drive means, said control means including means for selectively causing the valve means to apply said pressurized fluid at a first pressure value to said drive means to move said elements to their respective open states and at a second pressure value to move said first element to its terminal support state, the second value being significantly lower than the first value. 8. The tool of claim 7 wherein the means for selectively applying said fluid includes means responsive to said lower value pressure for moving the second element from its open state to a point just prior to entering its insertion state and for causing the first element to enter the support state prior to the second element entering its insertion state. 9. The tool of claim 8 wherein the drive means includes first and second pneumatic means for respectively driving the first and second elements, said second pneumatic means including fluid flow rate adjust means adapted to receive said applied fluid for reducing the flow rate of said received pressurized fluid relative to the flow rate applied to the first drive means to thereby cause said applied fluid to move the first element more quickly than the second element from their respective open states. 10. The tool of claim 1 including means for pivotally securing the elements to the support, said actuating means including a first fluid cylinder coupled to the support to pivotally drive the first element and a second fluid cylinder coupled to the support to pivotally drive the second element, each said cylinders being coupled to receive pressurized fluid applied as an input thereto from a single source. 11. The tool of claim 1 wherein said actuating means includes control means for selectively applying pressurized fluid from said source at first and second different pressure values, said first value being at a level corresponding to said first rate and the second value being at a level corresponding to said second rate. 12. The tool of claim 11 wherein said actuating means includes flow rate adjust means coupled to the second fluid cylinder to reduce the flow rate of said fluid to said second fluid cylinder to a level below the value of the flow rate to the first fluid cylinder. 13. The tool of claim 11 wherein said second element has a wire captivate state different than its open and insert states, said tool including element stops secured to the support and coupled to the elements for stopping the elements in their open state and in the respective wire support and captivate states in response to the selective operation of said cylinders. 14. In a wire insertion apparatus including a tool for automatically attaching a length of wire to an insulation displacement terminal (IDT) of the type including a pair of insulation displacement tines extending approximately normal to a post attached to a substrate, said apparatus including tool locating and displacement means for automatically locating the wire insertion tool at a given wire insertion location on the substrate for inserting the wire onto said IDT and for moving the tool from terminal to terminal on the substrate, said tool comprising: first and second aligned facing fingers movably secured to the support in spaced relation, each finger adapted for moving in first and second opposite directions so that said fingers may be positioned in an open state and a wire captivating state, the first finger including terminal support means adapted to abut said terminal for aligning and supporting said tines to create a reaction force in response to a pushing force by the second finger normal to said post, the second finger including wire pushing means adapted to push said wire toward said terminal support means into engagement with said tines in a wire insertion state intermediate said open and captivating states, at least one of said fingers having a channel dimensioned to permit said wire to pass therethrough and shaped to selectively form an enclosed aperture with the other of said fingers in said wire captivating state to retain said passed-through wire in alignment with said terminal support means and pushing means as said tool is moved from terminal to terminal; a support including a first stop means for locating the first finger in the open state and in the terminal support state in accordance with the direction that the first finger is moved, said support also including a second stop means for locating the second finger in the open state and in the wire captivating state in accordance with the direction that the second finger is moved; wire feed means secured to the support for selectively feeding wire to said wire pushing means; wire severing means coupled to said fingers for selectively severing said length of wire from said wire fed by said feed means; and pneumatic actuating means coupled to said support for selectively cooperatively placing said fingers in said open, terminal support, wire insertion, and captivating states. 15. The tool of claim 14 wherein said pneumatic actuating means includes control means, pneumatic finger operating means and valve means, said valve means having an input and an output responsive to said control means for selectively causing pressurized fluid applied as an input thereto to be applied at said output and to said operating means, said operating means for pneumatically actuating said first and second fingers, said valve means applying fluid at a first relatively low pressure to said operating means for initially placing said first finger into the terminal support state and then the second finger into the insertion state and at a second relatively high pressure to then operate the second finger when in the insertion state. 16. The tool of claim 15 wherein said operating means includes first and second fluid cylinder means secured to the support and means adapted for coupling the first and second cylinders to the same source of fluid pressure, the second cylinder means including means for reducing the flow of said fluid at said relatively low pressure to cause said initial placement of said first finger. 