A system for tracking a randomly moving object using a laser beam and first and second beam steering assemblies. The steering assemblies pivot, respectively, about substantially perpendicular and intersecting X and Y axes and direct the laser beam along an R axis, which is perpendicular to the X axis and intersects the X and Y axes. Along the R axis, the laser beam is intercepted by a retroreflector, which is coupled to the moving object and which returns the laser beam to a quadrant detector via the steering assemblies. The quadrant detector generates an error signal representative of the object's movement relative to the X and Y axes, and this signal is transmitted to two motors which pivot the steering assemblies about the X and Y axes to reduce the error to zero. The system includes an interferometer to determine the distance of the object from a reference location. The first beam steering assembly includes two prisms which redirect the laser beam through three 90.degree. reflections from an initial direction parallel to the Y axis and towards the X axis to an intermediate direction along the X axis and towards the Y axis. The second beam steering assembly includes a third prism which redirects the laser beam through one 90.degree. reflection from the intermediate direction along the X axis to one coincident with the R axis.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A tracking system for continually tracking a moving object relative to a reference location, the combination comprising: a retroreflector rigidly coupled to the object; a rigid stationary base positioned at the reference location; a first support; means for pivotally coupling said first support to said base for pivotal movement about a Y axis; a second support; means for pivotally coupling said second support to said first support for pivotal movement about an X axis, said X and Y axes being substantially perpendicular and intersecting at a point A; means for generating a laser beam directed along said Y axis towards point A; first reflective means, rigidly coupled to said first support, for receiving the laser beam extending along said Y axis before it intersects the X axis and redirecting the laser beam along said X axis towards point A; second reflective means, rigidly coupled to said second support, for (a) receiving the redirected laser beam along said X axis from said first reflective means and redirecting the laser beam at point A along an R axis indicent on said retroreflector, and (b) receiving the laser beam reflected by said retroreflector and redirecting the laser beam substantially parallel to and generally along said X axis away from point A; said R axis being substantially perpendicular to said X axis and intersecting said X and Y axes at said point A; motive means, coupled to said base and said first and second supports, for pivoting, respectively, said first and second supports relative to said base; detection means, located along the path of the laser beam, for receiving the laser beam after incidence on said retroreflector and for generating an error signal representing movement of said retroreflector and object relative to said X and Y axes; and control means, coupled to said motive means and receiving said error signal, for actuating said motive means to reduce said error signal to zero. 2. A tracking system according to claim 1, and further comprising inteferometer means, coupled to said base and receiving the laser beam from said means for generating a laser beam and receiving a portion of the retro-reflected laser beam from said second reflective means via said first reflective means, for determining the distance of said retroreflector and object from the reference location; said first reflective means including means for redirecting a portion of the retro-reflected laser beam from said second reflective means to said interferometer means. 3. A tracking system according to claim 1, wherein said first reflective means comprises a first reflector for reflecting the incident laser beam extending along said Y axis in a direction substantially parallel to said X axis and away from said Y axis, a second reflector for reflecting the incident laser beam received from said first reflector in a direction substantially parallel to said Y axis and towards said X axis, and a third reflector for reflecting the incident laser beam received from said second reflector in a direction substantially parallel to and substantially coincident with said X axis. 4. A tracking system according to claim 3, wherein said Y axis intersects said first reflector. 5. A tracking system according to claim 4, wherein said X axis intersects said third reflector. 6. A tracking system according to claim 3, wherein said X axis intersects said third reflector. 7. A tracking system according to claim 1, wherein said second reflective means comprises a front surface reflector. 8. A tracking system according to claim 1, wherein said means for pivotally coupling said first support to said base has a range of about .+-.90.degree., and said means for pivotally coupling said second support to said first support has a range of about .+-.60.degree.. 9. A tracking system according to claim 1, wherein said first support comprises a hollow housing. 10. A tracking system according to claim 9, wherein said second support comprises a substantially S-shaped member. 11. A tracking system according to claim 1, wherein said second support comprises a substantially S-shaped member. 12. A tracking system according to claim 1, wherein said detection means comprises a quadrant detector. 13. A tracking system according to claim 1, wherein said first support includes means for supporting said detection means on said first support in a position intersected by said X axis. 14. A tracking system according to claim 13, wherein said means for supporting said detection means comprises a tubular shaft. 15. A tracking system according to claim 14, wherein said tubular shaft is rigidly coupled to said detection means and said means for supporting further comprises means for pivotably coupling said tubular shaft to said first support. 16. A tracking system according to claim 1, wherein said means for pivotally coupling said first support to said base comprises a tubular shaft through which said laser beam passes. 17. A tracking system according to claim 1, wherein said means for generating a laser beam directed along said Y axis comprises a reflector rigidly coupled to said base and intersected by said Y axis. 18. A tracking system according to claim 1, and further comprising third reflective means, rigidly coupled to said first support, for redirecting a portion of the retro-reflected laser beam from said second reflective means along said Y axis, and interferometer means, coupled to said base and receiving the laser beam from said third reflective means, for determining the distance of said retroreflector and object from the reference location. 19. A tracking system according to claim 1, wherein said motive means comprises first and second motors, means for rigidly mounting each of said motors to said base, first means for transmitting motive power from said first motor to said first support, and second means for transmitting motive power from said second motor to said second support. 20. A method of continually tracking a moving object relative to X and Y axes which are perpendicular and intersect at a point A at a reference location, comprising the steps of rigidly coupling a retroreflector to the object, directing a laser beam along the Y axis towards the X axis, redirecting the laser beam from the Y axis, before the beam intersects the X axis, along the X axis, redirecting the laser beam from the X axis at point A along an R axis incident on the retroreflector, the R axis being substantially perpendicular to the X axis and intersecting the X and Y axes at point A, generating an error signal from the displacement of the laser beam after incidence of the laser beam on the retroreflector representing movement of the retroreflector and object relative to the X and Y axes, and relocating the R axis relativ to the retroreflector and object so as to reduce the error signal to zero. 21. A method according to claim 20, and further comprising the step of determining the distance of the retroreflector and object relative to the reference location. 22. A method according to claim 20, wherein the relocating step comprises the steps of relocating the R axis within a range of about .+-.60.degree. about the X axis, and relocating the R axis within a range of about .+-.90.degree. about the Y axis. 23. A method according to claim 20, wherein the step of redirecting the laser beam from the Y axis along the X axis comprises the steps of reflecting the laser beam extending along the Y axis in a direction substantially parallel to the X axis and away from the Y axis, reflecting the laser beam substantially parallel to the Y axis and towards the X axis, and reflecting the laser beam substantially parallel to and substantially coincident with the X axis. 24. A tracking system for continually tracking a moving object relative to a reference location, the combination comprising: a retroreflector rigidly coupled to the object; a rigid stationary base positioned at the reference location; a first support; means for pivotally coupling said first support to said base for pivotal movement about a Y axis; a second support; means for pivotally coupling said second support to said first support for pivotal movement about an X axis, said X and Y axes being substantially perpendicular and intersecting at a point A; means for generating a laser beam directed along said Y axis towards point A; first reflective means, rigidly coupled to said first support, for receiving the laser beam extending along said Y axis before it intersects the X axis and redirecting the laser beam along said X axis towards point A; second reflective means, rigidly coupled to said second support, for receiving the redirected laser beam along said X axis from said first reflective means and redirecting the laser beam at point A along an R axis incident on said retroreflector; said R axis being substantially perpendicular to said X axis and intersecting said X and Y axes at said point A; motive means, coupled to said base and said first and second supports, for pivoting, respectively, said first and second supports relative to said base; detection means, located along the path of the laser beam, for receiving the laser beam after incidence on said retroreflector and for generating an error signal representing movement of said retroreflector and object relative to said X and Y axes; and control means, coupled to said motive means and receiving said error signal, for actuating said motive means to reduce said error signal to zero. 25. A tracking system according to claim 24, wherein said second reflective means further includes means for receiving the laser beam reflected by said retroreflector. 26. A tracking system according to claim 25, and further comprising interfermeter means, coupled to said base and receiving the laser beam from said means for generating a laser beam and receiving a portion of the retro-reflected laser beam from said second reflective means via said first reflective means, for determining the distance of said retroreflector and object from the reference locatioon; said first reflective means including means for redirecting a portion of the retro-reflected laser beam from said second reflective means to said interferometer means. 27. A tracking system according to claim 24, wherein said first reflective means comprises a first reflector for reflecting the incident laser beam extending along said Y axis in a direction substantially parallel to said X axis and away from said Y axis, a second reflector for reflecting the incident laser beam received from said first reflector in a direction substantially parallel to said Y axis and towards said X axis, and a third reflector for reflecting the incident laser beam received from said second reflector in a direction substantially parallel to and substantially coincident with said X axis. 