A gripper for a remotely controlled material handling apparatus. The gripper includes two cooperatively movable gripping jaws engaged by the support arm of the material handling apparatus, and a control cable secured at one end to one of the pair of jaws and at the other end to the remote control apparatus to facilitate opening and closing of the jaws about an object of interest. The jaws are adapted for being secured to the support arm of the handling apparatus in either a horizontal gripping position or in a vertical gripping position.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. In a remote control robotic material handling apparatus of the type having a laterally extending support arm with a gripper secured to the end thereof, said support arm being adapted for manipulation by remote control means, the improvement wherein said gripper comprises a pair of cooperatively movable gripping jaws each having an elongate base, the base of a first jaw being removably engaged by said support arm and a second jaw being pivotably movable toward and away from said first jaw, a control cable secured at one end to the elongate base of said second jaw and at the other end to said remote control means so that extension and retraction of said control cable will result in opening and closing, respectively, of said pair of jaws, and a spring element secured at one end to said second jaw and at the other end to the elongate base of said first jaw so as to urge said pair of jaws into a normally open position. 2. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said elongate base of said first jaw is adapted to be slidably removed from said support arm, pivoted 90 degrees about its longitudinal axis, and then slidably secured again to said support arm to facilitate both horizontal and vertical gripping by said gripper. 3. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said first jaw defines a plurality of spaced-apart fingers. 4. In combination with a robotic material handling apparatus of the type adapted to manipulate a support arm by a remote control, a gripper comprising: a support arm defining a square cross sectional open chamber at one end thereof; a first jaw having an elongate base and defining an end portion with a square cross section, said end portion adapted to be matingly positioned within said chamber of said support arm; securement means attached to said cross sectional chamber for securing the end portion of said elongate base member of said first jaw within said chamber; a second jaw having an elongate base and being pivotably secured to said first jaw; a control cable secured at one end to the elongate base of said second jaw and at the other end to said remote control of said robotic material handling apparatus; and a spring element secured at one end to said second jaw and at the other end to the elongate base of said first jaw; whereby the spring element urges the second jaw away from the first jaw and extension and retraction of said control cable will result in movement of the second jaw away from and toward the first jaw, respectively, and whereby the elongate base member of the first jaw may be removed from said support arm, pivoted 90 degrees about its longitudinal axis, and then again secured to said support arm so as to provide for both horizontal and vertical gripping motion as needed. 5. A gripper according to claim 4 wherein said first jaw defines a plurality of spaced-apart fingers. 6. A gripper according to claim 4 wherein said control cable is a coaxial cable. 7. A gripper according to claim 4 wherein said securing means is an adjustable screw. 