A robot (10) includes a statically-balanced direct-drive arm (14) having three degrees of freedom, all of which are independent articulated drive joints, the driving axes of two of which intersect at the center of gravity of the arm to eliminate gravity forces on the drive system without counterweights.
Claims I claim: 1. A statically-balanced robot arm, which comprises: a four-bar linkage having base, input, connecting, and output links; first drive means mounted on the base link for effecting pivotal movement of the input link of said linkage; said linkage and said first drive means having a predetermined center of gravity; means for supporting said linkage for independent pivotal movement about generally vertical and horizontal axes, said axes intersecting at said center of gravity; and second drive means for effecting independent pivotal movement of said linkage about the vertical and horizontal axes. 2. The robot arm of claim 1, wherein said first drive means comprises an electric motor having a housing and a drive shaft, the housing being fixed to the base link and the drive shaft being connected in rotatable driving engagement to the input link of said linkage. 3. The robot arm of claim 1, wherein the base, connecting and output links of said linkage are at least partially of tubular construction. 4. The robot arm of claim 1, wherein said supporting means comprises a clevis. 5. The robot arm of claim 1, wherein said second drive means comprises separate electric motors each having a housing and a drive shaft, the housing of one motor being fixed to said supporting means with its drive shaft connected in rotatable driving engagement about the horizontal axis with the base link of said linkage, and the drive shaft of the other motor being connected in rotatable driving engagement about the vertical axis to said supporting means. 6. A statically-balanced robot arm, which comprises: a four-bar linkage having base, input, connecting, and output links; control drive means mounted on the base link for effecting pivotal movement of the output link of said linkage; said linkage and said control drive means having a predetermined center of gravity; means for supporting said linkage for independent pivotal movement about generally vertical and horizontal axes, said axes intersecting at the said center of gravity; first drive means mounted on said supporting means for effecting pivotal movement of said linkage about the said horizontal axis; and second drive means for effecting pivotal movement of said supporting means about the said vertical 7. The robot arm of claim 6, wherein said horizontal axis lies generally in the plane of said linkage. 8. A statically-balanced robot arm, comprising: a four-bar linkage having base, input, connecting, and output links; a first drive motor having a housing and a drive shaft, the housing being mounted on the base link and the shaft being drivingly connected to the input link of said linkage; said linkage and said first drive motor having a predetermined center of gravity; means for supporting said linkage for independent pivotal movement about intersecting perpendicular axes, said axes intersecting at the said center of gravity; a second drive motor having a housing and a drive shaft, the housing being mounted on said supporting means and the shaft being connected directly to the base link of said linkage for selective rotatable movement about one of said axes; and a third drive motor having a housing and a rotatable drive shaft, the drive shaft being connected directly to said supporting means for selective pivotal movement about the other one of said perpendicular axes. 9. The robot arm of claim 8, wherein said horizontal axis lies generally in the plane of said linkage. 