An end effector suitable for manipulating articles such as mail flats is disclosed. This end effector has parallel reciprocating arms having suction cups for gripping the article to be manipulated and mechanical grippers mounted on the arms outboard of the suction cups. These mechanical grippers may be actuated to provide a mechanical grip on a manipulated article in addition to the suction grip.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic end effector for manipulating articles, comprising: first second substantially parallel arms, each including an inboard end and an outboard end, said arms being mounted for reciprocal longitudinal motion; means for extending said arms; first and second suction cups mounted near said outboard ends of said first and second arms, respectively, with their suction surfaces facing away from said arms; and means for sensing which of said first and second arms is manipulating the greater mass. 2. A robotic end effector for manipulating articles, comprising: first and second substantially parallel arms, each of said arms including an inboard end and an outboard end, each of said arms being mounted for reciprocal longitudinal motion; means for extending said arms so as to controllably position the outboard ends of each of said arms; first and second suction cups, said first and second suction cups being mounted near said outboard ends of said first and second arms, respectively, with their suction surfaces facing away from their respective arms; a source of vacuum coupled by valve means and conduit to said suction cups for controlling the application of vacuum to said suction cups for controlling the suction force thereof; means coupled to said arms and responsive to the forces on said arms resulting from manipulating an article for sensing that one of said first and second arms which is manipulating the greater mass; first and second grippers coupled to the outboard ends of said first and second arms, respectively; and means for actuating said gripper on said one arm which said means for sensing identifies as manipulating the greater mass. 3. The end effector recited in claim 1 including: means for compliantly mounting said suction cup's suction surface on said arm for enabling said suction cup to grip surfaces disposed at a variety of angles relative to said arm. 4. The end effector recited in claim 3 wherein said means for compliantly mounting comprises a part of said suction cup disposed between said suction surface and said arm. 5. The end effector recited in claim 3 further comprising: means for controlling the suction force of said suction cup, including: a source of vacuum; and a conduit coupled between said suction cup and said source of vacuum, said conduit including valve means for controlling the application of vacuum to said suction cup. 6. The end effector recited in claim 5 wherein each of said arms further comprises: a gripper at the outboard end thereof, said gripper including a gripping member having an actuated position in which said gripping member provides additional support for an article gripped by said suction cup and a retracted position in which said gripping member is disposed outboard of said suction cup; and means for actuating said gripper for moving said gripping member between said actuated and retracted positions. 7. A robotic end effector for manipulating articles comprising: first and second substantially parallel arms, each including an inboard end and an outboard end, said arms being mounted for reciprocal longitudinal motion; means for extending said arms; first and second suction cups, each including a suction surface, said first and second suction cups being mounted near said outboard ends of said first and second arms, respectively, with each of said suction surfaces facing away from that arm on which it is mounted; wherein each of said arms further comprises a gripper at said outboard end thereof, said gripper including a gripping member having an actuated position in which said gripping member provides additional support for an article gripped by said suction cup and also having a retracted position in which said gripping member is disposed outboard of said suction cup; and means for actuating said gripper for moving said gripping member between said actuated and retracted positions. 8. A robotic end effector for manipulating articles, comprising: first and second substantially parallel arms, each including an inboard end and an outboard end, said arms being mounted for reciprocal longitudinal motion; means for extending said arms; first and second suction cups, each including a suction surface, said first and second suction cups being mounted near said outboard ends of said first and second arms, respectively, with said suction surfaces facing away from said arms; each of said arms further comprising a gripper at the outboard end thereof; said gripper including a gripping member having an acuated position in which said gripping member provides additional support for an article held by said suction cup and also having a retracted position in which said gripping member is disposed outboard of said suction cup and also comprising means for actuating said gripper for moving said gripping member between said actuated and retracted positions; means for sensing forces on said end effector; and means responsive to said means for sensing for determining which of said arms is manipulating the greater mass and for activating said means for actuating said gripper of said determined arm to move said gripping member thereof to its actuated position. 