A welding monitor for use with a welding system is described. The monitor comprises a store (74) for storing at least two sets of predetermined acceptable ranges for one or more welding parameters such as voltage and current. A comparator bank (66,67) is provided for each parameter to compare the operating value of each parameter in use with the corresponding stored range or ranges. A display including sets of light emitting diodes (18-20) displays information relating to the stored ranges and operating values and is responsive to the comparator banks (66,67) to indicate the relationship between an operating value of at least one of the parameters and the corresponding predetermined range.
Claims I claim: 1. A welding monitor for connection to welding parameter sensing means, the monitor comprising storage means for storing at least two sets of predetermined acceptable ranges for one or more welding parameters; comparison means adapted to compare an operating value of said the or each parameter, determined by said sensing means, with said corresponding at least one range; and display means for displaying information relating to said stored ranges and operating values and responsive to said comparison means to indicate the relationship between an operating value of at least one of said parameters and said corresponding predetermined range wherein said storage means stores two sets of ranges for at least one of said parameters. 2. A welding monitor for connection to welding parameter sensing means, the monitor comprising storage means for storing at least two sets of predetermined acceptable ranges for one or more welding parameters; comparison means adapted to compare an operating value of said the or each parameter, determined by said sensing means, with said corresponding at least one range; and display means for displaying information relating to said stored ranges and operating values and responsive to said comparison means to indicate the relation ship between an operating value of at least one of said parameters and said corresponding predetermined range further comprising selector means responsive to a welding programme selected in use to apply a corresponding set of ranges from said storage means to said comparison means. 3. A monitor according to claim 2, wherein for at least one of said parameters, said storage means is adapted to store a single range. 4. A monitor according to claim 2, further comprising a condition selector actuable to pass to said display means an operating value of a parameter when said monitor is in an operating mode or a stored value when said monitor is in a learn mode. 5. A monitor according to claim 4, further comprising calculation means operable in said learn mode to calculate the limits of said ranges of each parameter in response to at least the input of a preferred value for said parameter. 6. A monitor according to claim 4, wherein said condition selector comprises a welding detector which determines whether said monitor should be in said operating mode or said learn mode in accordance with whether or not a welding operation is detected. 7. A monitor according to claim 4, wherein said welding detector is adapted to monitor arc current whereby when said monitored arc current exceeds a predetermined threshold, a welding operation is detected. 8. A monitor according to claim 2, wherein said display means includes at least one array of differently coloured display units which are successively illuminated as said operating value of a parameter varies relatively to said corresponding predetermined range. 9. A monitor according to claim 2, wherein said display means includes at least one of a numeric display and an alpha numeric display for indicating one or more of the operating value of said at least one parameter, a preferred value of a parameter, and the limits of said range of a parameter. 10. A monitor according to claim 9 wherein said display means comprises a common numeric and/or alpha numeric display, and a selector to enable one or more of preferred values, limits of ranges and operating values of a selected parameter to be displayed. 11. A monitor according to claim 2, wherein said display means includes an alarm condition detector connected to said comparison means to determine when a parameter is unacceptable and to generate an alarm signal. 12. A monitor according to claim 11, wherein said alarm condition detector is adapted to determine that a parameter is unacceptable when said parameter lies outside said corresponding predetermined range for a continuous predetermined duration. 13. A monitor according to claim 11, wherein said alarm condition detector is adapted to monitor the operating values of said parameters at regular intervals and, at each interval, to increment a running total by an amount corresponding to the position of the operating value relatively to said corresponding predetermined range to generate a weighted error total and to generate an alarm signal when said weighted error total exceeds a predetermined value. 14. A monitor according to claim 2, further comprising interrogation means to enable signals relating to operating values of parameters and/or alarm conditions to be passed to a remote monitoring device. 15. A weld monitoring system comprising a plurality of monitors according to claim 14; and a common control unit connected to said interrogation means of each monitor, said control unit being adapted to detect via said corresponding interrogation means the operating values of parameters and/or alarm conditions sensed by each monitor. 16. A method of monitoring a welding operation, the method comprising monitoring at least one welding parameter; comparing said monitored parameter with at least two predetermined ranges; and displaying the relationship between said monitored parameter and ranges. 17. A method according to claim 16, further comprising sensing when a parameter lies outside a corresponding predetermined range for a predetermined duration and generating an alarm signal. 18. A method according to claim 16, further comprising displaying the relative difference between an operating value of a parameter and the preferred value of that parameter. 19. A method according to claim 16, further comprising recording at regular intervals the occasions when the operating value of the parameter lies outside said corresponding range. 20. A method according to claim 16, further comprising a preliminary step of loading a memory with data defining all said relevant ranges for each parameter. 21. A method according to claim 20, wherein said preliminary step comprises calculating from preferred values the limits of said corresponding ranges. 22. A method according to claim 21, wherein said limits of said ranges are calculated as .+-.x% of each preferred value. 23. A method according to claim 21, wherein preferred values are determined by monitoring an acceptable welding operation and determining the average values of the parameters occuring over a predetermined period. 24. A method according to claim 20, wherein said preliminary step comprises calculating from predetermined outer limits, the limits of said ranges. 25. A method according to claim 16, for monitoring a welding system controlled by a number of different welding programmes, said method comprising determining the programme being operated; and selecting the appropriate ranges corresponding to said sensed programme. 26. A method of monitoring a welding operation, the method comprising monitoring at least two welding parameters; comparing said monitored parameters with respective, predetermined ranges; and displaying the relationship between said monitored parameters and said respective ranges further comprising a preliminary step of loading a memory with data defining all said relevant ranges for each parameter wherein said preliminary step comprises calculating from preferred values the limits of said corresponding ranges. 27. A method according to claim 26, wherein said limits of said ranges are calculated as .+-.x% of each preferred value. 28. A method according to claim 26, wherein said preferred values are determined by monitoring an acceptable welding operation and determining the average values of the parameters occuring over a predetermined period. 29. A method according to claim 26, wherein said preliminary step comprises calculating from predetermined outer limits, the limits of said ranges. 30. A method for monitoring a welding system which can be controlled by a number of different welding programmes, said method comprising determining the programme being operated; selecting the appropriate ranges corresponding to said sensed programme monitoring at least two welding parameters; comparing said monitored parameters with respective, predetermined ranges; and displaying the relationship between said monitored parameters and said respective ranges. 