A transfer arm mechanism including a base assembly, a pivoting arm extending generally upwardly from the base assembly, a wafer support paddle, and mechanisms for pivoting the arm back and forth while maintaining the wafer support paddle in a horizontal plane. A base assembly includes a rotatable plate which can rotate the mechanism through 360.degree., and a support plate which can be moved up and down along guide posts attached to the rotatable plate. The mechanism for moving the wafer paddle along a horizontal plane includes a cam member attached to the support plate, and a cam follower which rolls along an upper surface of the cam member to compensate for the pivoting action of the arm assembly. A mechanism is also provided to prevent the wafer paddle from tipping which includes a drive chain extending between a gear which is rotationally fixed with respect to the support plate and a gear which is attached to a pivot pin supporting the wafer paddle.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A tranfer arm mechanism comprising: a base assembly, turntable means coupled to said base assembly for rotation about a vertical axis, an elongated arm having an upper end and a lower end, said lower end supported by said turntable means at a pivot, said arm extending generally upwardly relative to said base assembly, support means coupled proximate said upper end of said arm for supporting and transferring a load, at least a portion of said support means having a planar surface, drive means for pivoting said elongated arm at said pivot, said pivoting providing horizontal movement to said upper end of said elongated arm, arm guide means coupled to said elongated arm for maintaining said upper end of the arm in a substantially horizontal plane during said pivoting of said arm, and vertical drive means coupled between said turntable means and said base assembly for vertically driving said turntable means along said vertical axis. 2. The transfer arm mechanism of claim 1 wherein said turntable means includes turntable drive means coupled between said turntable means and said base assembly for rotating said turntable means. 3. A transfer arm mechanism comprising, a base assembly, turntable means coupled to said base assembly for rotation about a vertical axis, an elongated arm having an upper end and a lower end, said lower end supported by said turntable means at a pivot, said arm extending generally upwardly relative to said base assembly. support means coupled proximate said upper end of said arm for supporting and transferring a load, at least a portion of said support means having a planar surface, drive means for pivoting said elongated arm at said pivot, said pivoting providing horizontal movment to said upper end of said elongated arm, and cam means coupled to said elongated arm for maintaining said upper end of the arm in a substantially horizontal plane during said pivoting of said arm, said cam means having a cam follower coupled to said arm and a fixed cam member coupled to said turntable means, said cam follower engaging an arcuate cam surface of said cam member, said transfer arm mechanism having a means for self-actingly varying the vertical position of said arm relatively said turntable means as said cam follower moves along said cam surface. 4. The transfer arm mechanism of claim 3 wherein said cam surface is concave and said means for varying the vertical position of said support means is a slide bearing assembly slidably coupling said elongated arm to said turntable means. 5. The transfer arm mechanism of claim 3 further comprising a slave assembly having a first gear, a second gear and linkage coupling said first and second gears, said first gear being fixed relative to said base assembly during said pivoting of said arm, said support means pivotally coupled to said arm coaxially with said second gear, whereby pivoting of said arm causes a counter-pivoting motion of said support means to maintain said planar surface of said support means in a substantially horizontal orientation. 6. The transfer arm mechanism of claim 1 wherein said support means includes a substantially planar paddle member having a means for supporting a semiconductor wafer. 7. A transfer arm mechanism for semiconductor wafers comprising, a fixed base assembly, a turntable assembly coupled to said base assembly for rotation about a vertical axis, a turntable drive means for rotating said turntable assembly about said vertical axis, an elongated arm having a first end in communication with said turntable assembly at a first pivot for rotation therewith, said elongated arm extending generally upwardly, a semiconductor wafer support means attached to a second end of said elongated arm opposite said first end, at least a portion of said wafer support means having a planar surface, arm drive means for pivoting said elongated arm at said first pivot to provide horizontal motion to said wafer support means, vertical drive means connected between said base assembly and said turntable assembly for providing vertical lift to said arm, and cam means for maintaining said second end of the elongated arm along a substantially horizontal plane during pivoting of said elongated arm at said first pivot, said cam means having a cam follower coupled to said elongated arm and having a cam member fixed to said turntable assembly, said cam member having an arcuate cam surface for receiving said cam member. 8. The transfer arm mechanism of claim 7 further comprising a slave assembly having a first gear, a second gear and linkage coupling said first and second gears, said first gear being fixed relative to said base assembly during the pivoting of said arm, said support means pivotally coupled to said arm coaxially with said second gear, whereby pivoting of said arm causes a counter-pivoting motion of said suport means to maintain said planar surface of the support means in a substantially horizontal orientation. 9. The transfer arm mechanism as recited in claim 7 wherein said turntable assembly includes a rotary plate and a support plate coupled to said rotary plate and adapted to rotate therewith, said vertical drive means coupled between said rotary plate and said support plate for vertical lift of said support plate relative to said rotary plate, said elongated arm and said cam member being supported by said support plate. 