A robotic gripper assembly having a pair of gripping fingers inserted through a slotted disk, each of which is coupled to a cam groove formed within a cam disk wherein longitudinal finger movement is effectuated along the slotted disk. The closing rate and resolution of the finger movement with respect to cam disk movement are easily changed by interchanging the cam disk. In another embodiment, a three finger configuration is provided wherein the gripping fingers move longitudinally through intersecting planes for handling irregularly shaped objects.
Claims I claim: 1. An apparatus for mechanically gripping an object, comprising: a slotted disk having a slot formed along a portion of the diameter of said slotted disk; a pair of finger receptacles positioned through said slotted disk in a plane perpendicular to the plane of said slotted disk; a cam disk positioned in a plane both parallel to and adjacent said plane of said slotted disk; cam means formed in said cam disk comprising a pair of grooves, each of said grooves being operably coupled to one of said finger receptacles; and means for rotating said cam disk to slide said finger receptacles longitudinally along said slot through a plane perpendicular to said slotted disk. 2. The apparatus recited in claim 1, further comprising: a housing for housing both said slotted disk and said cam disk; and means for removably coupling both said cam disk and said slotted disk to said housing. 3. The apparatus recited in claim 1, wherein said rotating means comprises a stepper motor coupled to said cam disk. 4. The apparatus recited in claim 3 further comprising: a source of electric power coupled to said stepper motor; means for sensing said electric power drawn by said stepper motor; and means responsive to said sensing means and coupled to said source of electric power for regulating said electric power. 5. The apparatus recited in claim 1, wherein the opposing ends of each of said grooves are separated by 180.degree. with respect to the center of said cam disk. 6. The apparatus recited in claim 1, wherein the opposing ends of each of said grooves are separated by 120.degree. with respect to the center of said cam disk. 7. The apparatus recited in claim 1, further comprising a pair of mechanical fingers, each of said mechanical fingers being connected to each of said finger receptacles. 8. An apparatus for mechanically gripping an object, comprising: a slotted disk having at least two radial slots formed along radii of said slotted disk; a plurality of gripping fingers, each one of said fingers being coupled through an associated one of said radial slots in a separate plane which is both perpendicular to the plane of said slotted disk and parallel to the longitudinal direction of said associated radial slot; a cam disk positioned in a plane both parallel to and above said plane of said slotted disk; cam means formed in said cam disk comprising a plurality of separate grooves, each one of said grooves being operably coupled to each one of said gripping fingers; and means for rotating said cam disk within said housing to slide each one of said gripping fingers longitudinally along said associated radial slot. 9. An apparatus for mechanically gripping an object, comprising: a slotted disk having at least three radial slots formed through said slotted disk, each of said radial slots being symmetrically positioned within said slotted disk; a plurality of gripping fingers, each one of said fingers being coupled through an associated one of said radial slots in a separate plane which is both perpendicular to the plane of said slotted disk and parallel to the longitudinal direction of said associated radial slot; a cam disk positioned in a plane both parallel to and above said plane of said slotted disk; cam means formed in said cam disk comprising a plurality of separate grooves, each one of said grooves being operably coupled to each one of said gripping fingers; and means for rotating said cam disk within said housing to slide each one of said gripping fingers longitudinally along said associated radial slot through separate intersecting planes. 10. The apparatus recited in claim 9, further comprising: a housing for housing both said slotted disk and said cam disk; and means for removably coupling both said slotted disk and said cam disk to said housing. 11. The apparatus recited in claim 9, wherein the opposing ends of each of said grooves are separated by 120.degree. with respect to the center of said cam disk. 12. The apparatus recited in claim 9, wherein said rotating means comprises a stepper motor coupled to said cam disk. 13. The apparatus recited in claim 12 further comprising: a source of electric power coupled to said stepper motor; means for sensing said electric power drawn by said stepper motor; and means responsive to said sensing means and coupled to said electric power source for regulating said electric power. 