An arrangement for improved dispensed material bead profile control, in which a viscous material is dispensed in a stream upon a surface. The stream is transported along that surface and forms a bead of the viscous material. The bead is then confined with air streams which also reshape the profile of the bead. The material is dispensed by a nozzle which has at least two orifices in its proximity. One orifice is located at a distance from the nozzle which is greater than for the other orifice. The orifices form air streams under pressure and direct the air streams toward the material stream, as well as toward the bead formed on the surface when the material stream is transported along that surface.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for improved dispensed material bead profile control, comprising the steps of: dispensing viscous material under pressure in a material stream upon a surface; forming air into a first air stream and directing said first air stream under pressure toward said material stream; said first air stream having an origin location spaced at a first predetermined distance from the origin location of said material stream; forming air under pressure into at least a second air stream having an origin location spaced from the origin location of said material stream by a second predetermined distance, said material stream forming a bead on said surface, said first air stream shaping said bead into a predetermined shape; and directing said second air stream toward said bead formed on said surface when said material stream is transported along said surface, said material stream being directed so that said origin location of said second air stream passes over said bead after formation on said surface and the origin location of said material stream is ahead of said origin location of said second air stream in direction of travel, said second air stream controlling the shape of the bead by flattening said bead to a predetermined height and width. 2. A method for improved dispensed material bead profile control, comprising the steps of: dispensing viscous material under pressure in a material stream upon a surface, forming air into first air streams and directing said first air streams under pressure toward said material stream; said first air streams having at least two origin locations spaced at a first predetermined distance from the origin location of said material stream; forming air under pressure into at least second air streams having at least two origin locations spaced from the origin location of said material stream at a second predetermined distance; and directing said first air streams toward a bead formed on said surface when said material stream is transported along said surface, said material stream being directed so that said first air streams are abreast of said material stream, constraining said material stream to form a bead of predetermined width on said surface, said second air streams passing over said bead after formation on said surface and the origin location of said material stream is between said origin locations of said first air streams and ahead of said origin locations of said second air streams in direction of travel, said second air streams controlling the shape of the bead by flattening said bead to a predetermined height and width. 3. A method for improved dispensed material bead profile control, comprising the steps of: dispensing viscous material in a stream upon a surface; transporting said stream along said surface and forming a bead of said material; confining said bead with air streams; and impinging at least one air stream upon said material to reshape the profile of said bead. 4. A method as defined in claim 2, wherein said first and second air stream origin locations are symmetrically arranged around said origin location of said material stream. 5. A method as defined in claim 1, wherein said air under pressure is separately controllable for each origin location of said first and second air streams. 6. A method as defined in claim 2, wherein said air under pressure is separately controllable for each origin location of said second air streams. 7. A method as defined in claim 5, wherein said origin location of said second air stream comprises at least two openings. 8. A method as defined in claim 6, wherein each origin location of said second air streams comprises at least two openings. 