A tool for installing nutplates to a structural part. The tool is portable or useable with a robot. The tool includes a supply of nutplates and a rivet feeding and insertion mechanism. The rivets are inserted in the structural part, followed by the positioning of a nutplate into engagement with the rivets and finally by clamping of the rivets to retain the nutplate in assembly with the clamped rivets.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A nutplate installation tool for installing nutplates in a structural part, comprising: a housing; nutplate supply means mounted to the housing; rivet feed and insertion means mounted to the housing, said rivet feed and insertion means inserting a pair of spaced apart rivets in the structural part; pick-up and transfer means mounted to the housing for transferring the nutplates from the nutplate supply means to the structural part for engaging with the inserted rivets; and clamping means mounted to the housing for clamping the inserted rivets to the engaged nutplate to thereby retain the nutplate in assembly with the clamped rivets. 2. The nutplate tool as defined in claim 1, further comprising: a pair of handles; and mounting means associated with each handle for mounting the handle to the housing for manually manipulating the tool. 3. The nutplate tool as defined in claim 2, wherein the mounting means of one of said handles also serves to mount said rivet feed and insertion means to the housing. 4. The nutplate tool as defined in claim 1, further comprising: a switch block; a pair of handles; and mounting means associated with each handle for mounting the handle to the housing for manually manipulating the tool, wherein the mounting means of one of said handles also serves to mount said feed and insertion means to the housing and the mounting means of the other of said handles also serves to mount the switch block to the housing. 5. The nutplate tool as defined in claim 1, wherein the housing comprises a bottom plate, two pairs of side plates, two top plates and means for connecting the plates together. 6. The nutplate tool as defined in claim 5, wherein the nutplate supply means comprises at least one magazine mounted to the housing between a pair of side plates. 7. The nutplate tool as defined in claim 6, wherein each side plate of the pair of side plates between which a magazine is mounted includes mounting means cooperating with mounting means on the magazine for retaining the magazine in assembly with the side plates. 8. The nutplate tool as defined in claim 7, wherein the nutplate magazine includes two plates, means for mounting the two plates to each other and a piston, said mounted plates defining a chamber within which the piston extends to divide said chamber into a nutplate loading chamber and an actuating chamber for use in displacing the piston into the nutplate loading chamber. 9. The nutplate tool as defined in claim 5, wherein the nutplate supply means conprises two magazines mounted to the housing each between a respective pair of side plates. 10. The nutplate tool as defined in claim 9, wherein each side plate of each pair of side plates between which a magazine is mounted includes mounting means cooperating with mounting means on the associated magazine for retaining the associated magazine in assembly with the side plates. 11. The nutplate tool as defined in claim 10, wherein each nutplate magazine includes two plates, means for mounting the two plates to each other and a piston, said mounting plates defining a chamber within which the piston extends to divide said chamber into a nutplate loading chamber and an actuating chamber for use in displacing the piston into the nutplate loading chamber. 12. The nutplate tool as defined in claim 1, further comprising: nutplate retaining means mounted to the housing for retaining nutplates from the nutplate supply means for pick-up by said pick-up and transfer means. 13. The nutplate tool as defined in claim 12, wherein the nutplate retaining means is mounted for displacement relative to the nutplate supply means for removal of the nutplate supply means from the housing. 14. The nutplate tool as defined in claim 5, further comprising: two nutplate retaining assemblies mounted to a top plate of the housing, each between a pair of side plates for retaining nutplates from an associated nutplate supply means for pick-up by said pick-up and transfer means. 15. The nutplate tool as defined in claim 14, wherein each nutplate retaining assembly is mounted for displacement relative to its associated nutplate supply means for removal of the associated nutplate supply means from the housing. 16. The nutplate tool as defined in claim 5, wherein the nutplate supply means comprises two magazines mounted to the housing between each pair of side plates, and wherein the pick-up and transfer means includes a pick-up and transfer plate and means for rotating the pick-up and transfer plate between the two magazines. 17. The nutplate tool as defined in claim 16, further comprising: means mounted to a top plate of the housing between the pairs of side plates for receiving nutplates transferred from the nutplate supply means by the pick-up and transfer means. 18. The nutplate tool as defined in claim 17, wherein said means for receiving nutplates transferred from the nuplate supply means by the pick-up and transfer means is mounted adjacent to said rivet feed and insertion means. 19. A nutplate installation tool for installing nutplates in a structural part, comprising: a housing comprising a bottom plate, two pairs of side plates, two top plates and means for connecting the plates together; two nutplate containing magazines mounted to the housing each between a respective pair of side plates; rivet feed and insertion means mounted to the housing, said rivet feed and insertion means inserting a pair of spaced apart rivets in the structural part; pick-up and transfer means mounted to the housing for transfering the nutplates from each nutplate magazine to the structural part for engaging with the inserted rivets; and clamping means mounted to the housing for clamping the inserted rivets to the engaged nutplate to thereby retain the nutplate in assembly with the clamped rivets. 20. The nutplate tool as defined in claim 19, further comprising: a pair of handles; mounting means associated with each handle for mounting the handle to the housing for manually manipulating the tool; and a switch block, wherein the mounting means of one of said handles also serves to mount said rivet feed and insertion means to the housing, and the mounting means of the other of said handles also serves to mount the switch block to the housing. 