The invention comprises a two, three or four short pin engagement system for engaging a wafer carrier for transporting semiconductor wafers by means of a three axis robotic transportation system for the purpose of processing semiconductor wafers in a factory. The multiple pin assembly allows a large reduction in travel distance with respect to prior art long rod engagement supports.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An improved mechanical interface system for use on the output arm of a multiple axis robotic system for engaging and moving wafer carriers, whether or not the wafer carriers are loaded with a plurality of wafers, and a cooperating wafer carrier for carrying a plurality of semiconductor wafers, the system comprising in combination: at least two cantilevered engagement pins, each of said pins having a distal and a proximal end, each of said cantilevered engagement pins being cantilivered so that said distal end of each of said pins is oriented in a single direction from said proximal end, each of said at least two engagement pins being significantly shorter than a corresponding side of the cooperating wafer carrier; at least two means for engagement by said at least two engagement pins, said at least two engagement means being of the same quantity and relative location, said at least two engagement means being mounted on the cooperating wafer carrier and at least one of said at least two engagement means being mounted on an opposite side of the wafer carrier from another of said at least two engagement means, said at least two engagement means being located outside of an envelope created by the plurality of wafers when such wafers are carried by the wafer carrier; and assembly means for positioning said at least two engagement pins and for attachment of said assembly means to a drive system. 2. The improved mechanical interface system according to claim 1 wherein each of said at least two engagement means and said at least two engagement pins are equal to the quantity two. 3. The improved mechanical interface system according to claim 2 wherein each of said at least two engagement means are located at a center of a side of the wafer carrier. 4. The improved mechanical interface system according to claim 2 wherein the wafer carrier has four corners and each of said at least two engagement means are located at a pair of diagonal opposites of said four corners. 5. The improved mechanical interface system according to claim 1 wherein each of said at least two engagement means and said at least two engagement pins are equal to the quantity three. 6. The improved mechanical interface system according to claim 5 wherein the cooperating wafer carrier has four corners and one of said three engagement means is located approximately on a oenter of a first side of the wafer carrier and another two of said engagement means are located on an opposite side from said first side and approximately at two of said corners of the wafer carrier. 7. The improved mechanical interface system according to claim 1 wherein each of said at least two engagement means and said at least two engagement pins are equal to the quantity four. 8. The improved mechanical interface system according to claim 7 wherein the cooperating wafer carrier has four corners and said four enagement means are located approximately at said four corners of the cooperating wafer carrier. 9. The improved mechanical interface system according to claim 1 wherein a maximum length of each of said at least two engagement pins is no more than fifty percent of a parallel side length of the cooperating wafer carrier. 10. The improved mechanical interface system according to claim 2 wherein a maximum length of each of said at least two engagement pins is no more than fifty percent of a parallel side length of the cooperating wafer carrier. 11. The improved mechanical interface system according to claim 3 wherein a maximum length of each of said at least two engagement pins is no more than fifty percent of a parallel side length of the cooperating wafer carrier. 12. The improved mechanical interface system according to claim 4 wherein a maximum length of each of said at least two engagement pins is no more than fifty percent of a parallel side length of the cooperating wafer carrier. 13. The improved mechanical interface system according to claim 5 wherein a maximum length of each of said at least two engagement pins is no more than fifty percent of a parallel side length of the cooperating wafer carrier. 14. The improved mechanical interface system according to claim 6 wherein a maximum length of each of said at least two engagement pins is no more than fifty percent of a parallel side length of the cooperating wafer carrier. 15. The improved mechanical interface system according to claim 7 wherein a maximum length of each of said at least two engagement pins is no more than fifty percent of a parallel side length of the cooperating wafer carrier. 16. The improved mechanical interface system according to claim 8 wherein a maximum length of each of said at least two engagement pins is no more than fifty percent of a parallel side length of the cooperating wafer carrier. 