A mobile robot remotely controlled and/or powered through a cable from a stationary console is provided. The robot carries a cable management arrangement which stores the cable and dispenses and retracts it as needed. The arrangement lays down the cable under zero tension when the robot is outbound and reels it in as the robot returns to allow the robot to follow a tortuous path without entangling the cable under or around obstacles. The robot can have numerous configurations such as a simple configuration for use as a transporter for mail in an office and parts in a factory, to a complex configuration with robotic arms and sensors for use in remote surveillance and security work. The robot is especially usable in hostile environments such as nuclear power plants and has a containment box permitting it to be moved to numerous locations without contaminating other areas.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A mobile robot system with cable handling arrangement comprising: a steerable robot; at least one power drive device for driving said robot in both a forward an reverse direction; a steering arrangement for steering said robot around obstacles; a station for operative connection to said robot; a cable connecting said station and said robot; a cable handling arrangement and a cable storage arrangement both carried by said mobile robot and transported therewith; travel detection means for detecting the amount of travel of said robot and determining the amount of cable to be dispensed or retracted when in the automatic mode based solely on the determination from the amount of travel of said robot; said cable handling arrangement and cable storage arrangement including a cable feed controlled by said travel detection means for dispensing out and retracting in said cable as the mobile robot moves away from said station and moves toward said station, respectively, under substantially zero tension in that part of the cable running between said station and said robot; and a power device for supplying power to said cable feed. 2. The mobile robot system of claim 1 wherein said mobile robot includes two said power drive devices and each of said power drive devices includes one reversible variable speed electric each of motor which are independently actuated so that said power drive device can cause the robot to change direction by varying the ratio of the speed and direction between said electric motors. 3. The mobile robot system of claim 2 wherein said power drive devices each include a position encoder to provide signals to cause said cable handling and storage arrangement to dispense and retract said cable. 4. The mobile robot system of claim 1 wherein said cable carries electricity and further includes: a battery carried by said mobile robot for providing maximum power at said robot when needed and a battery charger at said station for providing electricity over said cable to said mobile robot sufficient to charge said battery under normal duty power use but insufficient to provide electricity for maximum power use. 5. The mobile robot system of claim 1 wherein said station includes a portable containment enclosure, a door for said containment enclosure, and a connection for said cable inside said containment enclosure whereby said mobile robot can drive itself into said enclosure and the door closed to prevent said robot from spreading contamination when it is moved in said enclosure between locations. 6. The mobile robot system of claim 5 wherein said containment enclosure has a bottom and a removable floor above said bottom. 7. The mobile robot system of claim 6 where said containment enclosure has a removable ramp the top of which terminates at the level of said removable floor. 8. The mobile robot system of claim 1 wherein said cable handling and storage arrangement includes a reel for said cable, a slip ring assembly connecting said cable on said reel and said mobile robot and a power reel device for driving said reel. 9. The mobile robot system of claim 1 wherein said cable handling and storage arrangement includes a reel for storing said cable and said cable feed includes a sheave with a groove and a friction generator pressing said cable into said groove. 10. The mobile robot system of claim 9 wherein said sheave groove is more shallow than the thickness of said cable and said friction generator is a spring tensioned roller wider than said sheave. 11. The mobile robot system of claim 10 wherein said power device is a variable speed reversible electric gear motor and which includes a position indicator. 12. The mobile robot system of claim 11 wherein said reel includes a variable speed reversible electric gear motor for driving said reel and a position indicator associated with said variable speed reversible electric gear motor. 13. The mobile robot system of claim 1 wherein said cable handling and cable storage arrangement includes a reel for storing said cable, said cable feed includes a power driven arrangement for gripping said cable and pulling it from said reel to dispense it as said mobile robot moves away from said station and for retrieving said cable as said mobile robot moves toward said station and said cable feed further includes a power drive for said reel that assists said gripping arrangement as needed as said cable is dispensed and retrieved but always maintains a tension in said cable between said reel and said gripping arrangement. 14. A mobile robot system with cable handing arrangement comprising: a mobile robot; at least one power drive device for driving said robot; a station including a portable containment enclosure for operative connection to said robot; a cable connecting said station and said robot; a cable handling and storage arrangement carried by said mobile robot and transported therewith; said cable handling and storage arrangment including a cable feed dispensing out said cable as the mobile robot moves away from said station under substantially zero tension in that part of the cable running between said station and said robot; a power device for supplying power to said cable feed; a door for said containment enclosure; and a connection for said cable inside said containment enclosure whereby said mobile robot can drive itself into said enclosure and the door closed to prevent said robot from spreading contamination when it is moved in said enclosure between locations. 