The invention projects a known geometry light source onto the surface of an object. A camera with a known distance and angular orientation with respect to the light source is used to capture the light source image on the object. The normal to the surface of the object is determined from the known size of the projected image, the angles of the intersecting lines in the projected image and the corresponding values in the received image. If a hole is to be located, the image projected is a cross and the center of the hole is determined by finding the end points of image line segments which correspond to hole edges. The center and surface normal define the location and orientation of the hole. The surface normal and the center of the hole are transformed into a robot coordinate system and a robot can be commanded to insert a bolt into the hole based on the values. The system can be used to map and measure a surface contour by determining normals and intersection points along the contour, calculating the distances between intersection points and summing these distances. Relative angles between surfaces can be determined from the normals. An object can be identified by comparing the relative angles between the surfaces of the object to relative angles for known reference objects. A Gaussian image can be produced by taking normals over the surface of the object and plotting these in a spherical coordinate system and used for object identification.
Claims We claim: 1. An object location method, comprising the steps of: (a) projecting a light pattern onto the object with a light source; (b) digitizing the light pattern reflected from the object using a camera, where the camera and the light source are in a known geometric relationship to each other; and (c) locating and orienting the object in space by determining a normal to a surface of the object. 2. An object location method, comprising the steps of: (a) projecting a light pattern of at least two intersecting lines onto the object with a light source; (b) digitizing the light pattern reflected from the object using a camera, where the camera and the light source are in a known geometric relationship to each other, comprising the steps of: (b1) comparing the camera image point by point to a threshold; and (b2) chain coding the image to determine end points of the lines; and (c) locating the object by determining a normal to a surface of the object. 3. A method as recited in claim 2, wherein step (b) includes rotating the camera until the entire light pattern is in the camera image field. 4. An object location method, comprising the steps of: (a) projecting a light pattern of at least two intersecting lines onto the object with a light source; (b) digitizing the light pattern reflected from the object using a camera, where the camera and the light source are in a known geometric relationship to each other; and (c) locating the object by determining a normal to a surface of the object, comprising: (c1) determining the intersection of the two lines; and (c2) determining the normal to the surface of the object using the known geometric relationship between the light source and the camera. 5. A method as recited in claim 4, wherein the geometric relationship between the light source/camera and an arbitrary coordinate system is known and said method further comprises transforming the normal into a normal in the arbitrary coordinate system. 6. An object location method, comprising the steps of: (a) projecting a cross light pattern onto the object with a light source where the object includes a hole; (b) digitizing the light pattern reflected from the object using a camera, where the camera and the light source are in a known geometric relationship to each other; (c) locating the object by determining a normal to a surface of the object; (d) finding all line segments of the cross; (e) transforming the line segments into the object plane; (f) determining the interior end points of each line segment; and (g) determining the center of the hole. 7. A method as recited in claim 6, further comprising: (h) transforming the center and normal into a robot coordinate system; and (i) commanding the robot to approach the transformed center of the hole along the transformed normal. 8. An object location method, comprising the steps of: (a) projecting a light pattern onto the object with a light source; (b) digitizing the light pattern reflected from the object using a camera, where the camera and the light source are in a known geometric relationship to each other; (c) locating the object by determining a normal to a surface of the object by determining an intersection of the normal with a surface of the object; (d) moving the light source toward the camera by a predetermined amount; (e) determining another normal and intersection; and (f) repeating steps (d) and (e) until a contour of the object has been mapped by the intersections. 9. A method as recited in claim 8, further comprising (g) calculating the length of the contour from the intersections. 10. An object location method, comprising the steps of: (a) projecting a light pattern onto the object with a light source; (b) digitizing the light pattern reflected from the object using a camera, where the camera and the light source are in a known geometric relationship to each other; (c) locating the object by determining a normal to a surface of the object; (d) moving the camera and light source by a predetermined amount; (e) determining another normal; (f) comparing the normals of steps (c) and (e); (g) repeating steps (d)-(f) when the normals are equal; (h) calculating a relative angle between the normals when the normals are not equal. 11. A method as recited in claim 10, wherein step (b) includes defining object regions by determining edges of the object and said method further comprises: (i) repeating steps (d)-(h) over all the object regions; (j) comparing the calculated relative angles to known relative angles for known objects and identifying the object when the calculated and known relative angles for a known object are substantially identical. 12. A method as recited in claim 10, further comprising: (i) repeating steps (d)-(h) for the entire object; (j) counting the normals at each angle in a spherical coordinate system producing a Gaussian image of the object. (k) comparing the Gaussian image with known Gaussian images for known objects and identifying the object when the Gaussian image and a known Gaussian image are substantially identical. 13. A hole location method, comprising the steps of: (a) projecting a cross light pattern of intersecting lines onto the object with a light source; (b) digitizing the light pattern reflected from the object using a camera where the camera and light source are in a known geometric relationship to each other; (c) comparing the camera image point by point to a threshold; (d) chain coding to determine end points of the lines; (e) rotating the camera until the entire light pattern is centered in the camera image field if the end points correspond to a camera frame edge; (f) determining the intersection point of the two lines; (g) determining the normal to the surface of the object using the known geometric relationship between the light source and the camera; (h) finding all line segments of the cross; (i) transforming the line segments into the object plane; (j) determining the interior end points of each line segment; (k) determining the center of the hole; (l) transforming the center and normal into a robot coordinate system; and (m) commanding a robot to approach the center of the hole along the normal. 14. An apparatus for locating an object, comprising: a light source projecting a predetermined light pattern having intersecting lines where one of the lines lies in a predetermined plane; a rotatable camera having a rotational axis rotating in the predetermined plane and receiving an image of the light pattern reflected off the object; a frame carrying said light source and said camera in a fixed geometrical relationship; camera control means for controlling camera rotation; and location determination means for determining the location of the object by determining a normal to the surface of the object from the image and the fixed geometrical relationship between said light source and said camera. 15. An apparatus as recited in claim 14, wherein said normal determination means comprises: image digitizing means for digitizing the image; and line finding means for finding the end points of the lines in the digitized image; intersection determination means for finding the intersection of the lines in the image; and normal means for determining the normal to the object from the fixed geometric relationship and the intersection. 16. An apparatus as recited in claim 14, wherein said normal determination means further includes rotating means for rotating the camera until the image of the light pattern is completely within the camera viewing range. 17. An apparatus for locating an object with a hole, said apparatus comprising: a light source projecting a predetermined cross light pattern overlapping the hole and having intersecting lines where one of the lines lies in a predetermined plane; a rotatable camera having a rotational axis rotating in the predetermined plane and receiving an image of the light pattern reflected off the object; a frame carrying said light source and said camera in a fixed geometrical relationship; camera control means for controlling camera rotation; normal determination means for determining a normal to the surface of the object from the image and the fixed geometrical relationship between said light source and said camera, said normal determination means including: center determination means for determining a center of the hole; transformation means for transforming the normal and the center into a robot coordinate system; and means for commanding movement to the transformed center along the transformed normal; and a robot, operatively connected to said means for commanding, for moving to the transformed center along the transformed normal. 18. An apparatus for locating an object, said apparatus comprising: a light source projecting a predetermined light pattern having intersecting lines where one of the lines lies in a predetermined plane; a rotatable camera having a rotational axis rotating in the predetermined plane and receiving an image of the light pattern reflected off the object; a frame carrying said light source and said camera in a fixed geometrical relationship; camera control means for controlling camera rotation; normal determination means for determining a normal to the surface of the object from the image and the fixed geometrical relationship between said light source and said camera light source movement control means connected between said light source and said normal determination means; and contour mapping means for mapping a contour of the object by moving the light source and determining intersections along the contour. 19. An apparatus as recited in claim 18, further including means for determining the length of the contour. 20. An apparatus for locating an object with at least two surfaces, said apparatus comprising: a light source projecting a predetermined light pattern having intersecting lines where one of the lines lies in a predetermined plane; a rotatable camera having a rotational axis rotating in the predetermined plane and receiving an image of the light pattern reflected off the object; a frame carrying said light source and said camera in a fixed geometrical relationship; camera control means for controlling camera rotation; normal determination means for determining a normal to the surface of the object from the image and the fixed geometrical relationship between said light source and said camera; and surface angle determination means for determining relative angles between the at least two surfaces. 21. An apparatus as recited in claim 20, further comprising means for comparing the relative angles with known relative angles for known objects to identify the object. 22. An apparatus for locating an object having surfaces, said apparatus comprising: a light source projecting a predetermined light pattern having intersecting lines where one of the lines lies in a predetermined plane; a rotatable camera having a rotational axis rotating in the predetermined plane and receiving an image of the light pattern reflected off the object; a frame carrying said light source and said camera in a fixed geometrical relationship; camera control means for controlling camera rotation; normal determination means for determining a normal to the surface of the object from the image and the fixed geometrical relationship between said light source and said camera region identification means for identifying the surfaces as separate regions and said normal determination means determining normals for the regions; Gaussian image production means for producing a Gaussian image from the normals; and means for comparing the Gaussian image with known Gaussian images for known objects to identify the object. 23. An apparatus for locating an object, comprising: a light source projecting a predetermined cross light pattern having intersecting lines where one of the lines lies in a predetermined plane; a rotatable camera having a rotational axis rotating in the predetermined plane and receiving an image of the light pattern reflected off the object; a frame carrying said light source and said camera in a fixed geometrical relationship; camera control means for controlling camera rotation; image digitizing means for digitizing the image; line finding means for finding the end points of the lines in the digitized image; means for rotating the camera until the image of the light pattern is centered within said camera viewing range; intersection determination means for finding the intersection of the lines in the image; and location determination means for determining the location of the object by determining a normal to the surface of the object from the digitized image and the fixed geometrical relationship between the light source and camera. 