An artificial skeletal mechanism having a central rigid inverted T-shaped link and a pair of elastic tubular actuators on either side of the link, each actuator having an inner chamber for receiving a pressure fluid serving to pretension it. Each actuator has one end articulated to one end of the cross bar of the T so that they are antagonistically pretensioned. The artificial skeletal mechanism is intended to transform the contraction of one actuator, following extension of the other, into rotation of the link which is articulated at the free end of its long bar.
Claims I claim: 1. An artificial skeletal mechanism comprising: a support plate; a central rigid link having the general shape of an inverted T with a long bar and a cross bar; a pair of pre-stretched elastic tubular actuators, each actuator defining an inner fluid pressure chamber and being formed with a fluid flow passage leading into said inner pressure chamber for feeding controllable pressure fluid thereiento in order to stretch said elastic actuator and control the axial tension thereof, each of said actuators including means for altering the force produced by said actuators as a function of extension, wherein said actuators produces a force-extension curve substantially identical to that produced by an actual muscle, first and second articulation means respectively mounting one end of said actuators to one of the free ends of said cross bar; and third, fourth and fifth articulation means respectively mounting the free end of said long bar and the other ends of said actuators to said support plate, said articulation means allowing articulation of said actuators and link about parallel axes. 2. A mechanism as claimed in claim 1, wherein at least one of said actuators comprises: a circumferentially reinforced axially extensible tube made of elastic material, said tube forming said force altering means,; rigid plugs secured to the ends of said tube, one of said plugs having a circumferentially recessed end located inside said chamber of said one actuator, said recessed end having a diameter smaller than the inner diameter of said tube; and a rigid tubular guide which provides capability of resisting compressive loads in said chamber of said one actuator, said guide having one end secured to the other of said plugs and having the other end slidably fitted in said circumferentially recessed end. 3. A mechanism as claimed in claim 2, wherein the fluid flow passage of said one actuator extends through the other of said plugs. 4. A mechanism as claimed in claim 1, further including first mechanical means between said link and said third articulation means for regulating the tension in said actuators, and second mechanical means between one of said actuators and at least one of the articulation means thereof for adjusting the angular position of said link and of said actuators with respect to said support plate. 5. A mechanism as claimed in claim 4, wherein said first and second mechanical means are adjustable sleeve nut means. 6. A mechanism as claimed in claim 1, wherein at least one of said actuators comprises: a circumferentially reinforced axially extensible tube made of elastic material; rigid plugs secured to the ends of said tube, one of said plugs having extension outwardly of said chamber of said one actuator; elastic wall, over said extensible tube, said elastic walls having one end secured to the other of said rigid plugs and the other end of said elastic walls being slidable over said plug extension, and concentric rigid rings holding said elastic walls and tube spaced apart from one another, wherein said extensible tube and said elastic walls from said force altering means. 7. A mechanism as claimed in claim 6, wherein the other of said actuators comprises: a circumferentially reinforced axially extensible tube made of elastic material, said tube forming said force altering means; rigid plugs secured to the ends of said tube, one of said plugs having a circumferentially recessed end located inside said chamber of said other actuator, said recessed end having a diameter smaller than the inner diameter smaller than the inner diameter of said tube; and a rigid rubular guide which provides capability of resisting compressive loads in said chamber of said other actuator, said guide having one end secured to the other of said plugs and having the other end slidably fitted in said circumferentially recessed end. 8. A mechanism as claimed in claim 6, wherein a shoulder is formed at the end of the plug extension of said one actuator away from the free end of said plug extension, and further comprising: collars around said other ends of said elastic walls slidable over said plug extension, said sliding collars being spaced from one another for successive engagement as said axially extensible tube expands and said shoulder butts against a first one of said collars. 9. A mechanism as claimed in claim 7, wherein a shoulder is formed at the end of the plug extension of said one actuator away from the free end of said plug extension, and further comprising: collars around said other ends of said elastic walls slidable over said plug extension, said sliding collars being spaced from one another for successive engagement as said axially extensible tube expands and said shoulder butts against a first one of said collars. 10. A mechanism as claimed in claim 8, including first mechanical means between said link and said third articulation means for regulating the tension in said actuators, and second mechanical means between one of said actuators and the articulation means thereof for adjusting the angular position of said link and of said actuators with respect to said support plate. 11. A mechanism as claimed in claim 6, wherein the fluid flow passage of said one actuator is formed through said plug extension. 12. A mechanism as claimed in claim 9, wherein the fluid flow passage of said other of said actuators is formed through said plug extension. 13. A mechanism as claimed in claim 6, further comprising articulation means at the center and at the ends of said link cross bar for the mounting of articulation members of another robotic link assembly. 14. A mechanism as claimed in claim 7, further comprising an elastic wall over the extensible tube of said other actuator. 15. A mechanism as claimed in claim 1, wherein at least one of said actuators comprises: a circumferentially reinforced axially extensible tube made of elastic material, said tube forming said force altering means, rigid plugs secured to the ends of said tube; and a rigid spacer freely housed in the chamber of said one actuator to establish a minimum length to the extensible tube of said one actuator when contracted. 16. A mechanism as claimed in claim 6, further comprising a rigid spacer freely housed in the chamber of said at least one actuator to establish a minimum length to the extensible tube of said at least one actuator when contracted. 