A manifold stacking base which may selectively provide an integral flow control function, with or without a pressure regulation function, for a fluid pressure valve system, without the need for a sandwich plate or an interface plate between the base and the valve in said system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A manifold stacking base for a fluid pressure valve system, characterized by: (a) said base having a rectangular configuration with top, bottom, side and end surfaces; (b) said side surfaces being adapted for abutting the side surfaces of like bases and stacking end plates, each end plate having an inlet pressure port and an exhaust port; (c) said base including an enclosure means detachably mounted on one of the end surfaces; (d) said base having a common inlet pressure passage extending therethrough from side to side adapted to communicate with a common inlet pressure passage in an adjacent stacking member; (e) said base having a common exhaust passage extending therethrough from side to side adapted to communicate with a common exhaust passage in an adjacent stacking member; (f) a pressure port, a first valve supply and return port and a second valve supply and return port, and a pair of exhaust ports formed in said top surface of said base; (g) pressure passage means in said base communicating said common inlet pressure passage with said pressure port in said top surface; (h) a pair of exhaust passage means in said base communicating said common exhaust passage with said pair of exhaust ports in said top surface of said base; (i) a first cylinder port and a second cylinder port formed in the other of the end surfaces of said base and comprising fluid device supply and return ports; (j) supply and return passage means in said base communicating said fluid device supply and return ports in said other end surface of said base with the first and second valve supply and return ports in said top surface of said base; (k) said top surface being adapted to abut a surface of a fluid pressure valve with the inlet pressure, exhaust, and valve supply and return ports in said top surface of said base in registry with the inlet pressure, exhaust, and valve supply and return passages with the fluid pressure valve; (l) a portion of said pressure passage means is formed through said enclosure means mounted on said one end surface; (m) portions of said pair of exhaust passage means in said base communicating said common exhaust passage with said pair of exhaust ports in said top surface of said base are partially formed in one of the interface sides of the base and are open to the exterior thereof and are enclosed by an adjacent stacking member; (n) said supply and return passage means in said base comprises a pair of supply and return passages wherein one of said supply and return passages is formed wholly in said base and connects one of said fluid device supply and return ports to one of the valve supply and return ports in said top surface of the base; and, (o) the other of said supply and return passages for communicating the other of said fluid device supply and return ports to the other of said valve supply and return ports in said top surface of said base is formed partially in one of the interface sides of the base and is open to the exterior thereof and is enclosed by an adjacent stacking member. 2. A manifold stacking base for a fluid pressure valve system, as defined in claim 1, characterized by: (a) said enclosure means comprises a pressure regulator means mounted on said one end surface of said base for regulating the inlet pressure from said common inlet pressure passage and providing a regulated secondary pressure for conduction to the pressure port formed in said top surface of said base. 3. A manifold stacking base for a fluid pressure valve system, as defined in claim 2, characterized by: (a) said pressure regulator means comprises a piston type pressure regulator valve. 4. A manifold stacking base for a fluid pressure valve system, as defined in claim 2, characterized by: (a) said pressure regulator means comprises a diaphragm type pressure regulator valve. 5. A manifold stacking base for a fluid pressure valve system, as defined in claim 1, characterized by: (a) a flow control valve means is operatively mounted in at least one of said pair of exhaust passage means in said base communicating said common exhaust passage with said pair of exhaust ports in said top surface of said base, and it has an adjustment head extending outwardly of said base for adjusting the flow control position of the flow control valve means. 6. A manifold stacking base for a fluid pressure valve system, as defined in claim 5, characterized by: (a) said enclosure means comprises a pressure regulator means mounted on said one end surface of said base for regulating the inlet pressure from said common inlet pressure passage and providing a regulated secondary pressure for conduction to the pressure port formed in said top surface of said base. 7. A manifold stacking base for a fluid pressure valve system, as defined in claim 5, characterized by: (a) said enclosure means mounted on said one end surface of said base comprises a plate detachably mounted on said one end surface of the base, and the adjustment head of said flow control valve means extends through an opening in the plate for access to the adjustment head. 8. A manifold stacking base for a fluid pressure valve system, as defined in claim 1, characterized by: (a) a flow control valve means is operatively mounted in each of said pair of exhaust passage means in said base communicating said common exhaust passage with said pair of exhaust ports in said top surface of said base, and each flow control valve means has an adjustment head extending outwardly of said base for adjusting the flow control valve means. 9. A manifold stacking base for a fluid pressure valve system, as defined in claim 8, characterized by: (a) said enclosure means comprises a pressure regulator means mounted on said one end surface of said base for regulating the inlet pressure from said common inlet pressure passage and providing a regulated secondary pressure for conduction to the pressure port formed in said top surface of said base. 10. A manifold stacking base for a fluid pressure valve system, dependent from claim 9, characterized by: (a) said pressure regulator means includes a flange mounted on said one end of said base and provided with openings therethrough for access to the adjustment heads of the flow control valve means for adjusting the flow control valve means. 11. A manifold stacking base for fluid pressure valve system, as defined in claim 1, characterized by: (a) said enclosure means mounted on said one end surface of said base comprises a plate detachably mounted on said one end surface of said base and having a passage formed on the inner surface thereof to form a portion of said pressure passage means. 