A programmed welding control system is provided for welding automatically a variation of different weld patterns on different assemblies. The system includes a rotary table indexed to be moved to home, idle, and weld stations. An assembly of parts to be welded together are positioned on the rotary table at the work station and held by mechanical elements. Means are provided to identify a particular assembly to control a subsequent welding pattern, and to detect the presence or absence of the operator near the home station. When an assembly is present and the operator is away from the work station, the rotary table is rotated to the welding station when a robot with a welding gun is activated to automatically weld the parts of the assembly in accordance with a weld pattern previously determined at the home station. After the welding operation, the rotary table is rotated back to the home station.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A programmed welded control system for welding different welding patterns on different assemblies of parts comprising: a. a rotary table indexed to be moved between home and welding stations; b. said rotary table being adapted to receive different fixtures for receiving different assemblies of parts; (c) a light assembly at said home station to detect the presence of an assembly on said rotary table; (d) electrical devices including a mat to detect the presence of an operator in the loading area of said assembly at said home station; (e) means on said fixtures to identify at said home station a particular assembly of parts and the welding pattern to be subsequently used on said particular assembly at said welding station. (f) means for rotating said table from said home station to said welding station, (g) welding means at said welding station to weld a weld pattern on the assembly of parts identified at said home station, and (h) a second light assembly for generating signals when an assembly is on said rotary table at said home station and said operator is away from said loading area to cause said rotary table to be rotated from said home station to said welding station. 2. A welding control system as set forth in claim 1 wherein said welding means includes a welding gun having a welding tip element and means are provided to automatically move said welding gun at periodic intervals to a tip dresser to dress the tip element of said welding gun. 3. A welding control system as set forth in claim 1 wherein said means for detecting the presence of an operator includes a mat at said home station for controlling a switch and a light curtain for generating light beams to produce control signals. 4. In a manufacturing operation, a system for receiving and welding different assemblies of parts, comprising: a. a rotary table indexed to be moved between home and welding stations; b. said rotary table being adapted to receive different fixtures for different assemblies at said home station; c. means for identifying the particular assembly of parts on a particular fixture at said home station to control a particular weld pattern to be subsequently used at said welding stations; d. means for precisely locating said fixtures on said rotary table to permit relatively fast change from one fixture to another; e. holding means secured to said fixtures to hold parts of said assemblies in a nesting relationship; f. means at said home station to detect the presence of an assembly of parts in a fixture on said rotary table; g. means at said home station to detect the presence of an operator in the loading area at said home station; h. means for rotating said table from said home station to said welding station when an assembly of parts is present in said fixture and the operator is away from said loading area; i. means for welding an assembly of parts at said welding station in accordance with a weld pattern identified at said home station, and j. means for rotating said table from said welding station to said home station after a welding operation. 5. The invention as set forth in claim 4 wherein said means for precisely locating comprise apertures in said fixtures disposed to receive locating pin elements secured to said rotary table. 6. The invention as set forth in claim 5 wherein said holding means further comprise magnetic elements on said fixtures to hold in place the parts of said assemblies. 7. The invention as set forth in claim 6 wherein said holding means further comprise spaced mechanical elements to receive parts of said assembly therebetween in a nesting relationship. 8. The invention as set forth in claim 7 wherein said holding means further comprises permanent magnets secured to said rotary table to receive said fixtures thereon. 9. The invention as set forth in claim 8 wherein said means for identifying includes proper brackets secured to said fixtures to control selective proximity switches to generate signals to control the weld pattern on the assembly of parts to be welded. 