The invention provides an "on the fly" adjustable clutch for use with robot end-of-arm tooling that provides a means for sensing movement of a tool attached to the clutch and can send a signal to shut down the robot when an overload is encountered. The clutch includes a piston capable of lateral movement within a chamber that is slidably mounted on a pin and a tool plate. The pin extends beyond the clutch housing, and the tool plate is pivotally mounted on the pin. Biasing means acts to bias the piston away from the tool plate such that the tool plate is held somewhat rigidly in relation to the clutch housing by the biasing means. In a preferred embodiment, the biasing means includes springs and pressurized air that may be introduced into the piston chamber on either side of the piston to increase or decrease the bias of the springs. Thus, the clutch is capable of varying sensitivities with the biasing means being adjustable under program control. Also included on the clutch are locating means and proximity sensors. The locating means act to position the tool plate in a normal position in relation to the clutch housing. The proximity sensors detect movement of the tool plate in relation to the housing.
Claims We claim: 1. A breakaway clutch for robot end-of-arm tooling comprising: a housing having a piston cavity; a piston confined within the piston cavity, said piston capable of lateral movement within said cavity; a tool plate; securing means for connecting the tool plate to the piston; biasing means for biasing the piston away from the tool plate, said biasing means being adjustable to vary the bias; locating means for positioning the tool plate in a normal position in relation to the housing; and proximity sensing means for sensing relative movement between the tool plate and the housing. 2. The clutch of claim 1 wherein the securing means includes a pin attached to the piston and that is pivotally attached to the tool plate. 3. The clutch of claim 1 wherein the biasing means includes spring means. 4. The clutch of claim 1 wherein the biasing means includes means for admitting pressurized air into the piston cavity to adjust the biasing capacity. 5. The clutch of claim 4 wherein the biasing means also includes spring means. 6. The clutch of claim 1 wherein the locating means includes studs mounted in the housing with spherical exposed ends and bushings located in the tool plate, said stud ends engaging within the bushings when the tool plate is positioned in a normal position relative to the housing. 7. The clutch of claim 1 in combination with a robot having an emergency stop, and wherein said proximity sensing means trips the emergency stop when the tool plate has deviated a predetermined amount from said normal position. 8. The clutch of claim 7 wherein the proximity sensing means may be variably set to trip the emergency stop for various deviations of the tool plate from its normal position. 9. A breakaway clutch for robot end-of-arm tooling comprising: a clutch housing having a piston cavity; a piston confined within the piston cavity, said piston capable of lateral movement within said cavity; a tool plate; a pin attached to the piston and pivotally attached to the tool plate; biasing means for biasing the piston away from the end of the piston cavity closest to the tool plate, said biasing means being variable and including spring means; locating means for positioning the tool plate in a normal position in relation to the clutch housing; and proximity sensing means for sensing deviations of the tool plate from its normal position in relation to the clutch housing. 10. The clutch of claim 9 wherein the biasing means includes means for admitting pressurized air into the piston cavity to adjust the biasing capacity. 11. The clutch of claim 9 wherein the locating means includes studs mounted in the housing and bushings mounted in the tool plate, said studs having spherical exposed ends that engage with said bushings to locate the tool plate. 12. The clutch of claim 9 wherein the proximity sensing means can sense variable deviations of the tool plate. 13. A breakaway clutch for robot end-of-arm tooling comprising: a clutch housing having a piston cavity, said housing having a tool end and a robot end; a piston confined within the piston cavity, said piston capable of lateral movement within said cavity and said piston having a face side; a tool plate located external to the housing and adjacent to said tool end of the housing; a pin attached to the piston, and said tool plate being pivotally mounted on said pin; spring means for biasing the piston away from the tool end of the housing; locating means for positioning the tool plate in a normal position in relation to the housing; proximity sensing means for sensing relative movements of the tool plate from the housing; and means for admitting pressurized air into the piston cavity to adjust the biasing of the piston provided by the spring means and to adjust the load capacity of the clutch. 14. The clutch of claim 13 wherein the means for admitting pressurized air includes means for introducing pressurized air into the portion of the piston cavity adjacent to the face of the piston and into the portion of the cavity adjacent to the side of the piston opposite the face of the piston. 15. The clutch of claim 13 wherein the locating means includes studs mounted in the tool end of the housing, said studs having exposed spherical ends, and said locating means also including bushings mounted in the tool plate such that the spherical ends of the studs engage within the bushings to position the tool plate. 16. The clutch of claim 13 in combination with a robot having an emergency stop, and wherein said proximity sensing means trips the emergency stop when the tool plate has deviated a predetermined amount from the normal position to avoid damage to the tool, the workpiece, or the robot. 17. The clutch of claim 16 wherein the pressure of the air admitted into the piston cavity is varied throughout a robot program in order to provide varying degrees of bias on the piston. 