An orbital barrel finishing machine employs rotatable drums which are removable from the machine. A coupling member mounting a plurality of angularly spaced axially extending pins engages slots of a second coupling member to provide a rotational drive engagement for the removable drums. The drums are uncoupled from the drive engagement by axially displacing the drums. A releasable latch assembly is employed to secure the drums in the coupled drive position. The orbital barrel finishing machine is employed as a component of an integrated automatic finishing system wherein the rotatable drums may be automatically removed from the machine, unloaded, loaded and returned to the machine.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automated orbital barrel system comprising: an orbital barrel finishing machine comprising: a plurality of drums; frame means to removably mount said drums in an angularly spaced relationship relative to a central axis; turret means to rotate said drums in a first direction about said central axis; orbital rotation means to rotate each said drum about an orbital rotational axis through each said drum in a second direction opposite said first direction; drive engagement means to selectively couple each said drum to said orbital means for rotational drive engagement therewith, said drive engagement means comprising a plurality of angularly spaced coupling pins which extend parallel to said orbital rotational axis and in fixed axial relationship to said frame means and pin engagement means comprising a female member mounted in fixed relationship to each said drum and defining a plurality of angularly spaced slots which are symmetrically positionable relative to the orbital rotational axis of said drum and are alignable for receiving said coupling pins for rotatably coupling said drum to said orbital rotation means; and latch means actuable for securing said pins and female member in coupled relationship and releasable to permit axial disengagment of said female member from said coupling pins whereby said drum and associated female member may be removed as a unit from said frame means; and drum remover means engageable with a said drum unit for disengaging the said drum unit from rotational drive engagement with said orbital rotation means and removing the said drum unit from said orbital barrel machine. 2. The automated orbital barrel system of claim 1 wherein each said drum unit forms a generally unobstructed enclosure. 3. The automated orbital barrel system of claim 1 wherein said drum remover means comprises a pair of cooperating arms adapted to engage opposing exterior portions of said drum unit. 4. The automated orbital barrel system of claim 3 wherein said drum removed means further comprises a latch actuator arm for selectively releasing said latch means. 