A compact, controllable ejection system for use with trimming presses and forming presses. A preferred form of the invention has a remotely located sealed enclosure filled with a compressible gas and into which an incompressible fluid is introduced through a pressure line. The other end of the pressure line connects to a conventional hydraulic cylinder, the piston of which is connected to an ejector pin. During closure of the press the ejector pin is forced upwards thereby forcing fluid into the remotely located sealed enclosure. A controllable directional valve entraps the forcibly introduced incompressible fluid and the energy stored in compressing the compressible fluid. After the opening of the press, at a controlled time such as when an automated receiving tray has been inserted to receive the part, the controllable valve is opened, ejecting the part from the press.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for ejecting an article from a press, said press including a platen and an upper shoe, said apparatus comprising: a cylinder having a closed end and a through aperture therein; a piston slideably disposed within said cylinder and operatively connected to said upper shoe; a volume of incompressible fluid contained in said cylinder in a space between said piston and said cylinder closed end; a sealed container having an inlet and having a volume of compressible fluid therein; a conduit having a first end connected to said cylinder through aperture and a second end connected to said inlet; selectively controllable directional valve means connected in said conduit for selectively controlling flow of incompressible fluid from said sealed container to said cylinder; whereby upon closure of said press, actuation of said piston by said upper shoe causes said volume of compressible fluid to be compressed and whereby, when said press is opened, said valve may be actuated to cause said volume of compressed fluid to apply a force on said piston and said ejector pin for ejecting the article from the press. 2. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said compressible fluid comprises a gas. 3. The apparatus according to claim 1 including a second valve operatively associated with said sealed container, a supply of pressurized compressible fluid connected to said sealed container by said second valve, whereby pressurized compressed fluid may be selectively admitted through said second valve means into said sealed container, thereby increasing the force on said piston and ejector pin for ejecting the article from said press. 4. The apparatus according to claim 1 including means responsive to a predetermined pressure of said compressible fluid in said sealed container for inhibiting closure of the press until said predetermined pressure condition is removed. 5. An apparatus for ejecting an article from a press including a die, said apparatus comprising: energy storage means connected to said die for storing a portion of energy supplied by the press to the die during operation of the press, a directional valve connected to said energy storage means for selectively releasing the energy stored in said energy storage means; ejecting means connected to said energy storage means for selectively forcibly ejecting the article from the die. 6. An apparatus for ejecting an article from a press including a die, said apparatus comprising: energy storage means connected to said die for storing a portion of energy supplied by the press to the die during operation of the press, said energy storage means including a container having a volume of compressible fluid therein, a conduit having an incompressible fluid therein connected to said energy storage means, a controllable directional valve in circuit therewith for selectively controlling flow of said incompressible fluid through said conduit whereby energy stored in said energy storage means may be released, and ejecting means including a piston and an associated ejector pin connected to said energy storage means, whereby, upon actuation of said valve, incompressible fluid flows through said conduit thereby causing said piston and associated pin to eject said article from said press. 7. The apparatus according to claim 6 including a conduit for connecting said container to said die, and wherein said directional valve comprises a valve connected in said conduit for selectively controlling fluid flow through said conduit. 8. The apparatus according to claim 6 including a source of compressed fluid and means for operably connecting said source of compressed fluid to said energy storage means for supplying additional energy to said energy storage means. 