A robotic system includes a series of cassettes holding blank centrally apertured disks which are ejected in seriatim from each cassette and a plug inserted into the disk central aperture by manipulation of a robotic arm at that cassette position. Each disk is transported by the robotic arm and inserted into a series of disk-holding apertures in a carrier panel and, after processing of multiple disks in the panel, the processed disks are removed from the carrier panel by the robotic arm to a second cassette position where the plugs are removed from the processed disk and the plugs conveyed by a pair of robotic arms or by the robotic arm acting in conjunction with an auxiliary robotic arm for reinsertion into other blank disks. Sensors are provided for accurately positioning the robotic arm with respect to the position of the carrier panel to be loaded. The robotic arms may be programmed to tilt the grasped disk and plug with respect to the carrier panel to facilitate insertion or removal of the disks into the carrier panel.
Claims We claim: 1. A robotic disk handler system comprising: a carrier panel; aperture means in said carrier panel for mounting a series of blank disks in said carrier panel, each of said disks having a central aperture; a central plug for temporarily closing said central aperture and for holding each said disk; a first disk cassette provided at a plugging station for holding unprocessed blank disks; a second disk cassette provided at an unplugging station for receiving processed disks; first means for inserting a central plug into a disk aperture of a blank disk; first robotic arm means grippable on said plug for transporting and inserting successive ones of said blank disks from said first disk cassette into said carrier panel; means, including said first robotic arm means grippable on said plug, for removing a processed disk from said carrier panel and transporting said disk to said second disk cassette; and second means for removing said plug from a processed disk, for inserting said processed disk into said second disk cassette and for returning said plug for attachment to another blank disk in said first disk cassette. 2. The invention of claim 1 including means for moving said first disk cassette after removal of all blank disks from said first disk cassette to a position at said unplugging station such that said first disk cassette serves as said second disk cassette for receiving processed disks. 3. The invention of claim 1 including plug grabber means on said first means for inserting, for grabbing said plug on opposite sides of said plug to insert said plug into said blank disk. 4. The invention of claim 1 further including means for indexing said first and second disk cassettes into successive positions for removal of successive blank disks from said first disk cassette and for return of successive processed disks to said second disk cassette. 5. The invention of claim 1 in which said central plug comprises two sections insertable into said central aperture from opposite disk sides and wherein said first robotic arm means includes means for grabbing a first section of said central plug on a first side of each disk and wherein said second means for removing said plug from a processed disk includes means for grasping a second section of said central plug on a second side of said each disk such that said central plug extends through said disk central aperture. 6. The invention of claim 1 further including means on said first robotic arm means for tilting said gripped disk with respect to said carrier panel such that a bottom edge of said disk is first inserted into said carrier panel. 7. The invention of claim 1 further including means for tilting said carrier panel and said robotic arm with respect to each other as said disk is transported to said carrier panel by said first robotic arm means. 8. The invention of claim 1 in which said first robotic arm means operates to transport and insert blank disks into said carrier panel while said second means operates to remove a plug from a processed disk, to insert a processed disk into said second cassette and to return said plug to said plugging station for attachment to another blank disk. 9. The invention of claim 1 in which said first robotic arm means successively moves from a processed disk pick-up position at said carrier panel, to a disk unloading position at said second cassette, to a blank disk load position at said first cassette, to a blank disk insert position at said carrier panel and back to another processed disk pick-up position at said carrier panel to pick-up another disk from said carrier panel. 10. The invention of claim 1 further including means on said first robotic arm means for sensing the actual position of said carrier panel with respect to a predetermined desired position of said carrier panel such that said first robotic arm means may be accurately positioned for inserting and removing said disk into and from said carrier panel disk mounting aperture means. 11. The invention of claim 10 in which said sensing means includes a sensor probe extending from said first robotic arm means to said carrier panel and wherein said carrier panel includes a series of indexing depressions on a surface facing said probe in position to be probed and positioned to indicate alignment of said first robotic arm means with said disk mounting aperture means in said carrier panel. 12. The invention of claim 1 further including means extendible within each of said first and second cassettes for ejecting in seriatim blank disks from said first cassette and for inserting in seriatim processed disks into said second cassette. 13. The invention of claim 1 in which said second means for removing said plug from a processed disk and said first means for inserting said plug into a blank disk comprises a dual arm linearly-actuated plug grabbing means for holding said plug. 14. The invention of claim 1 in which said second means for removing said plug from a processed disk and attaching said plug to a blank disk comprises a rotary-actuated grabbing means for holding said plug. 15. A plug insertion and plug removal system for a disk having a central aperture in which a two-section plug extends through said aperture, said system further comprising: first means at a plugging station for insertion of said plug into a central aperture of a blank disk; second means for transporting said blank disk and inserted plug to and from a disk mounting station; third means at an unplugging station for receiving a disk and inserted plug from said disk mounting station and for removing said plug from a processed disk; and fourth means for returning a removed plug to said plugging station for insertion of said plug into another blank disk. 16. The invention of claim 15 in which said plug comprises two sections extending into opposite sides of said disk central aperture and said second means for transporting comprises a robotic arm including a plug grabbing arm for grabbing one of said plug sections and said second means includes a second arm operable in unison with said robotic arm for grabbing the other of said plug sections during plug insertion and plug removal. 17. The invention of claim 15 in which said first and third means include a pair of common arms for inserting said plug into said blank disk and for removing said plug from said plugged processed disk. 18. The invention of claim 15 further including a blank disk cassette for supplying successive blank disks to said first means at said plugging station and a processed disk cassette for receiving successive processed disks from said third means at said unplugging station. 19. The invention of claim 18 further including indexing means to index said blank disk cassette and said processed disk cassette to supply successive blank disks to said first means and to receive successive processed disks from said third means, respectively. 20. The invention of claim 19 further comprising means for transporting said processed disk cassette from a position at said third means when said second cassette is filled with processed disks and means for moving said first cassette when emptied of blank disks to a position at said third means. 21. The method of loading a series of disks into a disk carrier panel comprising: providing a panel having a series of disk-holding apertures; providing a first cassette of blank disks, each disk having a central aperture; ejecting a blank disk from said first cassette; manipulating at least one robotic arm to grasp, mount and insert a central plug into said blank disk's central aperture; transporting said blank disk and plug by said at least one robotic arm to said panel and mounting said blank disk and plug in one of said disk-holding apertures; moving said at least one robotic arm to another of said disk-holding apertures in said panel to grasp a processed disk and plug mounted in said panel; transporting said grasped processed disk and plug by said at least one robotic arm to a position adjacent a second cassette; removing said plug from said processed disk; and returning said removed plug to a position adjacent said first cassette for reinserting said plug into another blank disk ejected from said first cassette. 22. The method of claim 21 further comprising inserting a processed disk, after removal of said plug from said processed disk, into said second cassette. 23. The method of claim 22 further comprising moving said second cassette aside when said second cassette is filled with processed disks and moving said first cassette when the first cassette has been emptied of blank disks to a position where said first cassette functions as the second cassette to receive processed disks. 24. The method of claim 21 further comprising moving said at least one robotic arm to grasp and transport a blank disk and plug to said panel and a processed disk and plug from and to a position adjacent said second cassette; and moving a pair of robotic arms to insert a plug into a blank disk from said first cassette and to remove a plug from a processed disk at a position adjacent said second cassette. 25. The method of claim 21 further comprising moving said pair of robotic arms from blank disk plug inserting to processed disk plug removing positions and vice versa while said at least one robotic arm is transporting a blank disk and plug to and from said panel. 26. The method of claim 21 further comprising sensing the special position of said panel, and moving said at least one robotic arm with respect to the sensed position of said panel to precisely insert and remove each of said blank disks into and from respective ones of said series of panel disk-holding apertures. 27. The method of claim 21 further comprising tilting said blank disk and plug on said at least one robotic arm with respect to said panel to facilitate entry of said blank disk and plug into said panel disk-holding apertures and tilting said processed disk and plug on said robotic arm to remove said processed disk from said panel. 28. The method of claim 21 further comprising tilting an upper portion of said blank disk away from the panel so that a bottom portion of the blank disk first enters the panel disk-holding aperture. 29. The method of claim 28 in which said blank disk is tipped away from the panel at an angle of from about 1/2.degree. to 5.degree.. 30. A robotic disk handler system comprising: a flat carrier panel; a series of circular apertures extending through said carrier panel for mounting a series of circular blank computer memory disks in said carrier panel for processing, each of said disks having a central aperture; disk cassette means for holding unprocessed blank disks and for receiving processed disks; first robotic arm means grippably holding said disk at said disk central aperture for transporting and inserting successive ones of said blank disks from said disk cassette means into said carrier panel; and means, including said first robotic arm means, for removing a processed disk from said carrier panel and transporting said processed disk to said disk cassette means. 31. The invention of claim 30 further including means for tilting said carrier panel and said robotic arm relative to each other such that the bottom edges of said blank disk are first inserted into said carrier aperture means. 