Automated grinding is performed using a tracking means having a sufficient field of view to locate edges to be processed and using a high resolution profiler in order to provide grinding information for calculation of the amount of material which should be removed from the workpiece. Those sections of the workpiece not requiring additional grinding may be traversed at a high speed in order to improve productivity. A process control computer receives grinding information from the tracking means and high resolution profiler and uses it to control a manipulator to adjust the travel speed of the grinder, force with which a grinder is applied, position of the grinder, and/or speed of rotation of the grinder in order to remove the correct amount of material from a workpiece. The technique is especially advantageous in removing excess material, burrs, nicks, chips and other minor irregularities in workpieces. A second profiler may be used to check that the grinder has properly ground portions of the workpiece. The tracking means and the profilers are flying spot laser profilers. The technique can accommodate either force-control or position-control grinding.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automated grinding system comprising: a multiaxis manipulator; a grinder mounted on said manipulator for grinding upon a workpiece; tracking means having sufficient field of view to locate edges to be processed mounted to said manipulator for passage over the workpiece in advance of said grinder; a high resolution optical profiler mounted to said manipulator for passage over the workpiece in advance of said grinder, said high resolution profiler having vertical and horizontal resolution adapted to detect excess material, burrs and nicks; and a process control computer operable to receive grinding information from said tracking means and said high resolution profiler and to determine the location of the excess material burrs and nicks and to control said manipulator such that said grinder follows an optimum path and speed to grind the workpiece to a final shape, said process control computer operable to use grinding information from said tracking means to maintain said grinder on a proper path and operable to use grinding information from said high resolution profiler to determine the amount of material which the grinder should remove. 2. The automated grinding system of claim 1 wherein said grinder is retractably mounted on said manipulator. 3. The automated grinding system of claim 1 further comprising a transversing stage and said grinder is mounted on said manipulator by way of said transversing stage. 4. The automated grinding system of claim 1 further comprising a second optical profiler mounted on said manipulator for passage over a workpiece after said grinder. 5. The automated grinding system of claim 1 wherein said tracking means and said high resolution profilers are flying spot laser profilers. 6. The automated grinding system of claim 1 wherein said process control computer is operable to cause said grinder to travel along the workpiece at varying speeds depending upon the amount of material which should be removed. 7. The automated grinding system of claim 1 wherein said process control computer is operable to cause variation of the force on, or position, power or speed of the grinder or any combination thereof depending on the amount of material which should be removed. 