An automatic assembly apparatus or robot holds a pin in an instrumented gripper, moves open loop to the "detection region" in which airflow forces, primarily lateral forces, in the vicinity of the hole may be dependably sensed. Relatively large lateral airflow forces in the detection region are sensed and the pin is moved toward the hole. The airflow forces exhibit an abrupt force change as the pin reaches the insertion point within the "capture region" of the hole defined by the mechanical chamfer or significantly extended as a result of the virtual chamfer of airflow through the hole. The insertion point is the point where lateral X,Y force vectors balance to a null, where Z force readings change from complex X,Y,Z force vectors to simple Z force vectors. The controller commands an open loop move to place the pin within the detection region; then commands a closed loop move, using a skirt around the pin or the pin itself as a probe, and sampling the force vectors until the insertion point is detected; then commands a move in the Z direction to put the pin into the hole. Insertion success or failure is detected by sampling the Z force vectors for blockage by the plate, or by sampling pressure as the pin plugs the hole. Retry routines follow detection of any insertion failure.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automatic assembly system for inserting a pin in a hole in a plate, characterized by: (a) control means (4) for positioning pin (1) laterally in the vicinity of a selected hole (2) in the plate (3), in position within the detection region (9) of the hole (2); (b) fluid flow means (11) associated with the plate (3), to form a pressure differential creating fluid flow (7)through at least one hole in the plate (3), including said selected hole (2); (c) fluid flow sensing means (6), associated with said control means (4) for positioning the pin (1) to sense the fluid flow (7) at the selected hole (2) and to supply force vector signals indicative of such forces; (d) servo means, responsive to feedback from said fluid flow sensing means (6) to said control means (4), to supply information for positioning the pin (1) within the detection region of the selected hole at the insertion point (10) which is within the capture region of the selected hole (2) as defined by the composite of mechanical and virtual chamfers determined by a change of the force vector signals related to the null where lateral forces (7) of fluid flow through the selected hole (2) balance over the selected hole (2); whereby the system provides power steering of the pin (1) to the insertion point (10) for the selected hole (2). 2. An automatic assembly system according to claim 1, further characterized in that said fluid flow means (b) includes a vacuum source (11) on the side of the plate (3) opposite said pin (1). 3. An automatic assembly system according to claim 1, in that said fluid flow means (b) includes a constricted fluid flow mechanism (26, 27) for selectively creating fluid flow at a selected hole (2). 4. An automatic assembly system according to claim 1, in that said fluid flow means (b) is a flexible cup (27) surrounding at least one hole (2) to create an airflow chamber. 5. An automatic assembly system according to claim 1, wherein said fluid flow sensing means (6) includes a skirt (17) having a hem close to the plate (3) and encompassing said pin (1) and carrying a plurality of flow sensors (16) at its hem. 6. An automatic assembly system according to claim 5, wherein said flow sensors (16) are hot wire anemometers. 7. An automatic assembly system according to claim 1 wherein said fluid flow means (b) comprises means (23-25) forming a plurality of airflow chambers in tandem, and wherein the first airflow chamber of said plurality of airflow chambers and subsequent airflow chambers exhibit differing force vectors as a result of position, and therefore provide differing force vector patterns as the filament (1) reaches the region of the selected hole: further characterized by means to identify the appropriate force vectors for such subsequent airflow chambers as the pin (1) reaches the capture region of the selected hole and means to alter the attitude of the pin (1) accordingly. 8. A robot positioning system according to claim 7 wherein said sensing means (6) also senses vertical forces, to go with the flow vertically in the subsequent airflow chambers. 9. A robot positioning system according to claim 7 wherein said sensing means (6) also senses vertical blockage, and feeds back a blockage signal; and wherein said servo means (d) commands a backup and retry. 10. A robot position system according to claim 7 wherein said sensing means (6) also senses change in vacuum partial pressure as a function of plugging of the selected hole by said pin (1), and feeds back a vacuum change signal to said robot (4) control means (a) for use in identifying insertion of the pin (1) in hole 2. 11. A robot positioning system according to claim 8 wherein said servo means includes lateral displacement means positioned outboard of the first airflow chamber, and said control means (b) commands a delicate lateral displacement of the pin (1) outboard said first chamber to cause small lateral movements of the end of pin (1) inboard said first airflow chamber during positioning or backup and retry. 12. A robot position system according to claim 7 wherein said servo means (d) commands a delicate rotation of the pin (1) during backup and retry. 13. A method for pin-in-hole insertion by a robot comprising the steps of: (a) applying airflow through at least the selected hole (2) for insertion of a pin (1), creating a pattern of detectable airflow forces (7) within a detection region about the hole (2); (b) moving the pin (1) by open-loop positioning to place within the detection region; (c) sensing the airflow by airflow sensing means (6,16) closely associated with the pin (1); (d) following the airflow-forces sensed by the airflow-sensing means (6,16) by closed-loop positioning through at least one sensing and airflow-following servo move in the (x,y) direction of changing lateral airflow force, thus moving the pin (1) toward the hole (2); (e) repeating said sensing the airflow step (c) and said following the airflow-forces step (d) until an airflow null is sensed defining the insertion point 10 at the capture region of the hole (2); and (f) commanding an entry move (z direction) of the pin (1) into the selected hole (2) at the insertion point (10) which is within the composite mechanical/virtual chamfer capture region of the hole (2). 14. The method of claim 13, in which said step (f) further comprises: sensing Z forces, using the sensing means closely associated with the pin (1) during a Z move; detecting a blockage as a function of the Z forces; and commanding backup and retry. 15. The method of claim 13, in which said step (e) further comprises: sensing changes in pressure due to plugging of the selected hole (2) by the pin (1) during a move, and feeding back the pressure change information for use in identifying insertion of the pin (1) in the selected hole. 