A part feeder capable of moving individual parts to a receiver from a storage tube having an internal track therein generally conforming to at least a portion of the vertical cross-section of parts stored within the tube to permit the parts to freely slide along the track within the tube. The part feeder comprises a base; a horizontally movable support member slidably mounted on the base; a tiltable arm member pivotally mounted on the support member; and a receiver on the tiltable arm member. An air cylinder is provided for releasably securing one end of the tube on the arm member against the receiver. Another actuator is provided for tilting the arm member so that the end of the tube adjacent the receiver is sufficiently lower than the remainder of the tube to permit one part to slide out of the tube onto the receiver. The tube is then returned to a horizontal position. In a preferred embodiment, the device further stores additional tubes with parts therein for replacing an empty tube with a full tube by energization of a third actuator.
Claims Having thus described the invention, what is claimed is: 1. A part feeder capable of moving individual parts to a work station from a storage tube having an internal track therein generally conforming in vertical cross-section to at least a portion of the vertical cross-section of one or more parts stored within the tube to permit said parts to freely slide along said track within the tube, said part feeder comprising: (a) a base; (b) a support member and means slidably mounting said support member on said base; (c) a tiltable arm member pivotally mounted on said support member; (d) a work station on said tiltable arm member; (e) first means for releasably securing one end of said tube on said arm member against said work station; (f) second means for sufficiently tilting said arm member so that said end of said tube adjacent said work station is sufficiently lower than the remainder of said tube to permit one part in said tube to slide out of said tube into said work station; and (g) means for returning said arm member and said tube thereon back to a horizontal position. 2. The device of claim 1 wherein said work station comprises: (a) part receiving means on said arm member in alignment with said tube to receive said part from said tube, said part receiving means having a vertical cross-section generally conforming to said internal track in said tube to facilitate sliding of said part from said tube to said part receiving means; (b) end stop means on said arm member adjacent an end of said part receiving means opposite said tube to prevent said part sliding from said tube onto said part receiving means from sliding off of said part receiving means; (c) tube stop means engaging the end of said tube facing said work station, said tube stop means being positioned adjacent the edge of said work station facing said tube to thereby locate the end of said tube immediately adjacent the end of said part receiving means whereby said part receiving means will act as a continuation of said internal track to facilitate sliding of said part from said tube to said part receiving means; and (d) detection means for sensing the presence of a part in said work station. 3. The device of claim 2 wherein said part receiving means further include cammed surfaces facing said tube to assist in guiding a part from said tube into said work station. 4. The device of claim 2 wherein said first means for releasably securing said tube against said work station comprises first fluid power means having means operationally attached thereto to engage an opposite end of said tube to urge said tube against said work station. 5. The device of claim 4 wherein said means operationally attached to said first fluid power means include wedge means to engage the inner surfaces of the end of said tube to assist in aligning said tube on said tilting arm member and in withdrawing the opposite end of said tube from engagement with said work station after said tube is empty. 6. The device of claim 5 wherein said tilting arm member is further provided with a guide member located between said work station and said wedge means to guide said tube into alignment with said work station to assist in removal of said parts from said tube. 7. The device of claim 4 wherein the length of said tilting arm is adjustable to compensate for differing lengths of said tube containing parts to be unloaded. 8. The device of claim 1 wherein said second means for tilting said arm member comprise second fluid power means. 9. The device of claim 8 wherein said second fluid power means are adjustable to control the angle to which said arm member is tilted and to control both the speed at which said arm member is tilted and returned to the horizontal to permit spacing out of the remaining parts in said tube by providing a controlled jarring action on said tube upon returning said arm member and said tube thereon to the horizontal position. 10. The device of claim 1 wherein said part feeder further includes storage means for storing a vertical stack of full tubes in a vertical plane parallel to but spaced from the plane defined by said tilting arm member to permit replenishment of said tubes in said tube stack without interfering with the unloading of said tube affixed to said tilting arm member. 11. The device of claim 10 which further includes stripper means for disengaging said tube on said tilting arm member from said wedge member when said tube is empty, third means for moving said tilting arm member and said support member to which it is attached to a position beneath said tube stack to receive a full tube in replacement of said empty tube, and spring means operationally attached to a wall of said tube stack to assist in removing an empty tube from said tilting arm member when said arm member is moved under said tube stack. 12. The device of claim 11 wherein said third means for moving said support member and said tilting arm member comprise third fluid power means mounted to said base and operationally attached to said support arm to provide sideways movement of said support arm to and from a position beneath said tube stack. 13. The device of claim 12 wherein said third fluid power means are operationally attached to said support member by pivotally attached levers capable of translating movement created by said third fluid power means that is parallel to said support member to horizontally move said support member in a direction perpendicular to the movement created by said third fluid power means to thereby conserve the width dimension occupied by said part feeder to facilitate location of other similar devices adjacent said part feeder. 14. The device of claim 13 wherein said support member is further provided with one or more pins depending from the under surface thereof into tracks in said base perpendicular to said support member to assure the accuracy of said horizontal movement of said support member to a position under said tube stack. 15. The device of claim 14 which further includes means for determining the presence or absence of one or more full tubes in said tube stack. 