Improved compound gripper device particularly useful with laboratory glassware and suitable for use with low or high gripping forces. When gripping forces are high, external gripper member is displaced into a resilient gripping pad which pad is of the type which provides the high-friction gripping force. On release of the gripping force, the external member is released and serves as a means to provide positive displacement of the object being held from the resilient, high-friction, gripping element.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A tool for gripping and releasing articles, said tool comprising two opposed gripping members which are moveable, relative to each other, between article-gripping and article-releaes positions, at least a first said opposed gripping member having (a) a pad element having a gripping surface as a first gripping element; (b) a second gripping element having smaller gripping area than said pad element and mounted on said first gripping member such that its smaller gripping area (1) is in a normal position closer to the other of said opposed gripping members than is said gripping surface of said pad element and (2) is displaceable into said pad element on application of a gripping force thereto; thereby allowing said gripping surface of said pad element to become a primary gripping surface; and (c) wherein said pad element comprises biasing means to return said second element to said normal position on release of said gripping force, said second element forming positive means to push said article from said gripping surface of said pad element as it is returned to said normal position. 2. A tool as defined in claim 1 wherein a second opposed gripping member is constructed as is said first opposed gripping element. 3. A tool as defined in claim 1 wherein said biasing means is inherent in the properties of said pad element, said pad element being a resilient pad. 4. A tool as defined in claim 3 wherein said second gripping element is wire. 5. A tool as defined in claim 3 wherein said pad element is formed of an organic resin material. 6. A tool as defined in claim 1 wherein said second gripping element is a spring wire. 7. A tool as defined in claim 1 wherein said biasing means comprises mechanical biasing means partially housed within said pad element. 8. A tool as defined in claims 6 or 7 wherein said pad element is formed of an organic resin material. 9. In a process for gripping and releasing an article by a mechanical gripper comprising two gripper members that move back and forth, in relationship one to the other, from an open position to a closed position for gripping said article, the improvement comprising the steps of (a) carrying a biased article-ejecting means in an extended position on each said gripper member whereby said article-ejecting means extends beyond a principal gripping surface of said gripper members; (b) first contacting an article to be gripped with said article-ejecting means as said gripper members are moving towards said closed position; (c) then pushing said article-ejecting means backwardly against biased support into pad means on said gripper members until said pad means provides the principal surface for gripping said article when said gripper members are in said closed position; and (d) as the gripper members return to open position, pushing said article away from the surface of said pad means with said article-ejecting means as said article-ejecting means is moved into said extended position by said biased article-ejecting means. 10. A process as defined in claim 9 wherein said article-ejecting means is comprised of at least one wire. 