An exchangeable multiple function end effector tool suitable for use on the distal end of a robotic end effector includes, in combination; a mechanism for removably affixing the multiple function end effector tool onto a pair of extending fingers provided on a robotic end effector. The multiple function tool is provided with a first gripping device for acquiring a first element or component and releasably retaining it and further incorporates a second gripping device which is capable of acquiring a second element or component and releasably retaining it in the tool. Provision is made for engaging and disengaging the elements either separately or in unison. Movement, assembly or disassembly of the elements remains a function of the end effector and its control mechanisms.
Claims Having thus set forth the nature of the invention, what is claimed is: 1. An exchangeable multi-function end effector tool suitable for use with a robotic end effector having a pair of extending fingers, including indexing means and computer controlled locking means, disposed on the distal end of a robotic arm, comprising in combination: (A) means for removably affixing said multiple function end effector tool to said pair of extending fingers including, (a) engaging means, said engaging means being accessible to said end effector extending fingers and having, (i) tool indexing means for mating and cooperating with said end effector indexing means provided on said end effector extending fingers, and (ii) a locking device for cooperating with said computer controlled end effector finger locking means to retain said tool upon said end effector extending fingers; and (B) multiple function tool means having said tool affixing means disposed thereon, said multiple function tool means including, (i) first gripping means for acquiring a first element and releasably retaining said first element in said multiple function tool, and (ii) second gripping means for acquiring a second element and releasably retaining said second element in said multiple function tool. 2. An exchangeable multiple function end effector tool according to claim 1 wherein said tool indexing means comprises: (a) an arrangement that permits only one position for positive engagement with a mating arrangement provided on said end effector fingers, including; (i) alignment means for maintaining the dimensional integrity of said robotic arm when engaged in said end effector fingers; and (ii) receiving means for receiving said locking device disposed in said end effector fingers and for removably affixing said tool upon said end effector fingers. 3. An exchangeable multi-function end effector tool according to claim 1, wherein said tool engaging means includes an extending portion containing said tool indexing means for permitting engagement of said end effector indexing means disposed on said end effector fingers when said fingers are moving in a closing direction. 4. An exchangeable multi-function end effector tool according to claim 1 wherein said first gripping means includes a vacuum suction device for grasping and retaining a generally flat surface. 5. An exchangeable multi-function end effector tool according to claim 1, wherein said second gripping means includes means for grasping the outer periphery of an element. 6. An exchangeable multi-function end effector tool suitable for use with a robotic end effector having a pair of extending fingers, including indexing means and computer controlled locking means, disposed on the distal end of a robotic arm, comprising in combination: (A) means for removably affixing said multiple function end effector tool to said pair of extending fingers including; (a) engaging means, said engaging means being accessible to said end effector extending fingers and having, (i) tool indexing means for mating and cooperating with said end effector indexing means provided on said end effector extending fingers, and (ii) a locking device for cooperating with said computer controlled end effector finger locking means to retain said tool upon said end effector extending fingers; and (B) multiple function tool means having said tool affixing means disposed thereon, said multiple function tool means including; (i) first gripping means for acquiring a first element and releasably retaining said first element in said multiple function tool, said first gripping means having; (a) spring means for urging said first gripping means to its lowermost position; (b) collar means disposed on said gripping means for limiting the travel of said first gripping means between its lowermost and uppermost positions; and (c) sensing means disposed proximate said first gripping means for providing an electrical signal when said first gripping means is in its uppermost and lowermost position, (ii) second gripping means for acquiring a second element and releasably retaining said second element in said multiple function tool. 7. An exchangeable multi-function end effector tool according to claim 1, further including sensing means for indicating when said tool means has engaged an element. 8. An exchangeable multi-function end effector tool according to claim 7 wherein said sensing means is a photoelectric sensor, said sensor providing an electrical signal when said collar means interrupts the light beam impinging upon said photoelectric sensor. 9. An exchangeable multi-function end effector tool according to claim 1 wherein said means for engaging and disengaging said first and second element is further capable of disengaging said first and second elements separately or together once they are mated. 10. An exchangeable multi-function end effector tool according to claim 1, wherein said first and said second gripping means includes a vacuum suction device for grasping and releasably retaining generally flat surfaces. 11. An exchangeable multi-function end effector tool according to claim 7 wherein said sensing means is a photoelectric sensing means. 