The tool of the present invention includes a compliance guide having a cylindrical vertical bore extending therethrough. Slidably mounted within the bore is a tool holder which is free to slide vertically, but which is held against lateral movement within the bore. Attached to the tool holder is a tool having a dauber pad at its lower end. A nipple is threaded within a vertical bore in the tool holder and extends upwardly therefrom through an aperture in a closure plate which fits over the upper end of the vertical bore in the compliance guide. A nut is threaded over the nipple above the closure plate and a spring below the closure plate yieldably urges the nipple and the tool holder downwardly until the nut engages the closure plate. Fluid is introduced through the nipple and extends downwardly to the dauber pad which absorbs the liquid and applies it to the work surface. A check valve is mounted within the dauber pad to prevent the dauber pad from receiving fluid until the dauber pad engages the work surface.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A tool adapted to be attached to a robot assembly for the robotic application of liquid to a work surface comprising: a compliance guide comprising a compliance housing having an elongated cylindrical bore extending therethrough and having an open upper bore end and an open lower bore end, closure means partially blocking said open upper end and having an opening therein which is smaller than the cross-sectional size of said bore; connecting means for connecting said compliance guide to said robot; an applicator holder body having upper and lower ends and being slidably fitted within said cylindrical bore of said compliance guide for reciprocating sliding movement within said bore, said holder body having an elongated passageway extending therethrough and having an upper passageway end and a lower passageway end; nipple means having a lower end attached to said holder body and extending upwardly therefrom through said opening in said closure means to an upper end located outside said bore of said compliance guide, said nipple means having a nipple bore extending therethrough and providing communication from outside said bore of said compliance guide to said upper passageway end of said holder body, said nipple means being slidable within said opening and being movable in unison with said holder body when said holder body slides within said bore of said compliance guide; connecting means on said upper end of said nipple means for connecting said nipple bore in communication with a source of said liquid; stop means on said nipple means above said closure member for limiting downward movement of said nipple and said holder body beyond a predetermined lower position relative to said compliance guide; spring means between said holder body and said closure member for yieldably urging said holder body and said nipple means toward said lower position: applicator means attached to said application holder body and being in liquid communication with said lower passageway end of said holder body for receiving said liquid therefrom, said applicator means being adapted for engaging said work surface and applying said liquid to said work surface. 2. A tool according to claim 1 wherein said applicator means comprises an applicator housing having a cavity therein in liquid communication with said lower passageway end of said holder body, said applicator housing having an aperture therein providing liquid communication between said cavity and the exterior of said applicator housing, a liquid absorbent member attached to said applicator housing in covering relation over said aperture for receiving and absorbing liquid therefrom. 3. A tool according to claim 2 comprising check valve means within said aperture and normally being in a closed position closing said aperture, said check valve means being yieldably movable to an open position permitting liquid to pass through said aperture in response to the compression of said absorbent member between said housing and said work surface. 4. A tool according to claim 3 comprising valve spring means within said cavity of said applicator housing and engaging said check valve means for yieldably urging said check valve means to said closed position. 5. A tool according to claim 1 and further comprising sensing means connected to said compliance guide and positioned above said closure means adjacent said nipple means, said sensing means being capable of sensing movement to said nipple means upwardly with respect to said compliance guide to an extreme upper position, signal conveyance means connected to said sensing means and being connectable to said robot assembly for conveying a shut-off signal to said robot assembly to shut off said robot assembly in response to said sensing means sensing movement of said nipple means to said extreme upper position. 6. A tool according to claim 1 comprising a cylindrical bushing fitted within said cylindrical bore of said compliance guide, said cylindrical bushing having a cylindrical opening extending therethrough, said holder body being slidably fitted within said cylindrical opening of said bushing for longitudinal reciprocating sliding movement therein. 7. A tool according to claim 1 wherein said stop means is adjustably mounted to said nipple means for selective adjustable movement to a plurality of positions along the length of said nipple means. 8. A tool according to claim 7 wherein said stop means is threadably mounted to said nipple means. 9. A tool according to claim 1 wherein said lower end of said nipple means is threadably received within said upper passageway end of said holder body. 10. A tool according to claim 1 wherein said cylindrical bore of said compliance housing has a cylindrical axis, said holder body being fitted within said cylindrical bore in such a manner as to minimize movement of said holder body in any direction relative to said compliance housing other than a direction coinciding with the direction of said cyindrical axis. 