A tinning station for axial lead electronic components includes a presentation system for arranging a plurality of axial lead components in an elevated linear array with adjacent components lying parallel to each other. A pair of grippers, have a pair of parallel bars each having a longitudinal slot and a length at least as long as the length of the component array. These bars are moved toward or away from each other by an actuator which is mounted on a robotic arm. This arm is programmed to position the grippers adjacent to the array so that the actuator can cause the grippers to clamp the ends of the bodies of the components in the array. Then the arm dips the leads on each side of the array into the solder flux and subsequently into molten solder, thereby tinning the leads. The thickness of the grippers defines an untinned length of each component lead. A release fixture is used to dislodge any components which do not fall from the grippers when the grippers are separated.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A tinning station for axial lead components comprising: a presentation system for arranging a plurality of axial lead components in an elevated linear array with each of said components having a body with an axis and a pair of leads extending from opposite sides of said body along said axis, wherein axes of adjacent components lie generally parallel to each other; a pair of grippers, each including a bar having a longitudinal slot and having a length at least as long as said linear array of components; said gripper bars lying generally parallel to each other; an actuator for moving said gripper bars toward or away from each other in a direction substantially parallel to said axes, thereby enabling said gripper bars to clamp opposite ends of each of said component bodies in said linear array of components, wherein each of said component leads extends through one of said slots in said grippers; a flux pot for containing a pool of liquid solder flux; means for producing a generally horizontal layer of molten solder; and a robotic arm for supporting and moving said actuator and said grippers, such that said leads extending from each side of said array of axial lead components, which is clamped between said gripper bars, are first dipped in said flux and then dipped in said solder to tin each end of said leads. 2. A tinning station as recited in claim 1, wherein said means for producing a generally horizontal layer of molten solder comprises: a solder pot having a height sufficient to prevent bottoming of said actuator when said actuator is positioned adjacent to one side of said solder pot and one of said gripper bars lies adjacent to said horizontal layer of molten solder. 3. A tinning station as recited in claim 1, further comprising: a release fixture for dislodging tinned components from said grippers, said release fixture including two tines being spaced apart by a distance greater than the length of said component bodies but smaller than the length of each of said component bodies plus the leads extending axially therefrom. 4. A tinning station as recited in claim 1, wherein: the thickness of said gripper bars defines a length of untinned lead adjacent to each component body. 5. A tinning station as recited in claim 1, further comprising: a pair of layers of resilient material attached to confronting surfaces of said gripper bars. 6. A tinning station as recited in claim 1, wherein said presentation system comprises: a block having a pair of generally parallel, vertical sides, said sides being spaced apart by a distance which is longer than the length of said component bodies but shorter than the combined length of each of said component bodies, plus the leads extending axially therefrom; and a plurality of notches in a top surface of each of said sides, for receiving said axial leads. 7. A tinning station as recited in claim 1, wherein said means for producing a generally horizontal layer of molten solder comprises: a solder fountain having a height sufficient to prevent bottoming of said actuator when said actuator is positioned adjacent to one side of said fountain and one of said gripper bars lies adjacent to said horizontal layer of molten solder. 8. A tinning station as recited in claim 1, wherein said presentation system comprises: a conveyor having a pair of spaced belts; means for placing said plurality of axial lead components across said belts with said component bodies positioned between said belts; and means for controlling the operation of said conveyor to stop movement of said belts when said components have reached a predetermined location. 