A stacked robotic work cell process station is provided which includes first and second module chambers (14) and (26) which have associated therewith work surfaces (10) and (22). The first module chamber (14) is disposed above the work surface (22) in the second chamber (26) and staggered with respect thereto. A conduit (34) is provided for interfacing the upper surface of the chamber (26) with a point parallel to the upper surface of the first chamber (14) and adjacent thereto. A lower conduit (16) interfaces the lower portion of the first cell chamber with the lower portion of the second module chamber (26). A baffle (20) is provided for adjusting the air flow between the two chambers to provide isokinetic air flow at the upper surface of the stacked configuration.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A stacked robotic work cell process station for processing a workpiece and being disposed in a ventilated environment with a downward directed air stream, comprising: a first process module having a first planar work surface; a first module chamber for containing said first process module and having an upper and open surface, a lower surface, a rear side and a front side, said first module chamber for containing said first process module with said first planar work surface being parallel to the upper surface of said first module chamber and perpendicular to the air flow with said first planar work surface being accessible from the front; a second process module having a second planar work surface; a second module chamber for containing said second process module and having an upper and open surface, a lower surface, a rear side and a front side, the upper surface of said second module chamber being parallel to said second work surface and disposed a predetermined distance below the upper surface of said first module chamber, the front side of said second module chamber being parallel to the front side of said first module chamber with said second planar work surface being accessible from the front; communication means for communicating between the lower portions of said first and second module chambers and the air stream to provide an even flow through said first and second module chambers from the upper open surfaces thereof through to the lower surfaces thereof; and the planar work surfaces of said first and second process modules accessible from the front side of said first and second module chambers, respectively, by an external robotic system. 2. The stacked robotic work cell process station of claim 1 and further comprising: a work chamber disposed on the upper surface of said second module chamber and said second work surface; a conduit in communication with said work chamber and a point proximate the plane of the upper surface of said first module chamber and adjacent to said first module chamber to allow communication of the air stream down through said conduit to said work chamber from the point proximate to the plane of the upper surface of said first module chamber; and an access opening in said work chamber parallel to the front side of said second module chamber to provide access to said second work surface. 3. The stacked robotic work cell process station of claim 2 wherein the cross sectional area of said conduit is less than the cross sectional area of said work chamber, the interface between said conduit and said work chamber having a radial contour such that air flow is enhanced therearound. 4. The stacked robotic work cell process station of claim 1 wherein said second module chamber is disposed in front of said first module chamber. 5. The stacked robotic work cell process station cf claim 1 wherein said first module chamber partially overlies the upper surface of said second module chamber with the lower surface of said first module chamber disposed a predetermined distance above the lower surface of said second module chamber. 6. The stacked robotic work cell process station of claim 1 wherein said communication means comprises: a conduit having first and second ends, the first end thereof being in communication with the lower surface of said first module chamber and the other end thereof being in communication with a point proximate the lower surface of said second module chamber such that the air from the lower portion of said second module chamber and the air from the second end of said conduit are directed downward into the air stream; and adjusting means for adjusting the rate of flow through said conduit such that the flow through said first and second module chambers is isokinetic. 7. The stacked robotic work cell process station of claim 1 wherein said first and second process modules each have a functional mechanism associated with the associated ones of said first and second planar work surfaces, said functional mechanisms operable to provide both structural and functional support for a given process associated with said first and second process modules, respectively. 8. A stacked robotic work cell process station for processing a workpiece and being disposed in a ventilated environment with a downward directed air stream, comprising: a first process module having: a first module chamber with a lower surface, and an open upper surface, a front surface and a rear surface, a planar work surface for receiving a workpiece, said planar work surface proximate to and parallel with the upper surface of said first module chamber, and a functional mechanism disposed below said first work surface to provide both functional and structural support therefor; a second process module having: a second module chamber with a lower surface, an open upper surface, a front surface and a rear surface, a second planar work surface for receiving a workpiece, said second planar work surface disposed proximate and parallel With the upper surface of said second module chamber, and a second functional mechanism disposed below said second work surface to provide both functional and structural support therefor; said second process module disposed proximate to said first process module such that the upper surface thereof is below the upper surface of said first process module; first conduit means for interfacing the upper open surface of said second process module with the downward directed air stream at a point proximate the upper surface of said first module chamber and adjacent thereto; second conduit means connected between the lower portion of said first module chamber in said first work cell process module and the lower portion of said second module chamber in said second process module; means for communicating with said downward directed air stream such that air is pulled in the open upper surfaces of said first and second module chambers and exiting from the lower portions thereof; means for adjusting the air flow through said first and second module chambers to provide isokinetic flow; and an access opening for providing access from the front surface of said second module chamber to allow external access to said second work surface. 9. The stacked robotic work cell process station of claim B wherein said first conduit means comprises: a conduit having a first open end and a second open end, the first open end disposed in a plane parallel with the upper surface of said first module chamber and adjacent thereto; a work chamber disposed adjacent the upper surface of said second module chamber and defining a predetermined height above the upper surface of said second module chamber; and said work chamber interfaced with the second end of said conduit and the open upper surface of said second module chamber to allow air flow-therebetween. 10. The stacked robotic work cell process station of claim 9 wherein the surface area of the second open end of said conduit is smaller than the surface area of the upper surface of said work chamber wherein the junction between the upper surface of said work chamber and the second end of said conduit has a radial contour. 11. The stacked robotic work cell process station of claim 8 and further comprising access means for allowing access to said first and second process module chambers to provide access to said first and second functional mechanisms, respectively. 12. The stacked robotic work cell process station of claim 8 wherein said second work surface is disposed below the lower surface of said first module chamber with said first module chamber partially overlying said second module chamber and at a predetermined height above the upper surface of said second module chamber. 