An automatic packaging machine has a table with a conveyor mounted thereon to carry a plurality of mandrels. A magazine for cardboard blanks is on a swinging arm which is pivotally mounted on the table, for feeding the blanks toward the mandrels on the conveyor. A pick up includes vacuum cups on a revolving platform which moves the individual blanks from the magazine to individual ones of the mandrels. A circular scale centered on the pivot point enables a swinging of the arm to an azimuth at which the pick up may engage and carry individual blanks. The arm carries a linearly movable fence for holding the blanks in alignment. A linearly moving block is slidably mounted on a pair of guide bars extending perpendicularly away from the swinging arm. A feed screw extends through the block to the arm, whereby the block slides toward or away from the arm responsive to a turning of the feed screw. A linear scale extends between said arm and an end support bracket mounted on the guide bars for identifying the position of the block. The machine is easily upgraded to provide robot operation.
Claims THE CLAIMED INVENTION IS: 1. In an automatic packaging machine an assembly comprising a table having a radially movable arm attached thereto at a pivot point about which the arm swings, a circular scale mounted at said pivot point, a pointer associated with said scale for indicating an azimuth at which said arm extends away from said table, means for linearly moving a part relative to said machine, linear scale means extending from said machine past said linearly moving part, and pointer means associated with said linearly moving part for identifying on the linear scale the position of said linearly moving part. 2. The automatic packaging machine assembly of claim 1 and power operated means for moving said arm and said linearly moving part to commanded locations which may be confirmed by observing the position of said pointers relative to said scales. 3. The automatic packaging machine assembly of claim 2 wherein said power operated means include at least one stepping motor associated with each of said scales. 4. The automatic packaging machine assembly of claim 1 wherein said linearly moving part comprises at least one guide bar extending perpendicularly away from said arm and to an end bracket support, a block slidably movable on said guide bar, and a feed screw extending from said end bracket through said block to said arm whereby said block slides on said guide bar toward or away from said arm responsive to a turning of said feed screw, said linear scale means extending between said arm and said end bracket support. 5. The automatic packaging machine assembly of claim 1 wherein said arm includes a magazine for holding a plurality of cardboard blanks and said linearly moving part comprises a fence in said magazine for holding said blanks in alignment, and pick up means on said table near the pivot point of said arm, the blanks being presented to said pick up means when said arm is set at an angle determined by said azimuth. 6. The automatic packaging machine assembly of claim 5 wherein said pick up means includes a revolving platform, a plurality of vacuum cups mounted on said revolving platform at locations which bring said vacuum cups into contact with said blanks in said magazine when said arm is setting at said azimuth. 7. The automatic packaging machine assembly of claim 6 and power operated means comprising at least one stepping motor associated with each of said scales for moving said arm and said linearly moving part to selected locations which may be confirmed by observing the positions of said pointers on said scales. 8. In an automatic packaging machine, an assembly comprising a table having conveyor means mounted thereon, a plurality of mandrels mounted on and carried by said conveyor, a magazine means pivotally mounted on said table for feeding cardboard blanks toward said conveyor, pick up means for moving individual blanks from said magazine to individual ones of said mandrels, means for pivoting said magazine to an azimuth which enables said pick up means to engage and carry said individual blanks, and scale means for reading out said azimuth whereby said magazine may be set at said azimuth by observing said azimuth reading on said chart. 9. The automatic packaging machine assembly of claim 8 wherein said means for reading said azimuth comprises a circular scale centered upon said pivotal mount, and pointer means for identifying a point on said circular scale, one of said pointer and scale means being associated with said table and the other of said pointer and scale being associated with magazine. 10. The automatic packaging machine assembly of claim 9 wherein said circular scale reads out said azimuth in terms related to the particular type of blank that is in said magazine. 11. The automatic packaging machine assembly of claim 8 wherein said magazine means has an arm with an associated linearly moving part comprising a fence for holding said blanks in alignment, said linearly moving part comprising at least one guide bar extending perpendicularly away from said arm and to an end bracket support, a block slidably movable on said guide bar, and a feed screw extending through said block to said arm whereby said block slides toward or away from said arm responsive to a turning of said feed screw, said linear scale means extending between said arm and said end bracket support. 12. In an automatic machine, an assembly comprising means including movable mechanical parts operating at any of a plurality of different settings whereby there is a need to reset said mechanical parts of said machine between different operations, said mechanical parts including guide bars extending along a path from end point to end point which is followed by at least one of said movable parts for said resetting, a block mounted to travel freely along said guide bars, a feed screw threaded through said block for causing said block to move along said path responsive to a turning of said feed screw, a scale means mounted on said end points and spanning said path, and pointer means associated with said block for identifying on said scale means the position of said block in said path. 13. The machine assembly of claim 12 and means carried by said block for adjusting said machine. 14. The machine assembly of claim 13 and a stepping motor for turning said feed screw responsive to automatic commands. 15. The machine assembly of claim 13 and a pivot point about which at least one of said moving parts swings, a scale means including at least an arc of a circle centered on said pivot point for identifying an azimuth of said swinging part, and pointer means on said swinging part for identifying on said accurate scale a position of said swinging part. 16. The machine assembly of claim 15 wherein said machine is an automatic packaging machine with a cardboard blank magazine mounted on said swinging part which is an arm turning about said pivot point, said block carrying a fence for holding said cardboard blanks in an alignment on said arm, and means comprising a pick up device positioned between an end of said arm and said packaging machine. 