This invention relates to improvements in foundry procedures, particularly in-process and post process inspection with electro-optical sensor units. Principally addressed are: inspection of molds and cores to assure correctness and control procedures to abort pouring if the molds are not correct, inspection of cores on the core line, inspection of patterns for sticking sand, inspection of finished castings for extraneous material in passages, excessive or inadequate stock, correct locator relationships, etc., and control of robotic flash grinders. Both fixed and programmably moveable sensors are shown in the context of these embodiments.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for automatically controlling machining of a casting in an automated process for producing a plurality of castings, said method comprising the steps of: painting a background paint onto the casting, removing said paint with a laser to provide a bar coded serial number, electro-optically inspecting said casting and producing output data in accordance therewith, storing, in memory, said output data produced by inspecting said casting and said serial number and, automatically reading said serial number at a machining station to provide access to said casting data in memory, and automatically controlling machining of said casting by a machine at said machining station in accordance with said casting data. 2. A method of automatically finishing castings comprising the steps of: using robotic means to provide relative positioning of a plurality of castings, in sequence, with respect to an electro-optical triangulation ranging sensor and a electro-optical imaging sensor, using said imaging sensor to determine at least one dimension of the casting being sensed, using said ranging sensor so as to provide at least one distance measurement relative to the casting being sensed, determining from the output of said sensors the location of the portion or portions of the casting and the amount of finishing required, and automatically causing suitable tools to finish said casting at the determined location or locations. 3. A method for automatic control of a casting machining operation, said method comprising: utilizing robotic means to provide relative movement of an electro-optical trianglating ranging sensor and an electro-optical imaging sensor with respect to a casting so as to provide, using said ranging sensor, at least one distance measurement relative to the parts of the casting and to determine, using said imaging sensor, at least one dimension of the casting; processing the outputs of said triangulating ranging sensor and said imaging sensor to produce distance measurement data and casting dimension data; and using said distance measurement data and said casting dimension data to control the operation of a machine for machining the casting so as to provide machining of the casting in accordance with said data. 4. A method as claimed in claim 3 wherein said imaging sensor comprises a photodetector matrix array. 5. A method as claimed in claim 3 further comprising using shutter means to protect said imaging sensor, said shutter means being opened when a dimension determination is being made. 6. A method as claimed in claim 3 wherein said ranging sensor and said imaging sensor are mounted on a common robot arm for movement therewith. 7. A method as claimed in claim 3 wherein said ranging sensor and said imaging sensor are moved relative to the casting. 8. A method as claimed in claim 3 wherein the movement of said sensors is along at least two axes. 9. A method as claimed in claim 3 further comprising comparing the amount of excess material at a location on the casting a predetermined maximum and bypassing machining of the casting when the predetermined maximum is exceeded. 10. A method as claimed in claim 3 wherein said casting is to include at least one passage therein and said imaging sensor senses the presence or absence of such a passage. 11. A method according to claim 3 wherein said casting is marked with a serial number and said data stored along with said serial number. 