Provision is made for removing gaseous impurities, such as air, from hydraulic fluid in a hydraulic power system. A sump tank serves as a reservoir for the hydraulic fluid which passes through the power unit in a closed loop manner. The fluid inlet and outlet lines are connected to the tank below the level of hydraulic fluid therein. A source of vacuum is connected to the tank above the fluid level for removing impurities from the fluid. In a preferred embodiment, a flexible member is used to adjust the volume of the evacuated area of the tank as a function of the pressure in the tank space above the fluid level. The tank may further include one or more adjustable expandable devices which are used to regulate the fluid pressure within the system as desired.
Claims I claim: 1. A method of modifying recirculating hydraulic power units so as to remove gaseous impurities from hydraulic fluid regularly circulating between hydraulic devices and a sump tank whose interior is exposed to atmospheric air, said method comprising: sealing off a lower portion of the tank; connecting inlet and outlet fluid lines between said hydraulic devices and the sealed tank portion; mounting a flexible device in the interior of the tank so that one side thereof is exposed to the pressure in the sealed tank portion, with an opposite side of the flexible device being continuously exposed to atmospheric air; and creating a substantially constant vacuum level in the sealed tank portion so as to remove gaseous impurities from the fluid circulating therethrough. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein at least one bellows is mounted in the sealed tank portion, with the interior of said bellows communicating with atmospheric air. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein said tank has an opening in top portions thereof and wherein a flexible diaphragm is used to divide the tank into an upper portion exposed to the atmosphere and a sealed lower portion. 4. The method of claim 1 which further comprises regulating the fluid pressure in the system by adjusting the size of an expandable device within the tank. 5. In a hydraulic power unit having at least one hydraulic device controlled by hydraulic fluid regularly circulating through a recirculating hydraulic system including a sump tank, the improvement comprising: means for forming a sealed portion in the tank; means for regularly circulating hydraulic fluid between the hydraulic device and the sealed tank portion during the operation of said device; vacuum means for continuously creating a vacuum in the sealed tank portion during operation of the device so as to continuously remove gaseous impurities from the circulating hydraulic fluid therein; and a flexible device in the sealed tank portion having one side thereof exposed to the vacuum and an opposite side thereof exposed to a generally fixed source of increased air pressure relative to the vacuum whereby said flexible device operates to move and automatically adjust the volume of the sealed tank portion due to changes in the pressure differential on opposite sides of the flexible device as the fluid circulates through the tank. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 which includes a flexible diaphragm in the tank for dividing same into an upper portion exposed to atmospheric pressure and said lower sealed portion. 7. The apparatus of claim 5 which includes at least one bellows in the tank extending into the sealed portion thereof, with the interior of said bellows communicating with atmospheric air. 8. The apparatus of claim 5 which further comprises adjustable expandable means in the sealed compartment of the tank for adjusting the fluid pressure. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein said expandable means comprises a bladder and a regulated air supply for providing pressurized air into the bladder. 10. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein said expandable means comprises a bellows having its lower end extending into the sealed compartment and an upper end communicating with a regulated air supply for providing pressurized air into the bellows. 