A method and apparatus for image acquisition utilizing a non-planar beam of electro-magnetic radiation, such as, a hollow conical beam of light, to illuminate at least a portion of an object. The conical beam of light is generated by impinging a light beam on the surface of a concave, cylindrical reflector. The illuminated portion of the object is imaged on an array of photosensitive elements to produce corresponding signals that are representative of the image on the array. These signals can be used to obtain identification information concerning the object and guidance information for a plural axis manipulator employed in conjunction with the object. In one application the image acquisition apparatus is used in a robot to provide control signals for guiding the robot tool along a path, such as, a welding seam.
Claims What I claim adn desire to secure by Letters Patent of the United States is: 1. Method for image acquisition comprising the steps of: A. impinging a beam of collimated light on a concave, cylindrical reflective surface to produce a conical beam of light having an angular arc that is a function of the radius of the concave, cylindrical reflective surface and the width of the collimated light beam impinging thereon; B. illuminating at least a portion of an object with said conical beam of light; and, C. imaging at least part of said light beam illuminated portion of the object on an array of photosensitive elements to produce corresponding signals representative of the image on said array. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein at least a portion of the imaging path is coaxial with the axis of the conical beam extended from the apex thereof. 3. Method for image acquisition comprising the steps of: A. impinging a beam of collimated light on a concave, cylindrical reflective surface to produce a conical beam of light having an angular arc that is a function of the radius of the concave, cylindrical reflective surface and the width of the collimated light beam impinging thereon; B. illuminating at least a portion of an object with said conical beam of light; C. imaging at least part of said light beam illuminated portion of the object on an array of photosensitive elements to produce corresponding signals representative of the image on said array; and; D. controlling the angular width of the arc of said conical light beam as a function of the ambient light noise at said object. 4. Method for image acquisition comprising the steps of: A. impinging a beam of collimated light on a concave, cylindrical reflective surface to produce a conical beam of light having an angular arc that is a function of the radius of the reflective cylinder and the width of the collimated light beam impinging thereon; B. illuminating at least a portion of an object with said conical beam of light; C. imaging at least part of said light beam illuminated portion of the object on an array of photosensitive elements to produce corresponding signals representative of the image on said array; and, D. controlling the angular arc of said conical beam of light by sweeping the collimated beam of light transversely across said concave, cylindrical reflective surface with the angular arc length being related to the beam sweep width. 5. An apparatus for image acquisition comprising: A. a reflective cylinder means having a concave reflective surface; B. means for impinging a beam of collimated light on said concave reflective surface to produce a conical beam of light having an angular arc that (i) is a function of the radius of the concave reflective surface and the width of the collimated light beam impinging thereon and (ii) illuminates at least a portion of an object; C. an array means of photosensitive elements, said elements producing signals representative of the light impinging thereon; D. means for imaging at least part of said light beam illuminated portion of the object on said array means of photosensitive elements to produce corresponding signals representative of the image on said array; and, E. utilization means responsive to said signals. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein at least a portion of the imaging path is coaxial with the axis of the conical beam extended from the apex thereof. 7. An apparatus for image acquisition comprising: A. a reflective cylinder means having a concave reflective surface; B. means for impinging a beam of collimated light on said concave reflective surface to produce a conical beam of light having an angular arc that (i) is a function of the radius of the concave reflective surface and the width of the collimated light beam impinging thereon and (ii) illumintes at last a portion of an object; C. an array means of photosensitive elements, said elements producing signals representative of the light impinging thereon; D. means for imaging at least part of said light beam illuminated portion of the object on said array means of photosensitive elements to produce corresponding signals representative of the image on said array; E. means for controlling the angular width of the arc of said conical light beam as a function of the ambient light noise at said object; and, F. utilization means responsive to said signals. 8. An apparatus for image acquisition comprising: A. a reflective cylinder means having a concave reflective surface; B. means for impinging a beam of collimated light on said concave reflective surface to produce a conical beam of light having an angular arc that (i) is a function of the radius of the concave reflective surface and the width of the collimated light beam impinging theeon and (ii) illuminates at least a portion of an object; C. an array means of photosensitive elements, said elements producing signals representative of the light impinging thereon; D. means for imaging at least part of said light beam illuminated portion of the object on said array means of photosensitive elements to produce corresponding signals representative of the image on said array; E. means for controlling the angular arc of said conical beam of light by sweeping the collimated beam of light transversely across said reflective cylinder means with the angular arc length being related to the beam sweep width; and, F. utilization means responsive to said signals. 9. An apparatus for image acquisition comprising: A. a rotatable cylindrical mirror means having a concave reflective surface; B. means for impinging a beam of collimated light on said concave reflective surface to produce a conical beam of light having an angular arc of predetermined angular width that illuminates at least a portion of an object; C. an array means of photosensitive elements, said elements producing signals representative of the light impinging thereon; D. means for imaging at least part of said light beam illuminated portion of the object on said array means of photosensitive elements to produce corresponding signals represntative of the image on said array; and, E. utilization means responsive to said signals. 10. An apparatus for image acquisition comprising: A. a rotatable cylindrical mirror means having a concave reflective surface; B. means for impinging a beam of collimated light on said concave reflective surface to produce a conical beam of light having an angular arc of predetermined angular width that illuminates at least a portion of an object; C. an array means of photosensitive elements, said elements producing signals representative of the light impinging thereon; D. means for imaging at least part of said light beam illuminated portion of the object on said array means of photosensitive elements to produce corresponding signals representative of the image on said array; E. means for controlling the angular width of the arc of said conical light beam as a function of the ambient light noise at said object; and, F. utilization means responsive to said signals. 11. In a robot having a tool for use with a workpiece, an image acquisition apparatus comprising: A. a reflective cylinder means having a concave reflective surface and a longitudinal axis, said longitudinal axis having a selected positional relationship with respect to the tool of the robot; B. means for impinging a beam of collimated light on said concave reflective surface to produce a conical beam of light having an angular arc that (i) is a function of the radius of the concave reflective surface and the width of the collimated light beam impinging thereon and (ii) illuminates at least a portion of the workpiece; C. an array means of photosensitive elements, said elements producing signals representative of the light impinging thereon; D. means for imaging at least part of said light beam illuminated portion of the workpiece on said array means of photosensitive elements to produce corresponding signals representative of the image on said array; and, E. utilization means responsive to said signals for controlling the position of the tool with respect to the workpiece. 12. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein at least a portion of the imaging path is coaxial with the axis of the conical beam extended from the apex thereof. 13. In a robot having a tool for use with a workpiece an image acquisition apparatus comprising: A. a reflective cylinder means having a concave reflective surface and a longitudinal axis, said longitudinal axis having a selected positional relationship with respect to the tool of the robot B. means for impinging a beam of collimated light on said concave reflective surface to produce a conical beam of light having an angular arc that (i) is a function of the radius of the concave reflective surface and the width of the collimated light beam impinging thereon and (ii) illuminates at least a portion of the workpiece; C. an array means of photosensitive elements, said elements producing signals representative of the light impinging thereon; D. means for imaging at least part of said light beam illuminated portion of the workpiece on said array means of photosensitive elements to produce corresponding signals representative of the image on said array; E. controlling the angular width of the arc of said conical light beam as a function of the ambient light noise at said worpiece; and, F. utilization means responsive to said signals for controlling the position of the tool with respect to the workpiece. 14. An apparatus for image acquisition comprising: A. a reflective cylinder means having a concave reflective surface; B. means for impinging a beam of collimated light on said concave reflective surface to produce a conical beam of light having an angular arc that (i) is a function of the radius of the concave reflective surface and the width of the collimated light beam impinging thereon and (ii) illuminates at least a portion of an object; C. an array means of photosensitive elements, said elements producing signals representative of the light impinging thereon; D. means for imaging at least part of said light beam illuminated portion of the object on said array means of photosensitive elements to produce corresponding signals representative of the image on said array; E. controlling the angular width of the arc of said conical light beam as a function of the ambient light noise at said object; and, F. utilization means responsive to said signals. 15. An apparatus for image acquisition comprising: A. a reflective cylinder means having a concave reflective surface; B. means for impinging a beam of collimated light on said concave reflective surface to produce a conical beam of light having an angular arc that (i) is a function of the radius of the concave reflective surface and the width of the collimated light beam impinging thereon and (ii) illuminates at least a portion of an object; C. an array means of photosensitive elements, said elements producing signals representative of the light impinging thereon; D. means for imaging at least part of said light beam illuminated portion of the object on said array mens of photosensitive elements to produce corresponding signals representative of the image on said array; E. means for controlling the angular arc of said conical beam of light by sweeping the collimated beam of light transversely across said concave reflective surface with the angular arc length being related to the beam sweep width; and, F. utilization means responsive to said signals. 