A two dimensional optical array of lenslets and detectors is provided. The outputs of the detectors are combined to produce a signal indicative of the characteristics of an object being viewed while the output of selected detectors are compared to produce a signal indicative of the range to the object.
Claims The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or right is claimed are defined as follows: 1. An image detection array comprising: lens means for transmitting radiation from a remote object; a lenslet matrix comprising a predetermined number of lenslets arranged in rows and columns and mounted to receive radiation transmitted by the lens means; and a detector array mounted adjacent the lenslet matrix and comprising a plurality of substantially equal sized detectors arranged in pairs with at least one pair behind each lenslet so as to receive an image of the exit pupil of the lens means, the outputs of the detectors producing a first resultant signal indicative of the shape of the remote object. 2. Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the outputs of selected ones of the pairs of detectors produce a second resultant signal indicative of the range to the remote object. 3. Apparatus according to claim 2 wherein two pairs of detectors are behind each lenslet. 4. Apparatus according to claim 2 wherein the outputs of the detector pairs are combined and the combined outputs produce the first resultant signal and the outputs of the selected ones of the detector pairs are compared to determine relative intensity to produce the second resultant signal. 5. Apparatus according to claim 2 further including an industrial robot and means connecting the robot to the detector array to provide the first and second resultant signals as control signals for the robot. 6. Apparatus according to claim 1 further including viewing means and means connecting the detector array to the viewing means to provide the first resultant signal as a stereo signal for the viewing means. 