A swipe scanner comprising: (a) a printhead for printing a position-coding pattern onto a surface; (b) an ink supply containing an ink for printing the position-coding pattern; (c) a first image sensor positioned for imaging portions of the surface on which the printhead has printed during a swipe of the surface, each imaged portion containing part of the position-coding pattern printed by the printhead during the swipe; (c) a second image sensor for capturing, during the swipe, portions of a graphic image pre-printed on the surface; and (d) a processor. The processor is configured for: determining absolute positions of the swipe scanner using the parts of the position-coding pattern; using the absolute positions to control an output of the printhead during the swipe; and using the absolute positions to assemble the captured portions of the graphic image into a scanned graphic image.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A swipe scanner comprising: a printhead for printing a position-coding pattern onto a surface; an ink supply containing an ink for printing the position-coding pattern; at least one first image sensor positioned for imaging portions of said surface on which said printhead has printed during a swipe of the surface, each imaged portion containing part of the position-coding pattern printed by said printhead during said swipe; at least one second image sensor for capturing, during said swipe, portions of a graphic image pre-printed on said surface; and a processor configured for: determining absolute positions of the swipe scanner using said parts of the position-coding pattern; using the absolute positions to control an output of said printhead during said swipe; and using the absolute positions to assemble said captured portions of said graphic image into a scanned graphic image. 2. The swipe scanner of claim 1, wherein said ink is an infrared-absorbing ink. 3. The swipe scanner of claim 2, wherein said graphic image is printed with one or more colored inks having an infrared window, thereby enabling imaging of said position-coding pattern in the presence of said colored inks. 4. The swipe scanner of claim 1, which is configured for unidirectional swiping. 5. The swipe scanner of claim 4, wherein said first image sensor is positioned downstream of said printhead, wherein a swipe direction is defined as upstream. 6. The swipe scanner of claim 1, further comprising a motion sensor for sensing relative motion of the scanner. 7. The swipe scanner of claim 6, wherein said processor is configured to use relative motion data together with said absolute positions to control the output of the said printhead and to assemble said captured portions. 8. The swipe scanner of claim 1, wherein said position-coding pattern further identifies an orientation of position data relative to a grid containing said position data. 9. The swipe scanner of claim 8, wherein said processor is configured to use each part of the position-coding pattern to determine an orientation of the scanner relative to said grid, and to use said orientation together with said absolute position to control the output of the said printhead and to assemble said captured portions. 10. The swipe scanner of claim 1, wherein said position-coding pattern further identifies an impression identity associated with said graphic image. 11. The swipe scanner of claim 1, further comprising a first memory for storing a plurality of impression identities, each stored impression identity being associable with a graphic image. 12. The swipe scanner of claim 1, further comprising communication means for communicating with a computer system. 13. The swipe scanner of claim 12, wherein said processor is configured to generate association data for communication to the computer system, said association data indicating an association between the impression identity, the absolute positions and the scanned graphic image, such that said graphic image scanned by said printer is interactive. 14. The swipe scanner of claim 13, wherein said association data enables said computer system to associate one or more zones of the graphic image with a corresponding interactive element. 15. The swipe scanner of claim 14, wherein said interactive element is selected from the group comprising: a hyperlink, an input field and a button. 16. The swipe scanner of claim 1, wherein said second image sensor is a linear image sensor. 17. The swipe scanner of claim 11, wherein said second image sensor is positioned parallel and/or substantially coextensive with said printhead. 18. A handheld device comprising the swipe printer according to claim 1. 19. The handheld device of claim 18, which is selected from the group comprising: a mobile phone and a personal digital assistant. 