A touch sensing catheter having a strain sensor assembly that may resolve the magnitude and direction of a force exerted on a distal extremity of the catheter, the strain sensor assembly being substantially insensitive to bulk temperature changes. A deformable structure having a plurality of optical fibers associated therewith that are strained by the imposition of a contact force transferred thereto. The optical fibers cooperate with the deformable structure to effect variable gap interferometers, such as Fabry-Perot resonators, that vary in operative length when a force is exerted on the deformable structure. The strain sensor assembly is rendered insensitive to bulk temperature changes by matching the coefficient of thermal expansion of the deformable body with that of the optical fibers. The strain sensor assembly may also be configured to mitigate the effects of thermal gradients using various thermal isolation techniques.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A catheter for use in a medical procedure comprising: a flexible elongate body defining a central axis and adapted to be introduced into a patient during said medical procedure and including a strain sensing assembly proximate a deformable portion of said elongate body, said strain sensing assembly including: a proximal portion and a distal portion separated by at least one standoff member to define a separation between said proximal portion and said distal portion, a plurality of transmitting elements affixed to and extending from said proximal portion of said strain sensing assembly and partially spanning said separation, each of said plurality of transmitting elements including a free end to define a plurality of free ends located between said proximal portion and said distal portion, and at least one reflecting surface carried by said distal portion of said strain sensing assembly and operatively coupled with at least one of said plurality of free ends to define a plurality of gaps for interferometery, one of said plurality of gaps being presented between each of said plurality of free ends and said at least one reflecting surface, each of said plurality of gaps having an operative length between the respective free end and the at least one reflecting surface, said operative length being variable and responsive to deformation of said deformable portion of said elongate body, said at least one standoff portion and said transmitting element having substantially similar coefficients of thermal expansion in a direction substantially parallel to said operative lengths of said plurality of gaps so that each of said operative lengths remains within a predetermined range when said deformable portion of said elongate body is subject to a predetermined range of bulk temperature change; one or more sources of electromagnetic radiation operatively coupled to each of said plurality of transmitting elements and transmitting electromagnetic radiation to each of said plurality of gaps to form a plurality of interferometers, each of said interferometers outputting modulated waveforms characteristic of the corresponding of said operative lengths; one or more receivers operatively coupled to said plurality of transmitting elements to detect said modulated waveforms; and a microprocessor configured to analyze said modulated waveforms to infer a plurality of strains on said deformable portion of said elongate body and to repeatedly resolve a force vector that contacts said catheter distal to said standoff member from said plurality of strains, said force vector including a computed magnitude and an axial component and a transverse component relative to said central axis. 2. The catheter of claim 1 wherein said at least one standoff member includes a plurality of standoff members, said plurality of standoff members equaling the number of said plurality of transmitting elements. 3. The catheter of claim 2 wherein at least one of said plurality of transmitting elements is coaxial with a corresponding one of said plurality of standoff members. 4. The catheter of claim 1 wherein said at least one standoff member is mounted to said proximal portion and said distal portion to define an active length that is at least 100 times greater than each of said operative lengths. 5. The catheter of claim 1 wherein said at least one reflecting surface is disposed on a face of said distal portion. 6. The catheter of claim 1 wherein a difference of said substantially similar coefficients of thermal expansion of said standoff portion and said transmitting element is within 2 .mu./K. 7. The catheter of claim 1 wherein said at least one reflecting surface comprises a plurality of reflecting elements, one reflecting element corresponding to each of said plurality of transmitting elements, said plurality of reflecting elements and said plurality of transmitting elements having substantially equal coefficients of thermal expansion. 8. The catheter of claim 1 wherein said interferometer is a Fabry-Perot interferometer. 9. The catheter of claim 1 wherein said at least one standoff member, said proximal portion and said distal portion comprise the same material. 10. The catheter of claim 1 wherein said deformable portion, said tubular outer portion and said transmitting element comprise the same material. 11. The force sensing catheter assembly of claim 1 wherein the coefficient of thermal expansion of said standoff portion is 5 .mu./K or less. 12. A device for introduction into a human or animal body comprising: a flexible elongate body defining a central axis and adapted to traverse a body passageway; a strain sensor assembly operatively coupled with said flexible elongate body, said strain sensor assembly operatively coupled with an end effector adapted to contact a tissue wall of a vessel or organ, said strain sensor assembly including: a deformable body operatively coupled with said flexible elongate body and adapted to deform in response to a contact force generated between said end effector and said tissue wall of said vessel or organ, said deformable body including a base portion and a distal portion separated by at least one standoff member, said base portion and said distal portion defining a separation distance therebetween, said deformable body carrying at least one reflecting surface and having a first coefficient of thermal expansion; a plurality of optical fibers extending from said base portion and partially spanning said separation distance, each of said plurality of optical fibers having a free end that is operatively coupled with said at least one reflecting surface, said plurality of optical fibers having a second coefficient of thermal expansion substantially similar to said first coefficient of thermal expansion, said strain sensor assembly being adapted to provide a repeated indication of a computable force vector corresponding to said contact force, said indication being relatively insensitive to bulk temperature changes over a predetermined operating range of temperatures, said computable force vector including an axial component and a transverse component relative to said central axis. 13. The device of claim 12 wherein said first coefficient of thermal expansion is within 2 .mu./K of said second coefficient of thermal expansion. 14. The device of claim 12 further comprising: one or more sources of electromagnetic radiation operatively coupled to each of said plurality of fiber optic sensors to provide said indication of said contact force; one or more receivers operatively coupled to said plurality of fiber optic sensors to detect said indication of said contact force; means operatively coupled to said one or more receivers for analyzing said indication of said contact force to infer at least one component of force on said deformable body. 15. The device of claim 12 wherein first coefficient of thermal expansion of said deformable body is 5 .mu./K or less. 16. The device of claim 12 wherein said at least one reflecting surface comprises a plurality of reflecting elements coupled to said deformable body, each one of said plurality of reflecting elements being operatively coupled with a corresponding one of said free end of said plurality of optical fibers. 17. The device of claim 16 wherein said plurality of optical fibers and said plurality of reflecting elements define a plurality of Fabry-Perot resonators. 18. The device of claim 16 wherein each one of said plurality of Fabry-Perot resonators define an operative length that is at least 100 times greater than the dimension of said separation distance. 19. The device of claim 12 wherein said at least one reflecting surface comprises a reflective portion of said deformable body. 20. The device of claim 19 wherein said reflective portion of said deformable body and said plurality of optical fibers define a plurality of Fabry-Perot resonators. 21. The device of claim 19 wherein each one of said plurality of Fabry-Perot resonators define an operative length that is at least 100 times greater than the dimension of said separation distance. 22. The device of claim 12 wherein said end effector comprises a radio frequency ablator head in fluid communication with an irrigation tube, the device further comprising means for thermally isolating said irrigation tube from said deformable structure. 23. The device of claim 12, wherein said at least one standoff member is a stem portion. 24. The device of claim 23, wherein said central axis is coaxial with said base portion and said distal portion of said deformable body, said stem portion having a first radius, said plurality of optical fibers being substantially parallel to and at a second radius from said central axis, said second radius being greater than said first radius. 25. The device of claim 12, wherein said at least one standoff member is a plurality of standoff members. 26. The device of claim 25 wherein each of said plurality of standoff members is coaxial with a corresponding one of said plurality of optical fibers. 27. A catheter for use in a medical procedure comprising: a flexible elongate body defining a central axis and adapted to be introduced into a patient during said medical procedure and including a strain sensing assembly for repeated resolution of a computed magnitude and direction of a force vector exerted on a distal end of said flexible elongate body, said strain sensing assembly being proximate said distal end of said flexible elongate body, said computed direction of said force vector defining one of an oblique angle and a perpendicular angle relative said central axis, said strain sensing assembly including: a deformable portion; a plurality of fiber optic strain sensors affixed to said deformable portion, each of said fiber optic strain sensors comprising: a tubular outer portion having a proximal end and a distal end; a transmitting element affixed to said tubular outer portion at a contact location proximate said proximal end, said transmitting element having a free end that extends into said tubular outer portion; and a reflecting element operatively coupled with said free end of said transmitting element to define a gap for interferometery, said gap having an operative length between said free end and said reflecting element, said operative length being variable and responsive to deformation of said deformable portion, wherein said deformable portion, said tubular outer portion and said transmitting element have a substantially similar coefficient of thermal expansion in a direction parallel to said operative length so that said operative length remains within a predetermined range when said deformable portion of said elongate body is subject to a predetermined range of bulk temperature change. 28. The catheter of claim 27 further comprising: one or more sources of electromagnetic radiation operatively coupled to each of said plurality of fiber optic strain sensors and transmitting electromagnetic radiation to each gap of said plurality of fiber optic strain sensors to form a plurality of interferometers, each of said interferometers outputting modulated waveforms, each waveform being characteristic of the corresponding of said operative lengths; one or more receivers operatively coupled to said plurality of fiber optic strain sensors to detect said modulated waveforms; and means operatively coupled to said one or more receivers for analyzing said modulated waveforms to infer at least one strain on said deformable portion of said elongate body. 29. The catheter of claim 28 further comprising means for resolving said force vector from said at least one strain, said force vector having at least one of an axial component and a transverse component. 30. The catheter of claim 28 wherein said plurality of interferometers are Fabry-Perot interferometers. 31. The catheter of claim 27 wherein a difference between said substantially similar coefficients of thermal expansion of said deformable portion and said transmitting element is within 2 .mu./K. 