Methods and systems for endovascular, endocardiac, or endoluminal approaches to a patient's heart to perform surgical procedures that may be performed or used without requiring extracorporeal cardiopulmonary bypass. Furthermore, these procedures can be performed through a relatively small number of small incisions. These procedures may illustratively include heart valve implantation, heart valve repair, resection of a diseased heart valve, replacement of a heart valve, repair of a ventricular aneurysm, repair of an arrhythmia, repair of an aortic dissection, etc. Such minimally invasive procedures are preferably performed transapically (i.e., through the heart muscle at its left or right ventricular apex).
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for implanting a heart valve comprising: accessing a patient's heart by piercing a myocardium with a cannulated needle having a sharp end; feeding through the cannulated needle an elongated wire configured to conform to a direction of blood flow, the feeding continuing such that the wire follows the blood flow until a length of the wire extends at least from a ventricular apex of the heart through an aortic valve of the heart; installing an access device in a wall of the heart, the access device having means for preventing bleeding through the access device; inserting a valve delivery device through the access device; and installing the heart valve. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising resecting a native heart valve. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein the resecting the native heart valve is performed percutaneously and the installing the heart valve is performed transapically. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the installing the heart valve further comprises radially expanding the heart valve. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the installing the heart valve further comprises pulling leaflets of a native heart valve downward. 6. A method of operating on a patient comprising: accessing the patient's heart by piercing a myocardium at a ventricular apex of the heart with a cannulated needle having a sharp end; feeding through the cannulated needle an elongated wire having a length along which the wire is configured to conform to a direction of blood flow, the feeding directed by the blood flow such that the wire follows the blood flow, the feeding continuing until the length extends at least from the ventricular apex to an aorta; installing an access device in a wall of the heart, the access device having means for preventing bleeding through the access device; and performing a surgical procedure of implanting a heart valve. 7. The method of claim 6 further comprising resecting a native heart valve. 8. The method of claim 6 wherein installing the access device in the wall of the heart further comprises installing the access device in a ventricular apex of the heart. 9. A method of operating on a patient comprising: accessing the patient's heart by piercing a myocardium with a cannulated needle having a sharp end; installing an access device in a wall of the heart, the access device having means for preventing bleeding through the access device; and after the accessing and before the installing, feeding through the cannulated needle an elongated wire having a length along which the wire is configured to conform to a direction of blood flow, the feeding continuing such that the wire follows the blood flow until the length extends at least from a ventricular apex of the heart to an aorta; performing a surgical procedure in antegrade direction, wherein the surgical procedure is selected from the group consisting of implanting a heart valve or and removing, resecting or modifying a native heart valve. 10. The method according to claim 9, wherein the aortic valve is implanted. 11. The method according to claim 10, wherein a guidewire is fed into the left ventricle, and wherein the guidewire is advanced through the aortic valve and into the aorta. 12. The method according to claim 11, wherein the guidewire is further advanced into the iliac or femoral arteries. 13. The method according to claim 12, wherein wire-guided devices are inserted from the antegrade direction. 14. The method according to claim 13, wherein wire-guided devices are inserted from the retrograde direction. 15. The method of claim 9 wherein the feeding continues until a distal end of the elongated wire exits the patient via an artery wall. 16. A method for implanting an endoprosthesis comprising: accessing a patient's heart by piercing a myocardium with a cannulated needle having a sharp end; installing an access device in a wall of the heart, the access device having means for preventing bleeding through the access device; after the accessing and before the installing, feeding through the cannulated needle an elongated wire having a length along which the wire is configured to conform to a direction of blood flow, the feeding directed by the blood flow such that the wire follows the blood flow, the feeding continuing until the length extends at least from a ventricular apex of the heart to an aorta; inserting an endoprosthesis delivery device through the access device; and installing the endoprosthesis. 