A system, method, and computer readable-media for creating a stable synthetic neural system. The method includes training an intellectual choice-driven synthetic neural system (SNS), training an emotional rule-driven SNS by generating emotions from rules, incorporating the rule-driven SNS into the choice-driven SNS through an evolvable interface, and balancing the emotional SNS and the intellectual SNS to achieve stability in a nontrivial autonomous environment with a Stability Algorithm for Neural Entities (SANE). Generating emotions from rules can include coding the rules into the rule-driven SNS in a self-consistent way. Training the emotional rule-driven SNS can occur during a training stage in parallel with training the choice-driven SNS. The training stage can include a self assessment loop which measures performance characteristics of the rule-driven SNS against core genetic code. The method uses a stability threshold to measure stability of the incorporated rule-driven SNS and choice-driven SNS using SANE.
Claims I claim: 1. A method of creating a stable synthetic neural system, the method comprising: providing least one processor executing program code to control an action in response to sensory input data, said program code including the steps of: establishing an intellectual choice-driven synthetic neural system (SNS); training said intellectual choice-driven SNS; establishing an emotional rule-driven SNS; training an emotional rule-driven SNS; incorporating said rule-driven SNS into said choice-driven SNS through an evolvable interface; and balancing said emotional SNS and said intellectual choice-driven to provide system stability. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein training the emotional rule-driven SNS includes: generating rules that are emotions; and coding the rules into the rule-driven SNS in a self-consistent way. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein training the emotional rule-driven SNS occurs during a training stage in parallel with training the choice-driven SNS. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the training stage includes a self assessment loop which measures performance characteristics of the rule-driven SNS against core genetic code. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein stability of the incorporated rule-driven SNS and choice-driven SNS is measured by a stability threshold. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein emotions are rules governing which stimulus leads to which output. 7. A stable synthetic neural system, the system comprising: at least one processor executing program code, said program code including an intellectual choice-driven synthetic neural system (SNS) module to control a device in response to sensory input data; an emotional rule-driven SNS module generating emotions based rules; an evolvable interface module configured to incorporate the emotional rule-driven SNS module into the choice-driven SNS module; and a stability module configured to balance the rule-driven SNS module and the choice-driven SNS module to achieve stability in a nontrivial autonomous environment. 8. The system of claim 7, wherein the rule-driven SNS module maps emotions by coding the rules into the rule-driven SNS module in a self-consistent way. 9. The system of claim 7, wherein the rule-driven SNS module is trained during a training stage in parallel with training the choice-driven SNS module. 10. The system of claim 9, wherein the training stage includes a self assessment loop which measures performance characteristics of the rule-driven SNS module against core genetic code. 11. The system of claim 7, the system further comprising a module configured to measure the stability of the incorporated rule-driven SNS module and choice-driven SNS module based on a stability threshold using SANE. 12. The system of claim 7, wherein the rule-driven SNS module generates rules which are emotions governing which stimulus leads to which output. 13. A tangible computer-readable medium having executable instructions to create a stable synthetic neural system, the executable instructions comprising: training an intellectual choice-driven synthetic neural system (SNS); training an emotional rule-driven SNS by generating rules which are emotions; incorporating the rule-driven SNS into the choice-driven SNS through an evolvable interface; and balancing the emotional SNS and the intellectual SNS to achieve stability in a nontrivial autonomous environment with a Stability Algorithm for Neural Entities (SANE). 14. The tangible computer-readable medium of claim 13, wherein training an emotional rule-driven SNS includes: generating emotions from rules; and coding the rules into the rule-driven SNS in a self-consistent way. 15. The tangible computer-readable medium of claim 13, wherein training the emotional rule-driven SNS occurs during a training stage in parallel with training the choice-driven SNS. 16. The tangible computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the training stage includes a self assessment loop which measures performance characteristics of the rule-driven SNS against core genetic code. 17. The tangible computer-readable medium of claim 13, wherein stability of the incorporated rule-driven SNS and choice-driven SNS is measured by a stability threshold using SANE. 18. The tangible computer-readable medium of claim 13, wherein emotions are generated by rules governing which stimulus leads to which output. 19. A computer-accessible medium having executable instructions, the computer-accessible medium comprising: at least one intellectual choice driven synthetic neural system (SNS) function controlling an action of a robotic device in response to sensory input data; an emotional rule-driven SNS module generating emotions based rules; and a first evolvable neural interface operably coupled to said at least one intellectual choice driven synthetic neural system and said emotional rule-driven SNS to selectively establish communication therebetween and incorporating said emotional rule driven SNS into said sat least one intellectual choice driven SNS. 20. The computer-accessible medium according to claim 19, further comprising: a stability module provided to stabilize said at least one intellectual choice driven SNS incorporated with said emotional rule driven SNS. 