The technology described herein generally relates to systems for extracting polynucleotides from multiple samples, particularly from biological samples, and additionally to systems that subsequently amplify and detect the extracted polynucleotides. The technology more particularly relates to microfluidic systems that carry out PCR on multiple samples of nucleotides of interest within microfluidic channels, and detect those nucleotides.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A diagnostic apparatus, comprising: a first module configured to extract nucleic acid simultaneously from a plurality of nucleic acid-containing samples, wherein the first module comprises: one or more racks, each configured to accept the plurality of samples and a corresponding number of holders, wherein each holder comprises a process chamber, a waste chamber, one or more pipette tips, and one or more receptacles, wherein the one or more receptacles contain respectively sufficient quantities of one or more reagents for carrying out extraction of nucleic acid from a sample; a magnetic separator configured to move adjacent to the one or more racks in order to apply a magnetic force to contents of the process chamber of each holder; a heater assembly configured to independently heat each of the process chambers; and a liquid dispenser configured to carry out fluid transfer operations on two or more holders simultaneously; and a second module configured to simultaneously amplify the nucleic acid extracted from the plurality of samples, wherein the second module comprises: one or more bays, each bay comprising at least one heat source and configured to receive a microfluidic cartridge, wherein the cartridge is configured to separately accept and to separately amplify the nucleic acid extracted from multiple samples; and one or more detection systems. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the liquid dispenser has 4 heads, wherein each head is configured to accept a pipette tip from the one or more pipette tips in a holder. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein no two heads accept pipette tips from the same holder. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the liquid dispenser is attached to a gantry having 3 degrees of translational freedom. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: electronic circuitry configured to control operation of: the liquid dispenser; the heater assembly; and the magnetic separator. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the holders are removable. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the holders are suitable for a single use and are disposable. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the magnetic separator is configured to move repetitively relative to the process chambers. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the one or more racks comprise having two racks. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the second module is configured to amplify the nucleic acids by PCR. 11. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the detection system comprises a dedicated optical detection system that detects from one to four colors. 12. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the detection system comprises a dedicated two-color optical detection system configured to independently detect light from a target nucleic acid, and from a control. 13. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the one or more bays comprise two bays and wherein the one or more detection systems comprise two detection systems. 14. The apparatus of claim 1, having a single detection system, comprising a detector that scans across a microfluidic cartridge. 15. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the one or more detection systems comprise a light source that emits light in an absorption band of a fluorescent dye and a light detector that detects light in an emission band of the fluorescent dye, wherein the fluorescent dye binds to a fluorescent polynucleotide probe or a fragment thereof. 16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the one or more detection systems selectively emit light in the absorption band of the fluorescent dye, and selectively detect light in the emission band of the fluorescent dye. 17. The apparatus of claim 1, configured to carry out extraction, amplification and detection of the plurality of samples in less than one hour. 18. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first module comprises more than one rack, and wherein the second module comprises a single bay, and wherein the cartridge is configured to separately accept and to separately amplify the nucleic acid extracted from the plurality of samples. 19. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the one or more racks are removable. 20. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the one or more racks are each configured to accept the plurality of samples and the corresponding number of holders, when disposed outside of the apparatus. 21. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one heat source is configured to be: thermally coupled to the microfluidic cartridge and configured to apply heat to one or more selected regions of the microfluidic cartridge at one or more selected times, in order to: close one or more valves thereby confining a micro-droplet of an extracted nucleic acid to a position in the cartridge; and apply thermocycling operations sufficient to amplify the extracted nucleic acid. 22. The apparatus of claim 21, further comprising a processor configured to control applying heat to the one or more selected regions of the microfluidic cartridge at one or more selected times. 23. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one heat source comprises at least two contact heat sources, wherein the at least two contact heat sources are each configured to be independently thermally coupled to a different selected region of the microfluidic cartridge, whereby the different selected regions are independently heated. 24. The apparatus of claim 23, wherein the at least two contact heat sources are configured to be in direct physical contact with different selected regions of the microfluidic cartridge received in the bay. 25. The apparatus of claim 24, wherein at least one of the selected regions of the cartridge has an area in contact with one of the at least two contact heat sources of between about 1 mm.sup.2 and about 225 mm.sup.2. 26. The apparatus of claim 24, wherein the area of contact is between about 1 mm.sup.2 and about 100 mm.sup.2. 27. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein at least one heat source is selected from a resistive heater, a radiator, a fluidic heat exchanger, and a Peltier device. 28. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein at least one heat source is a resistive heater. 29. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the second module is configured to amplify the nucleic acids by a method selected from the group consisting of: PCR; TMA; SDA; NASBA; LCR; and Rolling-Cycle Amplifications. 30. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the one or more bays further comprise a registration member that is complementary to the microfluidic cartridge, whereby the one or more bays receive a respective microfluidic cartridge in a single orientation. 31. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a sensor configured to sense whether the microfluidic cartridge is properly received in the respective bay. 32. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the apparatus is portable or can be situated on a laboratory bench-top. 33. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the apparatus is integrated into a single housing. 34. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the number of samples are each independently selected from the group consisting of: saliva, urine, blood, semen, mucus, and spinal fluid. 35. A diagnostic apparatus comprising: one or more racks, on each of which is mounted a number of nucleic acid containing samples and a corresponding number of holders, wherein each holder comprises a process chamber, a waste chamber, a plurality of pipette tips, and one or more receptacles, wherein the one or more receptacles contain, respectively, sufficient quantities of one or more reagents for carrying out extraction of nucleic acid from a sample; a magnetic separator movable from a first position to a second position adjacent to the process chamber of each of the one or more holders; a heater assembly comprising a number of heater units, each of which is in thermal contact with one of the process chambers; one or more bays, each bay having a shape complementary to a shape of a microfluidic cartridge, wherein the cartridge comprises a number of inlets each of which is in fluid communication with one of a number of channels in which nucleic acid extracted from one of the number of samples is amplified, and wherein the cartridge further comprises one or more windows that permit detection of amplified nucleic acid; a liquid dispenser having one or more dispensing heads, wherein the liquid dispenser is movable from a first position above a first holder to a second position above a second holder, and is movable from the first position above the first holder to a different position above the first holder, and is further movable from a position above one of the holders to a position above one of the number of inlets; and one or more detection systems positioned in proximity to the one or more windows. 