An endoscope with a stereoscopic optical channel is again held and positioned by a robotic surgical system. A capture unit captures (1) at a first time, a first image from light from the channel; and (2) at a second time different from the first time, a second image from the light. Only one of the first image and the second image includes a combination of a fluorescence image and a visible image. The other of the first image and the second image is a visible image. An intelligent image processing system generates an artificial fluorescence image using the captured fluorescence image. An augmented stereoscopic display system outputs an augmented stereoscopic image of at least a portion of the tissue comprising the artificial fluorescence image.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus comprising: an endoscope held by a robotic surgical system, the endoscope comprising a stereoscopic optical channel; an image capture unit coupled to receive light via the stereoscopic optical channel; an image processing system coupled to receive images from the image capture unit; a stereoscopic display system coupled to display images received from the image processing system; a first image captured by the image capture unit at a first time and a second image captured by the image capture unit at a second time different from the first time, the first image comprising a combination of a first visible image and a first fluorescence image, the second image comprising a second visible image and no fluorescence image; an artificial fluorescence image, generated by the image processing system from the first fluorescence image; a first stereoscopic display image, generated by the image processing system from the first image, and output by the stereoscopic display system; and an augmented stereoscopic display image, generated by the image processing system from the second visible image and the artificial fluorescence image, and output by the stereoscopic display system. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the combined image comprises a stereoscopic image including a stereoscopic pair of images; wherein the stereoscopic pair of images includes: a first visible left image combined with a fluorescence left image; and a first visible right image combined with a fluorescence right image; wherein the fluorescence left and right images are the fluorescence image; and wherein the visible left image and visible right image are the first visible image. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the image processing system generates the artificial fluorescence image as an artificial stereoscopic pair of fluorescence images using the fluorescence left and right images captured at the first time. 4. The apparatus of claim 3: wherein the second visible image comprises a stereoscopic visible image including a second visible left image, and a second visible right image; and wherein the augmented stereoscopic image further comprises: a blend of the stereoscopic visible image captured at the second time and the artificial stereoscopic pair of fluorescence images. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein the image processing system further comprises: an image warper coupled to receive the combined image, wherein the image warper converts the first visible right image combined with the fluorescence right image to a warped first visible right image combined with the fluorescence right image. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein the image processing system further comprises: an image subtractor coupled to the image warper to receive the warped first visible right image combined with the fluorescence right image, and coupled to the capture unit to receive the second visible right image captured at the second time, wherein the image subtractor subtracts the second visible right image captured at the second time from the warped first visible right image combined with the fluorescence right image to generate an artificial fluorescence right image, wherein the artificial fluorescence right image is one image in the artificial stereoscopic pair of fluorescence images. 7. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein the image processing system further comprises: a synthesize fluorescence right image system coupled to said artificial fluorescence right image, wherein said synthesize fluorescence right image system uses said artificial fluorescence right image to generate a synthesized fluorescence right image. 8. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein the image processing system further comprises: a temporal image registration configured to temporally register the combined image and the second visible image. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein the image processing system further comprises: an image warper coupled to said temporal image registration, wherein the image warper converts the first visible right image combined with the fluorescence right image captured at the first time to a warped image, wherein the warped image includes a warped visible right image combined with the fluorescence right image. 10. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the endoscope further comprises an illumination channel, and the apparatus further comprises: a combination light source, coupled to the illumination channel, comprising: a first light source for providing a first illumination light; and a second light source for providing a second illumination light, wherein the second illumination light is different from the first illumination light; and said second illumination light is synchronized with the capture of at least one of the first and second images. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 further comprising: a fiber optic bundle connecting the illumination channel to the combination light source. 12. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein the second light source can be changed to a different light source while the at least fiber optic bundle remains connected to the illumination channel and to the combination light source. 13. The apparatus of claim 1: wherein the first visible image includes a first stereoscopic left visible image and a first stereoscopic right visible image; wherein the first fluorescence image includes a stereoscopic left fluorescence image and a stereoscopic right fluorescence image; wherein the second visible image includes a second stereoscopic left visible image and a second stereoscopic right visible image; wherein the artificial fluorescence image includes a stereoscopic left artificial fluorescence display image generated by the image processing system from the stereoscopic left fluorescence image, and includes a stereoscopic right artificial fluorescence display image generated by the image processing system from the stereoscopic right fluorescence image; wherein the first stereoscopic display image includes a first stereoscopic left visible display image, generated by the image processing system from the first stereoscopic left visible image, combined with a first stereoscopic left fluorescence display image, generated by the image processing system from the stereoscopic left fluorescence image, and includes a first stereoscopic right visible display image, generated by the image processing system from the first stereoscopic right visible image, combined with a first stereoscopic right fluorescence display image, generated by the image processing system from the stereoscopic right fluorescence image; and wherein the augmented stereoscopic display image includes a second stereoscopic left visible display image, generated by the image processing system from the second stereoscopic left visible image, combined with the stereoscopic artificial left fluorescence display image, and includes a second stereoscopic right visible display image, generated by the image processing system from the second stereoscopic right visible image, combined with the first stereoscopic artificial right fluorescence display image. 14. The apparatus of claim 1: wherein the first time precedes the second time. 15. An apparatus comprising: an endoscope held by a robotic surgical system, the endoscope comprising a stereoscopic optical channel; an image capture unit coupled to receive light via the stereoscopic optical channel; an image processing system coupled to receive images from the image capture unit; a stereoscopic display system coupled to display images received from the image processing system; a first image captured by the image capture unit at a first time and a second image captured by the image capture unit at a second time different from the first time, the first image comprising a first visible image and no fluorescence image, the second image comprising a combination of a second visible image and a fluorescence image; an artificial fluorescence image, generated by the image processing system from the fluorescence image; a first stereoscopic display image, generated by the image processing system from the first image, and output by the stereoscopic display system; and an augmented stereoscopic display image, generated by the image processing system from the artificial fluorescence image and the first visible image, and output by the stereoscopic display system. 16. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein, said first image comprises a visible first color component, a visible second color component, and a visible third color component; and said second image comprises a visible first color component combined with said fluorescence image, a visible second color component, and a visible third color component. 17. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein said image processing system further comprises a fluorescence image and artifacts generator to generate (1) artifacts for said visible second and third color components, and (2) said fluorescence image plus artifacts for said visible first color component. 18. The apparatus of claim 17 wherein said image processing system further comprises a fluorescence image extractor coupled to said fluorescence image and artifacts generator, wherein said fluorescence image extractor generates a first fluorescence image for said second time. 19. The apparatus of claim 18 wherein said image processing system further comprises a fluorescence image enhancement system coupled to said fluorescence image generator wherein said fluorescence image enhancement system receives said first fluorescence image and generates said artificial fluorescence image. 20. A method comprising: capturing at a first time, a first image from light from a stereoscopic optical path in an endoscope held and positioned by a robotic surgical system, wherein the light is from tissue; capturing at a second time different from the first time, a second image from the light wherein the first image is a combined image including a combination of a fluorescence image and a first visible image, and the second image is a second visible image; generating an artificial fluorescence image using the captured fluorescence image; and generating an augmented stereoscopic image of at least a portion of the tissue, the augmented stereoscopic image comprising the artificial fluorescence image and the second visible image. 21. The method claim 20, wherein the combined image comprises a stereoscopic image including a stereoscopic pair of images; wherein the stereoscopic pair of images includes: a visible left image combined with the fluorescence left image, and a visible right image combined with the fluorescence right image; wherein the fluorescence left and right images are the fluorescence image; and wherein the visible left image and visible right image are the first visible image. 