A robotic arm with a parallel spherical five-bar linkage having a ground link, two inboard links, and two outboard links. Each inboard link is coupled to the ground link at an axis of rotation and has an intermediate axis spaced apart from the axis of rotation. Each outboard link is pivotally coupled to one of the inboard links at the intermediate axis. The two outboard links are pivotally coupled together at an outboard axis. A constraint limits the rotation of a first one of the outboard links about the intermediate axis of the coupled inboard link such that a maximum angle between the links is substantially less than 180.degree.. A second one of the outboard links and the coupled inboard link are constructed and assembled such that the two intermediate axes are on the same side of a plane including the outboard axis and one of the axes of rotation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A parallel spherical five-bar linkage with a remote center of spherical rotation, the linkage comprising: a ground link having two axes of rotation; two inboard links, each inboard link pivotally coupled to the ground link at one of the two axes of rotation, each inboard link having an intermediate axis spaced apart from the axis of rotation, the two axes of rotation and the two intermediate axes all passing through the remote center of spherical rotation; two outboard links, each outboard link pivotally coupled to one of the inboard links at the inboard link's intermediate axis, the two outboard links pivotally coupled together at an outboard axis that is spaced apart from the intermediate axes and passes through the remote center of spherical rotation; and a constraint to limit the rotation of a first one of the outboard links about the intermediate axis of the coupled inboard link such that a maximum angle between the links is substantially less than one hundred and eighty degrees; wherein a second one of the outboard links and the coupled inboard link are constructed and assembled such that the two intermediate axes are constrained to be only on the same side of a plane that includes the outboard axis and one of the axes of rotation. 2. The linkage of claim 1, wherein the constraint further includes a mechanical stop. 3. The linkage of claim 2, wherein the mechanical stop directly limits the rotation of one of the outboard links about the intermediate axis of the coupled inboard link. 4. The linkage of claim 2, wherein the mechanical stop directly limits the rotation of each of the inboard links about the axis of rotation at which the inboard link is pivotally coupled to the ground link. 5. The linkage of claim 1, wherein the constraint includes: two motors, each motor coupled to the ground link and to one of the two inboard links at one of the two axes of rotation; and a controller to cause each of the two motors to rotate the coupled inboard link about one of the two axes of rotation with a limited range of rotation. 6. The linkage of claim 1, wherein the two inboard links and their respectively coupled outboard links are constructed and coupled such that one of the two inboard links and its coupled outboard link can freely pass the other of the two inboard links and its coupled outboard link. 7. The linkage of claim 1, further comprising: two rotary encoders, each rotary encoder coupled to one of the inboard links at its axis of rotation; and a computer coupled to the two rotary encoders to receive the bearing of each of the inboard links and compute the position of the outboard axis. 8. The linkage of claim 1, wherein one of the outboard links further includes an insertion axis spaced apart from the outboard axis and the intermediate axis, the insertion axis passing through the remote center of spherical rotation. 9. The linkage of claim 1, wherein one of the outboard links further includes an insertion axis coincident with the outboard axis, the insertion axis passing through the remote center of spherical rotation. 10. The linkage of claim 1, wherein the two axes of rotation are spaced apart on the ground link. 11. The linkage of claim 1, wherein the two axes of rotation are coincident on the ground link. 12. A parallel spherical five-bar linkage with a remote center of spherical rotation, the linkage comprising: a ground link having a first axis of rotation and a second axis of rotation at a first distance from the first axis of rotation; a first inboard link pivotally coupled to the ground link at the first axis of rotation and having a first intermediate axis at a second distance from the first axis of rotation; a first outboard link pivotally coupled to the first inboard link at the first intermediate axis, the first outboard link having an outboard axis at a third distance from the first intermediate axis and a variable fourth distance from the first axis of rotation; a constraint to limit the rotation of the first outboard link about the first intermediate axis such that a maximum extent of the variable fourth distance is substantially less than a sum of the second distance and the third distance when the first outboard link is rotated to the limit of the constraint; a second inboard link pivotally coupled to the ground link at the second axis of rotation and having a second intermediate axis at a fifth distance from the second axis of rotation; a second outboard link pivotally coupled to the second inboard link at the second intermediate axis and to the first outboard link at the outboard axis, the outboard axis being a sixth distance from the second intermediate axis; and wherein all the axes pass through the remote center of spherical rotation and the first and second intermediate axes are only on the same side of a plane that includes the outboard axis and either of the first or second axis of rotation. 13. The linkage of claim 12, wherein a sum of the maximum extent of the variable fourth distance and the first distance is substantially less than a sum of the fifth distance and the sixth distance. 14. The linkage of claim 12, wherein the constraint includes a mechanical stop. 15. The linkage of claim 14, wherein the mechanical stop directly limits the rotation of one of the outboard links about the intermediate axis of the coupled inboard link. 16. The linkage of claim 14, wherein the mechanical stop directly limits the rotation of each of the inboard links about their respective axes of rotation. 17. The linkage of claim 12, wherein the constraint includes: a first motor coupled to the first inboard link at the first axis of rotation; a second motor coupled to the second inboard link at the second axis of rotation; and a controller to cause the first motor to rotate the first inboard link about the first axis of rotation within a first limited range of rotation and to cause the second motor to rotate the second inboard link about the second axis of rotation within a second limited range of rotation. 18. The linkage of claim 12, wherein the first inboard link and the first outboard link are constructed and coupled such that they can freely pass the second inboard link and the second outboard link. 19. The linkage of claim 12, further comprising: two rotary encoders, each rotary encoder coupled to one of the inboard links at its axis of rotation; and a computer coupled to the two rotary encoders to receive the bearing of each of the inboard links and compute the position of the outboard axis. 20. The linkage of claim 12, wherein one of the outboard links further includes an insertion axis spaced apart from the outboard axis and the intermediate axis, the insertion axis passing through the remote center of spherical rotation. 21. The linkage of claim 12, wherein one of the outboard links further includes an insertion axis coincident with the outboard axis, the insertion axis passing through the remote center of spherical rotation. 22. The linkage of claim 12, wherein the first distance is zero. 23. The linkage of claim 12, wherein the first distance is less than each of the first, second, fifth, and sixth distances. 24. A robotic arm comprising: a first motor having a first axis of rotation; a second motor having a second axis of rotation; a ground link coupling the first motor to the second motor; a first inboard link coupled to the first motor at the first axis of rotation, the first inboard link having a first intermediate axis spaced apart from the first axis of rotation; a first outboard link pivotally coupled to the first inboard link at the first intermediate axis, the first outboard link having an outboard axis spaced apart from the first intermediate axis; a second inboard link coupled to the second motor at the second axis of rotation, the second inboard link having a second intermediate axis spaced apart from the second axis of rotation; a second outboard link pivotally coupled to the second inboard link at the second intermediate axis and to the first outboard link at the outboard axis; wherein the five axes all pass through a remote center of spherical rotation that is spaced apart from all five links; and a controller to provide signals to the first and second motors to respectively rotate the first inboard link and the second inboard link such that the first and second intermediate axes are only on the same side of a plane that includes the outboard axis and either of the first or second axis of rotation. 25. The robotic arm of claim 24, wherein the first outboard link further includes a support for a surgical instrument having a tool shaft with an insertion axis, the insertion axis being spaced apart from the outboard axis and the first intermediate axis, the insertion axis passing through the remote center of spherical rotation. 26. The robotic arm of claim 24, wherein the insertion axis is spaced further apart from the first intermediate axis than the outboard axis is spaced apart from the first intermediate axis. 27. The robotic arm of claim 26, wherein the insertion axis, the outboard axis, and the first intermediate axis are coplanar. 28. The robotic arm of claim 24, wherein the first outboard link further includes a support for a surgical instrument having a tool shaft with an insertion axis, the insertion axis being coincident with the outboard axis, the insertion axis including the remote center of spherical rotation. 29. The robotic arm of claim 24, further comprising a constraint to limit the rotation of the first outboard link about the first intermediate axis such that an angle between the first axis of rotation, the first intermediate axis, and the outboard axis cannot exceed 160 degrees. 30. The robotic arm of claim 24, further comprising a constraint to limit the rotation of the first outboard link about the first intermediate axis such that an angle between the first axis of rotation, the first intermediate axis, and the outboard axis cannot exceed 120 degrees. 31. The robotic arm of claim 24, further comprising a constraint to limit the maximum distance between the second axis of rotation and the outboard axis to substantially less than a sum of the distance between the second axis of rotation and the second intermediate axis and the distance between the second intermediate axis and the outboard axis. 32. The robotic arm of claim 24, wherein the first axis of rotation and the second axis of rotation are spaced apart on the ground link by a fixed distance. 33. The robotic arm of claim 24, wherein the first axis of rotation and the second axis of rotation are coincident on the ground link. 34. A system comprising: a first robotic arm including a first parallel spherical five-bar linkage having a ground link; two motors coupled to the ground link, each motor having an axis of rotation, the two axes of rotation intersecting at a first remote center of spherical rotation, two inboard links, each inboard link coupled to one of the motors at the motor's axis of rotation, each inboard link having an intermediate axis spaced apart from the motor's axis of rotation, the two intermediate axes passing through the first remote center of spherical rotation, and two outboard links, each outboard link pivotally coupled to one of the inboard links at the inboard link's intermediate axis, the two outboard links pivotally coupled together at an outboard axis that is spaced apart from the intermediate axes and passing through the first remote center of spherical rotation; and a controller to cause each of the two motors of the first robotic arm to rotate the respectively coupled inboard links about the motors' axes of rotation such that the two intermediate axes are only on the same side of a plane that includes the outboard axis and the axis of rotation of either one of the motors. 35. The system of claim 34, wherein one of the outboard links further includes a surgical instrument having an insertion axis spaced apart from the outboard axis, the insertion axis passing through the first remote center of spherical rotation. 36. The system of claim 35, wherein the insertion axis is spaced further apart from the intermediate axis of the one of the outboard links than the outboard axis is spaced apart from that intermediate axis. 37. The system of claim 36, wherein the insertion axis, the outboard axis, and the intermediate axis of the one of the outboard links are coplanar. 38. The system of claim 34, wherein one of the outboard links further includes a surgical instrument having an insertion axis coincident with the outboard axis, the insertion axis passing through the first remote center of spherical rotation. 39. The system of claim 34, wherein the first robotic arm further includes a mechanical stop to limit the rotation of one of the outboard links about the intermediate axis such that an angle between the motor's axis of rotation, the intermediate axis, and the outboard axis cannot exceed 160 degrees. 40. The system of claim 34, wherein the first robotic arm further includes a mechanical stop to limit the rotation of one of the outboard links about the intermediate axis such that an angle between the motor's axis of rotation, the intermediate axis, and the outboard axis cannot exceed 120 degrees. 41. The system of claim 34, wherein the two axes of rotation are spaced apart on the ground link. 42. The system of claim 34, wherein the two axes of rotation are coincident on the ground link. 43. The system of claim 34, further comprising a second robotic arm including a second parallel spherical five-bar linkage having: two motors, each motor having an axis of rotation, the two axes of rotation intersecting at a second remote center of spherical rotation, two inboard links, each inboard link coupled to one of the motors at the motor's axis of rotation, each inboard link having an intermediate axis spaced apart from the motor's axis of rotation, the two intermediate axes passing through the second remote center of spherical rotation, and two outboard links, each outboard link pivotally coupled to one of the inboard links at the inboard link's intermediate axis, the two outboard links pivotally coupled together at an outboard axis that is spaced apart from the intermediate axes and passing through the second remote center of spherical rotation; the controller to further cause each of the two motors of the second robotic arm to rotate the respectively coupled inboard links about the motors' axes of rotation such that the two intermediate axes are on the same side of a plane that includes the outboard axis and one of the axes of rotation, and further such that the two intermediate axes of the second robotic arm are on the opposite side of the plane as they would be for the first robotic arm. 