A flatbed scanner comprises: a platen for supporting a substrate and a carriage for traversing across a surface. The carriage comprises a pagewidth scanhead for scanning a pre-printed graphic image and a pagewidth printhead for printing a position-coding pattern onto the surface. The flatbed scanner further comprises an ink supply and a processor configured for generating association data. The association data indicates an association between a scanned graphic image, an impression identity and a plurality of positions.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A flatbed scanner comprising: a platen for supporting a substrate, said substrate having a surface bearing a pre-printed graphic image; a carriage for traversing across the surface, said carriage comprising: a pagewidth scanhead for scanning the pre-printed graphic image during a traverse of the surface; and a pagewidth printhead for printing a position-coding pattern onto said surface during said traverse, said position-coding pattern identifying an impression identity and a plurality of positions; an ink supply containing an ink for printing the position-coding pattern; and a processor configured for generating association data, said association data indicating an association between a scanned graphic image, the impression identity and the plurality of positions, wherein said impression identity is initially unassociated with said pre-printed graphic image. 2. The flatbed scanner of claim 1, wherein said ink is an infrared-absorbing ink. 3. The flatbed scanner of claim 1, further comprising a memory for storing a plurality of impression identities, each stored impression identity being associable with the scanned graphic image. 4. The flatbed scanner of claim 3, wherein said ink supply comprises said memory. 5. The flatbed scanner of claim 1, further comprising communication means for communicating with a computer system. 6. The flatbed scanner of claim 5, wherein said association data enables said computer system to associate one or more zones of the scanned graphic image with a corresponding interactive element. 7. The flatbed scanner of claim 6, wherein said interactive element is selected from the group comprising: a hyperlink, an input field and a button. 8. The flatbed scanner of claim 5, wherein said computer system is configured for: (i) performing Optical Character Recognition (OCR) on the scanned graphic image to convert text images into computer text; (ii) generating an input description for said scanned graphic image, said input description describing words of computer text and zones of corresponding text images in the scanned graphic image; and (iii) storing a page description comprising said input description and said scanned graphic image, said page description being indexed with said impression identity, wherein said page description is retrievable so as to confer interactivity on the graphic image. 9. The flatbed scanner of claim 8, wherein said computer system is further configured for: identifying a URI text string in the computer text; and generating the input description further describing a URI corresponding to said URI text string and a zone of the corresponding URI text string in the scanned graphic image. 10. The flatbed scanner of claim 1, wherein said carriage further comprises an image sensor positioned and configured for imaging portions of the position-coding pattern printed on said surface during said traverse. 11. The flatbed scanner of claim 10, wherein said image sensor is positioned downstream of said printhead, wherein a direction of said traverse is defined as upstream. 12. The flatbed scanner of claim 1, which is configurable in at least one mode selected from: a conventional scanning mode in which said scanhead scans and said printhead does not print the position-coding pattern; and an interactive scanning mode in which said scanhead scans and said printhead prints the position-coding pattern. 13. A system for conferring interactivity on a pre-printed graphic image, said system comprising: (A) a flatbed scanner comprising: a platen for supporting a substrate, said substrate having a surface bearing a pre-printed graphic image; a carriage for traversing across the surface, said carriage comprising: a pagewidth scanhead for scanning the pre-printed graphic image during a traverse of the surface; and a pagewidth printhead for printing a position-coding pattern onto said surface during said traverse, said position-coding pattern identifying an impression identity and a plurality of positions; an ink supply containing an ink for printing the position-coding pattern; a processor configured for generating association data indicating an association between a scanned graphic image, the impression identity and the plurality of positions; and communication means for communicating the association data to a computer system; and (B) the computer system configured for: receiving the association data; and storing a page description for said scanned graphic image, said page description being indexed with said impression identity wherein said page description is retrievable so as to confer interactivity on the graphic image, and wherein said impression identity is initially unassociated with said pre-printed graphic image. 14. The system of claim 13, wherein said computer system is configured for: (i) performing Optical Character Recognition (OCR) on the scanned graphic image to convert text images into computer text; (ii) generating an input description for said scanned graphic image, said input description describing words of computer text and zones of corresponding text images in the scanned graphic image; and (iii) storing the page description comprising said input description and said scanned graphic image, said page description being indexed with said impression identity, wherein said page description is retrievable so as to confer interactivity on the graphic image. 15. The system of claim 14, wherein said computer system is further configured for: identifying a URI text string in the computer text; and generating the input description further describing a URI corresponding to said URI text string and a zone of the corresponding URI text string in the scanned graphic image. 