Improved instruments for modifying a shape of a proximal femur of a patient for installation of a stem of a femoral component of a prosthetic hip during hip replacement surgery, comprising a handle including an elongated shaft extending downward approximately in a z-direction, a first offset extending from a bottom of the elongated shaft approximately in a y-direction, a second offset extending from the second offset approximately in an x-direction, and a shaping member elongated downward from the second offset approximately in the z-direction. Provided is an improved femoral broach and an improved osteotome. Also provided is a method of improving a patient's positioning during hip replacement surgery by using a variable configuration mattress for positioning the patient.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An instrument for shaping a medullary canal, comprising: (a) a handle including: a plurality of transverse cross sections; a first centroid located on a first cross section of the handle; a second centroid located on a second cross section of the handle; the first centroid and second centroid defining a handle axis; (b) a shaping member including structure configured to shape bone, wherein the structure configured to shape bone comprises at least two cutting surfaces on opposite sides of the shaping member, the shaping member also including: a plurality of transverse cross sections; a third centroid located on a first cross section of the shaping member; a fourth centroid located on a second cross section of the shaping member; the third centroid and the fourth centroid forming a shaping member axis; and (c) a connecting member connecting the handle and the shaping member, the connecting member having a plurality of transverse cross sections; wherein the handle axis and the shaping member axis define a reference plane and wherein at least one centroid located on a connecting member cross section is not contained in the reference plane. 2. The instrument of claim 1, wherein the shaping member is an osteotome for resecting at least a portion of a femoral trochanter. 3. The instrument of claim 1, wherein the shaping member is a femoral broach for preparation of a central femoral cavity for receiving a stem of a femoral component of a prosthetic hip. 4. The instrument of claim 1, wherein the shaping member is releasably connected to the instrument. 5. The instrument for shaping a medullary canal of claim 1, wherein the two cutting surfaces face in opposite directions. 6. An instrument for shaping a medullary canal, comprising: (a) a handle that includes a handle longitudinal axis; (b) a shaping member including structure configured to shape bone, wherein the structure configured to shape bone comprises at least two cutting surfaces on opposite sides of the shaping member, the shaping member including a shaping member longitudinal axis; and (c) a connecting member that connects the handle to the shaping member; wherein the handle longitudinal axis and the shaping member longitudinal axis are parallel; wherein the handle longitudinal axis and the shaping member longitudinal axis define a reference plane; and wherein at least one centroid located on a connecting member cross section is not contained in the reference plane. 7. The instrument of claim 6, wherein the shaping member is an osteotome for resecting at least a portion of a femoral trochanter. 8. The instrument of claim 6, wherein the shaping member is a femoral broach for preparation of a central femoral cavity for receiving a stem of a femoral component of a prosthetic hip. 9. The instrument of claim 6, wherein the shaping member is releasably connected to the instrument. 10. The instrument for shaping a medullary canal of claim 6, wherein the two cutting surfaces face in opposite directions. 11. A double-offset instrument for shaping a medullary canal, comprising: (a) a medullary canal shaping broach, the broach having a shape substantially corresponding to a shape of a stem of a femoral component of a prosthetic hip, the broach comprising a first cutting surface facing in a medial direction along a medial-lateral axis, a second cutting surface facing in a lateral direction along the medial-lateral axis, a third cutting surface facing in an anterior direction along an anterior-posterior axis, and a fourth cutting surface facing in a posterior direction along the anterior-posterior axis, wherein the first cutting surface connects the third and fourth cutting surfaces, wherein the second cutting surface connects the third and fourth cutting surfaces, and wherein the first cutting surface is asymmetric with respect to the second cutting surface; and (b) an elongated handle, the elongated handle comprising a handle portion and a connection portion extending between the broach shaping member and the handle portion; wherein the handle portion is offset from the broach along the medial-lateral axis; and wherein the handle portion is offset from the broach along the anterior-posterior axis. 12. The double-offset instrument of claim 11, wherein the handle portion is offset from the broach in the medial and anterior directions. 13. The double-offset instrument of claim 11, wherein the third and fourth cutting surfaces are substantially planar. 14. The double-offset instrument of claim 13, wherein the first and second cutting surfaces are substantially planar. 15. The double-offset instrument of claim 11, wherein the connection portion comprises a first offset portion and a second offset portion. 16. The double-offset instrument of claim 15, wherein the first offset portion extends from the handle portion in the posterior direction and the second offset extends from the broach in the medial direction. 17. The double-offset instrument of claim 11, wherein the broach and the handle portion are positioned with respect to one another in a non-planar relationship. 18. The double-offset instrument of claim 11, wherein the broach and the handle portion are parallel to each other. 19. The double-offset instrument of claim 11, wherein the broach is releasably connected to the elongated handle. 20. The double-offset instrument of claim 11, wherein the broach comprises a medial side including the first cutting surface, a lateral side including the second cutting surface, an anterior side including the third cutting surface, and a posterior side including the fourth cutting surface. 21. The double-offset instrument of claim 11, wherein the handle portion extends between the connection portion and an enlarged head. 22. The double-offset instrument of claim 11, wherein the medullary canal shaping broach further comprises a proximal end and a distal end, wherein the first, second, third and fourth cutting surfaces extend at least partially between the proximal and distal ends, and wherein the medullary canal shaping broach connects to the connection portion at the proximal end. 