A radiosurgery system is described that delivers a therapeutic dose of radiation to a target structure in a patient. In some embodiments, inflammatory ocular disorders are treated, specifically macular degeneration. In some embodiments, ocular structures are placed in a global coordinate system, based on ocular imaging, which leads to direction of an automated positioning system. In some embodiments, the position of an ocular structure is tracked and related to a radiosurgery system. In some embodiments, a treatment plan is utilized for a specific disease to be treated and/or structures to be avoided. In some embodiments, a fiducial aids in positioning the system. In some embodiments, a reflection off the eye is used to aid in positioning. In some embodiments, radiodynamic therapy is described in which radiosurgery is used in combination with other treatments and can be delivered concomitant with, prior to, or following other treatments.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A method, of treating a target region within an eye of a patient, comprising: directing, based only on a point region on an outer surface of the eye, an x-ray beam toward the eye, the beam having a photon energy between about 40 keV and about 250 keV; and exposing the target region to a dose of from about 1 Gy to about 40 Gy of x-ray radiation. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising providing a model of the eye, the model comprising anatomic data obtained by an imaging apparatus, wherein at least one of a width of the x-ray beam, the photon energy of the x-ray beam, and a trajectory of the x-ray beam is determined based on the model of the eye. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the exposing comprises exposing the target region to from about 15 Gy to about 25 Gy of x-ray radiation. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the target region comprises a retina of the eye. 5. The method of claim 4, further comprising reducing neovascularization in the eye by exposing the retina to the x-ray radiation. 6. The method of claim 4, further comprising substantially preventing progression from Dry Age-related Macular Degeneration to neovascularization by exposing the retina to the x-ray radiation. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising administering to the patient at least one of heating, cooling, a VEGF antagonist, a VEGF-receptor antagonist, an antibody directed to VEGF or a VEGF receptor, microwave energy, radiofrequency energy, a laser, a photodynamic agent, and a radiodynamic agent, and a therapeutic agent. 8. The method of claim 1, further comprising directing a first x-ray beam to pass through the sclera of the eye to the retina of the eye from a first position external to the eye, and directing a second x-ray beam to pass through the sclera to the retina from a second position external to the eye. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the x-ray beam is directed through the pars plana of the eye. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the x-ray beam is directed to the macula of the eye. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the x-ray beam is directed through the sclera of the eye to the macula of the eye. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the exposing comprises dividing the dose between two or more beams. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the exposing comprises dividing the dose between two or more treatment sessions, each of said treatment sessions occurring at least one day apart. 14. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining a position of the eye relative to the x-ray beam during the exposing of the target region to the x-ray radiation and ceasing or reducing the x-ray beam if the position of the eye exceeds a movement threshold. 15. A method, of treating an eye during a treatment period, comprising directing an x-ray beam, based only on a point on an outer surface of the eye, from a source outside the eye to a target region at the retina of the eye, such that the target region is exposed to a dose of from about 1 Gy to about 40 Gy of x-ray radiation. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the x-ray beam is directed to the target region such that it passes substantially through the pars plana of the eye. 17. The method of claim 15, wherein the directing comprises collimating the radiation beam to a width of from about 0.5 mm to about 6 mm. 18. The method of claim 15, wherein the target region comprises drusen. 19. The method of claim 15, wherein the x-ray beam is directed to the macula of the eye. 20. The method of claim 15, wherein the x-ray beam is directed through the sclera of the eye to the macula of the eye. 21. The method of claim 15, wherein the exposing comprises dividing the dose between two or more beams. 