Embodiments of the present invention relate to a solar simulator module of a solar cell production line. In one embodiment the solar simulator receives a solar cell module in a horizontal position and reorients the module into a vertical position. A light source is oriented to emit a flash of light in a substantially horizontal orientation toward the vertically oriented solar cell module. In one embodiment, an automated labeling device affixes a label including the electrical characteristics measured onto a back surface of the solar cell module. In one embodiment, a plurality of solar cell modules are received and tested simultaneously.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A solar simulator module, comprising: an enclosure defining a testing region of the module; an automation device configured to horizontally translate a solar cell structure into the testing region; an alignment mechanism disposed within the testing region configured to horizontally locate the solar cell structure; a robot having a gantry with support elements configured to grasp and hold the solar cell structure and a rotary actuator configured to rotate the gantry from a substantially horizontal orientation to a substantially vertical orientation; a probe nest positioned to make electrical connection with junction leads from the solar cell structure while in the substantially vertical orientation; and a light source configured to emit a flash of light simulating the solar spectrum substantially horizontally toward the solar cell structure while in the substantially vertical orientation. 2. The solar simulator module of claim 1, wherein the enclosure comprises at least two opposing walls having a slit formed therethrough, and wherein the slit is sized to transmit the solar cell structure therethrough. 3. The solar simulator module of claim 2, wherein a system controller receives signals from the alignment mechanism and transmits signals to the automation device for laterally positioning the solar cell structure. 4. The solar simulator module of claim 3, further comprising locating members and stop members located within the testing region, wherein the locating members are attached to a linear actuator for pushing the solar cell structure against the stop members. 5. The solar simulator module of claim 4, wherein the enclosure further comprises a retractable bottom member. 6. The solar simulator module of claim 1, further comprising a reference cell in communication with a system controller for monitoring and controlling the light source. 7. The solar simulator module of claim 6, further comprising a temperature sensor configured to contact a back side of the solar cell structure when the gantry is in the substantially vertical orientation. 8. The solar simulator module of claim 7, wherein the light source is configured between about 4.4 meters and about 6.5 meters from the solar cell structure when the gantry is in the substantially vertical position. 9. The solar simulator module of claim 1, wherein the support elements comprise intermediate vacuum support elements and rotational edge support elements. 10. The solar simulator module of claim 9, wherein the intermediate vacuum support elements are configured in a plurality of independently controllable zones. 11. The solar simulator module of claim 10, wherein the probe nest is laterally translatable. 12. The solar simulator module of claim 1, further comprising: a laterally translatable roller guide member configured to guide the solar cell structure into the testing region; an enclosure bottom having a linear actuator configured to extend the enclosure bottom to fully enclose the testing region when the gantry is in the substantially vertical orientation; and an automated label device in communication with a system controller, wherein the automated label device is configured to affix a label to the back surface of the solar cell structure. 13. A process for testing a solar cell structure, comprising: transferring the solar cell structure into an enclosure defining a testing region therein; horizontally positioning the solar cell structure within the testing region; grasping the solar cell structure with a positioning robot; rotating the solar cell structure from a substantially horizontal position to a substantially vertical position; electrically connecting the solar cell structure to a probe nest; emitting a flash of light simulating the solar spectrum in a substantially horizontal orientation toward the vertically oriented solar cell structure; measuring the electrical characteristics of the solar cell structure; rotating the solar cell structure from the substantially vertical position to the substantially horizontal position; releasing the solar cell structure; and transferring the solar cell structure out of the enclosure. 14. The process of claim 13, further comprising printing a label containing the measured electrical characteristics thereon and attaching the label to a back surface of the solar cell structure. 15. The process of claim 14, wherein transferring the solar cell structure into the enclosure comprises transferring the solar cell structure through a slit in the enclosure and guiding edges of the solar cell structure with roller guides. 16. The process of claim 15, wherein horizontally positioning the solar cell structure within the testing region comprises feeding the solar cell structure in a forward direction until a leading edge of the solar cell structure is detected by an alignment mechanism and pushing the solar cell structure laterally against stop members. 17. The process of claim 16, wherein grasping the solar cell structure comprises selectively applying vacuum to the solar cell structure via a plurality of intermediate vacuum support elements attached to a gantry of the positioning robot and rotating a plurality of edge support elements to hold edges of the solar cell structure against the gantry. 18. The process of claim 17, wherein the flash of light is emitted from between about 9 miliseconds and about 11 miliseconds at an intensity from between about 75 mW/cm.sup.2 and about 125 mW/cm.sup.2. 19. A solar simulator module, comprising: an enclosure having a top, walls, and a retractable bottom defining a testing region of the module, wherein at least one wall of the enclosure has a slit formed therethrough sized for transferring a solar cell structure therethrough; a roller guide configured to guide an edge of the solar cell structure into the testing region; an automation device in communication with an alignment mechanism configured to longitudinally position a plurality of solar cell structures within the testing region; a plurality of locating members configured to laterally translate the plurality of solar cell structures within the testing region; a robot disposed within the enclosure, wherein the robot comprises a gantry having a plurality of support elements disposed thereon and configured to grasp the plurality of solar cell structures and a rotary actuator configured to rotate the gantry from a substantially horizontal orientation to a substantially vertical orientation; a plurality of probe nests, each positioned to make electrical contact with one of the plurality of solar cell structures, wherein at least one of the probe nests is laterally positionable; and a light source configured to emit a flash of light simulating the solar spectrum substantially horizontally toward the vertically oriented solar cell structures. 20. The solar simulator module of claim 19, wherein the plurality of support elements comprises a plurality of vacuum support elements configured in a plurality of independently controllable zones and a plurality of edge support elements. 21. The solar simulator module of claim 20, further comprising: a reference cell in communication with a system controller for monitoring and controlling the light source; a temperature sensor configured to contact at least one of the plurality of solar cell structures when the gantry is in the substantially vertical orientation; and an automated label device in communication with the system controller, wherein the automated label device is configured to affix a label to each of the solar cell structures. 22. A solar cell device processing system, comprising: an automation device positioned to receive a horizontally oriented solar cell device from a junction box attachment module of the processing system and transfer the solar cell device through a slit in a wall of an enclosure and into a testing area defined within the enclosure; an alignment mechanism in communication with the automation device for horizontally positioning the solar cell device within the testing area; a positioning robot disposed within the testing area, wherein the robot comprises a gantry with support elements attached thereto and configured to grasp and hold the solar cell device and a rotary actuator for rotating the gantry from a substantially horizontal position to a substantially vertical position; a probe nest positioned to make electrical connection with junction leads from the solar cell device when the gantry is in the substantially vertical position; a light source configured to emit a flash of light simulating the solar spectrum substantially horizontally toward the vertically oriented solar cell device; and an automated labeling mechanism configured to affix a label to a back surface of the solar cell device. 23. The solar cell device processing system of claim 22, further comprising a plurality of locating members disposed within the enclosure configured to laterally move a plurality of solar cell devices against a plurality of stop members disposed within the enclosure. 24. The solar cell device processing system of claim 23, wherein the support elements comprise a plurality of vacuum support elements arranged in a plurality of independently controllable zones. 25. The solar cell device processing system of claim 24, wherein the probe nest comprises a plurality of probe nests configured to electrically connect to a plurality of solar cell devices substantially simultaneously. 