Methods and compositions for diagnosing and treating autoimmune disease, e.g., acute disseminated encephalomyelitis (ADEM), are described.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of detecting the presence of autoantibodies to myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG) in a subject, the method comprising: obtaining a sample comprising serum or CSF from the subject; contacting the sample with a multimeric polypeptide, wherein the multimeric polypeptide comprises two or more fusion polypeptides comprising (i) a first portion comprising an antigenic extracellular domain of MOG comprising the sequence RISPGKNATGMEVGWYRS (SEQ ID NO:24); and (ii) a second portion comprising a multimerizing domain linked to the first portion, optionally via a linker, under conditions that allow binding of the multimeric polypeptide to antibodies present in the sample, if any, to thereby form multimeric polypeptide/antibody complexes; and detecting the presence of said multimeric polypeptide/antibody complexes in the sample, wherein the presence of multimeric polypeptide/antibody complexes in the sample indicates the presence of autoantibodies to MOG in the subject. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising selecting or rejecting the subject for inclusion in a clinical trial based upon the presence or absence of MOG autoantibodies in the sample. 3. A method of detecting the presence of antibodies to myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG) in a sample, the method comprising: contacting the sample with a tetrameric polypeptide, wherein the tetrameric polypeptide comprises four fusion polypeptides comprising (i) a first portion comprising an antigenic extracellular domain of MOG comprising the sequence RISPGKNATGMEVGWYRS (SEQ ID NO:24); and (ii) a second portion comprising a multimerizing domain linked to the first portion, optionally via a linker, under conditions that allow binding of the tetrameric polypeptide to antibodies present in the sample, if any, to form tetrameric polypeptide/antibody complexes; and detecting the presence of tetrameric polypeptide/antibody complexes in the sample, thereby detecting the presence of the antibody in the sample. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the multimerizing domain comprises streptavidin. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the multimeric polypeptide further comprises a linker. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the multimeric polypeptide is a tetramer. 7. The method of claim 3, wherein the multimerizing domain comprises streptavidin. 8. The method of claim 3, wherein the multimeric polypeptide further comprises a linker. 9. A method of detecting the presence of autoantibodies to myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG) in a subject, the method comprising: obtaining a sample comprising serum or CSF from the subject; contacting the sample with a multimeric polypeptide, wherein the multimeric polypeptide comprises two or more fusion polypeptides comprising (i) a first portion comprising an antigenic extracellular domain of MOG comprising amino acids 27-146 of SEQ ID NO:2; and (ii) a second portion comprising a multimerizing domain linked to the first portion, optionally via a linker, under conditions that allow binding of the multimeric polypeptide to antibodies present in the sample, if any, to thereby form multimeric polypeptide/antibody complexes; and detecting the presence of said multimeric polypeptide/antibody complexes in the sample, wherein the presence of multimeric polypeptide/antibody complexes in the sample indicates the presence of autoantibodies to MOG in the subject. 10. A method of detecting the presence of antibodies to myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG) in a sample, the method comprising: contacting the sample with a tetrameric polypeptide, wherein the tetrameric polypeptide comprises four fusion polypeptides comprising (i) a first portion comprising an antigenic extracellular domain of MOG comprising amino acids 27-146 of SEQ ID NO: 2; and (ii) a second portion comprising a multimerizing domain linked to the first portion, optionally via a linker, under conditions that allow binding of the tetrameric polypeptide to antibodies present in the sample, if any, to form tetrameric polypeptide/antibody complexes; and detecting the presence of tetrameric polypeptide/antibody complexes in the sample, thereby detecting the presence of the antibody in the sample. 11. The method of claim 9, wherein the multimerizing domain comprises streptavidin. 12. The method of claim 9, wherein the multimeric polypeptide further comprises a linker. 13. The method of claim 9, wherein the multimeric polypeptide is a tetramer. 14. The method of claim 10, wherein the multimerizing domain comprises streptavidin. 15. The method of claim 10, wherein the multimeric polypeptide further comprises a linker. 