A robotic platform for autonomous automotive vehicle development. The platform includes a frame having a plurality of wheels rotatably mounted to the frame. A motor mechanism is associated with at least one of the wheels and the motor mechanism is responsive to drive signals to rotatably drive its associated wheel. At least one sensor is mounted to the vehicle which provides an output signal representative of a parameter relevant to the position of the robotic platform. A programmable control circuit is programmed to generate drive signals in response to the sensor output(s) to simulate the operation of an automotive vehicle for vehicle development.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A robotic platform for autonomous automotive vehicle development comprising: a frame, a plurality of wheels, said frame having a plurality of spaced apart mounting holes associated with each wheel, wherein each wheel is adjustably attachable to different frame mounting holes of the frame mounting holes associated with each said wheel to thereby vary the wheel base of the vehicle, a motor mechanism associated with at least one of said wheels, said motor mechanism responsive to drive signals to rotatably drive its associated wheel, at least one sensor mounted to said vehicle, said at least one sensor providing a sensor output signal representative of a parameter relevant to the position of the frame, a programmable control circuit programmed to generate said drive signals in response to said at least one sensor output to simulate the operation of an automotive vehicle. 2. The invention as defined in claim 1 wherein said sensor comprises a global position system receiver. 3. The invention as defined in claim 1 wherein said sensor comprises a camera. 4. The invention as defined in claim 1 wherein said sensor comprises a radar system. 5. The invention as defined in claim 1 wherein said sensor comprises a laser rangefinder. 6. The invention as defined in claim 1 wherein said motor mechanism comprises a servomotor. 7. The invention as defined in claim 1 wherein said frame includes a base having four wheels, said wheels being spaced apart from each other. 8. The invention as defined in claim 7 wherein said motor mechanism comprises at least two servomotors drivingly connected with two of said wheels. 9. The invention as defined in claim 7 wherein said motor mechanism comprises at least four servomotors, one servomotor drivingly connected with each of said wheels. 10. The invention as defined in claim 1 wherein said frame is less than one half the size of the simulated automotive vehicle. 11. The invention as defined in claim 1 wherein said control circuit is programmable to simulate different automotive vehicles. 12. The invention as defined in claim 1 wherein said control circuit comprises a computer. 13. The invention as defined in claim 1 and comprising a gearbox operatively disposed between each motor mechanism and its associated wheel. 14. The invention as defined in claim 1 and comprising a linear actuator associated with at least one wheel to control the pivotal position of its associated wheel about a vertical axis. 