A circular crown shaped pressure disk (1), furnished with, on its external rim, jutting stirrup shaped, flexible elements (2) whose size makes them press on the internal surface of the drum (7) within which the disk is housed. The internal rim of the disk is equipped with winglets (3) and with flexible tabs (5) directed nearly tangentially in respect to the tubular trunk (8), placed at the center of the drum (7). The flexible tabs are for stopping the rise of the bundle of coils so as to impede their knotting and to help guiding the wire, as it is pulled to the outside of the drum and unwound from the bundle.
Claims I claim: .[.1. A device for braking the unwinding of bundled metal wire placed in a drum, for the feeding of welding machines having an automatic advancing movement of the wire, the device having a circular crown with jutting flexible elements on its outer edge for pressing on an inner surface of the drum, and further comprising guiding winglets and flexible tabs on an inner edge of the crown..]. .[.2. The device as claimed in claim 1, wherein said jutting flexible elements are stirrup-shaped..]. .[.3. The device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the winglets have a circular inner periphery, the inner periphery including a skeleton curved into a spiral towards a center of the crown..]. .[.4. The device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the flexible tabs are oriented in an almost tangential direction toward a circle interior to the inner edge of the crown and are for suppressing inadvertent release of the wire in the drum..]. .Iadd.5. A device for braking the unwinding of bundled metal wire placed in a container of welding wire, for the feeding of welding machines having an automatic advancing movement of the wire, the container having an internal surface, said device comprising a circular crown having an outer peripheral edge which is spaced from the internal surface of the container which allows said device to descend with the unwinding of the wire, said device further including inwardly extending flexible tabs on an inner edge of said crown having a front edge facing the wire exiting the bundle of wire during the unwinding of the wire, said flexible tabs on said inner edge being generally rectangular and extending at a non-perpendicular angle from said inner edge such that the wire traveling along said front edge during the unwinding is urged radially inwardly, said device further including guide winglets between each of said flexible tabs, said guide winglets each having an inner profile that is arcuate..Iaddend. .Iadd.6. The device as described in claim 5, wherein said guide winglets further include a skeleton on said inner profile and extending inwardly and toward an adjacent one of said flexible tabs..Iaddend. .Iadd.7. A device for braking the unwinding of bundled metal wire placed in a container, for the feeding of welding machines having an automatic advancing movement of the wire, the container having an internal surface, said device comprising a crown portion having an outer peripheral edge which is spaced from the internal surface of the container which allows said device to descend with the unwinding of the wire and an inner peripheral edge opposite of said outer edge, said crown having a thickness between said inner and outer edges, said device further includes inwardly extending flexible tabs on said inner edge of said crown having a front edge facing the wire during the unwinding, said flexible tabs having a thickness less than said crown thickness and extending from said inner edge at a non-perpendicular angle, said flexible tabs further including a front edge facing the wire being unwound from the bundled wire such that the wire travels along said front edge during the unwinding, said front edge being at an angle less than 90 degrees from said inner edge such that the wire is urged inwardly during the unwinding, said device further including U-shaped flexible elements on the outer edge of said crown, said U-shaped flexible elements engaging the internal surface of the container and being transverse to said outer edge..Iaddend. .Iadd.8. A device for braking the unwinding of bundled metal wire placed in a container, for the feeding of welding machines having an automatic advancing movement of the wire, the container having an internal surface, said device comprising a circular crown having an outer peripheral edge which is spaced from the internal surface of the container which allows said device to descend with the unwinding of the wire and an inner peripheral edge opposite of said outer edge, said crown having a crown thickness between said inner and out edges, said device further including inwardly extending flexible tabs on said inner crown edge and said tabs each having a front edge facing the wire exiting the bundle of wire during the unwinding of the wire, said each tab being generally rectangular and extending at a non-perpendicular angle from said inner edge and having a tab thickness less than said crown thickness, said device still further including guide winglets between each of said flexible tabs, said guide winglets each having a inner profile that is arcuate..Iaddend. .Iadd.9. The device as described in claim 8, wherein said guide winglets further include a skeleton on said inner profile and extending inwardly and toward an adjacent one of said flexible tabs..Iaddend. 