A device is disclosed, being an analysis device for the study of biological or chemical samples by means of a reagent liquid supplied via a pipette. The device has an instrument housing with a base plate, a working plate arranged on the base plate horizontally to receive the samples in a sample holder having several wells, a robot manipulator arranged above the working plate, which carries a horizontal support arm with a slide. A needle system is fastened to the slide and can move in the Z direction, carrying 3 needles and being brought into vertical positions by a first vertical drive. The needle tips can be placed in an upper position above and in a lower position below a well. The middle needle can move vertically relative to the other two needles, which can be raised and lowered by a second vertical drive. The horizontal spacing of the three needles is so small that all three needles can be positioned with their tips inside the same wells. In particular, the working plate is mounted on the base plate so that it can turn.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A device for the study of biological or chemical samples by means of a reagent liquid supplied via a pipette or cleaning liquid supplied and removed by means of a pipette, said device comprising: an instrument housing with a base plate, a working plate arranged on the base plate horizontally in a position of use, to receive the samples in a sample holder having several cups or wells, a robot manipulator arranged above the working plate in the position to receive the samples, which carries a support arm extending in a horizontal direction above the working plate and a slide which can move along this support arm by means of a horizontal drive, and a system of hollow needles able to move in the vertical direction (Z) on the slide, which carries the pipettes and which can be brought by a first vertical drive into predetermined vertical positions, so that the tips of the hollow needles can be placed in an upper position above and in a lower position within a cup or well of a sample holder, wherein the needle system carries three hollow needles forming the pipettes and essentially parallel to each other at a slight spacing in a support plate, whose upper ends are connected via a supply line to an assigned reservoir container, one of the hollow needles is arranged so that it can move vertically relative to the other hollow needles in the needle system, and it can be raised and lowered by a given value in the vertical direction by a second vertical drive, and the horizontal spacing of the three hollow needles from each other is chosen so small that all three needles can be positioned with their respective tips inside the same cup or well. 2. The device of claim 1, wherein the working plate is mounted on the base plate so that it can turn about its axis, arranged perpendicular to it, and the working plate can turn by a rotary drive to a predetermined angular position (.phi.). 3. The device of claim 2, wherein the support arm of the robot manipulator extending in the horizontal direction is arranged so that the pipettes can be moved back and forth by the horizontal drive of the slide in the radial direction (R) toward the axis of rotation of the working plate. 4. The device of claim 1, wherein the horizontal drive, the first vertical drive and/or the second vertical drive and/or the rotational drive are each actuated via a motorized drive of a controller. 5. The device of claim 1, wherein the horizontal drive and/or the first vertical drive and/or the second vertical drive are actuated via a spindle drive of a controller. 6. The device of claim 1, wherein the three hollow needles are arranged in a common vertical plane (Z) and the middle one of the three hollow needles is a hollow needle that is arranged so that it can move vertically relative to one of the outer needles in the needle system. 7. The device of claim 1, wherein a line joining the tips of two hollow needles in the respective lower position inside a cup or well makes an acute angle .alpha., wherein .alpha. is 1 to 5 degrees, with the horizontal plane, and the dispensing of cleaning fluid occurs through the higher situated hollow needle tip and the aspiration of dirty liquid through the lower situated hollow needle tip. 8. The device of claim 7, wherein the one tip of the one hollow needle which can move vertically with respect to one of the other hollow needles comes to lie between the respective lower and the respective upper position of the other two hollow needles in its respective lower position within a cup or well, and the reagent liquid is delivered via the tip of the hollow needle which can move vertically with respect to one of the other hollow needles. 9. The device of claim 1, wherein the support plate carrying the three hollow needles is held by means of a support magnet in the needle system and can be loosened in such a way that the support magnet can release the support plate within its range of motion upon unexpected striking of the hollow needle tips or the hollow needles against an impeding object in the instrument housing, so that the support plate can drop down with the hollow needles onto the working plate. 10. The device of claim 1, including movable supply lines wherein the movable supply lines are configured as hoses and connected between the respective upper ends of each hollow needle with the reservoir container assigned to it via a cock which can be controlled by a controller. 11. The device of claim 1, wherein the transport of liquid into the supply lines configured as hoses occurs by a hose pump. 12. The device of claim 11, wherein the hose pump configured as a peristaltic pump consists of two magnetically coupled and easily removable halves, so that the hose on the inside, through which the liquid is transported between the pressing rollers, actuated by a rotary drive, and the corresponding abutments, can easily be replaced. 13. The device of claim 1, wherein additional samples are arranged in reagent vials or on specimen slides on the base plate, in an outer region of the working plate, which is arranged outside the sample holder containing the cups or wells. 14. The device of claim 3, wherein the additional samples are arranged in reagent vials or on specimen slides on outer radial rings on the working plate, able to turn about its axis of rotation, and the outer rings are each firmly connected to the rotatable working plate or have their own controllable rotary drive. 15. The device of claim 1, wherein the samples are each characterized by a barcode and can be read by corresponding readers. 16. A system for the study of biological or chemical samples by means of a reagent liquid supplied via a pipette or cleaning liquid supplied and removed by means of a pipette, making use of a device according to one of the preceding claims, wherein the instrument housing has the shape of a helmet, which has a visor-like cover at one side, which when opened up allows the user to load the working plate with sample holders, and in the closed condition of the visor-like cover a studying of the biological and chemical samples arranged on the working plate can run automatically, controlled by a controller. 17. The method for the study of biological or chemical samples by means of a reagent liquid supplied via a pipette, wherein the samples are each held in their sample holders, which are arranged on the working plate of a device according to claim 1, characterized by the following steps: the samples are placed in their respective sample holders, in the form of a matrix, on the working plate arranged horizontal in the position of use, the needle system with its three hollow needles is positioned via the controller by the horizontal drive at a position above a cup or well being studied in a sample holder, the needle system is lowered by the first vertical drive and the second vertical drive so that at first the first hollow needle, which is arranged so that it can move vertically relative to one of the other hollow needles, is lowered into its lower position, in which its tip is located inside the cup or well, while the other two hollow needles are still located above the cup or well, then the reagent liquid is delivered to the specimen located therein, the first hollow needle is lifted again by the second vertical drive into an upper position far enough above the cup or well, then the second and third hollow needles are lowered together with the first vertical drive until their tips are located just above the sample, cleaning liquid is distributed over the sample from the pipette tip of the second hollow needle, the excess, unused cleaning liquid is aspirated with the third hollow needle (46), the needle system is moved back to its upper position by the first vertical drive, the sample is checked for a reaction by a light beam, and the reaction is determined by a color change, then another sample is studied in the same way in another cup or well. 