The invention relates to a device for braiding fibers into a braided structure, the device comprising a braiding machine, comprising a continuous track plate, a forming device, comprising a forming ring, a braiding mandrel about which the braiding machine braids at least one layer of the braided structure, and positioning means to effectuate relative movement of the mandrel and the braiding machine during braiding. The continuous track plate and/or the forming ring are build up of at least two parts that may be separated and reattached to each other, the parts being arranged such as to allow the track plate and/or the forming ring to enclose the mandrel. The invention further relates to a method for braiding fibers into a braided structure.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A device for braiding fibers into a braided structure, the device comprising: a braiding machine, comprising a continuous track plate; a forming device, comprising a forming ring; a braiding mandrel about which the braiding machine braids at least one layer of the braided structure; positioning means to effectuate relative movement of the mandrel and the braiding machine during braiding; wherein the continuous track plate and/or the forming ring are build up of at least two parts that may be separated and reattached to each other, the parts being arranged such as to allow the track plate and/or the forming ring to enclose the mandrel. 2. The device according to claim 1, wherein the continuous track plate and the forming ring are build up of at least two parts that may be separated and reattached to each other, the parts being arranged such as to allow the track plate and the forming ring to enclose the mandrel. 3. The device according to claim 1, wherein the braided structure and/or the mandrel is continuous. 4. The device according to claim 1, wherein the at least two parts comprise a common hinge construction and are separated by rotation around the hinge construction. 5. The device according to claim 1, the device comprising a plurality of forming rings, build up of at least two parts that may be separated and reattached to each other, the parts being arranged such as to allow the forming rings to enclose the mandrel. 6. The device according to claim 1, wherein the positioning means are arranged to move the assembly of forming device and braiding machine about the mandrel, the mandrel being in a stationary position. 7. The device according to claim 6, wherein the forming device and braiding machine are planar, and wherein the positioning means are arranged to move the assembly of forming device and braiding machine with their plane substantially perpendicular to the axis of the mandrel. 8. The device according to claim 1, wherein the positioning means comprise a robotic guiding apparatus. 9. The device according to claim 1, wherein the mandrel is inflatable. 10. A method of braiding fibers around a mandrel into a braided structure, the method comprising the steps of: providing a braiding machine, comprising a continuous track plate, and a forming device, comprising a forming ring, wherein the continuous track plate and/or the forming ring are build up of at least two parts that may be separated and reattached to each other, separating the at least two parts and bringing the mandrel within the perimeter of the continuous track plate and/or forming ring; reattaching the at least two parts of the continuous track plate and/or the forming ring thereby enclosing the mandrel; braiding the braided structure in a number of layers onto the mandrel by moving the mandrel relative to the braiding machine; removing the braided structure by separating the at least two parts and bringing the structure out of the perimeter of the continuous track plate and/or forming ring. 11. The method according to claim 10, wherein the braided structure and/or the mandrel is continuous. 12. The method according to claim 10, wherein a plurality of forming rings, build up of at least two parts that may be separated and reattached to each other, is used. 13. The method according to claim 10, wherein the assembly of forming device and braiding machine is moved about the mandrel, the mandrel being held in a stationary position. 14. The method according to claim 10, wherein the mandrel is continuous, and the assembly of forming device and braiding machine is moved about the mandrel in the same direction several times to build up several braided layers. 15. The method according to claim 10, wherein the mandrel is continuous, and differing numbers of braided fiber layers in different regions of the mandrel are created by reversing the movement of the assembly of forming device and braiding machine relative to the mandrel. 16. The method according to claim 10, wherein the mandrel is continuous, the forming device and braiding machine are planar, and wherein the assembly of forming device and braiding machine is moved along the mandrel with their plane substantially perpendicular to the axis of the mandrel. 17. The method according to claim 16, wherein the assembly of forming device and braiding machine is moved along the mandrel such that the axis of the mandrel coincides with the heart line of the forming ring. 