A minimally-invasive anastomosis system includes a base that is inserted through an incision is made in the chest of a patient between two adjacent ribs. An anastomosis tool and a sensor are attached to the base. The base is attached to the heart, such as by suction, while allowing substantially unrestricted motion of the heart. The sensor provides a view of a surgical field to a display, such that as the base moves along with the motion of the heart, the view of the surgical field remains substantially steady.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A tool for placement on heart tissue, comprising: a base configured to contact the exterior of the heart and allow substantially unrestricted movement of heart tissue contacted by said base; an anastomosis tool connected to said base, wherein said anastomosis tool includes an anvil; and a staple holder moveable relative to said anvil. 2. The tool of claim 1, wherein said base is at least partially flexible. 3. The tool of claim 1, wherein at least a portion of said base is substantially conformable to the heart. 4. The tool of claim 1, wherein said base includes a plurality of contact elements. 5. The tool of claim 4, further comprising an affixing element connected to at least one said contact element. 6. The tool of claim 5, wherein at least one said affixing element includes at least one chamber, each said chamber having at least one opening therein. 7. The tool of claim 6, wherein at least one said affixing element includes more than one said chamber, each said chamber having at least one said opening therein. 8. The tool of claim 7, further comprising a vacuum line connected to each said chamber. 9. The tool of claim 8, wherein a vacuum is selectively applied to at least one said chamber by said vacuum line in order to selectively affix the corresponding said affixing element to the heart. 10. The tool of claim 4, wherein said contact elements are spaced apart from one another. 11. The tool of claim 4, wherein said contact elements are substantially parallel to one another. 12. The tool of claim 1, wherein said anvil is separable from said staple holder. 13. The tool of claim 1, further comprising a mount connected to said base and to said anastomosis tool. 14. The tool of claim 13, wherein said mount includes two spaced-apart members connected at their proximal ends to a cross member. 15. The tool of claim 13, further comprising an interface mechanism moveable relative to said mount. 16. The tool of claim 15, wherein said interface mechanism is compliant. 17. The tool of claim 15, further comprising at least one actuator connected to said interface mechanism and movable relative to said mount. 18. The tool of claim 17, further comprising a control unit connected nonrigidly to each said actuator and to said anastomosis tool. 19. The tool of claim 18, wherein said connection is accomplished by a cable. 20. The tool of claim 18, wherein said connection is accomplished by wireless communication. 21. The tool of claim 18, wherein said connection is accomplished by a length of tubing. 22. The tool of claim 1, further comprising a moveable stage connected to said base and to said anastomosis tool, wherein motion of said stage moves said anastomosis tool. 23. The tool of claim 1, further comprising a coarse positioner connected to said base. 24. The tool of claim 23, further comprising a fine positioner connected to said coarse positioner. 25. The tool of claim 24, wherein said fine positioner and said coarse positioner are connected in series. 26. The tool of claim 24, wherein said fine positioner and said coarse positioner are connected in parallel. 27. The tool of claim 1, wherein said base is a coarse positioner. 28. The tool of claim 27, wherein said coarse positioner is configured to perform fine positioning as well. 29. The tool of claim 1, further comprising at least one sensor connected to said base. 30. The tool of claim 29, wherein at least one said sensor is an imaging device. 31. The tool of claim 30, wherein said imaging device is a camera. 32. The tool of claim 30, wherein said imaging device is an ultrasonic array. 33. The tool of claim 30, wherein said imaging device detects contrast. 34. The tool of claim 30, wherein said imaging device outputs a substantially motionless image of at least a portion of the heart. 35. The tool of claim 30, wherein said imaging device is fixedly connected to said base. 