An apparatus for evaluating physicochemical properties of sample materials contained in an array of vessels includes: a light detector; a light source for transmitting a light beam through the sample material in a vessel to the light detector; an analyzer for processing data from the light detector to determine concentration-related properties of the sample material as a function of time; and a mixing system. The mixing system includes: a plurality of magnetic stirrer elements, each for being placed in a sample material in a different one of the array of vessels; an array of magnetic drive elements, each associated with a different one of the array of vessels and being magnetically coupled with a magnetic stirrer element in an associated vessel; and a drive mechanism coupled to the array of magnetic drive elements for simultaneously moving each of the magnetic drive elements relative to an associated vessel.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A mixing system for use in an apparatus for evaluating physicochemical properties of sample materials contained in an array of vessels, the apparatus including a light detector, a light source for transmitting a light beam through the sample material in a vessel to the light detector, and an analyzer for processing data from the light detector to determine concentration-related properties of the sample material as a function of time, the mixing system comprising: a plurality of magnetic stirrer elements, each for being placed in a sample material in a different one of the array of vessels; an array of magnetic drive elements, each associated with a different one of the array of vessels and being magnetically coupled with a magnetic stirrer element in an associated vessel; and a drive mechanism coupled to the array of magnetic drive elements for simultaneously moving each of the magnetic drive elements relative to an associated vessel to cause corresponding movement of the magnetic stirrer element in the associated vessel to stir the sample material; wherein the array of magnetic drive elements and the drive mechanism are configured to enable passage of the light beam from the light source through the sample material in each vessel to the light detector such that a concentration-related property of the sample material contained in a vessel can be detected as a function of time while the sample material is being stirred by a magnetic stirrer element. 2. The mixing system of claim 1 wherein the array of vessels remains generally stationary while the sample materials are stirred by the stirrer elements. 3. The mixing system of claim 1 wherein drive mechanism moves each of the magnetic drive elements in a generally circular path relative to and in close proximity to an associated vessel to cause corresponding movement of the magnetic stirrer element in the associated vessel in a generally circular path about the periphery of the associated vessel to stir the sample material therein. 4. The mixing system of claim 1 wherein magnetic stirrer elements are spherical or cylindrical in shape. 5. The mixing system of claim 1 wherein either each of the magnetic stirrer elements comprises a permanent magnet, or each of the magnetic drive elements comprises a permanent magnet, or both each of the magnetic stirrer elements and each of the magnetic drive elements comprises a permanent magnet. 6. The mixing system of claim 1 wherein the light beam passes through the sample material in a vessel in a generally vertical direction. 7. The mixing system of claim 1 wherein the drive mechanism comprises an array of gears corresponding to the array of magnetic drive elements, each of said gears having teeth that are meshed with teeth of one or more adjacent gears and having a corresponding magnetic drive element positioned at an off-center location on said gear, said drive mechanism further comprising a motor for simultaneously turning each of the gears and drive elements positioned thereon. 8. The mixing system of claim 7 wherein each of said gears includes an opening at the center thereof through which said light beam can be transmitted such that it can pass through the sample material in an associated vessel. 9. The mixing system of claim 1 wherein the drive mechanism comprises a platform on which said array of magnetic drive elements is positioned, and said drive mechanism further comprises a motor engaged with the platform to move the platform in a manner that causes each of the magnetic drive elements to move in a generally circular path having a radius generally corresponding to the inner radius of one of said vessels. 10. The mixing system of claim 9 wherein said platform includes one or more openings to allow said light beam to pass therethrough from the light source through the sample material in each vessel to the light detector. 11. The mixing system of claim 1 wherein said concentration-related properties comprise ultraviolet/visible/near-infrared absorption or transmittance, fluorescence, or luminescence. 12. The mixing system of claim 1 wherein the concentration-related property detected as a function of time can be analyzed to obtain physicochemical properties including dissolution characteristics, equilibrium solubility characteristics, kinetic solubility characteristics, precipitation characteristics, or membrane permeability characteristics of the sample materials. 13. The mixing system of claim 1 wherein the array of vessels comprise wells of a microtitre plate, said microtitre plate comprising a material that allows appreciable transmission therethrough of said light beam. 14. The mixing system of claim 1 wherein the sample material in each of the vessels has a volume of less than about 3 mL. 15. The mixing system of claim 1 wherein the data are repetitively acquired for each time point in less than three seconds per sample material in a vessel. 16. The mixing system according to claim 1 further comprising a temperature control mechanism for maintaining said sample materials at a generally predetermined temperature. 17. The mixing system according to claim 1, further comprising a cover plate for covering each of said vessels to inhibit evaporation of the sample material therein, said cover plate including an array of projections, each projection fitting in a different one of said vessels to displace air in the vessel above the sample material. 18. The mixing system according to claim 1 wherein said light beam is a collimated light beam produced by a lamp selected from a group consisting of: (a) an ultraviolet-spectrum emitting lamp, (b) a visible-spectrum emitting lamp, (c) a combination ultraviolet-visible lamp, (d) an infrared-spectrum emitting lamp, and (e) a near-infrared-spectrum emitting lamp, and wherein said light detector is a detector selected from the group consisting of: (a) an ultraviolet-visible detector, (b) an infrared detector, (c) a near-infrared detector, (d) a fluorescence detector, and (e) a luminescence detector. 19. The mixing system according to claim 18 wherein said light detector is a photodiode array of elements (PDA) or a charge-coupled device (CCD) or a photomultiplier device (PM). 20. The mixing system according to claim 19 wherein said analyzer is a parallel multi-channel unit adapted to generally simultaneously analyze data from two or more light beams simultaneously. 21. The mixing system according to claim 1 wherein said light source transmits an array of light beams corresponding to the array of vessels to a corresponding array of light detectors. 22. The mixing system according to claim 1 wherein each vessel of the array of vessels comprises a generally axially symmetrical bicylindrical shape having a lower compartment and an upper compartment, with the lower compartment being smaller than the upper compartment, and wherein the light beam is transmitted through a portion of the upper compartment extending beyond the periphery of the lower compartment of each of said vessels. 23. The mixing system of claim 22 wherein the magnetic stirrer elements are generally cylindrical and placed into the lower compartment of each vessel of said array. 24. The mixing system of claim 23 wherein the sample material comprises a compressed pellet placed in an opening in the magnetic stirrer element. 25. The mixing system of claim 1 wherein: (a) each vessel of the array of vessels comprises a two chamber system including a donor compartment in which said sample material is placed, a receiver compartment, and a filter supported membrane barrier between said donor compartment and said receiver compartment; (b) each of said donor compartment and said receiver compartment includes a magnetic stirrer element therein; (c) each of said magnetic drive elements includes a component associated with the magnetic stirrer element in the donor compartment and a component associated with the magnetic stirrer element in the receiver compartment such that movement of the magnetic drive element by said drive mechanism causes movement of both the magnetic stirrer element in the donor compartment and the magnetic stirrer element in the receiver compartment; (d) the compartments are configured such that the light beam can be transmitted through the receiver compartment of each of said vessels to measure the concentration of sample material transported through said membrane barrier; and (e) said membrane barrier comprising a lipid material, a phospholipid material, or a mixture thereof, or a confluent monolayer of cultured or primary cells. 26. A method of evaluating physicochemical properties of sample materials contained as solutions or suspensions of unknown concentration in an array of vessels, comprising: simultaneously stirring the sample material in each of said array of vessels; and measuring a concentration-related property of a sample material contained in one of the array of vessels in situ as a function of time without invasive insertion of probes in the sample material while the sample materials are being stirred. 27. The method of claim 26 further comprising: preparing a calibration that establishes a functional relationship between a known concentration of the sample material and said concentration-related property; determining concentration of the sample material in the said array of vessels as a function of time by comparing said concentration-related property with said calibration; and obtaining physicochemical properties of the sample material from the determined concentration of the sample material as a function of time. 28. The method of claim 27 wherein determining a concentration-related property of a sample material contained in a vessel comprises measuring the concentration of sample material transported through a membrane barrier from a donor compartment to a receiver compartment in said vessel. 29. The method of claim 26 wherein simultaneously stirring the sample materials in each of said array of vessels comprises moving each of a plurality of magnetic stirrer elements placed in the sample materials in each of the array of vessels by magnetically coupling said magnetic stirrer elements with corresponding magnetic drive elements, and simultaneously moving said magnetically drive elements. 30. The method of claim 29 wherein said magnetic stirrer elements comprise permanent magnets, said magnetic drive elements comprise permanent magnets, or both said magnetic stirrer elements and said magnetic drive elements comprise permanent magnets. 31. The method of claim 26 wherein measuring a concentration-related property of the sample material comprises transmitting a light beam from a light source through the sample material in each vessel to the light detector and processing data from the light detector to determine a concentration-related property of the sample material. 32. The method of claim 31 wherein the concentration-related property of the sample material in each vessel of said array of vessels is measured successively using a single light source and a single light detector. 33. The method of claim 31 wherein the concentration-related property of the sample material in each vessel of said array of vessels is measured simultaneously using multiple light sources and multiple light detectors. 34. An apparatus for evaluating physicochemical properties of sample materials contained in an array of vessels, comprising: a light detector; a light source for transmitting a light beam through the sample material in a vessel to the light detector; an analyzer for processing data from the light detector to determine concentration-related properties of the sample material as a function of time; and a mixing system, comprising: a plurality of magnetic stirrer elements, each for being placed in a sample material in a different one of the array of vessels; an array of magnetic drive elements, each associated with a different one of the array of vessels and being magnetically coupled with a magnetic stirrer element in an associated vessel; and a drive mechanism coupled to the array of magnetic drive elements for simultaneously moving each of the magnetic drive elements relative to an associated vessel to cause corresponding movement of the magnetic stirrer element in the associated vessel to stir the sample material; wherein the array of magnetic drive elements and the drive mechanism are configured to enable passage of the light beam from the light source through the sample material in each vessel to the light detector such that a concentration-related property of the sample material contained in a vessel can be detected as a function of time while the sample material is being stirred by a magnetic stirrer element. 