The present invention relates to a pipette tip which is fitted with a porous organic monolith which is doped with active particles. Due to a unique polymerization method, the extraction tips stay highly permeable which allows sample to pass through the monolithic bed. The extraction tip represents an ideal tool for solid phase extraction, especially for desalting, isolating and purifying biomolecules such as peptides and proteins.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of preparing a hollow monolith in a pipette tip comprising the steps of: a. preparing a stable, pre-monolith suspension comprised of monomers, porogens, particles and optionally, an initiator and a crosslinker; b. introducing the stable, pre-monolith suspension into a pipette tip; c. removing the center portion of the stable, pre-monolith suspension; and d. polymerizing the stable, pre-monolith suspension to form a stable hollow monolith structure inside the pipette tip. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the pipette tip attached to a pipette, wherein step (b) is performed by aspirating the stable, pre-monolith suspension through the lower end of the pipette tip, and wherein step (c) is performed by expelling a portion of the stable, pre-monolith suspension through the lower end of the pipette tip. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said particles are selected from the group consisting of silica, metal oxides, metals, ceramics, synthetic polymers, biopolymers, and allotropes of carbon. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the allotropes of carbon are selected from the group consisting of fullerenes, diamond, graphite, nanotubes and nanowires. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said particles are mixtures selected from the group consisting of silica, metal oxides, metals, ceramics, synthetic polymers, biopolymers and allotropes of carbon. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the size of said particles is in the range of 1 nanometer to 100 micrometers. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the size of the particles is in the range of 20 nanometers to 5 micrometers. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the size of the particles is in the range of 100 nanometers to 2 micrometers. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the chemical group is a comprised of an affinity group. 10. An automated method of preparing a plurality of pipette tips containing a hollow monolith comprising the steps of: a. providing a liquid handling system, wherein the system is operatively engaged with a plurality of pipette tips; b. aspirating a stable, pre-monolith suspension into the pipette tips; and c. expelling a portion of the stable, pre-monolith suspension. 