The invention provides improved methods and apparatus for control using field and control devices that provide a virtual machine environment and that communicate via an IP network. By way of non-limiting example, such field device can be an "intelligent" transmitter or actuator that includes a low power processor, along with a random access memory, a read-only memory, FlashRAM, and a sensor interface. The processor can execute a real-time operating system, as well as a Java virtual machine (JVM). Java byte code executes in the JVM to configure the field device to perform typical process control functions, e.g., for proportional integral derivative (PID) control and signal conditioning. Control networks can include a plurality of such field and control devices interconnected by an IP network, such as an Ethernet.
Claims In view of the foregoing, what we claim is: 1. A field device for use in a residential environmental control system, comprising: a network interface that forms part of the field device and that provides at least a physical layer connection to an internet protocol ("IP") network; a sensing apparatus that forms part of the field device and that measures a characteristic of a device, process or system in the residential environmental control system; memory that forms part of the field device and that stores at least web server software; and processing circuitry that forms part of the field device and that is communicatively coupled to the network interface, the processing circuitry executing the web server software to allow remote monitoring of measurements of the characteristic made with the sensing apparatus by serving web pages over the IP network in response to requests received from the IP network; wherein the web server software is adapted to permit monitoring and configuration of other field devices via the network interface; and wherein the processing circuitry is operable to control access to said measurements based on any of a user location and a type of the field device. 2. The field device of claim 1, wherein the field device is adapted for use in connection with a utility service. 3. The field device of claim 1, wherein the web server software is adapted to permit configuration of the field device via the network interface. 4. The field device of claim 3, wherein the web server software includes a configuration editor adapted to permit configuration of the field device via a web browser. 5. The field device of claim 1, wherein the processing circuitry is adapted for communication with other apparatus via the network interface. 6. The field device of claim 1, wherein the memory of the field device further stores at least an IP address assigned to the field device via the IP network. 7. A field device for use in a residential environmental control system, comprising: a network interface that forms part of the field device; a sensing apparatus that forms part of the field device and that measures a characteristic of a device, process or system in the residential environmental control system; a virtual machine that forms part of the field device; and processing circuitry that forms part of the field device and that executes instructions in the virtual machine, wherein the processing circuitry is operable to execute instructions in the virtual machine to allow monitoring of measurements of the characteristic made with the sensing apparatus via the network interface; wherein the processing circuitry is operable to control access to said measurements based on any of a user location and a type of the field device. 8. The field device of claim 7, wherein the network interface receives configuration information for execution in the virtual machine to configure the field device. 9. The field device of claim 7, wherein the virtual machine is adapted to execute instructions in the virtual machine to respond to monitoring requests received via the network interface. 10. The field device of claim 7, wherein the sensing apparatus is adapted for use in connection with a utility service. 11. A field device for use in a residential environmental control system, comprising: a network interface that forms part of the field device and that provides at least a physical layer connection to an internet protocol ("IP") network; a sensing apparatus that forms part of the field device and that measures a characteristic of a device, process or system in the residential environmental control system; memory that forms part of the field device and that stores at least web server software; and processing circuitry that forms part of the field device and that is communicatively coupled to the network interface, the processing circuitry executing the web server software to allow remote monitoring of measurements of the characteristic made with the sensing apparatus by serving web pages over the IP network in response to requests received from the IP network; wherein the web server software is adapted to permit monitoring and configuration of other field devices via the network interface, and wherein the web server is adapted to control access to said measurements based on any of a user location and a type of the field device. 