A device for handling a substantially circular wafer is provided. The device includes an interior accessible through a plurality of entrances, and a plurality of sensors consisting of two sensors for each one of the plurality of entrances, each sensor capable of detecting a presence of the substantially circular wafer, at a predetermined location within the interior, wherein the plurality of sensors are arranged so that at least two of the plurality of sensors detect the wafer for any position of the wafer entirely within the interior, wherein a first one of the two sensors is positioned to detect the wafer when the wafer has passed entirely into the interior through one of the plurality of entrances, and a second one of the two sensors is positioned immediately outside a diameter of the wafer when the wafer has passed entirely into the interior through one of the plurality of entrances.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A device for handling a substantially circular wafer, the device comprising: an interior accessible through a plurality of entrances; and a plurality of sensors consisting of two sensors for each one of the plurality of entrances, each sensor capable of detecting a presence of the substantially circular wafer, at a predetermined location within the interior, wherein the plurality of sensors are arranged so that at least two of the plurality of sensors detect the wafer for any position of the wafer entirely within the interior; wherein a first one of the two sensors is positioned to detect the wafer when the wafer has passed entirely into the interior through one of the plurality of entrances, and a second one of the two sensors is positioned immediately outside a diameter of the wafer when the wafer has passed entirely into the interior through one of the plurality of entrances. 2. The device of claim 1, wherein the plurality of entrances includes four entrances, seven entrances or eight entrances. 3. The device of claim 1, wherein the plurality of sensors includes optical sensors. 4. The device of claim 3, wherein the plurality of sensors includes at least one light emitting diode. 5. The device of claim 1, further comprising a robotic arm having a center axis within the interior, the robotic arm including an end effector for handling wafers. 6. A device comprising: an interior chamber having a plurality of entrances shaped and sized for passage of at least one wafer; a contact image sensor positioned to scan a wafer within the interior wherein the contact image sensor has a length exceeding the diameter of the wafer; a robot within the interior including an end effector for handling the wafer, the robot configured to move the wafer within a measurement volume of the contact image sensor to obtain an image of the at least a portion of the wafer; and a processor configured to process the image and determine a center of the wafer. 7. The device of claim 6, wherein the robot is configured to move the wafer linearly through the measurement volume of the contact image sensor. 8. The device of claim 7, wherein the contact image sensor is oriented normal to a path of the wafer. 9. The device of claim 7, wherein the contact image sensor is oriented at a forty-five degree angle to a path of the wafer. 10. The device of claim 6, wherein the robot is configured to move the wafer in a curved path through the measurement volume of the contact image sensor. 11. The device of claim 6, wherein the robot is configured to move the wafer in a discontinuous path through the measurement volume of the contact image sensor. 12. The device of claim 6, wherein the contact image sensor provides data to calculate a wafer center. 13. The device of claim 6, further comprising a second contact image sensor, wherein the contact image sensor and the second contact image sensor are positioned co-linearly. 14. The device of claim 13, wherein the contact image sensor and the second contact image sensor are positioned at one of the plurality of entrances to the interior. 15. The device of claim 14, further comprising a plurality of pairs of co-linear contact images sensors positioned at each of the plurality of entrances to the interior. 16. The device of claim 13, further comprising a second pair of co-linear contact image sensors, wherein the second pair of co-linear contact image sensors are positioned to intersect a center of the interior. 17. A device comprising: a robotic arm for handling a wafer, the robotic arm including one or more encoders that provide encoder data identifying a position of one or more components of the robotic arm; and a processor adapted to apply an extended Kalman filter to the encoder data to estimate a position of the wafer. 18. The device of claim 17, wherein the position includes a wafer center. 19. The device of claim 17, wherein the position includes a wafer radius. 20. The device of claim 17, wherein the processor is configured to update one or more equations of the Kalman filter using translation data from one or more sensors that detect the presence of a wafer at one or more predetermined locations within a robotic wafer handler. 