An in vitro method for genotyping genetic variations in an individual, and products for use in the method.
Claims We claim: 1. An in vitro method for genotyping genetic variations in an individual, the method comprising: (a) providing a sample containing nucleic acid which comprises the genetic variations to be genotyped (the target DNA), (b) providing, for each genetic variation to be genotyped, oligonucleotide probe pairs, wherein, (i) one probe in each pair is capable of hybridising to genetic variation A and the other probe in each pair is capable of hybridising to genetic variation B; (ii) each probe is provided in replicates; and (iii) the probe replicates are each coupled to a solid support, wherein the solid support is a particle; (c) amplifying and detectably labelling the target DNA; (d) contacting the target DNA with the probes under conditions which allow hybridization to occur, thereby forming detectably labeled nucleic acid-probe hybridization complexes, (e) determining the intensity of detectable label for each probe, thereby obtaining a raw intensity value for each particle type; (f) optionally amending the raw intensity value to take account of background noise, thereby obtaining a clean intensity value for each replica; and (g) applying an algorithm to the intensity data from (e) or (f), thereby determining the genotype with respect to each genetic variation, wherein application of the algorithm comprises calculating a raw intensity value from the intensity values for each of the replicas of each probe coupled with a particle, and wherein the algorithm comprises deriving: a first linear function: a1ratio1+b1ratio2+c1 that characterizes genotype AA: a second linear function: a2ratio1+b2ratio2+c2 that characterizes genotype AB; and a third linear function: a3ratio1+b3ratio2+c3 that characterizes genotype BB; wherein: AA represents the genotype of a homozygote subject for the allelic variant 1 (allele 1); AB represents the genotype of a heterozygote subject for the allelic variants 1 and 2 (allele 1 and allele 2); BB represents the genotype of a homozygote subject for the allelic variant 2 (allele 2); a1 is the coefficient which accompanies the X in the linear function for the genotype AA; a1 being obtained by applying a discriminate analysis to the ratios 1 and 2 obtained from analysing Z patients for the genotype AA, Z for BB and Z for AB, wherein Z is a number more than two, b1 is the coefficient which accompanies the Y in the linear function for the genotype AA; b1 being obtained by applying a discriminate analysis to the ratios 1 and 2 obtained from analysing Z patients for the genotype AA, Z for BB and Z for AB; c1 is the independent term of the first linear function; a2 is the coefficient which accompanies the X in the linear function for the genotype AB; a2 being obtained by applying a discriminate analysis to the ratios 1 and 2 obtained from analysing Z patients for the genotype AA, Z for BB and Z for AB; b2 is the coefficient which accompanies the Y in the linear function for the genotype AB; b2 being obtained by applying a discriminate analysis to the ratios 1 and 2 obtained from analysing Z patients for the genotype AA, Z for BB and Z for AB; c2 is the independent term of the second linear function; a3 is the coefficient which accompanies the X in the linear function for the genotype BB; a3 being obtained by applying a discriminate analysis to the ratios 1 and 2 obtained from analysing Z patients for the AA, Z for BB and Z for AB; b3 is the coefficient which accompanies the Y in the linear function for the genotype BB; b3 being obtained by applying the discriminate analysis to the ratios 1 and 2 obtained from analysing Z patients for the genotype AA, Z for BB and Z for AB; c3 is the independent term of the third linear function; one probe is used for each allele, comprising probes 1 and 2 (oligo 1 and oligo 2), wherein probe 1 corresponds to allele one and probe 2 corresponds to allele two; ratio 1 is the proportion of the median of the intensities of the particles of the same type linked to oligo 1 which detects the allele one divided by the median of the intensities of the oligo 1 plus the median of the intensities of intensities of the particles of the same type linked to oligo 2 and can be calculated by the equation: .times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..ti- mes..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times.- .times..times..times..times..times..times. ##EQU00011## and ratio 2 is the proportion of the median of the intensities of the particles of the same type linked to oligo 2 which detects the allele two divided by the median of the intensities of the oligo 1 plus the median of the intensities of intensities of the particles of the same type linked to oligo 2 and can be calculated by the equation: .times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..ti- mes..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times.- .times..times..times..times..times..times. ##EQU00012## 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the particles are nanoparticles. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the particles are microparticles. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the particles are in a suspension buffer. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the genetic variations comprise single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), insertions, deletions, or gene rearrangements. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the genetic variations are associated with IBD, erythrocyte and human platelet antigens, Multiple Sclerosis, Rheumatoid Arthritis, Prostate Cancer, Osteoporosis, Familial Hypercholesterolemia, or adverse reactions to pharmaceuticals. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein amplification is carried out using the polymerase chain reaction (PCR). 8. A method according to claim 7 which comprises use of at least one pair of PCR primers selected from those in SEQ ID NOS 1457-1458. 9. The method of claim 1, further comprising fragmentation of the amplified products. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein the products are biotinylated during the PCR process by inclusion of a biotinylated nucleotide. 11. The method of claim 9 wherein the products are biotinylated following PCR and fragmentation. 12. The method of claim 1 wherein the detectable label is chosen from the group comprising a fluorescent label, a radioactive label, or a chemical label. 13. The method of claim 1 wherein the detectable label is a streptavidin-phycoerthrine conjugate. 14. The method of claim 1, further comprising extracting the nucleic acid from a biological sample obtained from an individual. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein: (a) the nucleic acid extracted from the sample is DNA or RNA; and/or (b) the method further comprises producing cDNA from extracted RNA. 16. The method of claim 1 wherein the intensity of detectable label and the type of particle is determined using a flow cytometer. 17. The method of claim 1 wherein the particles comprise particle types with different known fluorescent light absorbance intensities. 18. The method of claim 1 wherein each probe is attached to a different type of particle. 19. The method of claim 1 wherein calculating the median intensity value for each probe comprises eliminating outlying intensity values. 20. An in vitro method for genotyping genetic variations in an individual, the method comprising: (a) providing a sample containing nucleic acid which comprises the genetic variations to be genotyped (the target DNA); (b) providing, for each genetic variation to be genotyped, oligonucleotide probe pairs, wherein, (i) one probe in each pair is capable of hybridising to genetic variation A and the other probe in each pair is capable of hybridising to genetic variation B; (ii) each probe is provided in replicates; and (iii) the probe replicates are each coupled to a solid support, wherein the solid support is a particle; (c) amplifying and detectably labelling the target DNA; (d) contacting the target DNA with the probes under conditions which allow hybridization to occur, thereby forming detectably labeled nucleic acid-probe hybridization complexes; (e) determining the intensity of detectable label for each probe, thereby obtaining a raw intensity value for each particle type; (f) optionally amending the raw intensity value to take account of background noise, thereby obtaining a clean intensity value for each replica; and (g) applying an algorithm to the intensity data from (e) or (f), thereby determining the genotype with respect to each genetic variation, wherein application of the algorithm comprises calculating a raw intensity value from the intensity values for each of the replicas of each probe coupled with a particle, and wherein the algorithm comprises deriving: a first linear function: a1ratio1+b1ratio2+c1 that characterizes genotype AA; a second linear function: a2ratio1+b2ratio2+c2 that characterizes genotype AB; and a third linear function: a3ratio1+b3ratio2+c3 that characterizes genotype BB; wherein: AA represents the genotype of a homozygote subject for the allelic variant 1 (allele 1); AB represents the genotype of a heterozygote subject for the allelic variants 1 and 2 (allele 1 and allele 2); BB represents the genotype of a homozygote subject for the allelic variant 2 (allele 2); a1 is the coefficient which accompanies the X in the linear function for the genotype AA; a1 being obtained by applying a discriminate analysis to the ratios 1 and 2 obtained from analysing Z patients for the genotype AA, Z for BB and Z for AB, wherein Z is a number more than two, b1 is the coefficient which accompanies the Y in the linear function for the genotype AA; b1 being obtained by applying a discriminate analysis to the ratios 1 and 2 obtained from analysing Z patients for the genotype AA, Z for BB and Z for AB; c1 is the independent term of the first linear function; a2 is the coefficient which accompanies the X in the linear function for the genotype AB; a2 being obtained by applying a discriminate analysis to the ratios 1 and 2 obtained from analysing Z patients for the genotype AA, Z for BB and Z for AB; b2 is the coefficient which accompanies the Y in the linear function for the genotype AB; b2 being obtained by applying a discriminate analysis to the ratios 1 and 2 obtained from analysing Z patients for the genotype AA, Z for BB and Z for AB; c2 is the independent term of the second linear function; a3 is the coefficient which accompanies the X in the linear function for the genotype BB; a3 being obtained by applying a discriminate analysis to the ratios 1 and 2 obtained from analysing Z patients for the genotype AA, Z for BB and Z for AB; b3 is the coefficient which accompanies the Y in the linear function for the genotype BB; b3 being obtained by applying a discriminate analysis to the ratios 1 and 2 obtained from analysing Z patients for the genotype AA, Z for BB and Z for AB; c3 is the independent term of the third linear function; two probes are used for each allele, comprising probes 1, 2, 3 and 4, wherein probe 1 (oligo 1) corresponds to allele 1, probe 2 (oligo 2) corresponds to allele 2, probe 3(oligo 3) corresponds to allele 1, and probe 4 (oligo 4) corresponds to allele 2; ratio 1 is the proportion of the median of the intensities of the particles of the same type linked to oligo 1 which detects the allele one divided by the median of the intensities of the oligo 1 plus the median of the intensities of intensities of the particles of the same type linked to oligo 2 and can be calculated by the equation: .times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..ti- mes..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times.- .times..times..times..times..times..times. ##EQU00013## and ratio 2 is the proportion of the median of the intensities of the particles of the same type linked to oligo 3 which detects the allele one divided by the median of the intensities of the oligo 3 plus the median of the intensities of intensities of the particles of the same type linked to oligo 4 and can be calculated by the equation: .times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..ti- mes..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times.- .times..times..times..times..times..times. ##EQU00014## 21. The method of claim 1, wherein the genotyping of said allelic variants comprises: grouping the corresponding intensities data of each type of oligonucleotide coupled with a uniquely identifiable type of particle which has been used to characterize each mutation; calculating the median intensity value for each one of the 2 oligonucleotide probes using the intensities of the particles coupled with each different oligonucleotide probe in order to eliminate outliers; calculating ratios 1 and 2 for each; and determining genotype of the patient. 22. The method of claim 1, wherein Z is 10. 23. The method of claim 1, further comprising predicting a phenotype in a subject, wherein the predicting a phenotype in a subject comprises analysis of a plurality of genetic variations in order to determine a haplotype and make an allele call, and using the allele call to predict the phenotype. 24. The method of claim 23, wherein the analysis of a plurality of genetic variations further comprises software to complete the analysis. 25. The method of claim 1, wherein the particles are cylindrical microparticles encoded with a barcode, and wherein the barcode is read by a barcode scanner. 26. The method of claim 1, wherein the linear function is a Fisher linear function. 27. The method of claim 1, wherein the raw intensity value is a median intensity value. 28. The method of claim 10 wherein more than one pair of primers is used to amplify the desired sequence. 29. The method of claim 10 wherein the products are biotinylated during the PCR process by inclusion of a plurality of biotinylated nucleotides. 30. The method of claim 20, wherein the particles are nanoparticles. 31. The method of claim 20, wherein the particles are microparticles. 32. The method of claim 20, wherein the particles are in a suspension buffer. 33. The method of claim 20, wherein the genetic variations comprise single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), insertions, deletions, or gene rearrangements. 34. The method of claim 20, wherein the genetic variations are associated with IBD, erythrocyte and human platelet antigens, Multiple Sclerosis, Rheumatoid Arthritis, Prostate Cancer, Osteoporosis, Familial Hypercholesterolemia, or adverse reactions to pharmaceuticals. 35. The method of claim 20, wherein amplification is carried out using the polymerase chain reaction (PCR). 36. The method of claim 35, which comprises use of at least one pair of PCR primers selected from those in SEQ ID NOS: 1457-1458. 37. The method of claim 20, further comprising fragmentation of the amplified products. 38. The method of claim 37, wherein the products are biotinylated during the PCR process by inclusion of a biotinylated nucleotide. 39. The method of claim 37, wherein more than one pair of primers is used to amplify the desired sequence. 40. The method of claim 37, wherein the products are biotinylated during the PCR process by inclusion of a plurality of biotinylated nucleotides. 41. The method of claim 37, wherein the products are biotinylated following PCR and fragmentation. 42. The method of claim 20, wherein the detectable label is chosen from the group comprising a fluorescent label, a radioactive label, or a chemical label. 43. The method of claim 20, wherein the detectable label is a streptavidin-phycoerthrine conjugate. 44. The method of claim 20, further comprising extracting the nucleic acid from a biological sample obtained from an individual. 45. The method of claim 44, wherein: (a) the nucleic acid extracted from the sample is DNA or RNA; and/or (b) the method further comprises producing cDNA from extracted RNA. 46. The method of claim 20, wherein the intensity of detectable label and the type of particle is determined using a flow cytometer. 47. The method of claim 20, wherein the particles comprise particle types with different known fluorescent light absorbance intensities. 48. The method of claim 20, wherein each probe is attached to a different type of particle. 49. The method of claim 20, wherein calculating the median intensity value for each probe comprises eliminating outlying intensity values. 50. The method of claim 20, wherein the genotyping of said allelic variants comprises: grouping the corresponding intensities data of each type of oligonucleotide coupled with a uniquely identifiable type of particle which has been used to characterize each mutation; calculating the median intensity value for each one of the 4 oligonucleotide probes using the intensities of the particles coupled with each different oligonucleotide probe in order to eliminate outliers; calculating ratios 1 and 2 for each; and determining genotype of the patient. 51. The method of claim 20, wherein Z is 10. 52. The method of claim 20, further comprising predicting a phenotype in a subject, wherein the predicting a phenotype in a subject comprises analysis of a plurality of genetic variations in order to determine a haplotype and make an allele call, and using the allele call to predict the phenotype. 53. The method of claim 52, wherein the analysis of a plurality of genetic variations further comprises use of software to complete the analysis. 54. The method of claim 20, wherein the particles are cylindrical microparticles encoded with a barcode, and wherein the barcode is read by a barcode scanner. 55. The method of claim 20, wherein the linear function is a Fisher linear function. 56. The method of claim 20, wherein the raw intensity value is a median intensity value. 