Systems and methods are described for configuring and using displays, speakers, or other output devices positioned by an article of clothing or other such structure wearable by a healthcare recipient, for example, in a clinic or residential care facility.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system comprising: first means for transmitting at least some health-related information in a vicinity of a healthcare recipient; second means for transmitting a wireless signal containing one or more scalar values indicating a position of the healthcare recipient; wearable means for positioning the first means and the second means in relation to the healthcare recipient; and means for causing a notification to be routed to at least one of the first means for transmitting at least some health-related information in the vicinity of the healthcare recipient or the second means for transmitting a wireless signal containing one or more scalar values indicating a position of the healthcare recipient based in part upon a controllable parameter. 2. A system comprising: a positioning structure configured to be worn by a healthcare recipient; a first output device supported by the positioning structure and configured to transmit at least some health-related information in a vicinity of the healthcare recipient; a second output device supported by the positioning structure and configured to transmit a wireless signal containing one or more scalar values indicating a position of the healthcare recipient; and circuitry for causing a notification to be routed to at least one of the first output device or the second output device based in part upon a controllable parameter. 3. The system of claim 2, further comprising: a receiver supported by the positioning structure; and a stationary module operable for transmitting another signal to the receiver. 4. The system of claim 2, further comprising: circuitry for invoking at least one of the first output device, the second output device, or a third output device selected in response to a configuration parameter. 5. The system of claim 2, further comprising: circuitry for including at least some medical history data in the health-related information. 6. The system of claim 2, further comprising: circuitry for including at least some real-time data in the health-related information. 7. The system of claim 2, further comprising: circuitry for signaling at least administration of a clot-reducing agent in response to an apparent circulatory degradation. 8. The system of claim 2, further comprising: circuitry for transmitting data indicating one or more concentrations of a nutrient or medication. 9. The system of claim 2, further comprising: circuitry for detecting thermal data. 10. The system of claim 2, further comprising: circuitry for transmitting one or more swelling indications. 11. The system of claim 2, further comprising: one or more sensors adjacent a body part of the healthcare recipient. 12. The system of claim 2, further comprising: a sensor supported by the positioning structure and configured to generate sensor data; and circuitry for recognizing a pattern in the sensor data. 13. The system of claim 12, further comprising: circuitry for detecting one or more indications of normalcy in the sensor data. 14. The system of claim 12, further comprising: circuitry for indicating one or more conditional notifications responsive to: the sensor data. 15. The system of claim 12, further comprising: circuitry for obtaining a turbulence-indicative auditory value as a flow-change-indicative measurement. 16. The system of claim 12, further comprising: circuitry for performing a comparison using an updated normalcy threshold. 17. The system of claim 12, in which the positioning structure comprises: the positioning structure mechanically supporting at least a portion of the circuitry for recognizing the pattern in the sensor data. 18. The system of claim 2, in which the positioning structure comprises: clothing. 19. The system of claim 2, in which the positioning structure comprises: one or more of a cuff, a sleeve, or a wristband. 20. The system of claim 2, in which the positioning structure comprises: one or more of eyewear, an earpiece, or a headpiece. 21. The system of claim 2, in which the positioning structure comprises: the positioning structure configured to surround a portion of the healthcare recipient. 22. The system of claim 2, further comprising: a user interface operable to receive input from the healthcare recipient. 23. The system of claim 22, in which the user interface comprises: a sonic sensor. 24. The system of claim 22, in which the user interface comprises: a touchscreen. 25. The system of claim 22, in which the user interface comprises: circuitry for presenting content provided by a healthcare facility in the healthcare facility. 26. The system of claim 2, in which the first output device comprises: circuitry for transmitting one or more of a verification or a resource status indication. 27. The system of claim 2, in which the first output device comprises: circuitry for presenting other information to one or more other recipients. 28. The system of claim 2, in which the first output device comprises: circuitry for transmitting the health-related information with one or more computations of cost. 29. The system of claim 2, further comprising: circuitry for obtaining information indicating a current thermal condition in a peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient. 30. The system of claim 29 in which the circuitry for obtaining information indicating a current thermal condition in a peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient comprises: circuitry for determining that the information apparently manifests the current thermal condition in the peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient. 31. The system of claim 29 in which the circuitry for obtaining information indicating a current thermal condition in a peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient comprises: circuitry for extracting a portion of detected information as the information indicating the current thermal condition in the peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient. 32. The system of claim 29 in which the circuitry for obtaining information indicating a current thermal condition in a peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient comprises: circuitry for obtaining an optical image of the peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient of the information indicating the current thermal condition in the peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient. 33. The system of claim 29, further comprising: circuitry for signaling a decision whether to transmit a notification at least partly in response to one or more comparisons between the information indicating the current thermal condition in the peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient and information indicating a prior thermal condition in the peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient. 34. The system of claim 33 in which the circuitry for signaling a decision whether to transmit a notification at least partly in response to one or more comparisons between the information indicating the current thermal condition in the peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient and information indicating a prior thermal condition in the peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient comprises: circuitry for deciding whether to transmit the notification responsive to whether any of the one or more comparisons indicate an abnormal temperature change in the peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient. 35. The system of claim 33 in which the circuitry for signaling a decision whether to transmit a notification at least partly in response to one or more comparisons between the information indicating the current thermal condition in the peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient and information indicating a prior thermal condition in the peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient comprises: circuitry for signaling the decision by transmitting the notification to a portable interface. 36. The system of claim 33 in which the circuitry for signaling a decision whether to transmit a notification at least partly in response to one or more comparisons between the information indicating the current thermal condition in the peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient and information indicating a prior thermal condition in the peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient comprises: circuitry for signaling the decision whether to transmit the notification partly in response to auditory information from the healthcare recipient. 37. The system of claim 33 in which the circuitry for signaling a decision whether to transmit a notification at least partly in response to one or more comparisons between the information indicating the current thermal condition in the peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient and information indicating a prior thermal condition in the peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient comprises: circuitry for including auditory data with the notification. 38. The system of claim 33 in which the circuitry for signaling a decision whether to transmit a notification at least partly in response to one or more comparisons between the information indicating the current thermal condition in the peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient and information indicating a prior thermal condition in the peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient comprises: circuitry for including thermal-decrease-size-indicative information with the notification. 39. The system of claim 33 in which the circuitry for signaling a decision whether to transmit a notification at least partly in response to one or more comparisons between the information indicating the current thermal condition in the peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient and information indicating a prior thermal condition in the peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient comprises: circuitry for including spatial-size-indicative information with the notification. 