A system and method for making an imaging model and an imaging apparatus. An apparatus for image processing may include an optical element having a field of view, and image sectoring element coupled to the optical element, the image sectoring element configured to sector the field of view in a plurality of areas, and an image processor coupled to the image sectoring element, the image processor configured to process an image in accordance with the plurality of areas. Methods to make the foregoing apparatus are also described.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of modeling an image, the method comprising: providing an optical element; assigning a field of view of the optical element; sectoring the field of view in at least three sectored areas; and processing the image in accordance with the at least three sectored areas, the processing of the image comprising: performing a planar projection on a first sectored area of the at least three sectored areas, performing a planar logarithmic projection on a second sectored area of the at least three sectored areas, and performing a spherical projection on a third sectored area of the at least three sectored areas. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the processing of the image further comprises performing a spherical logarithmic projection on a fourth sectored area of the at least three sectored areas. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the processing of the image further comprises performing a log-polar projection, the performing of the log-polar projection comprising converting coordinates of at least one sectored area of the at least three sectored areas to polar coordinates. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the processing of the image renders each of the at least three sectored areas of the image to have at least one feature selected from the group consisting of: rotation-invariant, scale-invariant, and translation-invariant. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least three sectored areas are selected from the group comprising: a foveal area, a para-foveal area, a near-peripheral area, and a peripheral area. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the providing of the optical element comprises providing a lens. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the providing of the lens comprises providing one of a log-polar lens and a mirror. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the providing of the log-polar lens further comprises applying a planar projection in a central area of a field of view. 9. The method of claim 7, wherein the providing of the log-polar lens further comprises applying a spherical projection in a peripheral area of a field of view. 10. The method of claim 6, wherein the providing of the lens comprises providing a lens selected from the group consisting of a fish-eye lens, a pin hole camera lens, and a wide-angle foveated lens. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the method further comprises sensing an object in the field of view, the sensing being performed in accordance with at least one of the at least three sectored areas of the field of view. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the processing of the image further comprises: storing the image; detecting an edge in a peripheral area; transforming into a perspective coordinate; detecting a straight line by performing Hough transform; determining a boundary line; locating a gaze direction; and controlling a camera. 13. The method according to claim 1, wherein the processing of the image renders the image scale-invariant at least up to a field of view angle of 120.degree.. 14. An apparatus for processing an image, comprising: an optical element having a field of view; an image sectoring element coupled to the optical element, the image sectoring element configured to sector the field of view in at least three sectored areas; and an image processor coupled to the image sectoring element, the image processor configured to process the image in accordance with the at least three sectored areas, the processing of the image comprising: performing a planar projection on a first sectored area of the at least three sectored areas, performing a planar logarithmic projection on a second sectored area of the at least three sectored areas, and performing a spherical projection on a third sectored area of the at least three sectored areas. 15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the processing of the image further comprises performing a spherical logarithmic projection on a fourth sectored area of the at least three sectored areas. 16. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the processing of the image further comprises performing a log-polar projection, the performing of the log-polar projection comprising converting coordinates of at least one sectored area of the at least three sectored areas to polar coordinates. 17. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the processing of the image renders the image scale-invariant at least up to a field of view angle of 120.degree.. 18. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the processing of the image renders each of the at least three sectored areas of the image to have at least one feature selected from the group consisting of: rotation-invariant, scale-invariant, and translation-invariant. 19. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the at least three sectored areas are selected from the group comprising: a foveal area, a para-foveal area, a near-peripheral area, and a peripheral area. 20. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the optical element is configured to apply at least one of: a planar projection in a central area of the field of view and a spherical projection in a peripheral area of the field of view. 21. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the optical element comprises one of a fish-eye lens, a pin hole camera lens, a mirror, and a wide-angle foveated lens. 22. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the apparatus further comprises a sensor coupled to the image processor, the sensor configured to sense at least one of the at least three sectored areas of the field of view. 23. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the image processor is further configured to: store the image; detect an edge in a peripheral area; transform into a perspective coordinate; detect a straight line by performing Hough transform; determine a boundary line; locate a gaze direction; and control a camera. 24. A non-transitory computer-readable medium having computer-executable instructions for: providing an optical element; assigning a field of view of the optical element; sectoring the field of view in at least three sectored areas; and processing an image in accordance with the at least three sectored areas, the processing of the image comprising: performing a planar projection on a first sectored area of the at least three sectored areas, performing a planar logarithmic projection on a second sectored area of the at least three sectored areas, and performing a spherical projection on a third sectored area of the at least three sectored areas. 25. A method of modeling an image, the method comprising: providing an optical element; assigning a field of view of the optical element; sectoring the field of view in at least three sectored areas; and processing the image in accordance with the at least three sectored areas, the processing of the image comprising processing at least one coordinate selected from the group consisting of: a linear coordinate, a logarithmic coordinate, a planar coordinate, and a spherical coordinate; wherein the processing of the image renders the image scale-invariant at least up to a field of view angle of 120.degree. and wherein the processing of at least one of the at least three sectored areas comprises performing a planar logarithmic projection. 26. An apparatus for processing an image, comprising: an optical element having a field of view; an image sectoring element coupled to the optical element, the image sectoring element configured to sector the field of view in at least three sectored areas; and an image processor coupled to the image sectoring element, the image processor configured to process the image in accordance with the at least three sectored areas, the processing of the image comprising processing at least one coordinate selected from the group consisting of: a linear coordinate, a logarithmic coordinate, a planar coordinate, and a spherical coordinate; wherein the processing of the image renders the image scale-invariant at least up to a field of view angle of 120.degree. and wherein the processing of at least one of the at least three sectored areas comprises performing a planar logarithmic projection. 