When the position of a substrate is shifted, the substrate is made to return to an original position by enabling the position of the substrate to be controlled using an elastic piece which protrudes inside from a vertical direction part of a frame. Further, a coupling piece is provided extending in a vertical direction and having both ends thereof coupled to a horizontal direction part of the frame, and a protruding part protruding inside a substrate container is provided on the coupling piece. Then, this protruding part is configured to have an inclined face which is inclined in a direction intersecting the substrate and enabled to come into contact with the periphery of the substrate, and thereby this inclined face guides the substrate to reduce the friction of the substrate and to control the position of the substrate.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A retainer provided to a substrate container containing a plurality of substrates, for retaining the plurality of substrates aligned and supported at regular intervals with a plate thickness direction in a vertical direction, the retainer comprising: a frame having a pair of vertical direction parts each extending in the vertical direction and a pair of horizontal direction parts each extending in a horizontal direction which intersects the pair of vertical direction parts; an elastic piece protruding inside from the vertical direction part and having a holding part configured to control a position of one of the plurality of substrates; a coupling piece extending in the vertical direction and having both ends thereof coupled to the horizontal direction parts; and a plurality of protruding parts protruding inside the substrate container from the coupling piece and having an inclined face formed to be inclined in a direction intersecting the one substrate and enabled to come into contact with a periphery of the one substrate, wherein the one substrate is disposed between one of the plurality of protruding parts and another of the plurality of protruding parts, adjacent to the one substrate in the vertical direction, the inclined face comprising: a first inclined face formed on an upper end of the one of the plurality of protruding parts and configured to come into contact with the one substrate; and a second inclined face formed on a lower end of the one of the plurality of protruding parts and configured to come into contact with another of the plurality of substrates, wherein the first inclined face and the second inclined face do not contact the plurality of substrates when the plurality of substrates are in a normal state, wherein the plurality of protruding parts are provided on both sides of the one substrate in the vertical direction, and wherein the plurality of protruding parts provided on both sides of the one substrate is disposed to form a space larger than a plate thickness of the substrate in the vertical direction. 2. The retainer according to claim 1, wherein the protruding parts provided on both sides of the substrate are disposed at positions different from each other in the horizontal direction. 3. The retainer according to claim 1, further comprising: a receiving part protruding outward from the coupling piece and enabled to come into contact with a wall to which the frame is attached, for controlling movement of the coupling piece. 4. The retainer according to claim 3, wherein the receiving part is formed in a center of the coupling piece and protrudes outside the frame on the wall side. 5. A substrate container, comprising: a container main body having an opening and containing a substrate; a cover closing the opening; and the retainer according to claim 1, the retainer being attached to an inside wall of the container main body or the cover. 