A system and method for verifying the face of a user using a light mask are provided. The system includes a facial feature extraction unit for extracting a facial feature vector from a facial image received from a camera. A non-user Gaussian Mixture Model (GMM) configuration unit generates a non-user GMM from a facial image stored in a non-user database (DB). A user GMM configuration unit generates a user GMM by applying light masks to a facial image stored in a user DB. A log-likelihood value calculation unit inputs the facial feature vector both to the non-user GMM and to the user GMM, thus calculating log-likelihood values. A user verification unit compares the calculated log-likelihood values with a predetermined threshold, thus verifying whether the received facial image is a facial image of the user.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for verifying a face of a user by using a light mask, comprising: a facial feature extraction unit for extracting a facial feature vector from an entire facial area of a specific facial image; a non-user Gaussian Mixture Model (GMM) configuration unit for generating a non-user GMM from a non-user facial image of a non-user; a non-user DataBase (DB) for storing the non-user GMM; a user GMM configuration unit for generating a user GMM by applying a plurality of varying light masks to a user facial image of a user, wherein the plurality of varying light masks are applied by directing illumination on the user facial image from various directions; a user DB for storing the user GMM; a log-likelihood value calculation unit for inputting the facial feature vector both to the non-user GMM and to the user GMM, thus calculating log-likelihood values; and a user verification unit for comparing the calculated log-likelihood values with a predetermined threshold, thus verifying whether the specific facial image is a facial image of the user. 2. The system of claim 1, further comprising an image input unit for receiving the specific facial image from a camera and transmitting the specific facial image to the facial feature extraction unit. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the user GMM configuration unit comprises: a linear transformation amplification unit for performing linear transformation amplification by applying light masks to the extracted facial feature vector; an adaptation technique GMM generation unit for generating the user GMM through the non-user GMM configuration unit by using relevance adaptation. 4. A method of verifying a face of a user by using a light mask, comprising: storing a non-user Gaussian Mixture Model (GMM) in a non-user DataBase (DB) and a user GMM in a user DB, the non-user GMM generated from a non-user facial image stored in the non-user DB, the user GMM generated by applying a plurality of varying light masks to a user facial image stored in the user DB, wherein the plurality of varying light masks are applied by directing illumination on the user facial image from various directions; extracting a facial feature vector from an entire facial area of a specific facial image, without segmenting the specific facial image into a plurality of regions; calculating log-likelihood values by inputting the facial feature vector both to the non-user GMM and to the user GMM; and comparing the calculated log-likelihood values with a predetermined threshold, thus verifying whether the specific facial image is a facial image of the user. 5. The method of claim 4, further comprising receiving the specific facial image from a camera. 