Certain embodiments provide a method for crystallizing a GPCR. The method may employ a fusion protein comprising: a) a first portion of a G-protein coupled receptor (GPCR), where the first portion comprises the TM1, TM2, TM3, TM4 and TM5 regions of the GPCR; b) a stable, folded protein insertion; and c) a second portion of the GPCR, where the second portion comprises the TM6 and TM7 regions of the GPCR.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for obtaining an X-ray diffraction pattern, comprising: a) exposing a crystal of a GPCR fusion protein to a source of X-rays, wherein said GPCR fusion protein comprises, from N-terminus to C-terminus: i. a first portion of a G-protein coupled receptor (GPCR), wherein said first portion comprises TM1, TM2, TM3, TM4 and TM5 regions of said GPCR; ii. a domain comprising the amino acid sequence of a lysozyme; and iii. a second portion of said GPCR, wherein said second portion comprises TM6 and TM7 regions of said GPCR; and b) collecting an X-ray diffraction pattern for said crystal. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising resolving said X-ray diffraction pattern to provide a set of atomic coordinates for said GPCR. 3. The method of claim 2, further comprising modeling said atomic coordinates to provide a structural model of said GPCR. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said domain comprises an amino acid sequence having at least 80% identity to the amino acid sequence of a wild-type lysozyme. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said domain comprises an amino acid sequence having at least 95% identity to a wild-type lysozyme. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein said domain comprises an amino acid sequence that is at least 95% identical to the amino acid sequence of T4 lysozyme. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein said first and second portions of said GPCR comprise the amino acid sequence of a naturally occurring GPCR. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein said first and second portions of said GPCR comprise the amino acid sequence of a non-naturally occurring GPCR. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the amino acid sequence of said first and second portions of said GPCR are least 80% identical to amino acid sequences of a wild type GPCR. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein said a GPCR is selected from the group consisting of: a receptor for a biogenic amine, a dopamine receptor, a seratonin receptor, an adrenergic receptor, a.beta.2-adrenergic receptor, a melanocortin receptor subtype 4, a ghrelin receptor, a metabotropic glutamate receptor and a chemokine receptor. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein said domain is in the range of from 100 to 200 amino acids in length. 12. A method for obtaining an X-ray diffraction pattern, comprising: a) exposing a crystal of an polypeptide to a source of X-rays, wherein said polypeptide comprises, from N-terminus to C-terminus: i. a first portion of a G-protein coupled receptor (GPCR), wherein said first portion comprises the amino acid sequence that is N-terminal to the 1C3 loop of said GPCR; ii. a domain comprising the amino acid sequence of a lysozyme; and iii. a second portion of said GPCR, wherein said second portion comprises the amino acid sequence that is C-terminal to the IC3 loop of said GPCR; and b) collecting an X-ray diffraction pattern for said crystal. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein said domain spaces the C-terminal end of the first portion of said GPCR and the N-terminal end of the second portion of said GPCR so that the closest alpha carbon atoms at said C-terminal end and said N-terminal end are spaced by a distance of in the range of 6 .ANG. to 16 .ANG.. 14. The method of claim 12, wherein the amino acid sequence of said first and second portions of said GPCR are least 80% identical to amino acid sequences of a wild type GPCR. 15. The method of claim 12, wherein said domain comprises an amino acid sequence having at least 80% identity to the amino acid sequence of a wild-type lysozyme. 16. A method for obtaining an X-ray diffraction pattern, comprising: a) exposing a crystal of a GPCR to X-rays, wherein said GPCR comprises an IC3 loop containing a substitution that comprises the amino acid sequence of a lysozyme; and, b) collecting an X-ray diffraction pattern for said crystal. 