A torsion spring comprises an inner mounting segment. An outer mounting segment is located concentrically around the inner mounting segment. A plurality of splines extends from the inner mounting segment to the outer mounting segment. At least a portion of each spline extends generally annularly around the inner mounting segment.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A torsion spring comprising: an inner mounting segment; an outer mounting segment located concentrically around the inner mounting segment; a plurality of splines extending from the inner mounting segment to the outer mounting segment, wherein at least a portion of each spline extends partially annularly around the inner mounting segment; and a plurality of tabs, each respectively protruding radially outward from a center portion of one of the plurality of splines, wherein the center portion extends in a partially annular direction around the inner mounting segment, wherein the plurality of tabs contact the outer mounting segment after a predetermined amount of relative movement between the inner mounting segment and the outer mounting segment. 2. The torsion spring of claim 1, wherein each of the splines further comprises: a first portion extending radially inward toward the inner mounting segment; a second portion extending radially outward toward the outer mounting segment; and wherein the center portion is located between the first portion and the second portion. 3. The torsion spring of claim 1, further comprising a plurality of notches formed by the outer mounting segment, wherein the plurality of tabs each contact the plurality of notches respectively after a predetermined amount of relative movement between the inner mounting segment and the outer mounting segment. 4. The torsion spring of claim 3, wherein the relative movement between the inner mounting segment and the outer mounting segment is in one of the clockwise and the counter-clockwise direction. 5. The torsion spring of claim 1, wherein at least one of a spline width, spring width, spring thickness, and number of splines determine a spring rate for the torsion spring and maximum load capacity for the torsion spring. 6. A robot arm comprising: a robot joint having at least one drive component; an output link mounted to the robot joint; a torsion spring located between the at least one drive component and the output link, wherein the torsion spring includes; an inner mounting segment connected to the at least one drive component; an outer mounting segment located concentrically around the inner mounting segment, wherein the outer mounting segment is connected to the output link; a plurality of splines extending from the inner mounting segment to the outer mounting segment, wherein at least a portion of each spline extends partially annularly around the inner mounting segment; and a plurality of tabs, each respectively protruding radially outward from a center portion of one of the plurality of splines, wherein the center portion extends in a partially annular direction around the inner mounting segment, wherein the plurality of tabs contact the outer mounting segment after a predetermined amount of relative movement between the inner mounting segment and the outer mounting segment. 7. The robot arm of claim 6, wherein each of the splines further comprises: a first portion extending radially inward toward the inner mounting segment; a second portion extending radially outward toward the outer mounting segment; and wherein the center portion is located between the first portion and the second portion. 8. The robot arm of claim 6, further comprising a plurality of notches formed by the outer mounting segment, wherein the plurality of tabs each contact the plurality of notches respectively after a predetermined amount of relative movement between the inner mounting segment and the outer mounting segment. 9. The robot arm of claim 8, wherein the relative movement between the inner mounting segment and the outer mounting segment is in one of the clockwise and the counter-clockwise direction. 10. The robot arm of claim 6, wherein at least one of a spline width, spring width, spring thickness, and number of splines determine a spring rate for the torsion spring and maximum load capacity for the torsion spring. 