Electrode arrays and systems for inserting same are disclosed. In some embodiments, electrode arrays are provided, the electrode arrays comprising: a passive-bending portion; an active-bending portion coupled to the passive bending portion; a plurality of electrodes located in at least one of the passive-bending portion and the active bending portion; and an actuator that causes the active-bending portion to deflect from the passive-bending portion. In some embodiments, systems for inserting an electrode array in the body are provided, the systems comprising: an insertion module for controllably inserting the electrode array in the body and sensing forces applied to the electrode array; a monitor for providing information to a user; and a controller coupled to the insertion module and the monitor, wherein the controller causes the insertion module to control an amount of force that is applied to the electrode array.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for implanting a steerable array having an active-bending portion that includes an actuation thread into an inner ear of a patient, the system comprising: an insertion module including: a first end for holding a proximal end of the steerable array, a force sensor configured to detect force on the steerable array and to produce force information, and a position sensor configured to detect a position of the steerable array and to produce position information, the position information including an insertion depth; a bending actuator configured to implant the steerable array into the inner ear by applying tension to the actuation thread to bend the active-bending portion of the steerable array, wherein the steerable array is configured to be implanted in a manner in which the implanted steerable array is left within the inner ear when the implanting is complete; a controller in communication with the insertion module and bending actuator, the controller programmed to control the bending actuator to bend the active-bending portion of the steerable array based on: (a) a path plan determined from a model of the inner ear and (b) the position information including the insertion depth; and a first interface for communicating the force information and the position information to the controller, wherein the controller is in communication with the first interface and programmed to output the force information and the position information. 2. The system of claim 1, further comprising a force actuator configured to apply a determined force to the steerable array. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein the determined force is adapted to counteract an external force applied to the insertion module. 4. The system of claim 3, wherein the determined force is adapted to counter tremor in a hand holding the insertion module. 5. The system of claim 2, wherein the force actuator is configured to vibrates the steerable array. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein the path plan determined from the model of the inner ear is based on a three-dimensional extension of a two-dimensional template of the inner ear. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the insertion module is mounted on a robotic device. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein the insertion module is a handheld device. 9. The system of claim 1, further comprising a monitor in communication with the controller that is configured to display the force information in relation to the position information. 10. The system of claim 1, further comprising a second interface in communication with the controller configured to receive input, from an input device, for moving the steerable array substantially in an insertion direction in the inner ear, the controller further programmed to control the insertion module based on the input from the input device. 11. The system of claim 10, wherein the controller is further programmed to control movement of the insertion module in directions other than the insertion direction that are adopted based on computations done by the controller. 12. The system of claim 1, wherein the controller is further programmed to control an orientation of insertion based on the path plan and the position information. 13. The system of claim 10, wherein the second interface is further configured to send a force feedback signal to the input device to provide force feedback to a user, the controller further programmed to send the force feedback signal to the second interface based at least in part on the force information. 14. The system of claim 1, wherein the controller is further programmed to control an insertion speed of the steerable array based on the force information. 15. The system of claim 10, wherein the controller is further programmed to control the insertion module to move the steerable array substantially in the insertion direction in the inner ear based on the force information. 16. The system of claim 10, wherein the controller is further programmed to control the insertion module based on the force information. 17. The system of claim 1, further comprising a memory in communication with the controller, wherein the memory is configured to store the path plan. 18. A system for implanting a steerable array into an inner ear of a patient, the system comprising: a steerable array having an active-bending portion, wherein the active-bending portion includes an actuation thread and is configured to bend when tension is applied to the actuation thread; an insertion module including: a first end for holding a proximal end of the steerable array, a force sensor configured to detect force on the steerable array and to produce force information, and a position sensor configured to detect a position of the steerable array and to produce position information, the position information including an insertion depth; a bending actuator configured to implant the steerable array into an inner ear by applying tension to the actuation thread to bend the active-bending portion of the steerable array, wherein the steerable array is configured to be implanted in manner in which the implanted steerable array is left within the inner ear when the implanting is complete; a controller in communication with the insertion module and bending actuator, the controller programmed to control the bending actuator to bend the active-bending portion of the steerable array based on: (a) a path plan determined from a model of the inner ear, and (b) the position information including the insertion depth; and a first interface for communicating the force information and the position information to the controller, wherein the controller is in communication with the first interface and programmed to output the force information and the position information. 19. The system of claim 18, further comprising a force actuator configured to apply a determined force to the steerable array. 20. The system of claim 19, wherein the force actuator is configured to vibrates the steerable array. 21. The system of claim 18, wherein the path plan determined from the model of the inner ear is based on a three-dimensional extension of a two-dimensional template of the inner ear. 22. The system of claim 18, further comprising a monitor in communication with the controller that displays the force information in relation to the position information. 23. The system of claim 18, further comprising a second interface in communication with the controller configured to receive input, from an input device, for moving the steerable array substantially in an insertion direction in the inner ear, the controller further programmed to control the insertion module based on the input from the input device. 