Methods for surface texturing a crystalline silicon substrate are provided. In one embodiment, the method includes providing a crystalline silicon substrate, wetting the substrate with an alkaline solution comprising a wetting agent, and forming a textured surface with a structure having a depth about 1 .mu.m to about 10 .mu.m on the substrate. In another embodiment, a method of performing a substrate texture process includes providing crystalline silicon substrate, pre-cleaning the substrate in a HF aqueous solution, wetting the substrate with a KOH aqueous solution comprising polyethylene glycol (PEG) compound, and forming a textured surface with a structure having a depth about 3 .mu.m to about 8 .mu.m on the substrate.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of roughening a surface of solar cell substrate, comprising: roughening a surface of a crystalline silicon substrate by immersing the crystalline silicon substrate for a period of time in an alkaline solution comprising a surface modification additive comprising an etching additive that comprises a phenol or a derivative thereof, wherein the formed roughness has an average depth between about 1 .mu.m to about 10 .mu.m. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the surface modification additive further comprises a wetting agent that comprises a polyether or a non-ionic surfactant. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the surface modification additive comprises: a wetting agent, wherein the wetting agent comprises polyethylene glycol (PEG), sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS), polypropylene glycol (PPG), or copolymer of polyethylene glycol (PEG) and polypropylene glycol (PPG); and the phenol comprises poly (4-vinylphenol) (PVP), brominated poly (4-vinyl phenol), polystyrine sulphonic acid (PSSA), Joncryl.RTM. polymers, phenol, ortho-cresol, meta-cresol, para-cresol, or poly(cresol). 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the surface modification additive comprises polyethylene glycol that has a molecular weight between about 200 and about 35,000. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the alkaline solution is an aqueous solution comprising potassium hydroxide that is at a concentration between about 1 weight percent and about 30 weight percent in water and is maintained at a temperature between about 65 degrees Celsius and about 95 degrees Celsius. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the surface modification additive has a concentration between about 20 ppm and about 20,000 ppm in the alkaline solution. 7. The method of claim 1 further comprising: pre-cleaning the substrate in a first pre-clean solution comprising hydrofluoric acid; and rinsing the substrate to remove the first pre-clean solution prior to forming the texture on the surface. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the first pre-clean solution further comprises nitric acid. 9. The method of claim 7, wherein the concentration of hydrofluoric acid is between about 0.1 weight percent and about 4 weight percent in a deionized water. 10. The method of claim 1, further comprising: performing a post-cleaning process on the textured surface of the crystalline silicon substrate, comprising: immersing the textured surface in a solution comprising ozone and water, wherein the concentration of ozone is between about 1 ppm to about 30 ppm in the water; and then immersing the textured surface in a acidic solution comprising hydrofluoric acid. 11. The method of claim 10, further comprising sequentially performing the post-cleaning process at least twice. 12. The method of claim 1, further comprising: depositing one or more silicon containing layers over the textured surface. 13. The method of claim 7, further comprising: immersing the substrate in a second pre-clean solution comprising 20% by weight potassium hydroxide. 14. The method of claim 1, further comprising measuring the average depth of the formed texture at least once during the process of forming the texture on the surface and adjusting the period time based on the measured average depth. 15. A method of roughening a surface of solar cell substrate, comprising: immersing a crystalline silicon substrate in a first pre-clean solution comprising hydrofluoric acid; forming a texture on a surface of a crystalline silicon substrate by immersing the crystalline silicon substrate in an alkaline solution comprising a surface modification additive; measuring the average depth of the formed texture on the surface; immersing the textured surface in a first solution comprising ozone and water; and immersing the textured surface of the substrate in a post-clean solution comprising hydrofluoric acid and hydrochloric acid. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the textured surface is immersed in the first solution before immersing the textured surface of the substrate in the post-clean solution, the concentration of ozone in the first solution being about 1 ppm to about 30 ppm. 17. The method of claim 15, wherein the surface modification additive is selected from a group consisting of polyethylene glycol and poly(4-vinylphenol). 18. The method of claim 15, wherein the alkaline solution is an aqueous solution comprising potassium hydroxide that is at a concentration between about 1 weight percent and about 30 weight percent in water and is maintained at a temperature between about 65 degrees Celsius and about 95 degrees Celsius. 19. A method of performing a substrate texturing process, comprising: pre-cleaning an n-type crystalline silicon substrate in a solution comprising hydrofluoric acid; wetting the n-type crystalline silicon substrate with an etching solution comprising an alkaline solution comprising a poly (4-vinyl phenol) or derivatives thereof, in a concentration of between about 50 and about 4,000 ppm for a period of time to form a texture on a surface of the n-type crystalline silicon substrate, wherein the average depth of the formed texture is between about 3 .mu.m to about 8 .mu.m; and immersing the textured surface of the substrate in a post-clean solution comprising hydrofluoric acid and hydrochloric acid. 20. The method of claim 19, further comprising measuring the average depth of the formed texture at least once during the process of forming the texture on the surface and adjusting the period time based on the measured average depth. 21. The method of claim 19, further comprising: (a) immersing the textured surface in a first solution comprising ozone and water before immersing the textured surface of the substrate in a post-clean solution, wherein the concentration of ozone in the first solution is between about 1 ppm to about 30 ppm; (b) immersing the textured surface in the post-clean solution; and (c) repeating steps (a) and (b) at least two times. 22. The method of claim 19, further comprising: immersing the textured surface in a texture etch smoothing solution comprising hydrofluoric acid and an oxidizing solution before immersing the textured surface of the substrate in a post-clean solution. 23. A method of roughening a surface of solar cell substrate, comprising: roughening a surface of a crystalline silicon substrate by immersing the crystalline silicon substrate for a period of time in an alkaline solution comprising a surface modification additive, wherein the surface modification additive comprises a polycresol or derivatives thereof, and potassium hydroxide, sodium hydroxide, aqueous ammonia or tetramethylammonium hydroxide. 24. The method of claim 23, wherein the alkaline solution further comprises an isopropyl alcohol free aqueous solution. 25. The method of claim 23, wherein the surface modification additive comprises polyethylene glycol (PEG), sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS), polypropylene glycol (PPG), or copolymer of polyethylene glycol (PEG) and polypropylene glycol (PPG). 26. The method of claim 23, wherein the surface modification additive comprises polyethylene glycol that has a molecular weight between about 200 and about 35,000. 27. The method of claim 23, wherein the alkaline solution is an aqueous solution comprising potassium hydroxide that is at a concentration between about 1 weight percent and about 30 weight percent in water and is maintained at a temperature between about 65 degrees Celsius and about 95 degrees Celsius. 28. The method of claim 23, wherein the surface modification additive has a concentration between about 20 ppm and about 20,000 ppm in the alkaline solution. 29. The method of claim 23 further comprising: pre-cleaning the substrate in a first pre-clean solution comprising hydrofluoric acid; and rinsing the substrate to remove the first pre-clean solution prior to forming the texture on the surface. 30. The method of claim 29, wherein the first pre-clean solution further comprises nitric acid. 31. The method of claim 15, wherein immersion of the textured surface in the first solution and immersion of the textured surface in the post-clean solution is performed at least two times. 