A system and method for making an image processor. A system for processing an image may include a target image processing element, a distorted image calculating element coupled to the target image processing element, an eccentricity estimator coupled to the distorted image calculating element, an eccentricity compensator coupled to the distorted image calculating element, a distorted foveated image modeler coupled to the eccentricity compensator, a log-polar image generator coupled to the eccentricity compensator, and an unreliable feature omitter coupled to the eccentricity compensator. Methods to make the foregoing system are also described.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of processing an image, the method comprising: providing a target image in Cartesian coordinates; generating a mapped target image by mapping the target image to foveation coordinates according a foveation model; generating a foveated image by processing pixel values of the mapped target image; generating a mapped foveated image by mapping the foveated image to compensated-log-polar coordinates; and generating a compensated log-polar image by processing pixel values of the mapped foveated image; wherein the origin of the Cartesian coordinates is mapped to the origin of the foveation coordinates; the center of the target image is .epsilon. units away from the origin of the Cartesian coordinates; and the processing of the pixel values of the mapped target image and the processing of the pixel values of the mapped foveated image reduce distortion attributed to .epsilon.. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the generating of the mapped target image comprises sectoring a field of view in a plurality of areas. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the sectoring the field of view in the plurality of areas further comprises sectoring the field of view at least in an area selected from the group comprising: a foveal area, a para-foveal area, a near-peripheral area, and a peripheral area. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the generating of the mapped foveated image includes calculating at least one discrete coordinate. 5. The method of claim 1 further comprising omitting an unreliable feature. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the generating of the mapped foveated image by mapping the foveated image to compensated-log-polar coordinates comprises estimating a root mean square error. 7. The method of claim 5, wherein the omitting of the unreliable feature comprises generating a discrete wavelet transform. 8. The method of claim 5, wherein the omitting of the unreliable feature includes generating a threshold based on at least one quantity selected from the group comprising: a parameter regulating an accuracy of a digitized error, and an integer representing a resolution level. 9. The method of claim 5, wherein the omitting of the unreliable feature comprises generating an inverse discrete wavelet transform. 10. The method of claim 5, wherein the omitting of the unreliable feature comprises applying a Fourier-Mellin transform. 11. A system for processing an image, comprising: a target image processing element configured to process a target image in Cartesian coordinates; a mapped target image generating element configured to generate a mapped target image by mapping the target image to foveation coordinates according a foveation model, coupled to the target image processing element; a foveated image generating element configured to process pixel values of the mapped target image, coupled to the mapped target image generating element; a mapped foveated image generating element configured to map the foveated image to compensated-log-polar coordinates, coupled to the foveated image generating element; and a compensated log-polar image generating element configured to process pixel values of the mapped foveated image, coupled to the mapped foveated image generating element; wherein: the origin of the Cartesian coordinates is mapped to the origin of the foveation coordinates; the center of the target image is .epsilon. units away from the origin of the Cartesian coordinates; and the processing of the pixel values of the mapped target image and the processing of the pixel values of the mapped foveated image reduce distortion attributed to .epsilon.. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein the mapped target image generating element is configured to sector a field of view in a plurality of areas. 13. The system of claim 12, wherein one of the plurality of areas is selected from the group comprising: a foveal area, a para-foveal area, a near-peripheral area, and a peripheral area. 14. The system of claim 11, wherein the mapped foveated image generating element is configured to calculate at least one discrete coordinate. 15. The system of claim 11, further comprising an unreliable feature omitter coupled to the compensated log-polar image generating element. 16. The system of claim 11, wherein the mapped foveated image generating element is further configured to estimate a root mean square error estimation. 17. The system of claim 15, wherein the unreliable feature omitter is configured to generate a discrete wavelet transform. 18. The system of claim 15, wherein the unreliable feature omitter is configured to generate a threshold based on at least one quantity selected from the group consisting of: a parameter regulating an accuracy of a digitized error, and an integer representing a resolution level. 19. The system of claim 15, wherein the unreliable feature omitter is configured to generate an inverse discrete wavelet transform. 20. The system of claim 15, wherein the unreliable feature omitter is configured to apply a Fourier-Mellin transform. 21. A non-transitory computer-readable medium having computer-executable instructions for: providing a target image in Cartesian coordinates generating a mapped target image by mapping the target image to foveation coordinates according a foveation model; generating a foveated image by processing pixel values of the mapped target image; generating a mapped foveated image by mapping the foveated image to compensated-log-polar coordinates; and generating a compensated log-polar image by processing pixel values of the mapped foveated image; wherein the origin of the Cartesian coordinates is mapped to the origin of the foveation coordinates; the center of the target image is .epsilon. units away from the origin of the Cartesian coordinates; and the processing of the pixel values of the mapped target image and the processing of the pixel values of the mapped foveated image reduce distortion attributed to .epsilon.. 