A method of supplying disk drives to a disk drive testing system includes placing a disk drive tote, carrying multiple disk drives, in a presentation position accessible to an automated transporter of the disk drive testing system. The method includes actuating the automated transporter to retrieve one of the disk drives from the disk drive tote, and actuating the automated transporter to deliver the retrieved disk drive to a test slot of the disk drive testing system and insert the disk drive in the test slot.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A transfer station for a disk drive testing system, the transfer station comprising: a transfer station housing; multiple tote presentation support systems disposed on the transfer station housing, wherein one or more tote presentation support systems are configured to receive and to support a disk drive tote in a presentation position for servicing by the disk drive testing system; a tote mover disposed on the transfer station housing; and a tote loading support pivotally coupled to the tote mover and configured to receive and support a disk drive tote, the tote loading support configured to pivot and to move between first and second positions; wherein the tote mover is configured to move the tote loading support between the first position, for supporting a disk drive tote in a loading position, and the second position, for supporting a disk drive tote in the presentation position at one of the tote presentation support systems, wherein the first position of the tote loading support is substantially horizontal and the second position of the tote loading support is substantially vertical. 2. The transfer station of claim 1, wherein the tote mover comprises a multi-axis actuator assembly. 3. The transfer station of claim 1, further comprising a staging platform disposed on the transfer station housing and configured to receive a disk drive tote transferred from the tote loading support. 4. The transfer station of claim 3, wherein the staging platform is disposed on an opposite side of the transfer station housing of at least one of the tote presentation support systems. 5. The transfer station of claim 3, further comprising a door pivotally attached to the transfer station housing and configured to provide a closure over the staging platform while in a closed position. 6. The transfer station of claim 1, further comprising a door pivotally attached to the transfer station housing and configured to provide closure of a tote supply opening defined by the transfer station housing, the door being operable to pivot between an open position, for receiving and supporting a disk drive tote, and a closed position, for placing the disk drive tote in the loading position. 7. The transfer station of claim 1, wherein the one or more tote presentation support systems are disposed on the same side of the transfer station housing and arranged vertically with respect to each other, the one or more tote presentation support systems having a different elevation with respect to the others. 8. The transfer station of claim 1, wherein the one or more tote presentation support system comprise first and second opposing pairs of tote support arms configured to be received by respective arm grooves defined by a tote body of a disk drive tote. 9. The transfer station of claim 1, wherein the disk drive tote comprises a tote body defining multiple disk drive receptacles configured to each house a disk drive. 10. A disk drive testing system comprising: an automated transporter; multiple racks arranged around the automated transporter for access by the automated transporter; multiple test slots housed by each rack, each test slot being configured to receive a disk drive for testing; and a transfer station arranged for access by the automated transporter, the transfer station comprising: a transfer station housing; multiple tote presentation support systems disposed on the transfer station housing, wherein one or more tote presentation support systems are configured to receive and to support a disk drive tote in a presentation position for servicing by the disk drive testing system; and a tote mover disposed on the transfer station housing and configured to move a disk drive tote between a loading position and the presentation position at one of the tote presentation support systems, wherein the tote mover comprises: a first linear actuator disposed on a side wall of the transfer station housing; a lift carriage coupled to the first linear actuator; a second linear actuator disposed on the lift carriage and pivotally coupled to a tote loading support; and a third linear actuator pivotally coupled to both the second linear actuator and the tote loading support, the third linear actuator operable to rotate the tote loading support. 11. The disk drive testing system of claim 10, wherein the tote presentation support system comprises first and second opposing pairs of tote support arms configured to be received by respective arm grooves defined by a tote body of a disk drive tote. 12. A transfer station for a disk drive testing system, the transfer station comprising: a transfer station housing; multiple tote presentation support systems disposed on the transfer station housing, wherein one or more tote presentation support systems are configured to receive and to support a disk drive tote in a presentation position for servicing by the disk drive testing system; a tote mover disposed on the transfer station housing; and a tote loading support pivotally coupled to the tote mover and configured to receive and to support a disk drive tote, the tote loading support configured to pivot and to move between first and second positions; wherein the tote mover is configured to move the tote loading support between the first position, for supporting a disk drive tote in a loading position, and the second position, for supporting a disk drive tote in the presentation position at one of the tote presentation support systems, wherein the disk drive tote comprises a tote body defining multiple disk drive receptacles configured to each house a disk drive. 13. The transfer station of claim 12, wherein the tote mover comprises a multi-axis actuator assembly. 14. The transfer station of claim 12, wherein the first position of the tote loading support is substantially horizontal and the second position of the tote loading support is substantially vertical. 15. The transfer station of claim 12, further comprising a staging platform disposed on the transfer station housing and configured to receive a disk drive tote transferred from the tote loading support. 16. The transfer station of claim 15, wherein the staging platform is disposed on an opposite side of the transfer station housing of at least one of the tote presentation support systems. 17. The transfer station of claim 15, further comprising a door pivotally attached to the transfer station housing and configured to provide a closure over the staging platform while in a closed position. 18. The transfer station of claim 12, further comprising a door pivotally attached to the transfer station housing and configured to provide closure of a tote supply opening defined by the transfer station housing, the door being operable to pivot between an open position, for receiving and supporting a disk drive tote, and a closed position, for placing the disk drive tote in the loading position. 19. The transfer station of claim 12, wherein the one or more tote presentation support systems are disposed on the same side of the transfer station housing and arranged vertically with respect to each other, the one or more tote presentation support systems having a different elevation with respect to the others. 20. The transfer station of claim 12, wherein the one or more tote presentation support systems comprise first and second opposing pairs of tote support arms configured to be received by respective arm grooves defined by a tote body of a disk drive tote. 