A control system for a water amusement system is described. The control system is configured to operate the water amusement system to produce water effects, sound effects, and/or light effects when the control system receives an activation signal. The activation signal may be sent to the control system by an activation point, such as an optical touch button, or a water target. The control system is further configured to produce water effects, sound effects, and/or light effects in the absence of an activation signal to attract participants to the water amusement system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of operating a water system configured to produce a water effect, comprising: applying at least one participant signal to an activation point, wherein the activation point comprises an optical touch button; producing at least one activation signal in response to the at least one participant signal; sending the at least one activation signal to a control system; producing at least one water system control signal in the control system in response to the at least one received activation signal; sending the at least one water system control signal from the control system to the water system, wherein the water system produces a water effect in response to the at least one water system control signal; producing at least one water system control signal in the control system in the absence of an activation signal; and sending the water system control signal produced in the absence of an activation signal from the control system to the water system to produce a water effect; wherein producing the water system control signal in the control system in the absence of an activation signal comprises producing the water system control signal when an activation signal is not received for a predetermined amount of time. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the water system comprises a water effect generator, a conduit for carrying water to the water effect generator, and a flow control device disposed in the conduit, the flow control device configured to control the flow of water through the conduit, and further comprising operating the flow control device in response to the water system control signals generated by the control system. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: producing an indicator control signal from the control system; sending the indicator control signal to an indicator, wherein the indicator is coupled to the control system and positioned proximate to the activation point, sending an indication to a participant to apply a participant signal with the indicator in response to the received indictor control signal. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the water system comprises a plurality of activation points for detecting participant signals during use, wherein at least one of the additional activation points comprises an optical touch button, and wherein the water system is configured to produce a plurality of water effects; and the method further comprises: producing different water system control signals in response to activation signals received from different activation points; sending the different water control system signals to the water system, wherein the water system is configured to produce different water effects in response to different water system control system signals. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the water system comprises a participant detection system coupled to the control system; and the method further comprises: detecting the presence of a participant proximate to the water system with the participant detection system; generating a detection signal in response to the presence of a participant proximate to the water system, and producing water system control signals in response to the detection signal. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the water system comprises a participant detection system coupled to the control system; and the method further comprises: detecting the presence of a participant proximate to the water system with the participant detection system; generating a detection signal in response to the presence of a participant proximate to the water system, producing water system control signals in response to a detection signal; and inhibiting the generation of water system control signals in the absence of a detection signal. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the control system comprises a programmable logic controller. 8. A method of operating an water amusement device, the water amusement device comprising a water system configured to produce a water effect and a sound system configured to produce a sound effect, comprising: applying one or more participant signals to an activation point, wherein the activation point comprises an optical touch button; producing an activation signal in response to the applied participant signal; wherein the water system produces the water effect in response to the activation signal; and wherein the sound system produces the sound effect in response to the activation signal; wherein the water amusement device further comprises a control system coupled to the water system and the sound system; and a participant detection system coupled to the control system, the method further comprising: detecting the presence of a participant proximate to the water system with the participant detection system; generating a detection signal in response to the presence of the participant proximate to the water system, and producing water system control signal and the sound system control signal in response to the detection signal. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the water amusement device further comprises a control system coupled to the activation point, the water system and the sound system. 10. The method of claim 8, wherein the water amusement device further comprises a control system coupled to the activation point, the water system and the sound system; the method further comprising producing a water system control signal and a sound system control signal in the control system in the absence of an activation signal; sending the water system control signal produced in the absence of an activation signal from the control system to the water system to produce a water effect; sending the sound system control signal produced in the absence of an activation signal from the control system to the sound system to produce a sound effect. 11. The method of claim 8, wherein the water amusement device further comprises a control system coupled to the activation point, the water system and the sound system; the method further comprising: producing an indicator control signal from the control system; sending the indicator control signal to an indicator, wherein the indicator is coupled to the control system and positioned proximate to the activation point, sending an indication to a participant to apply a participant signal with the indicator in response to the received indictor control signal. 