A method of conferring interactivity on a pre-printed image containing text. The method comprises the steps of: (i) receiving association data indicating an association between an impression identity, absolute positions and a scanned image; (ii) performing Optical Character Recognition on the scanned image to convert text images into computer text; (iii) generating an input description for the scanned image; and (iv) storing a page description comprising the input description and the scanned image. The page description is indexed with the impression identity and, further, the page description is retrievable so as to confer interactivity on the image.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of conferring interactivity on a pre-printed image containing text, said method comprising the steps of: (i) printing a position-coding pattern onto the pre-printed image, said position-coding pattern identifying a plurality of absolute positions and an impression identity for the image; (ii) scanning the pre-printed image simultaneously with printing the position-coding pattern in step (i); (iii) receiving, in a computer system, association data indicating an association between the impression identity, the plurality of absolute positions and the scanned image; (iv) performing Optical Character Recognition (OCR) on the scanned image to convert text images into computer text; (v) generating an input description for said scanned image, said input description describing words of computer text and zones of corresponding text images in the scanned image; and (vi) storing a page description comprising said input description and said scanned image, said page description being indexed with said impression identity, wherein said page description is retrievable so as to confer interactivity on the image, and wherein the impression identity is initially unassociated with the pre-printed image. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the zone of the text image is explicitly described with reference to coordinate positions. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the zones of text images are inferred, using the computer text, from one or more of: lengths of words, point size, and positions of the words in the computer text. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising the steps of: (v) receiving interaction data from an optically imaging sensing device interacting with a portion of text contained in the pre-printed image, said interaction data identifying the impression identity and a position of the sensing device; and (vi) retrieving the page description using the impression identity. 5. The method of claim 4 further comprising the step of: identifying a search query using said retrieved page description and the position of the sensing device, said search query including one or more keywords contained in said portion of text; generating a request URI using said search query; and sending the request URI, or search results obtained using the request URI, to a user. 6. The method of claim 4, further comprising the step of: identifying computer text corresponding to said portion of text using the page description and the position of the sensing device; and copying the identified computer text to a clipboard. 7. The method of claim 6, further comprising the step of: pasting contents of the clipboard to an application. 8. A method of conferring interactivity on a pre-printed image containing text, said method comprising the steps of: (i) printing a position-coding pattern onto the pre-printed image, said position-coding pattern identifying a plurality of absolute positions and an impression identity for the image; (ii) scanning the pre-printed image simultaneously with printing the position-coding pattern in step (i); (iii) receiving, in a computer system, association data indicating an association between the impression identity, the plurality of absolute positions and the scanned image; (iv) receiving interaction data from an optically imaging sensing device interacting with a portion of text contained in the pre-printed image, said interaction data identifying the impression identity and a position of the sensing device; (v) performing Optical Character Recognition (OCR) on at least a portion of the scanned image to convert text images into computer text; and (vi) identifying one or more words of computer text contained in the portion of the scanned image, wherein the impression identity is initially unassociated with the pre-printed image. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein said one or more words of computer text are used to initiate at least one of: a search, copying to a clipboard, and pasting to an application. 