The joint mechanism includes a first link, a second link, a third link, a shaft supported on the second link to be rotatable about an axis thereof, and movable in an axis direction thereof, a first worm and a second worm mounted on the shaft, a first worm wheel in mesh with the first worm to pivotally move the first link with respect to the second link, and a second worm wheel in mesh with the second worm to pivotally move the third link with respect to the second link. The first link and the third link are pivotally moved in opposite directions to each other by rotating the shaft, and pivotally moved in identical directions to each other by moving the shaft in the axis direction.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A joint mechanism, comprising: a first link; a second link pivotally linked to the first link; a third link pivotally linked to the second link; a connecting member supported on the second link, the connecting member being constituted by an integrally formed shaft; a first worm and a second worm coupled to each other by the connecting member, each of the first worm and the second worm having a respective axis, each of the first worm and the second worm being rotatable about its respective axis, and each of the first worm and the second worm being movable in a direction along its respective axis; a first worm wheel in mesh with the first worm to pivotally move the first link with respect to the second link; and a second worm wheel in mesh with the second worm to pivotally move the third link with respect to the second link, wherein the joint mechanism satisfies a relation: dA.times.dB.gtoreq.0 by rotation of the first worm and the second worm, and the joint mechanism satisfies a relation: dA.times.dB.ltoreq.0 by movement of the first worm and the second worm in the direction along said respective axis, where A is an angle defined by the first link and the second link, B is an angle defined by the second link and the third link, dA is a change amount of the angle A, and dB is a change amount of the angle B. 2. The joint mechanism according to claim 1, wherein the first worm and the second worm have helical grooves in opposite directions to each other. 3. The joint mechanism according to claim , further comprising a motor, fixed to the second link, for rotating the connecting member. 4. The joint mechanism according to claim 1, further comprising a centering portion for restoring the connecting member to a predetermined position. 5. The joint mechanism according to claim 4, wherein the centering portion includes a resilient member, and the resilient member is operable to restore the connecting member to the predetermined position by a resilient force of the resilient member. 6. The joint mechanism according to claim 1, wherein the joint mechanism is constructed as a gripping mechanism capable of gripping an article. 