This invention performs relative positioning, predictive control, and ballast control to achieve very heavy-lifting tasks on land or sea. Such tasks allow station keeping and precise transfer of very heavy payloads between ships underway. This scalable multibody system features three subcomponents: Airship, Skycrane and Loadframe. This semi-autonomous system combines aerodynamic (kinetic) and aerostatic (buoyancy force) lift with efficient power and propulsion. During low-speed flight, the Airship and Skycrane are decoupled but linked via a reelable Tether Control Line. Beneath the Skycrane, centered on its hull, a patented NIST (National Institute of Standards and Technology) RoboCrane, featuring a computer controlled six degrees of freedom (DoF) cabling system, is attached, to precisely suspend and control a Loadframe, with or without payload. During subsonic forward flight, these Airship and Skycrane are coupled as a single airframe: fuselage and delta wing.
Claims I claim: 1. A multibody aircrane comprising: a fuselage; a delta wing, the delta wing having a hull; a tether control line; the tether control line being connected to the fuselage and the delta wing; and a cable suspension system, the cable suspension system being centered on the hull of the delta wing, wherein the cable suspension system attaches to: a hook block, a hook block and slung payload, or a hook block and suspended loadframe. 2. The multibody aircrane of claim 1 wherein the fuselage further comprises: a first plurality of fabric tubes, the tubes forming a skeleton, and the tubes being filled with high-pressure air; an envelope, the envelope surrounding the skeleton, and the envelope providing a smooth aerodynamic surface; and a S keel, the S keel being positioned at an aft end of the fuselage under the envelope, and the S keel being formed from a second plurality of fabric tubes. 3. The multibody aircrane of claim 2 wherein the first plurality of tubes and the second plurality of tubes are made of a high strength, seamless, braided polymer fiber. 4. The multibody aircrane of claim 2 wherein the envelope of the fuselage is made of a high molecular weight polyethylene fabric material, the material having a tensile strength of about 2000 pounds and a scrim weight of about 15 ounces of yarn per square yard. 5. The multibody aircrane of claim 2 further comprising a load patch, the load patch being seamed and bonded to the envelope, the load patch being made of carbon fiber, wherein the load patch insulates a central, topside section of the fuselage, wherein the load patch is an ovoid, polycentric curve in shape. 6. The multibody aircrane of claim 1 further comprising a tether reel and winch mechanism, the tether reel and winch mechanism being centrally positioned on the fuselage along the S keel above a bridle point for the tether control line. 7. The multibody aircrane of claim 1 wherein the delta wing further comprises: a third plurality of fabric tubes, the tubes forming a skeleton, and the tubes being filled with high-pressure air; an envelope, the envelope surrounding the skeleton, and the envelope providing a smooth aerodynamic surface; an internal spiral system of inflatable tubes; the tubes being filled alternately with compressed and uncompressed helium. 8. The multibody aircrane of claim 7 wherein the third plurality of tubes are made of a high strength, seamless, braided polymer fiber. 9. The multibody aircrane of claim 7 wherein the envelope of the delta wing is made of a high molecular weight polyethylene fabric material. 10. The multibody aircrane of claim 1 further comprising a forced helium circulatory system wherein compressed and non-compressed flow is employed between the fuselage and the delta wing to provide ballast control for the delta wing. 11. The multibody aircrane of claim 1 wherein the loadframe is a rectangular box having an open tubular frame and an open bottom with an inflatable bag system is disposed within the loadframe, the inflatable bag system providing a cushion for a payload. 12. The multibody aircrane of claim 1 further comprising a plurality of air blowers to provide air to the inflatable bag system. 13. The multibody aircrane of claim 1 further comprising a ramp system at a base of the loadframe. 14. The multibody aircrane of claim 1 further comprising a power and propulsion system, the power and propulsion system being selected from the group consisting of: turbo jet engines, air jet engines, thermo-acoustic engines, and a combination thereof. 15. The multibody aircrane of claim 1 further comprising a flight control system, wherein the flight control system further comprises control, navigation, and diagnostic subsystems, the control, navigation, and diagnostic subsystems further comprising microprocessors, sensors, and actuators. 16. The multibody aircrane of claim 1 wherein the fuselage and the delta wing are coupled together to conduct low altitude, high speed, subsonic forward flight. 17. The multibody aircrane of claim 1 wherein the fuselage and the delta wing are decoupled, but linked by the tether control line to conduct low speed, low altitude flight. 