A method and apparatus of calibrating a vision based robotic system is disclosed. The apparatus includes a first camera, a second camera, a calibration block having an alignment mark, and a robotic tool having an alignment fiducial. The method includes using the first camera and the calibration block to determine a first camera center position, using the second camera and the calibration block to determine a second camera center position, using the second camera and the robotic tool to determine a robotic tool center position, and calculating a first camera to tool offset value.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of calibrating a vision based robotic system comprising: moving a first camera to be positioned approximately above a calibration block including at least one alignment mark; capturing, using the first camera, at least one image of at least one of a first plurality of camera reading points and the at least one alignment mark to determine a first camera center position; capturing, using a second camera, at least one image of at least one of a second plurality of camera reading points and the at least one alignment mark to determine a second camera center position; moving a robotic tool, including at least one alignment fiducial, to be positioned approximately above the second camera; capturing, using the second camera, at least one image of at least one of the alignment fiducials to determine a robotic tool center position; and calculating a first camera-to-tool offset value. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one alignment mark includes a reticle. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the controller further calculates a first camera-pixel-to-distance ratio and a second camera-pixel-to-distance ratio. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the first camera-to-tool offset value is calculated as the difference between the first camera center position and the robotic tool center position. 5. The method of claim 3, wherein the controller calculates the first camera center position using the first camera-pixel-to-distance ratio. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the first camera center position is calculated by forming a geometric arrangement using the at least one image of at least one of a first plurality of camera reading points and the at least one alignment mark and calculating a center of the geometric arrangement. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the first plurality of camera reading points includes at least four points on the calibration block, and the first camera center position is calculated by capturing an image of each of the four points to form a square and calculating a center of the square. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the robotic tool is one of a vacuum gripper, a two jaw gripper, or a three jaw gripper. 9. The method of claim 1, further comprising: utilizing the robotic tool as a pick and place station to engage a workpiece and to store the workpiece to a selected portion of a device; aligning the workpiece with the robotic tool to the selected portion of the device based upon a captured image of the selected portion of the device using the first camera and the first camera-to-tool offset value; and moving the robotic tool to the device to place the aligned workpiece onto or into the selected portion of the device. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the device is a disk drive. 11. The method of claim 9, wherein the workpiece is one of a head stack assembly, a ramp, or a disk. 12. A calibrated vision based robotic system comprising: a robotic tool, including at least one alignment fiducial, to engage a work piece; a servo motor assembly configured to move the robotic tool; a machine vision assembly including a first camera and a second camera; a calibration block including at least one alignment mark; and a controller coupled to the servo motor assembly and the machine vision assembly, the controller operable to: command the servo motor assembly to move the first camera to be positioned approximately above the calibration block; command the first camera to capture at least one image of at least one of a first plurality of camera reading points and the at least one alignment mark to determine a first camera center position; command the second camera to capture at least one image of at least one of a second plurality of camera reading points and the at least one alignment mark to determine a second camera center position; command the servo motor assembly to move the robotic tool to be positioned approximately above the second camera; command the second camera to capture at least one image of at least one of the alignment fiducials to determine a robotic tool center position; and calculate a first camera-to-tool offset value. 13. The robotic system of claim 12, wherein the at least one alignment mark includes a reticle. 14. The robotic system of claim 12, wherein the controller further calculates a first camera-pixel-to-distance ratio and a second camera-pixel-to-distance ratio. 15. The robotic system of claim 12, wherein the first camera-to-tool offset value is calculated as the difference between the first camera center position and the robotic tool center position. 16. The robotic system of claim 14, wherein determining the first camera center position includes utilizing the first camera-pixel-to-distance ratio. 17. The robotic system of claim 12, wherein the first camera center position is calculated by forming a geometric arrangement using the at least one image of at least one of the first plurality of camera reading points and the at least one alignment mark and calculating a center of the geometric arrangement. 18. The robotic system of claim 12, wherein the first plurality of camera reading points includes at least four points on the calibration block, and the first camera center position is calculated by capturing an image of each of the four points to form a square and calculating a center of the square. 19. The robotic system of claim 12, wherein the robotic tool is one of a vacuum gripper, a two jaw gripper, or a three jaw gripper. 20. The robotic system of claim 12, wherein the robotic tool is utilized as a pick and place station to engage the workpiece and to store the workpiece to a selected portion of a device, the controller operable to control the servo motor assembly to move the robotic tool to align the workpiece to the selected portion of the device based upon a captured image of the selected portion of the device using the first camera and the first camera-to-tool offset value and place the aligned workpiece onto or into the selected portion of the device. 21. The robotic system of claim 20, wherein the device is a disk drive. 22. The robotic system of claim 12, wherein the workpiece is one of a head stack assembly, a ramp, or a disk. 23. In a calibrated vision based robotic system, a non-transitory computer-readable medium having stored thereon instructions, which, when executed by a computer, cause the computer to perform operations comprising: moving a first camera to be positioned approximately above a calibration block including at least one alignment mark; capturing, using the first camera, at least one image of at least one of a first plurality of camera reading points and the at least one alignment mark to determine a first camera center position; capturing, using a second camera, at least one image of at least one of a second plurality of camera reading points and the at least one alignment mark to determine a second camera center position; moving a robotic tool, including at least one alignment fiducial, to be positioned approximately above the second camera; capturing, using the second camera, at least one image of at least one of the alignment fiducials to determine a robotic tool center position; and calculating a first camera-to-tool offset value. 24. The computer-readable medium of claim 23, wherein the at least one alignment mark includes a reticle. 25. The computer-readable medium of claim 23, wherein the operations further comprise calculating a first camera-pixel-to-distance ratio and a second camera-pixel-to-distance ratio. 26. The computer-readable medium of claim 23, wherein the first camera-to-tool offset value is calculated as the difference between the first camera center position and the robotic tool center position. 27. The computer-readable medium of claim 25, wherein the first camera center position is calculated using the first camera-pixel-to-distance ratio. 28. The computer-readable medium of claim 23, wherein the first camera center position is calculated by forming a geometric arrangement using the at least one image of at least one of the first plurality of camera reading points and the at least one alignment mark and calculating a center of the geometric arrangement. 29. The computer-readable medium of claim 23, wherein the first plurality of camera reading points includes at least four points on the calibration block, and the first camera center position is calculated by capturing an image of each of the four points to form a square and calculating a center of the square. 30. The computer-readable medium of claim 23, wherein the robotic tool is one of a vacuum gripper, a two jaw gripper, or a three jaw gripper. 31. The computer-readable medium of claim 23, wherein the operations further comprise: utilizing the robotic tool as a pick and place station to engage a workpiece and to store the workpiece to a selected portion of a device; aligning the workpiece with the robotic tool to the selected portion of the device based upon a captured image of the selected portion of the device using the first camera and the first camera-to-tool offset value; and moving the robotic tool to the device to place the aligned workpiece onto or into the selected portion of the device. 32. The computer-readable medium of claim 31, wherein the device is a disk drive. 33. The computer-readable medium of claim 31, wherein the workpiece is one of a head stack assembly, a ramp, or a disk. 