A method of transferring disk drives within a disk drive testing system includes actuating an automated transporter to retrieve multiple disk drives presented for testing, and actuating the automated transporter to deliver each retrieved disk drive to a respective test slot of the disk drive testing system and insert each disk drive in the respective test slot.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of transferring disk drives within a disk drive system, the method comprising: performing one or more of first operations or second operations; wherein the first operations comprise: loading, into the disk drive system at a first location, the disk drives; actuating an automated transporter to retrieve a plurality of the disk drives; actuating the automated transporter to deliver a first disk drive from the plurality of the disk drives to a first disk drive slot in a second location; actuating the automated transporter to insert the first disk drive in the first disk drive slot; and unloading one or more of the disk drives from the disk drive system; wherein the second operations comprise: loading a disk drive tote into the disk drive system; actuating the automated transporter to retrieve a second disk drive from a second test slot of the disk drive system; actuating the automated transporter to deliver the second disk drive to the disk drive tote; and unloading, by the disk drive tote, the second disk drive from the disk drive system. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: actuating the automated transporter to retrieve multiple disk drive transporters; actuating the automated transporter to carry the first disk drive with a disk drive transporter from the multiple disk drive transporters; and actuating the automated transporter to deliver the disk drive transporter carrying the first disk drive to the first disk drive slot. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein insertion of the disk drive transporter into the first disk drive slot provides closure of the first disk drive slot. 4. The method of claim 2, further comprising: positioning the disk drive transporter below the first disk drive; lifting the first disk drive off a disk drive support of a disk drive tote; and carrying the first disk drive in the disk drive transporter away from the disk drive tote. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: presenting one or more disk drive totes to the disk drive system. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the automated transporter comprises a manipulator configured to transport the disk drives. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the manipulator comprises: a manipulator body; and first and second connectors disposed on the manipulator body and arranged in a substantially V-shaped configuration with respect to each other, with a connector being configured to releasably attach to a disk drive transporter. 8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: moving, at a substantially simultaneous time, at least two of the plurality of the disk drives to the second location that is remote from the first location. 9. The method of claim 1, further comprising: placing the first disk drive in the first disk drive slot in a position in which a disk drive connector of the first disk drive is engaged with a disk drive slot connector of the first disk drive slot. 10. A method of transferring disk drives within a disk drive system, the method comprising: receiving, into the disk drive system at a first location, one or more disk drive totes holding multiple disk drives, with the one or more disk drive totes configured for movement between a position outside of the disk drive system and a position that is accessible to an automated transporter in the disk drive system; actuating the automated transporter having a manipulator to retrieve a first disk drive and a second disk drive from the one or more disk drive totes, the manipulator being configured to transport the multiple disk drives; actuating the automated transporter to insert the first disk drive into a first disk drive slot of the disk drive system; actuating the automated transporter to insert the second disk drive into a second disk drive slot of the disk drive system; actuating the automated transporter to retrieve the first disk drive housed in the first disk drive slot actuating the automated transporter to deliver the first disk drive to the second disk drive slot; actuating the automated transporter to retrieve the second disk drive from the second disk drive slot while carrying the first disk drive; and actuating the automated transporter to insert the first disk drive into the second disk drive slot while carrying the second disk drive. 11. The method of claim 10, further comprising: actuating the automated transporter to deliver the second disk drive to the first disk drive slot; and actuating the automated transporter to insert the second disk drive into the first disk drive slot. 12. The method of claim 10, wherein the manipulator comprises: a manipulator body; and first and second connectors disposed on the manipulator body and arranged in a substantially V-shaped configuration with respect to each other, a connector being configured to releasably attach to a disk drive transporter; wherein the manipulator is configured to transport the first and second disk drives in corresponding releasably attached disk drive transporters. 13. The method of claim 10, wherein one or more of the disk drives are carried in a corresponding disk drive transporter, and wherein inserting a disk drive into one of the disk drive slots comprises inserting the corresponding disk drive transporter into the respective disk drive slot, engaging the carried disk drive with a respective connector of the disk drive system, the inserted disk drive transporter providing closure of its respective disk drive slot. 14. A disk drive system comprising: an automated transporter; at least one rack arranged about the automated transporter for access by the automated transporter; multiple disk drive slots housed by a rack, a disk drive slot being configured to receive a disk drive; a transfer station arranged for access by the automated transporter, the transfer station configured for presentation of disk drives; and a manipulator attached to the automated transporter, the manipulator being configured to carry the disk drives; wherein the disk drive system is configured to perform one or more of first operations or second operations; wherein the first operations comprise: loading, into the disk drive system at a first location, the disk drives; actuating the automated transporter to retrieve a plurality of the disk drives; actuating the automated transporter to deliver a first disk drive from the plurality of the disk drives to a first disk drive slot in a second location; actuating the automated transporter to insert the first disk drive in the first disk drive slot; and unloading one or more of the disk drives from the disk drive system; wherein the second operations comprise: loading a disk drive tote into the disk drive system; actuating the automated transporter to retrieve a second disk drive from a second test slot of the disk drive system; actuating the automated transporter to deliver the second disk drive to the disk drive tote; and unloading, by the disk drive tote, the second disk drive from the disk drive system. 15. The disk drive system of claim 14, wherein the manipulator is configured to releasably attach to multiple disk drive transporters. 16. The disk drive system of claim 14, wherein the manipulator comprises: a manipulator body; and first and second connectors disposed on the manipulator body and arranged in a substantially V-shaped configuration with respect to each other, a connector being configured to releasably attach to a disk drive transporter. 17. The disk drive system of claim 14, wherein the transfer station comprises a transfer station housing configured to receive and to support one or more disk drive totes in a presentation position for servicing by the automated transporter, wherein a disk drive tote comprises a tote body defining multiple disk drive receptacles configured to each house a disk drive. 