A portable motorized racking tool and a method for installing, removing and testing electrical equipment is described herein. A circuit breaker having a frame can be attached to a metal surface around the electrical equipment with magnets. The frame can support a solenoid with a plunger, a motor control for operating a motor with a gear assembly that rotates a tool first in one direction, then in a second direction, while the operator controls the framed tool by using a remote switch operator. The remote switch operator can supply power and signals to the framed tool, while the operator can maintain a position outside an arc flash hazard zone.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A portable motorized racking tool for removing or installing electrical equipment by an operator, wherein the electrical equipment is surrounded by a metal surface outside an arc flash hazard boundary, wherein the portable motorized racking tool comprises: a. a frame comprising: (i) a first side support, a second side support opposite the first side support, a first beam disposed between the first side support and the second side support, and a second beam disposed between the first side support and the second side supports opposite the first beam; and (ii) a viewing hole, a tool hole, and a solenoid hole formed in the first side support, the second side support, the first beam, or the second beam; b. a power plate mounted to the first side support, the second side support, the first beam, or the second beam, wherein the power plate supports an interface plug for engaging a power supply, wherein a solenoid signal and power cord connect the interface plug to a solenoid with a solenoid plunger, and wherein the interface plug connects to a motor control housing a signal power cord; c. a plurality of removable magnetically shielding magnet housings fastened to the frame; d. at least one extending and retracting magnet having a magnet handle, wherein the extending and retracting magnet is disposed within each removable magnetically shielding magnet housing for magnetically connecting the frame to a metal surface; e. a bar adjacent the first side support or the second side support, wherein the bar is adjustably and removably connected to the first beam and the second beam; f. a motor mount plate adjustably and removably attached to the bar; g. a motor with a gear box fastened to the motor mount plate, wherein the motor engages a signal and power cord, and wherein the gear box has a keyway and a shaft housing; h. a communication cable connecting the motor control housing with the motor; and i. a gear assembly for engaging the keyway, wherein the gear assembly comprises: (i) a rotatable shaft disposed through the gear box; (ii) a shaft key way formed in the rotatable shaft; (iii) a key housed in the shaft key way to engage the keyway to allow the rotatable shaft to lock into the shaft housing; (iv) an extension formed on one end of the rotatable shaft; (v) a stop disposed between the extension and the rotatable shaft, wherein the stop has a diameter larger than the extension and the rotatable shaft; (vi) a latch formed in an opposite end of the extension, wherein the latch has a latch mechanism for engaging a coupling; and (vii) an alignment tool for engaging the rotatable shaft and turning the coupling to align the coupling with the electrical equipment, wherein the solenoid plunger passes through the solenoid hole to depress and release an interlock button on electrical equipment, which allows the motor to rotate the rotatable shaft with the coupling through the tool hole to engage the electrical equipment, while an operator is remotely viewing the electrical equipment through the viewing hole. 2. The portable motorized racking tool of claim 1, wherein each beam comprises a top beam channel slidably engaging at least one handle and one end of the bar, and wherein each beam channel engages each side support. 3. The portable motorized racking tool of claim 2, wherein each beam channel engages at least one support gusset. 4. The portable motorized racking tool of claim 2, wherein each side support comprises a one piece structure. 5. The portable motorized racking tool of claim 1, wherein the beams, the side supports, or combinations thereof, are aluminum. 6. The portable motorized racking tool of claim 5, wherein the beams and the side supports are hollow. 7. The portable motorized racking tool of claim 1, wherein the power supply is a remote switch operator. 8. The portable motorized racking tool of claim 1, wherein the motor mount plate has a chair shape, an S-shape, or a tri-face shape. 9. The portable motorized racking tool of claim 1, wherein a clutch is removable and interchangeable with the rotatable shaft. 10. The portable motorized racking tool of claim 9, wherein the clutch is a one piece structure. 11. The portable motorized racking tool of claim 1, wherein the power plate simultaneously engages one of the beams and one of the side supports to reduce vibration. 12. The portable motorized racking tool of claim 1, wherein the solenoid is mounted to a solenoid plate that is fastened to the motor mount plate, and wherein the solenoid signal and power cord engages a terminal connected to the solenoid. 13. The portable motorized racking tool of claim 1, wherein the alignment tool comprises at least one wing for turning the rotatable shaft for alignment purposes. 14. The portable motorized racking tool of claim 1, wherein the power supply comprises a remote switch operator, wherein the remote switch operator comprises: a. a housing with a body and a closable lid; b. a first face plate within the housing, wherein the first face plate comprises a power plug, an install momentary push button, a remove momentary push button, an on-off switch, a circuit breaker, a DC power plug, and an auxiliary push button; c. a circuit board beneath the first face plate engaged with at least one relay that engages at least one battery connected to the DC power plug for connecting to a DC power source to charge the at least one battery; d. a second face plate within the housing adjacent the first face plate, wherein the second face plate comprises a current controller; e. an interface cable for engaging the interface for providing power and signals from the current controller; f. a current controller power cable for engaging the current controller with the circuit board, and a current controller signal cable for engaging the current controller with the circuit board; and g. a receiver/transmitter connected to the current controller for providing control signals and controlled power to a remote controller, wherein the remote controller remotely actuates the remote switch operator, wherein the remote switch operator actuates the portable motorized racking tool. 15. The portable motorized racking tool of claim 1, wherein the electrical equipment is a low voltage circuit breaker using up to 1000 volts, a medium voltage circuit breaker between 1000 volts to 20000 volts, a switch gear, a motor control center, or a contactor. 16. The portable motorized racking tool of claim 14, wherein the current controller comprises: a. a current controller circuit board with at least four engagement positions including: up, down, install, and remove; b. at least one digital display; and c. a current controller microprocessor connected to each engagement position, wherein the current controller microprocessor has a current controller flash memory with computer instructions for comparing data. 17. The portable motorized racking tool of claim 1, further comprising a portable camera with a magnetic mounting for monitoring through the viewing hole to allow viewing of the electrical equipment from a remote location. 18. A portable motorized racking tool for removing or installing electrical equipment by an operator, wherein the electrical equipment is surrounded by a metal surface outside an arc flash hazard boundary, wherein the portable motorized racking tool comprises: a. a frame comprising: (i) a first side support, a second side support opposite the first side support, a first beam disposed between the first side support and the second side support, and a second beam disposed between the first side support and the second side support opposite the first beam; and (ii) a viewing hole, a tool hole, and a solenoid hole formed in the first side support, the second side support, the first beam, or the second beam; b. an interface plug mounted to the first side support, the second side support, the first beam, or the second beam for engaging a power supply, wherein the interface plug connects to a solenoid with a solenoid plunger using a solenoid signal and power cord, and wherein the interface plug connects to a motor control housing a signal power cord; c. at least one extending and retracting magnet disposed through the frame for magnetically connecting the frame to a metal surface around electrical equipment; d. a bar adjacent one of the side supports, wherein the bar is adjustably and removably connected to the first beam and the second beam; e. a motor with a gear box fastened to the bar, wherein the motor engages a signal and power cord, and wherein the gear box has a keyway and a shaft housing; f. a communication cable connecting the motor control housing with the motor; g. a gear assembly for engaging the keyway, wherein the gear assembly comprises: (i) a rotatable shaft disposed through the gear box; (ii) a shaft key way formed in the rotatable shaft; (iii) a key housed in the shaft key way to engage the keyway, which allows the rotatable shaft to lock into the shaft housing; (iv) a latch formed in one end of the rotatable shaft, wherein the latch has a latch mechanism for engaging a coupling; and (vi) an alignment tool for engaging the rotatable shaft and turning the coupling to align the coupling with the electrical equipment; a h. at least one handle disposed in one of the beams or side supports, wherein the solenoid plunger passes through the solenoid hole to depress and release an interlock button on the electrical equipment, which allows the motor to rotate the rotatable shaft with a coupling through the tool hole to engage the electrical equipment, while an operator is remotely viewing the electrical equipment through the viewing hole. 19. A method for racking electrical equipment comprising: a. connecting a portable motorized racking tool to a remote switch operator with a current controller, wherein the portable motorized racking tool has a frame, motor, gear box with gear assembly, motor controller, and solenoid; b. attaching a first end of a torque limiting clutch to a rotatable shaft in the gear box; c. inserting a coupling to a second end of the torque limiting clutch; d. setting the current controller to a predetermined amp setting; e. aligning the coupling with the electrical equipment that needs maintenance, removal, or installation, while simultaneously attaching the frame to a metal surface adjacent the electrical equipment by using a plurality of magnets; and f. flowing power and control signals from the remote switch operator to power and control the motor, gear assembly, and solenoid to: (i) remotely disconnect the electrical equipment by causing a solenoid plunger of the solenoid to engage an interlock button on the electrical equipment to allow the motor to operate the gear assembly to rotate in a first direction to a test position, then causing the solenoid plunger to engage the interlock button a second time to allow the motor to continue to operate the gear assembly rotation in the first direction to a disconnect position, while the operator maintains a position outside an arc flash hazard boundary; (ii) remotely connect the electrical equipment by causing the solenoid plunger to engage the interlock button, allowing the motor to operate the gear assembly to rotate in the second direction to the test position, causing the solenoid plunger to engage the interlock button, and allowing the motor to continue to operate the gear assembly rotation in the second direction to a connect position, while the operator maintains a position outside an arc flash hazard boundary; (iii) remotely disconnect the electrical equipment from an installed position to a test position by causing the solenoid plunger of the solenoid to engage an interlock button on the electrical equipment, allowing the motor to operate the gear assembly to rotate in the first direction to the test position, then causing the solenoid plunger to engage the interlock button a second time causing the motor to operate the gear assembly rotation in the second direction to the installed position, while the operator maintains a position outside an arc flash hazard boundary; (iv) remotely connect the electrical equipment from a disconnected position to the test position by causing the solenoid plunger to engage the interlock button, allowing the motor to operate the gear assembly to rotate in the second direction to the test position causing the solenoid plunger to engage the interlock button, and allowing the motor to operate the gear assembly rotation in the first direction to remove the electrical equipment, while the operator maintains a position outside an arc flash hazard boundary; or (v) combinations thereof. 