A method of aligning arm reference systems of a multiple-arm measuring machine having at least two measuring units, each having a movable arm; the method including the steps of aligning the reference systems of the measuring units when setting up the machine, and periodically updating alignment of the reference systems by detecting, by means of one measuring unit, a reference member carried by another measuring unit and moved successively by the other measuring unit into a number of positions at an intersection of the measuring volumes of the two measuring units.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of aligning arm reference systems of a multiple-arm measuring machine (1) comprising at least two measuring units (4, 5), each having a movable arm (11, 18), and a measuring tool (6, 7) movable by said arm (11, 18) in a respective measuring volume (M1, M2); the measuring volumes (M1, M2) of said measuring units (4, 5) having an intersection (I), and defining as a whole a machine measuring volume (M) equal to the combined measuring volumes (M1, M2) of the individual measuring units; and the method comprising the steps of: fitting at least one reference member (25) to the arm (11) of at least a first measuring unit (4); qualifying each of said measuring tools (6, 7) of the respective measuring units (4, 5); aligning the reference systems (X,Y,Z; x,y,z) of said measuring units when setting up the machine (1); and periodically updating alignment of said reference systems by detecting said reference member (25) by means of at least another measuring unit (5); the reference member (25) being moved into a number of positions at said intersection (I) by the first measuring unit (4). 2. A method as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that said reference member (25) is fixed rigidly to said arm (11) of said first measuring unit (4). 3. A method as claimed in claim 2, characterized in that said reference member (25) is a sphere. 4. A method as claimed in claim 1, characterized by comprising the step of determining the position of said reference member (25) with respect to said arm (11) of said first measuring unit (4) by means of said other measuring unit (5). 5. A method as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that said step of updating alignment of the reference systems comprises updating a rotation matrix (R) and a translation vector (T). 6. A method as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that said step of updating alignment of the reference systems comprises only updating a translation vector (T). 7. A method as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that said updating step comprises performing an automatic measuring cycle, in which said reference member (25) is positioned at said intersection (I) by said first measuring unit (4) and measured by said other measuring unit (5). 8. A method as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that said updating step is started upon detection of a residual error ranging between a minimum threshold value (S1; S3) and a maximum threshold value (S2; S4). 