The invention relates to a modular positioning robotic system and method of use of the positioning system. In general, the modular positioning robotic system is comprised of a controller module, a positioning module and a base that can be either a stationary base or drive module. The positioning module also allows for additional flexibility by allowing for designs with multiple allowable adjustments that can be changed for a change in turn diameter, length, width and weight of a fixture and part combination.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An adjustable H-frame positioning module comprising: a base; a workpiece holder operatively connected to the base and having a first end and a second end with at least one cross-member extending therebetween along a longitudinal axis; a first set of workpiece supports located on the holder, the first set comprising a first rotatable support located at the first end and a second rotatable support located at the second end and being capable of supporting a first workpiece therebetween for rotation about a first secondary axis between the first and second rotatable supports spaced apart from the longitudinal axis; a second set of workpiece supports located on the holder, the second set comprising a third rotatable support located at the first end and a fourth rotatable support located at the second end and being capable of supporting a second workpiece therebetween for rotation about a second secondary axis between the third and fourth rotatable supports; a robot riser attached to the base and extending upwardly through the workpiece holder between the first and second secondary axes; wherein the workpiece holder being adjustable along the longitudinal axis for accommodating workpieces, of different sizes. 2. The positioning module of claim 1 wherein the cross-member is telescopically adjustable along the longitudinal axis. 3. The positioning module of claim 2 wherein the cross-member comprises a plurality of parts. 4. The positioning module of claim 1 further comprising a drive unit for rotating the workpiece holder about the base. 5. The positioning module of claim 4, wherein the drive module also rotates the workpiece holder about the robot riser. 6. The positioning module of claim 1, wherein each secondary axis is generally parallel to the longitudinal axis. 7. The positioning module of claim 1, wherein each secondary axis is generally parallel to the longitudinal axis, and wherein the robot riser is located between the first and second ends and between the secondary axes. 8. The positioning module of claim 7, wherein the robot riser extends through the longitudinal axis of the workpiece holder. 9. The positioning module of claim 1, wherein the robot riser includes a plurality of robot mounting surfaces. 10. The positioning module of claim 1, wherein each set of workpiece supports is capable of supporting a separate workpiece. 11. The positioning module of claim 1, wherein the robot riser extends through an opening in the cross-member. 12. The positioning module of claim 1, wherein the robot riser is stationary. 13. The positioning module of claim 1, further comprising a drive unit mounted on the base having a plate with a central opening, wherein the plate is rotatable about a central generally vertical exchange axis, wherein the robot riser extends upwardly through the central opening in the plate, and wherein the workpiece holder is mounted on the plate for rotation with the plate about the generally vertical exchange axis. 