A method of modeling a composite emotion in a multidimensional vector space, is provided with creating an emotion vector space by defining dimensions of a vector space in consideration of stimuli affecting emotions, and dividing a defined multidimensional vector space into emotion regions. Further, the method of modeling a composite emotion in a multidimensional vector space includes creating a composite emotion by calculating a fuzzy partitioned matrix between a current state vector and respective representative vectors in the created emotion vector space.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A computerized method of modeling a composite emotion in a multidimensional vector space, comprising: creating an emotion vector space by defining dimensions of a vector space in consideration of stimuli affecting emotions, and dividing a defined multidimensional vector space into emotion regions; and creating a composite emotion by calculating a fuzzy partitioned matrix between a current state vector and respective representative vectors in the created emotion vector space, each of the representative vectors corresponding to a center of a corresponding one of subspaces of the multidimensional vector space, wherein the creating the emotion vector space comprises: creating the subspaces by dividing every dimension of the multidimensional vector space into a same size; and calculating the representative vectors of the created subspaces and dividing the multidimensional vector space into the emotion regions to which the representative vector are respectively assigned. 2. The method as set forth in claim 1, wherein the creating the composite emotion comprises calculating and creating the fuzzy partitioned matrix based on relative ratios between distances between the current state vector and the respective representative vectors in the created emotion vector space. 3. The method as set forth in claim 1, wherein the creating the composite emotion comprises: calculating distances between the current state vector and the representative vectors in Euclidean distance form; selecting a representative vector closest to the current state vector for each emotion region; and creating a plurality of composite emotions for the current state vector by calculating the fuzzy partitioned matrix between the selected representative vectors and the current state vector. 4. The method as set forth in claim 1, further comprising: creating subdivided subspaces by dividing every side of a specific subspace into a same size based on feedback; and calculating representative vectors of the subdivided subspaces, and assigning the representative vectors of subdivided subspaces to the emotion regions. 5. The method as set forth in claim 1, further comprising modeling the created composite emotion for a device or an avatar that interacts with a human. 