A system of self-organizing mobile robotic agents (MRAs) in a multi-robotic system (MRS) is disclosed. The MRAs use simulations to organize the behaviors of groups of robots in the MRS. The MRAs use software agents to model the MRS and the environment. By developing simulations of environmental change, the system provides methods for the MRS to interact with its environment to produce collective epigenetic behaviors.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for managing a robotic network, comprising: a plurality of mobile robots, each robot including program code configured to communicate and exchange information with other robots, and a set of sensors, wherein all robots are configured to track each other; wherein when robots are removed from or added to the network, the remaining network adjusts; wherein the robot network includes a plurality of sensor sources; wherein the robot network is linked together to connect all robots to at least one other robot; wherein the robots communicate with other robots within the network to share sensor data; and wherein the robots in the robot network transmit to and receives sensor data from other robots in the network. 2. A system of claim l: wherein the robot network consists of autonomous mobile robots. 3. A system of claim 1: wherein the robot system is programmed to update the status of the sensor data to the robots. 4. A system of claim 1: wherein the two or more robots in the robot network obtain and process sensor data from all the sensors in the sensor network in real time. 5. A system for managing a robotic network comprising: a plurality of robots; a plurality of intelligent mobile software agents (TMSAs), the IMSAs comprising software means for allowing robots to communicate, interact and collaborate with other robots; wherein the plurality of robots are initially configured into a specific spatial configuration; wherein new sensor data on environmental change is used to organize the robot network into a specific spatial configurations; wherein new sensor data on environmental change is organized by IMSAs; wherein the IMSAs programming is used to determine the priority of robot functions; wherein the software code is transferred to robots; wherein the robots are operable to receive software code from IMSAs; wherein the specific spatial configuration of each sub-group of robots is determined based on information from one or more inputs from the environment; and wherein the network of robots continually adjusts its spatial configuration. 6. A system of claim 5: wherein the specific spatial configuration of each set of robots is changed in response to the information from one or more inputs from the environment. 7. A system of claim 5: wherein the IMSAs use hybrid genetic algorithms to co-evolve with the robot environment. 8. A system for managing a mobile robotic system (MRS) comprising: a collection of mobile robotic agents (MRAs); intelligent mobile software agents (IMSAs) configured to allow MRAs to communicate, interact and collaborate with other MRAs: wherein the IMSAs use simulations to model the positions of the MRAs; wherein the simulations are organized to track the locations of MRAs from position to position over time; wherein the simulations are transmitted to and received by the MRAs; and wherein the simulations are used by the MRAs to configure the MRS. 9. A system of claim 8: wherein the simulations are processed in real-time. 10. A system of claim 8: wherein the simulations are organized to track the locations of MRAs from position to position over time. 11. A system of claim 8: wherein the plurality of configurations of MRAs change; wherein the MRAs change their spatial positions based on the decisions from the changing simulations; wherein the simulations are based on data from the changing environmental interactions; and wherein the MRAs adapt their behaviors based on the simulation inputs as the data change. 