The invention relates to a device (10) for operating in a water chamber (7) of a heat exchanger (1) comprising a wall (6) of substantially hemispherical shape and, at its upper portion, a tube plate (5) traversed by a plurality of vertical holes (4). The device comprises at least one rail (11) furnished with members for attachment on the bottom face of the tube plate (5) and supporting at least one trolley (15) that can be moved along the said rail (11) and fitted with a pendular lifting means (19) and a robotic arm (20) comprising an attachment base (30) furnished with members for coupling on the bottom face of the tube plate (5) and a drive means interacting with the lifting means (19) to draw the attachment base (30) against the tube plate (5). The invention applies more particularly to the steam generator of a pressurized water nuclear reactor.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. Device for operating in a water chamber of a heat exchanger comprising a wall of substantially hemispherical shape comprising at least one entry hatch, wherein the device comprises: at least one rail including attachment members configured to attach to and suspend the at least one rail from a bottom face of a tube plate which delimits the upper portion of the wall of substantially hemispherical shape, the at least one rail configured to support at least one trolley that can be moved along the at least one rail and fitted with a pendular lifting means, and a robotic arm comprising an attachment base furnished, on the one hand, with members for coupling on the bottom face of the tube plate either side of the said rail and, on the other hand, with a drive means interacting with the lifting means to draw the attachment base against the tube plate. 2. The device according to claim 1, wherein the said at least one rail comprises at least one second rail placed in the extension of the first rail and one second trolley that can be moved along the rail, and in that the device comprises a tool-carrier comprising an attachment base furnished, on the one hand, with members for coupling on the bottom face of the tube plate, either side of the said rail, and, on the other hand, a drive means interacting with the lifting means to draw the attachment base against the tube plate. 3. The device according to claim 1, wherein the said attachment members of the said at least one rail are formed by at least two retaining clamps each intended to be inserted into a vertical hole of the tube plate. 4. The device according to claim 1, wherein it comprises a movable ramp for inserting the robotic arm comprising elements for attachment on the outer periphery of the entry hatch and a plate for supporting the robotic arm whose attachment base is placed facing the entry hatch and can be moved on the said ramp. 5. The device according to claim 2, wherein the attachment base of the robotic arm and of the tool-carrier is formed by a bearing plate of generally parallelepipedic shape comprising a central housing of the drive means and, on two opposite sides, a recess for positioning the rail. 6. The device according to claim 5, wherein the bearing plate comprises, in at least one recess of one of its sides, two indexing posts each into a hole of the soleplate in correspondence with a vertical hole of the tube plate. 7. The device according to claim 1, wherein the coupling members of the robotic arm comprise at least two hydraulic retaining clamps each intended to be inserted into a vertical hole of the tube plate. 8. The device according to claim 5, wherein the coupling members of the bearing plate comprise four hydraulic retaining clamps each intended to be inserted into a vertical hole of the tube plate, each of the said clamps being placed on a corner of the bearing plate. 9. The device according to claim 1, wherein the pendular lifting means is formed by a chain or a cable. 10. The device according to claim 1, wherein the drive means is formed by a wheel rotated by a reducing gear and furnished with members for engagement with the lifting means. 11. The device according to claim 10, wherein the wheel is a gear wheel. 