A method and apparatus for processing substrate edges is disclosed that overcomes the limitations of conventional edge processing methods and systems used in semiconductor manufacturing. The edge processing method and apparatus of this invention includes a laser and optical system to direct a beam of radiation onto a rotating substrate supported by a chuck, in atmosphere. The optical system accurately and precisely directs the beam to remove or transform organic or inorganic films, film stacks, residues, or particles from the top edge, top bevel, apex, bottom bevel, and bottom edge of the substrate in a single process step. Reaction by-products are removed by means of an exhaust tube enveloping the reaction site. This invention permits precise control of an edge exclusion width, resulting in an increase in the number of usable die on a wafer. Wafer edge processing with this invention replaces existing methods that use large volumes of purified water and hazardous chemicals including solvents, acids, alkalis, and proprietary strippers.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for processing edges of a substrate, comprising: a laser for emitting a laser beam of optical radiation; a vacuum chuck for supporting and a substrate, the substrate having top edge, apex edge, and bottom edge; a multi-path optical assembly receiving said laser beam and directing the laser beam along a respective one of three beam paths, with a first beam path directing optical radiation to the top edge of the substrate; a second beam path directing optical radiation to the apex edge of the substrate; a third beam path directing optical radiation to the bottom edge of the substrate; wherein the multi-path optical assembly further: selectively enables the first, second and third beam paths to carry the laser beam to the top, apex and bottom edge of the substrate in a defined order; includes a multi-mirror sub-assembly for selecting which one of the three optical paths receives the laser beam at a given time; and selectively directs the laser beam along a fourth optical path to a metrology camera used to record and analyze a profile of the laser beam; and the apparatus thereby removing or transforming films, particles, or residues on each of the top edge, apex edge, and bottom edge of the substrate by application of the optical radiation and in a single substrate processing step without removing the substrate from the vacuum chuck. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said multi-mirror subassembly contains one or more movable mirrors. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said movable mirrors are moved in a direction parallel to their reflecting surfaces. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein optical path lengths of said top, apex, and bottom beam paths of the multi-path optical assembly are nominally equal. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein optical path lengths of said top, apex, bottom, and metrology camera beam paths of the multi-path optical assembly are nominally equal. 6. An apparatus for processing edges of a substrate, comprising: a laser for emitting a laser beam of optical radiation; a vacuum chuck for supporting and a substrate, the substrate having top edge, apex edge, and bottom edge; a multi-path optical assembly receiving said laser beam and directing the laser beam along a respective one of three beam paths, with a first beam path directing optical radiation to the top edge of the substrate; a second beam path directing optical radiation to the apex edge of the substrate; a third beam path directing optical radiation to the bottom edge of the substrate; the optical assembly selectively enabling the first, second and third beam paths to carry the laser beam in a defined order; the multi-path optical assembly further including: a multi-mirror sub-assembly for selecting which one of the three optical paths receives the laser beam at a given time; pairs of mirrors each located in the top, apex, and bottom optical paths; and one or more moving stages, for moving the pairs of mirrors such that said optical path lengths are adjusted to be precisely equal; and the apparatus thereby removing or transforming films, particles, or residues on each of the top edge, apex edge, and bottom edge of the substrate by application of the optical radiation and in a single substrate processing step without removing the substrate from the vacuum chuck. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein a wavelength of said laser beam is between 190 nm and 770 nm. 8. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein the multi-path optical assembly further scans the laser beam in a direction substantially orthogonal to both a path of rotation of the substrate and the respective beam direction used. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein multi-path optical assembly further scans the laser beam via a galvanometric mirror scanner. 10. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein the multi-path optical assembly includes focusing optics. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein said focusing optics is an f-theta scan lens. 12. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein said f-theta scan lens is telecentric. 13. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein the multi-path optical assembly includes a beam splitter to feed the laser beam to two or more of the beam paths and expose two or more of the top edge, apex edge, and bottom edge of the substrate to the optical radiation at the same time. 14. The apparatus of claim 6 additionally comprising an exhaust assembly to remove films, particles or residues resulting from reaction of the optical radiation with the top edge, apex edge and bottom edge of the substrate, and wherein the exhaust assembly is axially shiftable to two or more positions. 15. The apparatus of claim 6 additionally comprising an injector assembly for direct a fluid to two or more of the substrate edges being exposed to the laser radiation. 16. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein said apparatus is part of a stand-alone semiconductor wafer edge-processing system. 17. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein said optical assembly is integrated into a module for use in a semiconductor wafer edge-processing system. 