A radiation treatment system (100) for accurately delivering radiation to a targeted site within a cancer patient (108) that includes a modular patient support system and a patient positioner (114). The modular patient support system includes a modularly expandable patient pod (200) and at least one immobilization device, such as, for example, a rigid moldable foam cradle (350). The patient pod (200) includes a generally hemi-cylindrical support shell (212) that extends longitudinally between proximal edge (214) and distal edge (216), and transversely between two lateral edges (222, 224). In one embodiment, the lateral edges (222, 224) are tapered to minimize edge effects that result when radiation beams traverse the lateral edges (222, 224).
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A modular patient support system configured to position a patient during a medical treatment, the system comprising: a longitudinally-extending support shell extending from a proximal edge through a longitudinal center section to a distal edge; a proximal extension track configured for engagement with any of a number of proximal pod attachments in order to extend the support shell from the proximal edge; a distal extension track configured for engagement with any of a number of distal pod attachments in order to extend the support shell from the distal edge; a connector configured for engagement with a movement device configured to move the support shell with relation to a radiation delivery device; and a proximal pod attachment that engages with the proximal extension track, the proximal pod attachment comprising a longitudinally-extending connector-end extension upwardly pitched at a non-right angle relative to a longitudinal axis extending between the proximal and distal extension tracks, the connector-end extension thereby configured to provide cantilevered support for a patient's leg region during the medical treatment such that the patient's knees are bent while the patient's feet are placed on the upwardly-pitched angled extension and further configured to reduce collisions between any patient positioning devices that engage with the pod and the patient's feet or the upwardly-pitched angled extension. 2. The modular patient support system of claim 1, further comprising a first immobilization device. 3. The modular patient support system of claim 2, wherein the first immobilization device comprises a moldable foam cradle comprising a mold that conforms to at least a portion of a patient's body. 4. The modular patient support system of claim 2, wherein the first immobilization device comprises a bite block system. 5. The modular patient support system of claim 2, wherein the first immobilization device comprises a face mask. 6. The modular patient support system of claim 2, wherein the first immobilization device comprises a cranial ring. 7. The modular patient support system of claim 1, further comprising a distal pod attachment that engages with the distal extension track. 8. The modular patient support system of claim 7, wherein the distal pod attachment comprises a longitudinally-extending, generally flat structure configured to provide support for a patient's head. 9. The modular patient support system of claim 1 wherein the non-right angle is approximately a 45-degree angle. 10. A modular patient pod for use in radiation treatment of a patient pursuant to a radiation treatment protocol, the pod comprising: a support shell extending from a proximal edge to a distal edge; means for engaging any of a number of proximal extensions to the proximal edge of the support shell in order to extend a length of the support shell from the proximal edge; means for engaging a any of a number of distal extensions to the distal edge of the support shell in order to extend a length of the support shell from the distal edge; and a proximal pod extension that engages with the means for engaging any of a number of proximal extensions, the proximal pod extension comprising a longitudinally-extending connector-end extension chamfered at a non-right angle relative to a visualized longitudinal axis extending between the proximal and distal edges, wherein the connector-end extension is configured to provide cantilevered support for a patient's leg region during radiation treatment such that the patient's knees are bent while the patient's feet are placed on the connector-end extension and further configured to reduce collisions between any patient positioning devices that engage with the pod and the patient's feet or the connector-end extension. 11. A modular patient support system for use in radiation treatment of a patient pursuant to a radiation treatment protocol, the system comprising: a longitudinally-extending support shell extending from a proximal edge through a longitudinal center section to a distal edge; a proximal extension track configured for engagement with any of a number of proximal pod attachments in order to extend the support shell from the proximal edge; a distal extension track configured for engagement with any of a number of distal pod attachments in order to extend the support shell from the distal edge; a connector configured for engagement with a movement device configured to move the support shell with relation to a radiation delivery device; a proximal pod attachment that engages with the proximal extension track, the proximal pod attachment comprising a longitudinally-extending connector-end extension that is configured to provide cantilevered support for a patient's leg region during radiation treatment such that the patient's knees are bent while the patient's feet are placed on the connector-end extension; and a first immobilization device configured to removably engage at least one portion of the patient's body to prevent movement of that portion of the patient's body by exerting a force on that portion of the patient's body at multiple distinct angles in three-dimensional space, thereby enabling the patient to receive radiation treatment pursuant to the radiation treatment protocol. 12. The modular patient support system of claim 11, the first immobilization device comprising a first section to removably engage a treatment portion of the patient's body by exerting a force at a first angle and a second section to removably engage the treatment portion of the patient's body by exerting a force at a second angle, the first and second angles at least partially opposing and thereby configured to immobilize the treatment portion of the patient's body in order to allow the modular patient support system to position the patient to receive radiation treatment pursuant to the radiation treatment protocol. 13. The modular patient support system of claim 11, wherein the first immobilization device comprises a moldable foam cradle comprising a mold that conforms to at least a portion of the patient's body. 14. The modular patient support system of claim 11, wherein the first immobilization device comprises a bite block system. 15. The modular patient support system of claim 11, wherein the first immobilization device comprises a face mask. 16. The modular patient support system of claim 11, wherein the first immobilization device comprises a cranial ring. 17. The modular patient support system of claim 11, further comprising a distal pod attachment that engages with the distal extension track. 18. The modular patient support system of claim 17, wherein the distal pod attachment comprises a longitudinally-extending, generally flat structure configured to provide support for the patient's head. 