An end effector for use on a robotic arm includes a clamping assembly for clamping a workpiece, and a tool such as a drill for performing an operation on the clamped workpiece. The clamping assembly is slidably mounted on the robotic arm and self adjusts its position relative to the workpiece before a clamping operation is performed. Linear actuators independently control the movements of the clamping members. The actuators are operated by a controller, based in part on position information produced by sensors that sense the position of the clamping members.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of clamping a workpiece using a end effector having first and second clamping members mounted on the end of a robotic arm, comprising the steps of: (A) positioning the first and second clamping members on opposite sides of a workpiece; (B) moving the first clamping member into engagement with the workpiece while the robotic arm remains stationary; and, (C) following step (B), moving the second clamping member into engagement with the workpiece while the robotic arm remains stationary. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein: step (A) is performed by moving the robotic arm, step (B) is performed by linearly displacing a frame relative to the arm, and step (C) is performed by linearly displacing the second clamping member relative to the frame. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein linear displacement of the first and second clamping members is performed by first and second motors, respectively. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein: step (B) includes moving the second clamping member away from the workpiece as the first clamping member is moved into engagement with the workpiece, and steps (B) and (C) are respectively performed using first and second slide assemblies. 5. The method of claim 1, including the step of: (D) biasing the first and second clamping members to linearly move relative to the robotic arm to a standby position. 6. An aircraft subassembly clamped by the method of claim 1. 7. Bucking a rivet in the workpiece while using the clamping method of claim 1. 8. Drilling and countersinking a hole in the workpiece while using the clamping method of claim 1. 9. A method of clamping a workpiece, comprising the steps of: (A) mounting a frame on the end of a robotic arm; (B) mounting first and second clamping members on the frame; (C) positioning the workpiece between the first and second clamping members; (D) moving the first clamping member into engagement with the workpiece by moving the frame relative to the robotic arm; and, (E) following step (D), moving the second clamping member relative to the frame into engagement with the workpiece. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein: step (D) is performed by sliding the frame linearly on the end of the robotic arm and, step (E) is performed by sliding the second clamping member on the frame. 11. Fabricating a vehicle assembly using the clamping method of claim 9. 12. A method of clamping a workpiece, comprising the steps of: (A) mounting a frame on the end of a robotic arm; (B) mounting first and second clamping members on the frame; (C) moving the robotic arm to position the first and second clamping members on opposite sides of the workpiece; (D) moving the first clamping member into engagement with the workpiece by using a fluid cylinder to slide the frame linearly on the end of the robotic arm; (E) following step (D), sliding the second clamping member on the frame into engagement with the workpiece; and, (F) controlling steps (B)-(E) using programmed numerical control. 