A robotic patient positioning assembly including a patient treatment couch, and a robotic arm coupled to the patient treatment couch. The robotic arm is configured to move the patient treatment couch along five rotational degrees of freedom and one substantially vertical, linear degree of freedom.
Claims What is claimed: 1. An apparatus, comprising: a patient treatment couch; a robotic arm coupled to the patient treatment couch, the robotic arm configured to move using five rotational degrees of freedom and one substantially vertical, linear degree of freedom; a controller coupled to the robotic arm; an imaging system coupled to the controller to generate a plurality of images of a patient; and a therapeutic radiation treatment system comprising a therapeutic radiation source, the therapeutic radiation treatment system configured to position the therapeutic radiation source at a plurality of locations of a workspace. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the therapeutic radiation treatment system is coupled to the controller, wherein the controller is configured to control movement of at least one of the robotic arm and the therapeutic radiation treatment system to align the therapeutic radiation source with a treatment target within a patient disposed on the patient treatment couch. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the therapeutic radiation treatment system is robot-based linear accelerator system. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein orientation and position of the therapeutic radiation source of the robot-based linear accelerator system and the patient treatment couch are dynamically coordinated by the controller. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the controller is configured to position the patient treatment couch and the therapeutic radiation source of the robot-based linear accelerator system to deliver radiation to the treatment target at a location that was previously obstructed, wherein the previously obstructed location was caused by a positioning restriction within a mechanical range of motion of the robotic arm and the robot-based linear accelerator system. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the positioning restriction comprises at least one of obstructions of a possible collision with at least one of the robotic arm coupled to the patient treatment couch and the therapeutic radiation source with at least one of the treatment couch, the therapeutic radiation source, and the imaging system. 7. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the positioning restriction comprises obstructions of a radiation beam of the therapeutic radiation source with at least one of the treatment couch, the therapeutic radiation source, and the imaging system. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the imaging system has an imaging field of view and wherein the robotic arm is coupled to the patient treatment couch at an extension mounting area to maintain the robotic arm outside the field of view of the imaging system when the robotic arm moves the patient treatment couch. 9. A method comprising: providing a patient treatment couch coupled to a first robotic arm; providing a robot-based linear accelerator system coupled to a second robotic arm; moving the patient treatment couch using five rotational degrees of freedom and one substantially vertical, linear degree of freedom of the first robotic arm; and moving the robot-based linear accelerator system among different locations of a workspace. 10. The method of claim 9, further comprising moving the robot-based linear accelerator system using at least two degrees of freedom of the second robotic arm of the robot-based linear accelerator system. 11. The method of claim 9, wherein moving the robot-based linear accelerator system comprises using at least five degrees of freedom of the second robotic arm of the robot-based linear accelerator system. 12. The method of claim 9, further comprising providing a controller coupled to the robot-based linear accelerator system and the second robotic arm. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein moving the patient treatment couch and the robot-based linear accelerator system further comprise dynamically coordinating orientation and position of the patient treatment couch and a therapeutic radiation source of the robot-based linear accelerator system using the controller. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein dynamically coordinating the orientation and position of the patient treatment couch and the therapeutic radiation source increases a total usable surface area of the therapeutic radiation source within a mechanical range of motion of the second robotic arm. 15. The method of claim 9, wherein moving the patient treatment couch and the robot-based linear accelerator system further comprises aligning a therapeutic radiation source of the robot-based linear accelerator system with a treatment target within a patient disposed on the patient treatment couch. 16. The method of claim 12, wherein moving the patient treatment couch and the robot-based linear accelerator system further comprises positioning the patient treatment couch and the therapeutic radiation source to deliver radiation to the treatment target at a location that was previously obstructed, wherein the previously obstructed location was caused by a positioning restriction within a mechanical range of motion of the robotic arm and the robot-based linear accelerator system. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein dynamically coordinating the orientation and position of the patient treatment couch and the therapeutic radiation source further comprises avoiding the positioning restriction. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein the positioning restriction comprise obstructions of the therapeutic radiation source due to at least one of an x-ray imaging source and an x-ray imaging detector. 19. The method of claim 9, further comprising: providing an imaging system having an imaging field of view; and maintaining the patient treatment couch substantially outside of the imaging field of view for all supported treatment positions. 20. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the five degrees of freedom comprise: two rotational axes for translational movements of the patient treatment couch in mutually orthogonal horizontal coordinate x- and y-axes; and three rotational axes for roll-, pitch-, and yaw-rotational movements of the patient treatment couch about the x-axis, the y-axis, and a z-axis, respectively, and wherein the one substantially vertical, linear degree of freedom comprises a substantial linear axis for translational movements of the patient treatment couch along a substantially vertical line in the z-axis substantially perpendicular to the horizontal coordinate x- and y-axes. 21. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the controller is configured to move the patient treatment couch along the substantially vertical, linear axis throughout substantially an entire range of motion of the patient treatment couch without using the five rotational degrees of freedom. 22. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the robotic arm is vertically mounted to at least one of a vertical side of a column or a wall. 23. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein the column is mounted to at least one of a floor and a ceiling. 