A storage device transporter includes a transporter body having first and second body portions. The first body portion is configured to be engaged by automated machinery for manipulation of the storage device transporter. The second body portion is configured to receive and support a storage device. The first body portion is configured to receive and direct an air flow over one or more surfaces of a storage device supported in the second body portion.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A storage device transporter comprising: A) a transporter body comprising: i) a first body portion configured to be engaged by automated machinery for manipulation of the storage device transporter; and ii) a second body portion configured to receive and support a storage device, wherein the first body portion is configured to receive and direct an air flow over one or more surfaces of a storage device supported in the second body portion. 2. The storage device transporter of claim 1, wherein the first body portion includes an air director having one or more air entrances for receiving air into the first body portion and directing air into the second body portion. 3. The storage device transporter of claim 2, wherein the one or more air entrances are configured to be engaged by automated machinery for manipulation of the storage device transporter. 4. The storage device transporter of claim 1, wherein the second body portion comprises first and second sidewalls arranged to receive a storage device therebetween. 5. The storage device transporter of claim 1, wherein the first body portion comprises one or more vision fiducials. 6. The storage device transporter of claim 1, further comprising a clamping mechanism operable to clamp a storage device within the second body portion. 7. The storage device transporter of claim 1, wherein the first body portion is configured to direct air over top and bottom surfaces of a storage device supported in the second body portion. 8. The storage device transporter of claim 1, wherein the first body portion includes an air director having one or more air entrances for receiving air into the first body portion and directing air into the second body portion, and wherein the one or more air entrances are arranged to register the storage device transporter in X, Y, and rotational directions when the storage device transporter is engaged by automated machinery. 9. The storage device transporter of claim 1, wherein the second body portion defines a substantially U-shaped opening which allows air to flow over a bottom surface of a storage device supported in the storage device transporter. 10. A test slot assembly comprising: A) a storage device transporter comprising i) a transporter body comprising: a) a first body portion configured to be engaged by automated machinery for manipulation of the storage device transporter; and b) a second body portion configured to receive and support a storage device, wherein the first body portion is configured to receive and direct an air flow over one or more surfaces of a storage device supported in the second body portion. B) a test slot comprising: i) a housing defining: a) a test compartment for receiving and supporting the storage device transporter, and b) an open end providing access to the test compartment for insertion and removal of the disk drive transporter. 11. The test slot assembly of claim 10, wherein the storage device transporter is completely removable from the test compartment. 12. The test slot assembly of claim 10, wherein the storage device transporter is connected to the test slot in such a manner as to form a drawer for receiving a storage device. 13. A storage device testing system comprising: A) automated machinery; and B) A storage device transporter comprising: i) a transporter body comprising: a) a first body portion configured to be engaged by the automated machinery for manipulation of the storage device transporter; and b) a second body portion configured to receive and support a storage device, wherein the first body portion is configured to receive and direct an air flow over one or more surfaces of a storage device supported in the second body portion. 14. The storage device testing system of claim 13, wherein the first body portion includes an air director having one or more air entrances for receiving air into the first body portion and directing air into the second body portion, and wherein the one or more air entrances are configured to be engaged by the automated machinery for manipulation of the storage device transporter. 15. The storage device testing system of claim 14, wherein the automated machinery includes a mechanical actuator adapted to engage the one or more air entrances. 16. The storage device testing system of claim 13, wherein the first body portion comprises one or more vision fiducials, and wherein the automated machinery includes an optical system for detecting the vision fiducials. 17. The storage device testing system of claim 13, wherein the automated machinery includes posts, and wherein the first body portion includes one or more air entrances for receiving air into the first body portion and directing air into the second body portion, the air entrances being arranged to be engaged by the posts to register the storage device transporter in X, Y, and rotational directions when the storage device transporter is engaged by the automated machinery. 18. The storage device testing system of claim 13, wherein the first body portion includes a pair of slots, and wherein the automated machinery includes a pair of claws operable to engage the slots. 19. The storage device testing system of claim 13, further comprising a clamping mechanism operable to clamp a storage device within the second body portion, wherein the automated machinery is operable to actuate the clamping mechanism. 20. The storage device testing system of claim 13, wherein the automated machinery comprises a robotic arm and a manipulator attached to the robotic arm, the manipulator being configured to engage the storage device transporter. 