A system for automated assembly and welding is disclosed. The system includes a pallet for receiving incoming workpieces; a workpiece holder having a plurality of electromagnets; a handling robot configured to transport incoming workpieces from the pallet to the workpiece holder; and a controller in communication with the workpiece holder and the handling robot. The controller is configured to determine an orientation of a workpiece positioned on the workpiece holder, and to selectively adjust an activation state of one or more electromagnets of the workpiece holder based upon the orientation of the workpiece. A method of assembling and welding workpieces is also disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for assembling workpieces, the system comprising: a pallet for receiving incoming workpieces; a workpiece holder having a plurality of electromagnets; a handling robot configured to transport incoming workpieces from the pallet to the workpiece holder; and a controller in communication with the workpiece holder and the handling robot; wherein the controller is configured to determine an orientation of a workpiece positioned on the workpiece holder, and to selectively adjust an activation state of certain ones of the plurality of electromagnets of the workpiece holder based upon the orientation of the workpiece. 2. The system of claim 1, further comprising a working robot configured to operate relative to workpieces positioned on the workpiece holder; wherein the controller is in further communication with the working robot. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein the working robot is configured to perform one or more of inspecting, measuring, photographing, welding, drilling, and machining of workpieces positioned on the workpiece holder. 4. The system of claim 2, further including a tool changing station having a camera and a welding torch; wherein the working robot is configured to selectively retrieve the camera or welding torch for operating relative to workpieces positioned on the workpiece holder. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the electromagnets are connected to a support structure and configured to fix a workpiece to the support structure, and the support structure includes hard stops configured to orient a workpiece fixed to the support structure. 6. The system of claim 5, wherein the support structure includes a fixed table or a movable robotic arm. 7. The system of claim 1, further comprising a detection unit configured to collect data about incoming workpieces received on the pallet. 8. The system of claim 7, wherein the detection unit is a camera. 9. The system of claim 7, wherein the controller is further configured to determine an identity of the workpiece and to operate the workpiece holder and the handling robot based upon the identity of the workpiece. 10. The system of claim 2, further comprising a welding wire feeder in communication with the controller; wherein the controller is configured to operate the welding wire feeder in cooperation with the working robot when the working robot is manipulating a welding torch. 