A swipe scanner for scanning a graphic image pre-printed on a surface. The swipe scanner comprises: (a) a printhead for printing a position-coding pattern onto the graphic image, the position-coding pattern identifying a plurality of absolute positions and an impression identity for the graphic image; (b) an ink supply containing an ink for printing the position-coding pattern; (c) a first sensor for sensing positions of the scanner during a swipe of the surface; (d) a second image sensor for capturing, during the swipe, portions of the graphic image; and (e) a processor. The processor is configured for: using the sensed positions to control an output of the printhead during the swipe; using the sensed positions to assemble the captured portions of the graphic image into a scanned graphic image; and generating association data indicating an association between the impression identity, the plurality of absolute positions and the scanned graphic image.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A swipe scanner for scanning a graphic image pre-printed on a surface, said swipe scanner comprising: a printhead for printing a position-coding pattern onto said graphic image, said position-coding pattern identifying a plurality of absolute positions and an impression identity for the graphic image; an ink supply containing an ink for printing the position-coding pattern; at least one first sensor for sensing positions of said scanner during a swipe of the surface; at least one second image sensor for capturing, during said swipe, portions of the graphic image; and a processor configured for: using the sensed positions to control an output of said printhead during said swipe; using the sensed positions to assemble said captured portions of said graphic image into a scanned graphic image; and generating association data indicating an association between the impression identity, the plurality of absolute positions and the scanned graphic image. 2. The swipe scanner of claim 1, wherein said first sensor comprises an image sensor positioned for imaging portions of said surface on which said printhead has printed during a swipe of the surface, each imaged portion containing part of the position-coding pattern printed by said printhead during said swipe. 3. The swipe scanner of claim 2, wherein said first image sensor is positioned downstream of said printhead, wherein a swipe direction is defined as upstream. 4. The swipe scanner of claim 1, wherein said first sensor comprises a relative motion sensor. 5. The swipe scanner of claim 1, wherein said first sensor comprises an optical mouse sensor. 6. The swipe scanner of claim 1, wherein said ink is an infrared-absorbing ink. 7. The swipe scanner of claim 6, wherein said graphic image is printed with one or more colored inks having an infrared window, thereby enabling imaging of said position-coding pattern in the presence of said colored inks. 8. The swipe scanner of claim 1, further comprising a first memory for storing a plurality of impression identities, each stored impression identity being associable with a graphic image. 9. The swipe scanner of claim 8, wherein said ink supply comprises said first memory. 10. The swipe scanner of claim 1, further comprising communication means for communicating with a computer system. 11. The swipe scanner of claim 10, wherein said association data enables said computer system to associate one or more zones of the graphic image with a corresponding interactive element. 12. The swipe scanner of claim 11, wherein said interactive element is selected from the group comprising: a hyperlink, an input field and a button. 13. The swipe scanner of claim 11, wherein said computer system is configured for: (i) performing Optical Character Recognition (OCR) on the scanned graphic image to convert text images into computer text; (ii) generating an input description for said scanned graphic image, said input description describing words of computer text and zones of corresponding text images in the scanned graphic image; and (iii) storing a page description comprising said input description and said scanned graphic image, said page description being indexed with said impression identity, wherein said page description is retrievable so as to confer interactivity on the graphic image. 14. The swipe scanner of claim 13, wherein said computer system is further configured for: identifying URI text strings in the computer text; and generating the input description further describing a URI and a zone of a corresponding URI text string in the scanned graphic image. 15. The swipe scanner of claim 1, wherein said second image sensor is a linear image sensor. 16. The swipe scanner of claim 15, wherein said second image sensor is positioned parallel and/or substantially coextensive with said printhead. 17. The swipe scanner of claim 1, which is manually-swipable or robotically swipable. 18. A handheld device comprising the swipe printer according to claim 1. 19. The handheld device of claim 18, which is selected from the group comprising: a mobile phone and a personal digital assistant. 