A video game device calculates an angle of an object 71, etc., with respect to a reference direction in a three-dimensional space. Then, the video game device defines a virtual cylindrical model for each of a plurality of objects so that a bottom surface of each cylindrical model is perpendicular to the reference direction. The video game device defines a plurality of cylindrical models for a predetermined object if the inclination of the predetermined object with respect to the reference direction is greater than a predetermined angle. Then, the video game device determines whether or not the defined cylindrical models have an overlap therebetween. Then, if two cylindrical models are determined to be overlapping with each other, the video game device gives a predetermined change to the two objects in response to the collision.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing an image processing program to be executed by a computer of an image processing device for displaying, on a display device, a virtual three-dimensional space where there are a plurality of objects each having a collision detection region defined therefor, wherein the image processing program instructs the computer to perform: calculating an inclination of an object with respect to a predetermined reference direction in the three-dimensional space; determining the number of collision detection regions to be defined for the object according to the inclination of the object; and defining the determined number of collision detection regions for the object in an arrangement being determined according to the inclination of the object so that a bottom surface of each of the collision detection regions is perpendicular to the reference direction. 2. The storage medium according to claim 1, wherein the calculated inclination is represented by an angle between the reference direction and a direction of a ground at a position where the object is located. 3. The storage medium according to claim 1, wherein the calculated inclination is represented by an angle between a predetermined central axis of the object and the reference direction. 4. The storage medium according to claim 1, wherein in said determining the number-of-regions, the computer determines the number of regions to be defined for the object to be one if the inclination of the object with respect to the reference direction is less than a predetermined angle. 5. The storage medium according to claim 1, wherein in said determining the number-of-regions, the computer determines the number of regions to be defined for the object to be more than one if the inclination of the object with respect to the reference direction is greater than a predetermined angle. 6. The storage medium according to claim 4, wherein in said determining the number-of-regions, the computer determines the number of regions to be defined for the object to be more than one if the inclination of the object with respect to the reference direction is greater than the predetermined angle. 7. The storage medium according to claim 4, wherein a sum of bottom-surface diameters of the number of collision detection regions defined for the object is greater than or equal to a height of a single collision detection region to be defined for the object when the inclination of the object with respect to the reference direction is less than the predetermined angle. 8. The storage medium according to claim 6, wherein a sum of bottom-surface diameters of a plurality of collision detection regions defined for the object when the inclination of the object with respect to the reference direction is greater than the predetermined angle is greater than or equal to a height of a single collision detection region to be defined for the object when the inclination of the object with respect to the reference direction is less than the predetermined angle. 9. The storage medium according to claim 1, wherein if the number of regions is determined to be two or more in said determining the number-of-regions, the computer arranges, in said defining the determined number of collision detection regions, the collision detection regions defined for the object so that each collision detection region is in contact with at least one of the other collision detection regions and so that the collision detection regions are combined into a single integral region. 10. The storage medium according to claim 1, wherein said defining the determined number of collision detection regions includes changing a size of the collision detection region defined for the object according to the angle of the object if the inclination of the object with respect to the reference direction is greater than a predetermined angle. 11. An image processing device for displaying, on a display device, a virtual three-dimensional space where there is at least one object each having a collision detection region defined therefor, the image processing device comprising: an inclination angle calculator for calculating an inclination of an object with respect to a predetermined reference direction in the three-dimensional space; number-of-regions determining programmed logic circuitry for determining the number of collision detection regions to be defined for the object according to the inclination of the object; and collision detection region defining programmed logic circuitry for defining the determined number of collision detection regions for the object in an arrangement determined according to the inclination of the object so that a bottom surface of each of the collision detection regions is perpendicular to the reference direction. 12. The device according to claim 11, wherein the inclination calculated by the inclination calculator is represented by an angle between the reference direction and a direction of a ground at a position where the object is located. 13. The device according to claim 11, wherein the inclination calculated by the inclination calculator is represented by an angle between a predetermined central axis of the object and the reference direction. 14. The device according to claim 11, wherein by the number-of-regions determining programmed logic circuitry, the image processing device determines the number of regions to be defined for the object to be one if the inclination of the object with respect to the reference direction is less than a predetermined angle. 15. The device according to claim 11, wherein by the number-of-regions determining programmed logic circuitry, the image processing device determines the number of regions to be defined for the object to be more than one if the inclination of the object with respect to the reference direction is greater than a predetermined angle. 16. The device according to claim 14, wherein by the number-of-regions determining programmed logic circuitry, the image processing device determines the number of regions to be defined for the object to be more than one if the inclination of the object with respect to the reference direction is greater than the predetermined angle. 17. The device according to claim 14, wherein a sum of bottom-surface diameters of the number of collision detection regions defined for the object is greater than or equal to a height of a single collision detection region to be defined for the object when the inclination of the object with respect to the reference direction is less than the predetermined angle. 18. The device according to claim 16, wherein a sum of bottom-surface diameters of a plurality of collision detection regions defined for the object when the inclination of the object with respect to the reference direction is greater than the predetermined angle is greater than or equal to a height of a single collision detection region to be defined for the object when the inclination of the object with respect to the reference direction is less than the predetermined angle. 19. The device according to claim 11, wherein if the number of regions is determined to be two or more by the number-of-regions determining programmed logic circuitry, the image processing device arranges, by the collision detection region defining programmed logic circuitry, the collision detection regions defined for the object so that each collision detection region is in contact with at least one of the other collision detection regions and so that the collision detection regions are combined into a single integral region. 20. The device according to claim 11, wherein the collision detection region defining programmed logic circuitry includes a size changing programmed logic circuitry of changing a size of the collision detection region defined for the object according to the angle of the object if the inclination of the object with respect to the reference direction is greater than a predetermined angle. 21. A method executed by a computer of an image processing device for displaying, on a display device, a virtual three-dimensional space where there are a plurality of objects each having a collision detection region defined therefor, the method comprising: calculating, using the computer, an inclination of an object with respect to a predetermined reference direction in the three-dimensional space; determining the number of collision detection regions to be defined for the object according to the inclination of the object; and defining the determined number of collision detection regions for the object in an arrangement being determined according to the inclination of the object so that a bottom surface of each of the collision detection regions is perpendicular to the reference direction. 22. A system comprising: a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium configured to store an image processing program to be executed for displaying, on a display device, a virtual three-dimensional space where there are a plurality of objects each having a collision detection region defined therefor; and a computer system, having one or more processors, the computer system being configured to execute the program to: calculate an inclination of an object with respect to a predetermined reference direction in the three-dimensional space; determine the number of collision detection regions to be defined for the object according to the inclination of the object; and define the determined number of collision detection regions for the object in an arrangement being determined according to the inclination of the object so that a bottom surface of each of the collision detection regions is perpendicular to the reference direction. 