A multi-part tool assembly for harvesting and implanting follicular units, comprising an outer cannula having an open, tissue-piercing distal end, and an inner cannula coaxially positioned in a lumen of the first cannula, the second cannula having an open, tissue-coring distal end sized to engage and retain single hair follicular units. An obturator may be positioned in the lumen of the second cannula, wherein at least one of the first cannula, second cannula, and obturator are movable relative to the other ones.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for harvesting and implanting hair follicular units, the apparatus including a tool assembly comprising: an implanting cannula having a distal end and a lumen; a harvesting cannula positioned coaxially relative to the implanting cannula, the harvesting cannula having a distal end and a lumen sized to encapsulate a follicular unit; and one or more of a mechanical, electromechanical, pneumatic, hydraulic, or magnetic system or mechanism configured to provide movement of at least one of the implanting or harvesting cannulas relative to the other and/or to the tool assembly; wherein, when penetrating a donor region to harvest hair follicular units, the distal end of the implanting cannula is located proximal to the distal end of the harvesting cannula. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a processor configured to control operation of the one or more of the mechanical, electromechanical, pneumatic, hydraulic, or magnetic system or mechanism. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the one or more of the mechanical, electromechanical, pneumatic, hydraulic, or magnetic system or mechanism comprises one or more motors. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the tool assembly further comprises an obturator, the obturator is co-axial and movable relative to one or both of the harvesting and the implanting cannulas. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a positioning assembly for engaging the tool assembly. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the tool assembly is coupled to a moveable arm and the moveable arm is maneuverable to position the tool assembly relative to the donor or an implant region. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the harvesting cannula is movable relative to the donor region by one or more of (1) movement of the harvesting cannula relative to the tool assembly, (2) movement of the moveable arm, or (3) movement of the harvesting cannula relative to the moveable arm. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein one or both of the implanting and harvesting cannulas are removable from the tool assembly. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the harvesting cannula is rotatable about its longitudinal axis. 10. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a processor configured to determine a position of the implanting and/or harvesting cannulas based at least in part on image data received from one or more cameras. 11. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a force sensor and a control circuitry, and wherein the control circuitry is configured to stop harvesting or implanting process if a force sensed by the force sensor exceeds a prescribed limit. 12. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a source of pressure in communication with the lumen of the harvesting cannula. 13. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein at least a portion of an interior wall of the harvesting cannula is texturized. 14. A method of transplanting a follicular unit using a tool assembly, the tool assembly comprising coaxially disposed harvesting and implanting cannulas, the method comprising: advancing a harvesting cannula relative to a donor area of a body surface to penetrate the body surface and to substantially encapsulate a follicular unit, and when penetrating the body surface to harvest the follicular unit, a tissue piercing distal end of an implanting cannula is located proximal to a distal end of the harvesting cannula; withdrawing the harvesting cannula from the body surface with the follicular unit retained in a lumen of the harvesting cannula; advancing the tissue piercing distal end of the implanting cannula to puncture a recipient area of the body surface and to form an implantation cavity therein; and displacing the follicular unit from the harvesting cannula lumen into the implantation cavity. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein advancing the harvesting cannula to penetrate the body surface comprises rotating the harvesting cannula about its longitudinal axis. 16. The method of claim 14, the method further comprising determining relative positions of the harvesting and implanting cannulas. 17. The method of claim 14, wherein the follicular unit is displaced from the harvesting cannula lumen by an obturator or by pressurized air. 18. The method of claim 14, wherein the harvesting cannula and/or implanting cannula is advanced into the body surface by actuating one or more of a mechanical, electromechanical, pneumatic, hydraulic, or magnetic system or mechanism configured to provide movement of at least one of the respective harvesting cannula or the implanting cannula relative to the other. 19. The method of claim 14, wherein advancing the harvesting cannula relative to the donor area of the body surface is performed by one or more of (1) movement of the harvesting cannula relative to the tool assembly, (2) movement of an operator's arm, (3) movement of an automated arm to which the harvesting cannula may be attached, or (4) movement of the harvesting cannula relative to the automated arm to which the harvesting cannula may be attached. 20. The method of claim 14, wherein the tool assembly further comprises a force sensor, and wherein the method further comprises stopping operation of one or both of the harvesting and implanting cannulas if a force sensed from the force sensor exceeds a prescribed limit. 21. A method of transplanting a follicular unit using a tool assembly, the tool assembly comprising coaxially disposed harvesting and implanting cannulas, the method comprising: advancing a harvesting cannula relative to a donor area of a body surface to penetrate the body surface and to substantially encapsulate a follicular unit; withdrawing the harvesting cannula from the body surface with the follicular unit retained in a lumen of the harvesting cannula; advancing a tissue piercing distal end of an implanting cannula past a distal end of the harvesting cannula to puncture a recipient area of the body surface and to form an implantation cavity therein; and displacing the follicular unit from the harvesting cannula lumen into the implantation cavity. 22. An apparatus for harvesting and implanting hair follicular units, the apparatus including a tool assembly comprising: an implanting cannula having a distal end and a lumen, a harvesting cannula positioned coaxially relative to the implanting cannula, the harvesting cannula having a distal end and a lumen sized to receive a follicular unit; and one or more of a mechanical, electromechanical, pneumatic, hydraulic, or magnetic system or mechanism configured to provide movement of at least one of the implanting or harvesting cannulas relative to the other and/or to the tool assembly; wherein the tool assembly is configured such that the distal end of the harvesting cannula is movable distally beyond the distal end of the implanting cannula and, when puncturing an implant region to form an implantation cavity, the distal end of the implanting cannula is advanced past the distal end of the harvesting cannula. 23. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein the tool assembly is coupled to a moveable arm and the moveable arm is maneuverable to position the tool assembly relative to a donor or the implant region. 24. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein the tool assembly further comprises an obturator and the apparatus is configured to provide controlled movement of the obturator relative to at least one of the implanting cannula or the harvesting cannula. 25. The apparatus of claim 22, further comprising a source of negative pressure in selective fluid communication with the harvesting cannula lumen. 26. The apparatus of claim 23, wherein the harvesting cannula or implanting cannula is movable relative to the donor region or the implant region, respectively, by one or more of (1) movement of the harvesting cannula or the implanting cannula relative to the tool assembly, (2) movement of the moveable arm, or (3) movement of the harvesting cannula or the implanting cannula relative to the moveable arm. 27. The apparatus of claim 22, further comprising a processor configured to control operation of the one or more of the mechanical, electromechanical, pneumatic, hydraulic, or magnetic system or mechanism. 28. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein the harvesting cannula is rotatable about its longitudinal axis. 29. The apparatus of claim 22 further comprising a processor configured to determine a position of the implanting and/or harvesting cannulas based at least in part on image data received from one or more cameras. 30. The apparatus of claim 22 further comprising a force sensor and a control circuitry, and wherein the control circuitry is configured to stop harvesting or implanting process if a force sensed by the force sensor exceeds a prescribed limit. 