A remote controlled robot system that includes a robot and a remote control station. The robot includes a binaural microphone system that is coupled to a speaker system of the remote control station. The binaural microphone system may include a pair of microphones located at opposite sides of a robot head. The location of the microphones roughly coincides with the location of ears on a human body. Such microphone location creates a mobile robot that more effectively simulates the tele-presence of an operator of the system. The robot may include two different microphone systems and the ability to switch between systems. For example, the robot may also include a zoom camera system and a directional microphone. The directional microphone may be utilized to capture sound from a direction that corresponds to an object zoomed upon by the camera system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A remote controlled robot system, comprising: a robot with a camera system, a directional microphone and a binaural microphone system that captures a sound, said camera system can switch between zoom and non-zoom modes, said directional microphone is utilized when said camera system is in said zoom mode; and, a remote control station that transmits commands to control said robot, said remote control station includes a speaker system that is coupled to said binaural microphone system to generate said sound captured by said binaural microphone and a monitor coupled to said robot camera. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein said camera system and said binaural microphone system are attached to a robot head that can move in at least two degrees of freedom, said binaural microphone system including a first microphone located on a first side of said head and a second microphone located on a second side of said head. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein said binaural microphone system includes a first microphone and a second microphone that are spaced at approximately equal angles relative to a plane that intersects said camera system. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein said remote control station monitor displays a display user interface, said display user interface includes a graphical interface that can be used to switch between said binaural microphone system and said directional microphone. 5. The system of claim 2, wherein said remote control station monitor displays a display user interface, said display user interface provides a graphical depiction of an origin of sound. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein said robot includes a mobile platform. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein said robot includes a monitor that is coupled to a camera of said remote control station. 8. A method for hearing sound produced at a site of a robot, comprising: capturing sound with a binaural microphone system of a robot that has a camera system and a directional microphone; transmitting the sound captured by the binaural microphone system to a remote control station; switching the camera system of the robot between zoom and non-zoom modes; capturing sound with the directional microphone when the camera system is in the zoom mode; and, transmitting the sound captured by the directional microphone to the remote control station. 9. The method of claim 8, further comprising displaying a display user interface on a monitor of the remote control station, the display user interface includes a graphical interface that can be used to switch between the binaural microphone system and the directional microphone. 10. The method of claim 8, further comprising displaying a display user interface on a monitor of the remote control station, the display user interface provides a graphical depiction of an origin of sound. 11. The method of claim 8, further comprising moving the robot across a surface. 12. A method for hearing sound produced at a site of a robot, comprising: capturing sound with a microphone system of a robot that is coupled to a robot head that has a camera system and a directional microphone, said camera system can switch between zoom and non-zoom modes, said directional microphone is utilized when said camera system is in said zoom mode; converting the sound into a plurality of audio channels; transmitting the sound to a remote control station; producing the sound at the remote control station; moving the robot head; switching the camera system of the robot between zoom and non-zoom modes; and producing the sound captured by the directional microphone when the camera system is in the zoom mode. 13. The method of claim 12, further comprising displaying a display user interface on a monitor of the remote control station, the display user interface provides a graphical depiction of an origin of sound. 14. The method of claim 12, further comprising moving the robot across a surface. 15. A remote controlled robot system, comprising: a robot with a camera system and a microphone system with a directional microphone and a binaural microphone system that capture a sound, said camera system can switch between zoom and non-zoom modes, said directional microphone is utilized when said camera system is in said zoom mode; and, a remote control station that transmits commands to control said robot, said remote control station includes a speaker system that is coupled to said microphone system, said remote control station further includes a monitor that displays a display user interface with a graphical depiction of an origin of sound. 16. The system of claim 15, wherein said camera system and said microphone system are attached to a robot head that can move in at least two degrees of freedom, said microphone system including a first microphone located on a first side of said head and a second microphone located on a second side of said head. 17. The system of claim 16, wherein said first and second microphones are spaced at approximately equal angles relative to a plane that intersects said camera system. 18. The system of claim 15, wherein said display user interface includes a graphical interface that can be used to switch between said binaural microphone system and said directional microphone. 19. The system of claim 15, wherein said robot includes a mobile platform. 20. The system of claim 15, wherein said robot includes a monitor that is coupled to a camera of said remote control station. 21. A remote controlled robot system, comprising: a robot with a camera system, a binaural microphone system and a directional microphone; and, a remote control station that transmits commands to control said robot, said remote control station having a speaker system and switches a speaker output between said binaural microphone system and said directional microphone. 22. The system of claim 21, wherein said binaural microphone system includes a first microphone and a second microphone that are spaced at approximately equal angles relative to a plane that intersects said camera system. 23. The system of claim 21, wherein said robot camera system can switch between zoom and non-zoom modes, said directional microphone is utilized when said camera system is in said zoom mode. 24. The system of claim 21, wherein said remote control station includes a monitor that displays a display user interface, said display user interface includes a graphical interface that can be used to switch between said binaural microphone system and said directional microphone. 25. The system of claim 21, wherein said robot includes a monitor that is coupled to a camera of said remote control station. 26. A remote controlled robot system, comprising: a robot with a camera system, a first microphone system and a second microphone system; and, a remote control station that transmits commands to control said robot, said remote control station having a speaker system and switches a speaker output between said first and second microphone systems, said remote control station includes a monitor that displays a display user interface with a graphical interface that can be used to switch between said first and second microphone systems. 27. The system of claim 26, wherein said first microphone system includes a binaural microphone system and said second microphone system includes a directional microphone. 28. A remote controlled robot system, comprising: a robot with a camera system, a directional microphone and a binaural microphone system that captures a sound, said camera system can switch between zoom and non-zoom modes, said directional microphone is utilized when said camera system is in said zoom mode; a remote control station that transmits commands to control said robot, said remote control station includes a speaker system that is coupled to said binaural microphone system to generate said sound captured by said binaural microphone and a monitor coupled to said robot camera, said monitor displays a display user interface, said display user interface includes a graphical interface that can be used to switch between said binaural microphone system and said directional microphone. 29. The system of claim 28, wherein said monitor displays a display user interface, said display user interface provides a graphical depiction of an origin of sound. 30. A method for hearing sound produced at a site of a robot, comprising: capturing sound with a binaural microphone system of a robot that has a camera system and a directional microphone; transmitting the sound captured by the binaural microphone system to a remote control station; switching the camera system of the robot between zoom and non-zoom modes; capturing sound with the directional microphone when the camera system is in the zoom mode; transmitting the sound captured by the directional microphone to the remote control station; and, displaying a display user interface on a monitor of the remote control station, the display user interface includes a graphical interface that can be used to switch between the binaural microphone system and the directional microphone. 31. The method of claim 30, further comprising displaying a display user interface on a monitor of the remote control station, the display user interface provides a graphical depiction of an origin of sound. 32. A remote controlled robot system, comprising: a robot with a camera system and a microphone system with a directional microphone; and, a remote control station that transmits commands to control said robot, said remote control station includes a speaker system that is coupled to said microphone system, said remote control station further includes a monitor that displays a display user interface with a graphical depiction of an origin of sound, said display user interface includes a graphical interface that can be used to switch between said binaural microphone system and said directional microphone. 33. A remote controlled robot system, comprising: a robot with a camera system, a binaural microphone system and a directional microphone; and, a remote control station that transmits commands to control said robot, said remote control station having a speaker system and switches a speaker output between said binaural microphone system and said directional microphone. 