A surgical instrument is inserted through a guide tube. A telemanipulation system moves the distal end of the surgical instrument in all six Cartesian degrees of freedom independently of any guide tube movements.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus comprising: a first minimally invasive surgical instrument comprising: a first instrument body comprising a first proximal portion and a first distal portion, wherein the first distal portion is configured to be inserted through a first channel of a guide tube, and wherein the first proximal portion is substantially rigid; a first surgical end effector coupled to the first distal portion of the first instrument body; and a first transmission mechanism coupled to the first proximal portion of the first instrument body, the first transmission mechanism being configured to mate to a first plurality of telemanipulation actuators, and the first transmission mechanism being configured to transmit actuation forces from the first plurality of telemanipulation actuators to the first surgical end effector of the first surgical instrument to move the first surgical end effector with at least five of the six Cartesian degrees of freedom independently of degrees of freedom of the guide tube, wherein the first proximal portion of the first instrument body is resiliently bent between the first transmission mechanism and a proximal end of the guide tube when the first distal portion of the first instrument body is inserted through the guide tube; and a second minimally invasive surgical instrument comprising: a second instrument body comprising a second proximal portion and a second distal portion, wherein the second distal portion is configured to be inserted through a second channel of the guide tube, and wherein the second proximal portion is substantially rigid; a second surgical end effector coupled to the second distal portion of the second instrument body; and a second transmission mechanism coupled to the second proximal portion of the second instrument body, the second transmission mechanism being configured to mate to a second plurality of telemanipulation actuators, and the second transmission mechanism being configured to transmit actuation forces from the second plurality of telemanipulation actuators to the second surgical end effector of the second surgical instrument to move the second surgical end effector with at least five of the six Cartesian degrees of freedom independently of the degrees of freedom of the guide tube; wherein the second proximal portion of the second instrument body is resiliently bent between the second transmission mechanism and the proximal end of the guide tube when the second distal portion of the second instrument body is inserted through the guide tube so that the second surgical instrument can be inserted through the second channel of the guide tube while the first surgical instrument is inserted through the first channel of the guide tube. 2. The minimally invasive surgical instrument of claim 1: wherein a force applied by a telemanipulation actuator to the first transmission mechanism operates the first surgical end effector in a seventh degree of freedom that is independent of the six Cartesian degrees of freedom in which the first surgical end effector moves. 3. The minimally invasive surgical instrument of claim 1: wherein a portion of the first surgical instrument that extends beyond a distal end of the guide tube through which the first surgical instrument is inserted comprises a flexible assembly that provides at least two Cartesian degrees of freedom for the first surgical end effector. 4. The minimally invasive surgical instrument of claim 1, further comprising: a fiber optic bend sensor. 5. The minimally invasive surgical instrument of claim 1: wherein one of the forces applied by the first plurality of telemanipulation actuators to the first transmission mechanism comprises a force applied to a housing of the first transmission mechanism to translate the first instrument body within the guide tube. 6. The minimally invasive surgical instrument of claim 1: wherein a first of the six Cartesian degrees of freedom of the first surgical instrument comprises translation of the first instrument body within the guide tube; and wherein a second of the six Cartesian degrees of freedom of the first surgical instrument comprises roll of the first instrument body within the guide tube. 7. The minimally invasive surgical instrument of claim 1, further comprising: a wrist mechanism coupled between the first distal end of the first instrument body and the first surgical end effector. 8. The minimally invasive surgical instrument of claim 1: wherein at least a portion of the first surgical instrument body that extends beyond a distal end of the guide tube is flexible. 9. The minimally invasive surgical instrument of claim 1: wherein the first surgical end effector comprises a stereoscopic image capture component. 10. The minimally invasive surgical instrument of claim 1, the first transmission mechanism comprising a housing having a wedge shape. 11. The minimally invasive surgical instrument of claim 1, the first transmission mechanism comprising a mechanical interface for an actuator mechanism, wherein the mechanical interface is positioned on a side of the first transmission mechanism proximal to the guide tube. 12. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: an actuator assembly including the first plurality of telemanipulation actuators. 13. The apparatus of claim 1, the first transmission mechanism comprising a housing having a wedge shape; and the second transmission mechanism comprising a second housing having a wedge shape. 14. The apparatus of claim 13, the wedge shape comprising a first vertex edge wherein the first vertex edges is oriented along and adjacent an extended centerline of the guide tube. 15. An apparatus comprising: a guide tube having a proximal end and a distal end, wherein an extended longitudinal centerline of the guide tube is defined to extend beyond the proximal and distal ends of the guide tube; a first minimally invasive surgical instrument comprising a first instrument body having a proximal end and a distal end, a first housing coupled to the proximal end of the first instrument body, and a first end effector coupled to the distal end of the first instrument body, wherein the first instrument body includes a substantially rigid first proximal portion and a first distal portion coupled to the first proximal portion at a first joint, and wherein the first housing comprises a wedge shape having a first vertex, the first instrument body being coupled to the first housing near the first vertex; a second minimally invasive surgical instrument comprising a second instrument body having a proximal end and a distal end, a second housing coupled to the proximal end of the second instrument body, and a second end effector coupled to the distal end of the second instrument body, wherein the second instrument body includes a substantially rigid second proximal portion and a second distal portion coupled to the second proximal portion at a second joint, and wherein the second housing comprises a wedge shape having a second vertex, the second instrument body being coupled to the second housing near the second vertex; and wherein the first instrument body is positioned longitudinally through the guide tube so that the first housing is proximal of the proximal end of the guide tube, wherein the first joint and the first distal portion of the first instrument body and the first end effector are distal of the distal end of the guide tube, and wherein the first proximal portion of the first instrument body between the first housing and the proximal end of the guide tube is resiliently bent away from the extended longitudinal centerline of the guide tube; wherein the second instrument body is positioned longitudinally through the guide tube so that the second housing is proximal of the proximal end of the guide tube, wherein the second joint and the second distal portion of the second instrument and the second end effector are distal of the distal end of the guide tube, and wherein the second proximal portion of the second instrument body between the second housing and the proximal end of the guide tube is resiliently bent away from the extended longitudinal centerline of the guide tube; and wherein the first vertex and the second vertex are oriented adjacent to the extended longitudinal centerline of the guide tube. 