A virtual wheel provides a leg pair as a conveyance mechanism for a land vehicle. The virtual wheel propels the vehicle across a surface using a repetitive motion of the legs that contact the ground as would a wheel, due to their geometry. Vehicle embodiments include at least two-, three-, four- and six-wheeled vehicles, both transverse and in-line. Additionally, the invention provides a bipedal walking robot. One embodiment provides a robotic mule--a payload-carrying vehicle. The invention combines the flexible mobility of bipedal vehicles with the stability and functionality of very large-wheeled vehicles. Additionally, a bimodal conveyance mechanism readily converts between walking and rolling modes.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A conveyance mechanism comprising: a plurality of radial members, each member having attached to a distal end a curved foot, said each member attached to a common axle at a proximal end; wherein said radial members pivot freely about said axle so that said feet rotate in parallel planes to each other in a walking mode; and wherein at least two of said feet each include at least one attachment element for attaching to each other in a common plane to form a circle in a rolling mode. 2. The mechanism of claim 1, wherein any of said radial members and said feet are jointed so that said circle is collapsible to a stowed configuration. 3. The mechanism of claim 1, comprising two of said radial members, wherein each foot subtends an arc of approximately 180 degrees, the radius of said arc approximating the length of said radial members. 4. The mechanism of claim 1, wherein maintaining an offset between said feet enables them to rotate in said parallel planes, and wherein eliminating said offset allows them to be attached in said common plane. 5. The mechanism of claim 4, wherein said radial members are offset from each other along said axle when said feet are offset from each other. 6. The mechanism of claim 4, wherein said radial members are positioned along said axle such that said feet are coplanar when said offset between said feet is eliminated. 7. The mechanism of claim 6, wherein each proximal end includes a hub, and wherein said hubs are shaped to engage each other as said feet are moved into said common plane. 8. The mechanism of claim 7, wherein said hubs are shaped to lock to one another rigidly so that said radial members form at least one rigid diametric spoke. 9. The mechanism of claim 4, wherein said each member is shaped to offset said foot relative to the hub. 10. The mechanism of claim 4, wherein said each member is coupled to said axle by a hinged yoke. 11. The mechanism of claim 10, wherein flipping said each member about said axle using said hinged yoke transitions said feet between said parallel planes and said common plane. 12. The mechanism of claim 1, wherein said foot includes at least one hinge. 13. The mechanism of claim 12, wherein said hinge allows said foot to fold into an arc subscribing less than 180 degrees. 14. The mechanism of claim 1, wherein a connection between said each member and said foot is hinged, allowing said foot to pivot relative to said each member. 15. The mechanism of claim 1, wherein said attachment elements are disposed at leading and trailing edges of at least two of said feet; said attachment elements attaching a trailing edge of a first foot of a sequence of feet to the leading edge of a next foot of said sequence of feet; and attaching the leading edge of said first foot to the trailing edge of the last foot in said sequence. 16. The mechanism of claim 1, comprising n of said radial members, wherein n is a whole number greater than two, and wherein said foot subtends an arc 360 degrees/n. 