A laboratory storage and retrieval system and a method to handle laboratory sample tubes are disclosed. The laboratory storage and retrieval system for storing sample tubes and retrieving stored sample tubes comprises a rack handler section (12) and a storage section (14), the rack handler section (12) comprising a transport system and a determination unit, wherein the transport system receives and transports incoming primary racks (PR) containing sample tubes (S) to the determination unit for determining at least one given parameter of the sample tubes (S) relating to predetermined sort criteria in order to have the transport system unload the sample tubes from the analysed primary rack (PR) and resort the unloaded sample tubes into appropriate storage racks (SR) depending on the determined sample tubes' sort criteria parameter for storage in the storage section (14) in the storage racks.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A laboratory storage and retrieval system to store sample tubes and retrieve stored sample tubes, comprising: a rack handler section (12) and a storage section (14), the rack handler section (12) comprising a transport system and a determination unit, wherein the transport system receives and transports incoming primary racks (PR) containing sample tubes (S) to the determination unit for determining at least one given parameter of the sample tubes (S) relating to predetermined sort criteria, the sort criteria comprising the sample tube (S) diameter; wherein the transport system unloads the sample tubes from the analysed primary racks (PR) and resorts the unloaded sample tubes into appropriate storage racks (SR) depending on the sample tubes' sort criteria for storage of the storage racks in the storage section (14); the storage racks (SR) comprising a first storage rack with openings of a first diameter to receive sample tubes (S) of a first diameter and a second storage rack with openings of a second diameter to receive sample tubes (S) of a second diameter. 2. The laboratory storage and retrieval system of claim 1, wherein the sort criteria further comprise a parameter selected from the group of parameters consisting of content of the sample tube, height of the sample tube, and shelf life of the sample tube. 3. The laboratory storage and retrieval system of claim 1, wherein the transport system comprises at least one first robotic arm (220) for handling incoming primary racks (PR) and at least one second robotic arm (320) for resorting sample tubes (S) from primary racks (PR) into storage racks (SR). 4. The laboratory storage and retrieval system of claim 1, wherein the storage section (14) comprises a storage transport system for transporting and handling the storage racks (SR), the storage transport system being designed to automatically retrieve a storage rack once the shelf lives of the sample tubes in the storage rack have expired and automatically disposes the sample tubes contained therein. 5. The laboratory storage and retrieval system of claim 1, further comprising a resorting station (310) which is located outside of the storage section (14), the resorting station (310) having at least two holders (314) for holding storage racks (SR). 6. The laboratory storage and retrieval system of claim 4, the storage section (14) further comprising a built-in disposal unit (18). 7. The laboratory storage and retrieval system of claim 3, further comprising a primary rack docking element (340) for accommodating primary racks (PR) to be unloaded or loaded by the second robotic arm (320), the primary rack docking element (340) comprising at least one recess (346) adapted to accommodate a primary rack (PR), which recess (346) is provided with a locking mechanism (350, 352, 354) for locking the primary rack (PR) in its docking position. 8. The laboratory storage and retrieval system of claim 7, wherein the locking mechanism (350, 352, 354) is actuated by a primary rack gripper (222) of the first robotic arm (220). 9. The laboratory storage and retrieval system of claim 1, further comprising a storage rack docking element (312) and wherein sample tubes to be retrieved from the storage section (14) are transferred in their storage rack (SR) to the storage rack docking element (312) where the sample tubes to be retrieved are resorted into outgoing primary racks. 10. A method for handling laboratory sample tubes in a laboratory storage and retrieval system for storing laboratory sample tubes and retrieving stored sample tubes, the laboratory storage and retrieval system comprising a rack handler section (12) and a refrigerating or storage section (14), the method comprising the steps of: in the rack handler section (12), transferring an incoming primary rack (PR) containing sample tubes (S) to a determination unit by means of a first robotic arm (220) and determining at least one given parameter of the sample tubes (S) relating to predetermined sort criteria, the sort criteria comprising the sample tube (S) diameter; unloading sample tubes (S) from the analysed primary rack (PR) by means of a second robotic arm (320) and resorting the sample tubes (S) into storage racks (SR) depending on the predetermined sort criteria, the storage racks (SR) being different from the primary racks (PR), and comprising a first storage rack with openings of a first diameter to receive sample tubes (S) of a first diameter and a second storage rack with openings of a second diameter to receive sample tubes (S) of a second diameter; and storing the storage racks (SR) in the refrigerating or storage section (14). 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the sort criteria further comprise a parameter selected from the group of parameters consisting of content of the sample tube, height of the sample tube and shelf life of the sample tube. 12. The method of claim 10, further comprising the step of determining with the determination unit whether a sample tube in the primary rack (PR) is non-system conform, and wherein any non-system conform sample tubes present in the primary rack are left in the primary rack (PR). 13. The method of claim 10, further comprising the steps of: removing a storage rack (SR) from the storage section (14); resorting a sample tube (S) for which sample an analytical test is desired from the removed storage rack into an outgoing primary rack; and transferring the outgoing primary rack to an out-position. 14. The method of claim 13, further comprising the step of automatically uncapping the sample tube (S) for which an analytical test is desired. 