The present invention creates a tape laying device as well as a method for the construction of a laminate by means of a tape laying device, in particular in the field of aviation and aerospace. The tape laying device comprises a laying arrangement for laying tape for the construction of a laminate and a stimulation arrangement by means of which the tape which has to be laid can be stimulated directly and evenly over the thickness thereof so as to be heated. The idea the present invention is based on consists in that instead of the stimulation at the surface of the tape which has to be laid which is known to the Applicant a direct and evenly stimulation of the tape which has to be laid takes place, that means, a stimulation which acts substantially direct and evenly over the thickness of the tape which has to be laid on the tapes components. The heating achieved by this is much faster than by means of convection according to the known approach. Therefore, the desired tackiness of the tape which has to be laid can be achieved at the desired high laying velocity.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A tape laying device, in particular in the field of aviation and aerospace, comprising: a laying arrangement for laying tape for the construction of a laminate, the laying arrangement comprising a pressure roller with which the tape to be laid can be pressed onto laid tape; and a stimulation arrangement, in the form of an ultrasound arrangement, with which the tape to be laid can be stimulated directly and evenly over the thickness thereof so as to be heated, the stimulation arrangement being integrated into the pressure roller and the stimulation arrangement comprising a plurality of stimulation units which are arranged distributed along the circumference of the pressure roller. 2. The tape laying device according to claim 1, wherein the plurality of stimulation units can be wired in such a way that, as the pressure roller rotates, only the stimulation units which are arranged in the region of the circumference of the pressure roller associated with the tape to be laid are switched on. 3. The tape laying device according to claim 1, wherein the laying arrangement comprises a pressure roller, with which the tape to be laid can be pressed onto laid tape, the stimulation arrangement and the pressure roller forming a gap through which the tape to be laid can be guided so as to be stimulated. 4. The tape laying device according to claim 1, wherein a further stimulation arrangement is provided with which laid tape can be stimulated directly and evenly over the thickness thereof so as to be heated. 5. The tape laying device according to claim 4, wherein the further stimulation arrangement is arranged behind the pressure roller, as seen in the displacement direction thereof, to stimulate the laid tape. 6. The tape laying device according to claim 4, wherein the further stimulation arrangement is integrated into a sliding block or a roller. 7. The tape laying device according to claim 1, wherein the tape to be laid and/or the laid tape is stimulated without contact. 8. A method for the construction of a laminate using a tape laying device, in particular in the field of aviation and aerospace, comprising the following steps: supplying tape to be laid to a laying arrangement, the laying arrangement comprising a pressure roller; direct and even stimulation of the tape to be laid over the thickness thereof using a stimulation arrangement in the form of an ultrasound arrangement, the stimulation arrangement being integrated into the pressure roller and the stimulation arrangement comprising a plurality of stimulation units which are arranged distributed along the circumference of the pressure roller; and laying the tape to be laid to construct the laminate using the laying arrangement. 9. The method according to claim 8, wherein the tape to be laid is laid on laid tape, the laid tape being stimulated directly and evenly over the thickness thereof for heating purposes with a further stimulation arrangement before laying the tape to be laid. 