The present invention is directed to a tool having a wrist mechanism that provides pitch and yaw rotation in such a way that the tool has no singularity in roll, pitch, and yaw. A positively positionable multi-disk wrist mechanism includes a plurality of disks or vertebrae stacked in series. Each vertebra is configured to rotate in pitch or in yaw with respect to each neighboring vertebra. Actuation cables are used to manipulate and control movement of the vertebrae. In specific embodiments, some of the cables are distal cables that extend from a proximal vertebra through one or more intermediate vertebrae to a distal vertebra, while the remaining cables are medial cables that extend from the proximal vertebra to one or more of the intermediate vertebrae. The cables are actuated by a pivoted plate cable actuator mechanism. In specific embodiments, the actuator mechanism includes a plurality of small radius holes or grooves for receiving the medial cables and a plurality of large radius holes or grooves for receiving the distal cables. The holes or grooves restrain the medial cables to a small radius of motion and the distal cables to a large radius of motion, so that the medial cables to the medial vertebra move only a fraction of the amount as the distal cables to the distal vertebra, so as to achieve precise control and manipulation of the vertebrae.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of performing minimally invasive endoscopic surgery in a body cavity of a patient, the method comprising: inserting an end effector of a tool into a surgical site, the tool comprising an elongate shaft having a working end coupled with the end effector, a proximal end, and a shaft axis between the working end and the proximal end, the end effector including a grip support having a left pivot pin and a right pivot pin, the end effector further comprising a left jaw and a right jaw; sliding a left slider pin relative to the left pivot pin in a left slider pin slot of a slotted member, the left slider pin attached to the left jaw and spaced from the left pivot pin, the sliding the left slider pin causing the left jaw to move between an open position and a closed position by rotationally pivoting the left jaw about the left pivot pin; and sliding the right slider pin relative to the right pivot pin in a right slider pin slot of the slotted member, the right slider pin attached to the right jaw and spaced from the right pivot pin, the sliding the right slider pin causing the right jaw to move between an open position and a closed position by rotationally pivoting the right jaw about the right pivot pin. 2. The method of claim 1, the sliding the left slider pin and the right slider pin comprising: contacting the left slider pin and the right slider pin with a slider pin actuator; and moving the slider pin actuator relative to the slotted member. 3. The method of claim 2, further comprising: moving the slider pin actuator relative to the slotted member in a direction away from a distal end of the end effector along an axis of the end effector to move the left jaw and the right jaw to the open position; and moving the slider pin toward the distal end of the end effector along the axis of the end effector to move the left jaw and the right jaw to the closed position. 4. The method of claim 2, further comprising: moving the slider pin actuator and the slotted member simultaneously in opposite directions to move the left jaw and the right jaw between the open position and the closed position. 5. The method of claim 2, further comprising: moving the left slider pin and the right slider pin simultaneously to move the left jaw and the right jaw between the open position and the closed position in a symmetrical manner. 6. The method of claim 2, further comprising: holding the end effector to the working end of the elongate shaft by a plurality of support cables; and tensioning the support cables near the proximal end of the elongate shaft. 