Compositions comprising first and second oligomers are provided wherein at least a portion of the first oligomer is capable of hybridizing with at least a portion of the second oligomer, at least a portion of the first oligomer is complementary to and capable of hybridizing to a selected target nucleic acid, and at least one of the first or second oligomers includes a modification comprising a polycyclic sugar surrogate. Oligomer/protein compositions are also provided comprising an oligomer complementary to and capable of hybridizing to a selected target nucleic acid and at least one protein comprising at least a portion of an RNA-induced silencing complex (RISC), wherein at least one nucleoside of the oligomer has a polycyclic sugar surrogate modification.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A bicyclic nucleoside having the formula: ##STR00065## wherein Bx is a heterocyclic base moiety; R is H, a protecting group or C.sub.1-C.sub.12 alkyl; and T.sub.1 and T.sub.2 are each, independently, hydroxyl, a protected hydroxyl, a conjugate group, an activated phosphorus moiety or a covalent attachment to a support medium. 2. The bicyclic nucleoside of claim 1 wherein R is H. 3. The bicyclic nucleoside of claim 1 wherein R is methyl. 4. The bicyclic nucleoside of claim 1, wherein T.sub.1 is a protected hydroxyl. 5. The bicyclic nucleoside of claim 1, wherein T.sub.1 is a dimethoxytrityl protected hydroxyl. 6. The bicyclic nucleoside of claim 1, wherein T.sub.2 is diisopropylamino cyanoethoxy phosphoramidite. 7. The bicyclic nucleoside of claim 1, wherein T.sub.1 is dimethoxytrityl protected hydroxyl and T2 is diisopropylamino cyanoethoxy phosphoramidite. 8. The bicyclic nucleoside of claim 1 having the configuration: ##STR00066## 9. An oligomeric compound comprising at least one bicyclic nucleoside having the formula: ##STR00067## wherein independently for each bicyclic nucleoside having said formula: Bx is a heterocyclic base moiety; R is H, a protecting group or C.sub.1-C.sub.12 alkyl; and each of T.sub.3 and T.sub.4 is an internucleoside linkage connecting the bicyclic nucleoside to the oligomeric compound and the other of T.sub.3 and T.sub.4 is an internucleoside linkage connecting the bicyclic nucleoside to the oligomeric compound, hydroxyl, a protected hydroxyl, a conjugate group, an activated phosphorus moiety, a covalent attachment to a support medium, a nucleotide, a nucleoside mimic, an oligonucleoside, an oligonucleotide or an oligonucleotide mimic. 10. The oligomeric compound of claim 9 wherein for each bicyclic nucleoside having said formula R is H. 11. The oligomeric compound of claim 9 wherein for each bicyclic nucleoside having said formula R is methyl. 12. The oligomeric compound of claim 9 wherein each internucleoside linking group is, independently, phosphodiester, phosphorothioate, chiral phosphorothioate, phosphorodithioate, phosphotriester, aminoalkylphosphotriester, methyl and other alkyl phosphonate, chiral phosphonate, phosphinate, phosphoramidate, thionophosphoramidate, thionoalkylphosphonate, thionoalkylphosphotriester, selenophosphate, boranophosphate or methylene(methylimino). 13. The oligomeric compound of claim 9 wherein each internucleoside linking group is, independently, a phosphodiester or a phosphorothioate. 14. The oligomeric compound of claim 9 wherein the configuration of each bicyclic nucleoside having said formula is: ##STR00068## 15. The oligomeric compound of claim 9 further comprising at least one nucleoside having the formula: ##STR00069## wherein independently for each nucleoside having said formula: Bx is a heterocyclic base moiety; J is H, hydroxyl, protected hydroxyl or a sugar substituent group; and each of T.sub.5 and T.sub.6 is an internucleoside linkage connecting the nucleoside to the oligomeric compound or one of T.sub.5 and T.sub.6 is an internucleoside linkage connecting the nucleoside to the oligomeric compound and the other of the T.sub.5 and T.sub.6 is hydroxyl, a protected hydroxyl, a conjugate group, an activated phosphorus moiety, a covalent attachment to a support medium or an internucleoside linkage attached to a nucleoside, a nucleotide, a nucleoside mimic, an oligonucleoside, an oligonucleotide or an oligonucleotide mimic. 16. The oligomeric compound of claim 15 comprising a plurality of nucleosides having said formula wherein each J is, independently, H, hydroxyl, protected hydroxyl or a sugar substituent group. 17. The oligomeric compound of claim 9 comprising from about 10 to about 40 nucleosides and or bicyclic nucleosides. 18. The oligomeric compound of claim 9 comprising from about 18 to about 30 nucleosides and or bicyclic nucleosides. 19. The oligomeric compound of claim 9 comprising from about 21 to about 24 nucleosides and or bicyclic nucleosides. 20. The oligomeric compound of claim 9 comprising from about 15 to about 30 nucleosides and or bicyclic nucleosides. 