A robotic arm including a parallel spherical five-bar linkage with a remote center of spherical rotation. The robotic arm movably supports an endoscopic camera. Two outboard links are pivotally coupled together. At least one of the two outboard links supports the endoscopic camera. Two inboard links are respectively pivotally coupled to the two outboard links such that the two inboard links are able to cross over one another. The two inboard links moveably support the two outboard links. A ground link is pivotally coupled to the two inboard links. The ground link moveably supports the two inboard links.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic arm comprising: a first motor coupled to a first rotatable shaft extending from the first motor toward a remote center of spherical rotation; a second motor coupled to a second rotatable shaft extending from the second motor away from the remote center of spherical rotation; a ground link having a first end coupled to the first motor and an opposite second end coupled to the second motor; a first pair of pivotally coupled links having a first end coupled to the first rotatable shaft such that the first pair of links can pass a first side of the ground link closest to the remote center of spherical rotation; a second pair of pivotally coupled links having a first end coupled to the second rotatable shaft such that the second pair of links can pass a second side of the ground link furthest from the remote center of spherical rotation and opposite the first side, a second end of the second pair of links pivotally coupled to a second end of the first pair of links; wherein all joints that pivotally couple links together allow rotation around an axis that passes through the remote center of spherical rotation. 2. The robotic arm of claim 1, wherein one of the first and second pair of links further includes a support for a surgical instrument having a tool shaft with an insertion axis, the insertion axis being spaced apart from the joint that pivotally couples the first and second pair of links, the insertion axis passing through the remote center of spherical rotation. 3. The robotic arm of claim 2, wherein the joint that pivotally couples the first and second pair of links together is between the insertion axis and the first end of the pair of links that includes the support. 4. The robotic arm of claim 2, wherein the insertion axis, a first axis of rotation for the joint that pivotally couples the first and second pair of links together, and a second axis of rotation for the joint that pivotally couples the pair of links that includes the support are coplanar. 5. The robotic arm of claim 1, wherein the first pair of links further includes a support for a surgical instrument having a tool shaft with an insertion axis, the insertion axis being coincident with the second end of the first pair of links, the insertion axis including the remote center of spherical rotation. 6. The robotic arm of claim 1, wherein one of the first and second pair of links further includes a support for a surgical instrument having a tool shaft with an insertion axis, the insertion axis being coincident with an axis of rotation for the joint that pivotally couples the first and second pair of links together, the insertion axis passing through the remote center of spherical rotation. 7. The robotic arm of claim 1, further comprising a constraint to limit the rotation of the links at the joint that pivotally couples the first and second pair of links such that a minimum angle between the links is at least fifteen degrees. 8. The robotic arm of claim 1, further comprising a constraint to limit the rotation of the links at the joint that pivotally couples the first and second pair of links such that a minimum angle between the links is at least thirty degrees. 9. The robotic arm of claim 1, wherein the first motor is coupled to the ground link at a first angle, and the second motor is coupled to the ground link at a second angle. 10. The robotic arm of claim 1, wherein the first motor is coupled to the first rotatable shaft by a first right angle drive, and the second motor is coupled to the second rotatable shaft by a second right angle drive. 