A wrist assembly (311) for a robotic arm or other mechanical device is provided. The wrist assembly comprises a first arm (313) which terminates in a first radius (317), a second arm (315) which terminates in a second radius (319), and a first band (331) that is devoid of weld joints and that extends around a portion of each of said first and second radii.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot, comprising: a hub; an end effector; first and second elbow joints; a first lower arm having a first end which is rotatably attached to said hub; a second lower arm having a first end which is rotatably attached to said hub; a wrist assembly; a first forearm having a first end which is attached to a second end of said first lower arm by way of said first elbow, and having a second end which is attached to said end effector by way of said wrist assembly; and a second forearm having a first end which is attached to a second end of said first lower arm by way of said second elbow, and having a second end which is attached to said end effector by way of said wrist assembly; wherein said wrist assembly comprises (a) a first radius; (b) a second radius; (c) a first band that extends around a portion of each of said first radius and said second radius, (d) a first fastener adapted to attach a first terminal portion of said first band to at least one of said first forearm and said first radius, and (c) a second fastener adapted to attach a second terminal portion of said first band to at least one of said first forearm and said first radius; wherein said first fastener allows the first terminal portion of the first band to pivot about an axis. 2. The robot of claim 1, wherein said first fastener has a longitudinal axis, and wherein said first fastener allows the first terminal portion of the first band to pivot about said longitudinal axis. 3. The robot of claim 1, wherein said first band is essentially free of weld joints. 4. The robot of claim 1, wherein said first radius is rotatably connected to a first pivot, and wherein said second radius is rotatably connected to a second pivot. 5. The device of claim 1, wherein said first band is attached on a first end via a tension plate to at least one of said first arm and said first radius, and is attached on a second end via a terminus to at least one of said second arm and said second radius. 6. The device of claim 1, wherein said tension plate is equipped on a first end with a protrusion that engages an aperture defined in said first radius. 7. The device of claim 6, wherein said tension plate is equipped on a second end with a pin that extends through said tension plate and into said first arm. 8. The device of claim 7, wherein said pin extends into a chamber disposed within said first arm. 9. The device of claim 8, wherein said pin has a longitudinal axis, and further comprising a spring disposed about said longitudinal axis of said pin. 10. The device of claim 1, further comprising a second band that extends around a portion of each of said first radius and said second radius. 11. The device of claim 10, wherein said first band is disposed above or below said second band. 12. The device of claim 10, wherein the tension in at least one of said first and second bands is adjustable. 13. The device of claim 10, wherein at least one of said first and second bands is in mechanical communication with a spring. 14. The device of claim 10, wherein at least one of said first and second bands is in mechanical communication with a spring by way of a tension plate and a pin. 15. The device of claim 10, wherein said first and second bands are steel bands. 16. The device of claim 10, wherein said second band is also free of weld joints. 