A robotic treatment delivery system including a linear accelerator (LINAC), and a robotic manipulator coupled to the LINAC. The robotic manipulator is configured to move the LINAC along seven or more degrees of freedom, at least one of the seven degrees of freedom being a redundant degree of freedom.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus, comprising: a medical tool; and a robotic manipulator coupled to the medical tool to move the medical tool along seven or more degrees of freedom (DOF), wherein the seven or more DOF comprises at least one redundant DOF, wherein the robotic manipulator comprises a plurality of rigid links interconnected by joints allowing either rotational motion or translational displacement, and wherein at least one of the joints is a redundant joint that moves the robotic manipulator in the at least one redundant DOF, wherein the robotic manipulator is a robotic arm, and wherein the robotic manipulator comprises: a wrist assembly coupled to the medical tool to move the medical tool in three DOF; and an arm assembly coupled to the wrist assembly to move the medical tool in four DOF, wherein the four DOF comprise the at least one redundant DOF. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the wrist assembly comprises: a tool-yaw joint coupled to a mounting plate that supports the medical tool to rotate the medical tool along a first rotational axis; a tool-pitch joint coupled to the tool-yaw joint to rotate the medical tool along a second rotational axis; and a tool-roll joint coupled to the tool-pitch joint to rotate the medical tool along a third rotational axis. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the arm assembly comprises: an elbow assembly; a redundant-joint assembly coupled between the wrist assembly and the elbow assembly; a first shoulder assembly coupled to the elbow assembly; and a second shoulder assembly coupled to the first shoulder assembly. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, further comprising: a redundant joint coupled to the redundant-joint assembly and the elbow assembly, wherein the redundant joint comprises a gearbox to drive rotational movement of the robotic arm in a fourth rotational axis of the robotic arm; an elbow joint coupled to the elbow assembly and the first shoulder assembly, wherein the elbow joint comprises an elbow gearbox to drive rotational movement of the robotic arm in a fifth rotational axis of the robotic arm; a first shoulder joint coupled to the first shoulder assembly and the second shoulder assembly, wherein the first shoulder joint comprises a first shoulder gearbox to drive rotational movement of the robotic arm in a sixth rotational axis of the robotic arm; and a second shoulder joint coupled to the second shoulder assembly and a mount assembly, wherein the second shoulder joint comprises a second shoulder gearbox to drive rotational movement of the robotic arm in a seventh rotational axis of the robotic arm. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, further comprising: a track mount assembly coupled to the second shoulder assembly of the robotic arm; and a track coupled to the track mount assembly, wherein the track is configured to move the track mount assembly along an eighth translational axis of the robotic arm. 6. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the arm assembly comprises: an elbow assembly coupled to the wrist assembly; a first shoulder assembly coupled to the elbow assembly; a second shoulder assembly coupled to the first shoulder assembly, an elbow joint coupled to the elbow assembly and the first shoulder assembly, wherein the elbow joint comprises an elbow gearbox to drive rotational movement of the robotic arm in a fourth rotational axis of the robotic arm; a first shoulder joint coupled to the first shoulder assembly and the second shoulder assembly, wherein the first shoulder joint comprises a first shoulder gearbox to drive rotational movement of the robotic arm in a fifth rotational axis of the robotic arm; a second shoulder joint coupled to the second shoulder assembly and a mount assembly, wherein the second shoulder joint comprises a second shoulder gearbox to drive rotational movement of the robotic arm in a sixth rotational axis of the robotic arm; and a redundant joint coupled to the first and second shoulder assemblies, wherein the redundant joint comprises a third shoulder gearbox to drive rotational movement of the robotic arm in a seventh rotational axis of the robotic arm. 7. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the arm assembly comprises: an elbow assembly coupled to the wrist assembly; a first shoulder assembly coupled to the elbow assembly; a redundant-joint assembly coupled between the elbow assembly and the first shoulder assembly; and a second shoulder assembly coupled to the first shoulder assembly. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, further comprising: an elbow joint coupled to the wrist assembly and the elbow assembly, wherein the elbow joint comprises an elbow gearbox to drive rotational movement of the robotic arm in a fourth rotational axis of the robotic arm; a redundant joint coupled to the elbow assembly and the first shoulder assembly, wherein the redundant joint comprises a gearbox to drive rotational movement of the robotic arm in a fifth rotational axis of the robotic arm; a first shoulder joint coupled to the first shoulder assembly and the second shoulder assembly, wherein the first shoulder joint comprises a first shoulder gearbox to drive rotational movement of the robotic arm in a sixth rotational axis of the robotic arm; and a second shoulder joint coupled to the second shoulder assembly and a mount assembly, wherein the second shoulder joint comprises a second shoulder gearbox to drive rotational movement of the robotic arm in a seventh rotational axis of the robotic arm. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein seven DOF of the seven or more DOF comprise: four rotational axes for translational movement of the medical tool along mutually orthogonal x-, y-, and z- coordinate axes; and three rotational axes for roll-, pitch-, and yaw- rotations of the medical tool about x-, y-, and z- axes, respectively. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, further comprises an eighth DOF, wherein the eighth DOF is a substantially linear DOF that includes a substantially linear axis for translational movement of the medical tool along the substantially linear axis. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the substantially linear DOF is a first DOF of the eight DOF, wherein the first DOF is configured to move the other seven rotational DOF of the robotic manipulator, and wherein the first DOF is the DOF closest to the base end of the robotic arm. 12. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein seven DOF of the seven or move DOF comprises: comprise: three rotational axes for translational movement of the medical tool along mutually orthogonal x-, y-, and z- coordinate axes; three rotational axes for roll-, pitch-, and yaw- rotations of the medical tool about x-, y-, and z- axes, respectively; and a translational axis for translational movement of the medical tool along a substantially linear axis. 13. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the medical tool is a linear accelerator (LINAC). 14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein by moving the medical tool along the seven or more DOF, including the at least one redundant DOF, the robotic manipulator increases a workspace of the LINAC, and wherein the workspace comprises a number of nodes at which the LINAC can be positioned to deliver radiation to a target. 15. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the medical tool is an imaging source of an imager. 16. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the medical tool is a surgical tool. 17. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the medical tool is an implantation tool. 18. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the medical tool is a treatment couch. 19. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a controller coupled to the robotic manipulator to move the robotic manipulator and the medical tool in the seven or more DOF. 20. A method, comprising: providing a medical tool coupled to a robotic manipulator having seven or more degrees of freedom (DOF), wherein the seven DOF comprise at least one redundant DOF, wherein the robotic manipulator comprises a plurality of rigid links of the robotic manipulator, the plurality of rigid links being interconnected by joints that allow either rotational motion or translational displacement, wherein at least one of the joints is a redundant joint that moves the robotic manipulator in the at least one redundant DOF, wherein the robotic manipulator comprises a wrist assembly coupled to the medical tool and an arm assembly coupled to the wrist assembly; and moving the medical tool using the robotic manipulator along seven or more degrees of freedom (DOF), wherein the moving the medical tool comprises: moving the medical tool in three DOF using the wrist assembly; and moving the medical tool in four DOF using the arm assembly, wherein the four DOF comprise the at least one redundant DOF. 21. The method of claim 20, wherein moving the medical tool along the seven or more DOF comprises: moving the medical tool in four rotational axes for translational movement of the medical tool along mutually orthogonal x-, y-, and z- coordinate axes; and moving the medical tool in three rotational axes for roll-, pitch-, and yaw-rotations of the medical tool about x-, y-, and z- axes, respectively. 22. The method of claim 21, further comprising: positioning the medical tool to a fixed position by moving the medical tool using the four rotational axes; and orienting the medical tool at the fixed position by moving the medical tool using the three rotational axes. 23. The method of claim 21, further comprising: positioning the medical tool to a fixed position using the robotic manipulator; and maintaining the medical tool at the fixed position, while moving the robotic manipulator. 24. The method of claim 21, further comprising positioning the medical tool to a previously obstructed location caused by a position restriction within a mechanical range of motion of the robotic manipulator and the medical tool. 25. The method of claim 21, further comprising positioning the medical tool from a first position to a second position through a first path, instead of through an obstructed path caused by an obstacle to the same second position. 26. The method of claim 21, further comprising positioning the medical tool from a first position to a second position through a first path, wherein the first path has a higher distance margin between an obstacle and the robotic manipulator and medical tool than a second path to the same second position. 27. The method of claim 21, further comprising positioning the medical tool within a constrained volume without colliding with an object outside the constrained volume. 28. The method of claim 21, further comprising moving the medical tool along a substantially linear DOF. 29. A method, comprising: positioning a medical tool to a fixed position using a robotic manipulator comprising seven or more degrees of freedom (DOF), wherein the seven DOF comprise at least one redundant DOF, wherein the robotic manipulator comprises a plurality of rigid links of the robotic manipulator, the plurality of rigid links being interconnected by joints that allow either rotational motion or translational displacement, wherein at least one of the joints is a redundant joint that moves the robotic manipulator in the at least one redundant DOF, wherein the robotic manipulator comprises a wrist assembly coupled to the medical tool and an arm assembly coupled to the wrist assembly, wherein the positioning comprises: moving the medical tool in three DOF using the wrist assembly; and moving the medical tool in four DOF using the arm assembly, wherein the four DOF comprise the at least one redundant DOF; and maintaining the medical tool at the fixed position, while moving the robotic manipulator, and wherein the maintaining the medial tool at the fixed position comprises moving one or more of the plurality of rigid links of the robotic manipulator, while maintaining the medical tool at the fixed position. 30. A system apparatus, comprising: a linear accelerator (LINAC); a robotic manipulator coupled to the LINAC, the robotic manipulator configured to move the LINAC in at least seven degrees of freedom (DOF), wherein the at least seven DOF comprises at least one redundant DOF, wherein the robotic manipulator comprises a plurality of rigid links interconnected by joints allowing either rotational motion or translational displacement, and wherein at least one of the joints is a redundant joint that moves the robotic manipulator in the at least one redundant DOF, wherein the robotic manipulator is a robotic arm, and wherein the robotic manipulator comprises: a wrist assembly coupled to the LINAC to move the LINAC in three DOF; and an arm assembly coupled to the wrist assembly to move the LINAC in four DOF, wherein the four DOF comprise the at least one redundant DOF; a controller coupled to the robotic manipulator to control movement of the LINAC to align a radiation source of the LINAC with a treatment target; and an imaging system to generate a plurality of images of the treatment target. 31. The system of claim 30, wherein the controller is configured to position the LINAC to access a treatment target in a previously obstructed location caused by a position restriction within a mechanical range of motion of the robotic manipulator and the LINAC. 32. The system of claim 30, wherein the imaging system comprises: a pair of x-ray sources; and a pair of x-ray image detectors, wherein each image detector is disposed opposite a respective source. 