The present invention provides a method and apparatus for the creation and dispensing of a custom formulation within a package at a retail point of sale. In one aspect, the invention includes an automated dispensing apparatus including at least a two-axis robot arm. In another aspect, the invention includes an automated mixer adapted to mix the dispensed custom formulation within the package.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for dispensing a custom formulation at a retail point of sale, comprising the steps of: providing at a retail store a point-of-sale custom formulation dispensing apparatus, including a plurality of ingredients containers; moving the ingredient containers into alignment with a dispensing mechanism; dispensing one or more ingredients into at least one package; locating the package at a mixing location using an automated computer control locating mechanism; and mixing the dispensed ingredients, wherein the point-of-sale custom formulation dispensing apparatus includes at least a two-axis robotic arm for moving the ingredient containers. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the location takes place by moving the package to a mixer, moving the mixer to the package, or a combination thereof. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein a mixing apparatus mixes by imparting vibration to the ingredients. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein a mixing apparatus mixes by using a magnetic mixer. 5. The method of claim 4, further comprising the step of providing at least one translatable magnetically actuated member and actuating such member for moving it within the contents of the package. 6. The method of claim 5, further comprising controlling a path of the one or more translatable magnetically actuated members during mixing. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein controlling the path of the one or more translatable magnetically actuated members includes three-dimensional movement of the same. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein controlling is achieved by programmable logic controller. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the point-of-sale custom formulation dispensing apparatus has an overall volume of less than about 60 cubic feet. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the ingredient containers are syringes having a nozzle. 11. The method of claim 1, further including the step of picking up the package, with the robotic arm, from a carrier and placing the package at a dispensing site. 12. The method of claim 9, wherein the point-of-sale custom dispensing apparatus includes one or more transparent panels so that components of the point-of-sale custom dispensing apparatus can be viewed during dispensing of the ingredients. 13. The method of claim 11, further including the step of translating a mixer vertically and horizontally during the step of mixing. 14. The method of claim 1, further including the step of guiding an actuator to the ingredients containers so that the actuator can dispense one or more ingredients from the ingredients containers into the package. 15. The method of claim 10, further including the step of purging or cleaning the syringe. 16. The method of claim 15, further including the step of monitoring an amount of ingredients remaining in the ingredient containers. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of ingredients containers are located on a carrier via a plurality of mounts which are radially disposed about the carrier and provide removable attachment for ingredients containers, and further wherein the ingredients containers each include a nozzle extending radially away from the central portion of the carrier. 18. The method of claim 17, further including the step of rotating the carrier so that the ingredient containers located thereon are rotated to a dispensing site. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein a mixing apparatus mixes by using a magnetic mixer; further comprising the steps of: providing at least one translatable magnetically actuated member; generating a magnetic field for moving the at least one translatable magnetically actuated member within the contents of the package; controlling the path of the one or more translatable magnetically actuated members during mixing; controlling the path of the one or more translatable magnetically actuated members includes three-dimensional movement of the same wherein controlling is achieved by programmable logic controller. 