In one embodiment of the invention, a replaceable electrosurgical end effector cartridge is provided to couple to a mechanical wrist of a surgical instrument for a robotic surgical system. The replaceable electrosurgical end effector cartridge includes two end effectors, a fastener to rotatably couple the two end effectors together, and a cam mechanism. At least one of the two end effectors is a moveable end effector having a jaw portion, an off-center portion, and a base portion. The cam mechanism is coupled to the base portion of the at least one moveable end effector to pivot it about the fastener to open and close the jaw portion of the at least one moveable end effector with respect to the other.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method comprising: coupling a replaceable end effector cartridge to a receptacle of a robotic surgical tool; translating a rotational motion into a linear motion; and pivoting an end effector of the replaceable end effector cartridge in response to the linear motion; wherein the translating includes rotating a spool to pull on a cable routed in a shaft of the robotic surgical tool, rotating a pulley in response to the pull on the cable, reciprocating a rod rotatingly coupled to the pulley at a crank pin, and sliding a piston in a cylinder of the receptacle in response to the reciprocating of the rod. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the pivoting includes actuating a link coupled to the end effector in response to the linear motion. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: engaging a retention feature to lock the cartridge to the receptacle. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: energizing a generator to couple power to the replaceable end effector cartridge. 5. A method comprising: coupling a replaceable end effector cartridge to a receptacle of a robotic surgical tool; translating a rotational motion into a linear motion; and pivoting an end effector of the replaceable end effector cartridge in response to the linear motion; wherein the translating includes rotating a spool to pull on a cable routed in a shaft of the robotic surgical tool, rotating a pulley in response to the pull on the cable, rotating a driver coupled to the pulley, the driver having a dog with camming surfaces, and sliding a rod having a cam slot engaged with the camming surfaces of the dog in response to the rotation of the driver. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the pivoting includes actuating a link coupled to the end effector in response to the linear motion. 7. The method of claim 5, further comprising: engaging a retention feature to lock the cartridge to the receptacle. 8. The method of claim 5, further comprising: energizing a generator to couple power to the replaceable end effector cartridge. 