A redundantable robotic mechanism is disclosed for improving reliability of tranport equipment. The redundantable robot assembly typically comprises independent robots with separate controls, motors, linkage arms, or power, thus providing the capability of operation even if parts of the assembly are not operational or when parts of the assembly are removed for repair. The redundantable robot assembly can be also designed to allow in-situ servicing, e.g. servicing one robot when the other is running. The disclosed redundantable robot assembly provides virtual uninterrupted process flow, and thus greatly increases the yield for the manufacturing facility.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A redundantable workpiece transfer mechanism for semiconductor workpiece transfer, comprising at least two stationary and independent workpiece transfer assemblies, wherein each stationary and independent workpiece transfer assembly is capable of transferring workpieces regardless of operating statuses of other workpiece transfer assemblies; and an ejection mechanism comprising a swinging mechanism connected to at least one of the workpiece transfer assemblies to swing the at least one of the workpiece transfer assemblies to a serviceable area. 2. A redundantable workpiece transfer mechanism as in claim 1 wherein the serviceable area is located in a service zone adjacent the at least one of the workpiece transfer assemblies for safe servicing the at least one of the workpiece transfer assemblies while the other workpiece transfer assemblies still operate. 3. A redundantable workpiece transfer mechanism as in claim 1 further comprising a controller for coordinating the transferring of the workpieces by the workpiece transfer assemblies, wherein the controller recognizes an operating status of each of the workpiece transfer assemblies and wherein the controller assigns the transferring of the workpieces to operative workpiece transfer assemblies. 4. A semiconductor equipment having workpiece movement, comprising two stations; a redundantable workpiece transfer mechanism comprising at least two stationary and independent workpiece transfer assemblies for transferring workpieces between the stations, wherein each stationary and independent workpiece transfer assembly is capable of transferring the workpieces regardless of operating statuses of other workpiece transfer assemblies; and a controller for providing a service zone adjacent the workpiece transfer assemblies for safe servicing an inoperative workpiece transfer assembly while the other workpiece transfer assemblies still operate, wherein the service zone adjacent the workpiece transfer assemblies comprises an ejection mechanism to move the transfer assemblies to a serviceable area, and wherein the ejection mechanism comprises a swinging mechanism connected to each workpiece transfer assembly to separately swing each workpiece transfer assembly to the serviceable area. 5. A semiconductor equipment as in claim 4 wherein the controller is configured to restrict movements of the other operative workpiece transfer assemblies from the service zone. 6. A semiconductor equipment as in claim 4 wherein the serviceable area that a transfer assembly is swung to is disposed outside the movement ranges of the other workpiece transfer assemblies. 7. A semiconductor equipment as in claim 4 wherein each of the workpiece transfer assemblies has a capability of substantially overlapping operation ranges of other workpiece transfer assemblies. 8. A semiconductor equipment as in claim 4 further comprising sensors to detect an inoperative state for each of the workpiece transfer assemblies. 9. A semiconductor equipment having workpiece movement, comprising two stations; a redundantable workpiece transfer mechanism comprising at least two stationary and independent workpiece transfer assemblies for transferring workpieces between the stations, wherein each stationary and independent workpiece transfer assembly is capable of transferring the workpieces regardless of operating statuses of other workpiece transfer assemblies; a controller for coordinating the transferring of the workpieces, wherein the controller recognizes an operating status of each of the workpiece transfer assemblies, and wherein the controller assigns the transferring of the workpieces to operative workpiece transfer assemblies; and an ejection mechanism comprising a swinging mechanism connected to at least one of the transfer assemblies to swing the at least one of the transfer assemblies to a serviceable area. 10. A semiconductor equipment as in claim 9 wherein the controller assigns workpieces to be transferred by the at least one of the transfer assemblies to the remaining operative workpiece transfer assemblies. 11. A semiconductor equipment as in claim 9 wherein the controller bypasses the at least one of the transfer assemblies. 12. A semiconductor equipment as in claim 9 further comprising in-situ servicing mechanism to allow servicing the at least one of the transfer assemblies while the other operative workpiece transfer assemblies are in operation. 13. A semiconductor equipment as in claim 4 wherein at least one of the stations comprises a carousel stocker storage area. 14. A semiconductor equipment as in claim 9 wherein at least one of the stations comprises a carousel stocker storage area. 15. A semiconductor equipment as in claim 9 wherein the serviceable area is disposed adjacent the at least one of the workpiece transfer assemblies for safe servicing an inoperative workpiece transfer assembly while other workpiece transfer assemblies still operate. 16. A semiconductor equipment as in claim 9 wherein each of the transfer assemblies has a capability of substantially overlapping operation ranges of other workpiece transfer assemblies. 17. A redundantable workpiece transfer mechanism as in claim 1 wherein the swinging mechanism further connects to the other workpiece transfer assemblies. 18. A redundantable workpiece transfer mechanism as in claim 1 wherein the ejection mechanism comprises a second swinging mechanism connected to the other workpiece transfer assemblies. 19. A semiconductor equipment as in claim 9 wherein the swinging mechanism further connects to the other workpiece transfer assemblies. 20. A semiconductor equipment as in claim 9 wherein the ejection mechanism comprises a second swinging mechanism connected to the other workpiece transfer assemblies. 