In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention, an automated, computerized method is provided for processing an image. According to a feature of the present invention, the method comprises the steps of providing an image, organizing spatio-spectral information for the image in a matrix equation expressed by: [A][x]=[b], wherein [A] expresses values determined by a constraining relationship imposed upon the spatio-spectral information, [b] expresses recorded information for the image, and [x] expresses an unknown material/illumination component of the image, and utilizing the matrix equation in an image segregation operation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automated, computerized method for processing an image, comprising the steps of: providing an image; organizing spatio-spectral information for the image in a matrix equation expressed by: [A][x]=[b], wherein [A] expresses values determined by a constraining relationship imposed upon the spatio-spectral information, [b] expresses recorded information for the image, and [x] expresses an unknown material/illumination component of the image; and utilizing the matrix equation in an image segregation operation. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the spatio-spectral information includes a token. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the spatio-spectral information includes a log chromaticity representation. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the spatio-spectral information includes an X-junction. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the spatio-spectral information includes a BIDR model representation. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the spatio-spectral information includes a boundary representation. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein the spatio-spectral information includes a texton histogram based pixel representation. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein the constraining relationship comprises one of an absolute material color constraint, a same material constraint and a relative reflectance constraint. 9. An automated, computerized method for processing an image, comprising the steps of: providing an image; generating spatio-spectral information for the image, the spatio-spectral information providing multi-band information for the image; defining a constraint as a function of the spatio-spectral information; and utilizing the constraint in an image segregation operation to identify a multi-band representation for at least one of a material or illumination image corresponding to the image, wherein each band corresponds to a segment of the electro-magnetic spectrum. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein the spatio-spectral information includes a token. 11. The method of claim 9 wherein the spatio-spectral information includes a log chromaticity representation. 12. The method of claim 9 wherein the spatio-spectral information includes an X-junction. 13. The method of claim 9 wherein the spatio-spectral information includes a BIDR model representation. 14. The method of claim 9 wherein the spatio-spectral information includes a boundary representation. 15. The method of claim 9 wherein the spatio-spectral information includes a texton histogram based pixel representation. 16. The method of claim 9 wherein the constraint comprises one of an absolute material color constraint, a same material constraint and a relative reflectance constraint. 17. An automated, computerized method for processing an image, comprising the steps of: providing an image; organizing spatio-spectral operators, the spatio-spectral operators providing multi-band information for the image, in a matrix equation, as a function of a BIDR model representation of the image; and utilizing a result of the organizing step to identify multi-band material and illumination aspects of the image for image segregation. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein the step of organizing spatio-spectral operators as a function of a BIDR model representation of the image is carried out by constraining tokens representing regions of robust similar color to a BIDR model representation of the image. 19. The method of claim 18 wherein the step of constraining tokens representing regions of robust similar color to a BIDR model representation of the image is carried out by constraining the tokens representing regions of robust similar color relative to a linear token. 20. An automated, computerized method for processing an image, comprising the steps of: providing an image; organizing spatio-spectral operators, the spatio-spectral operators providing multi-band information for the image, in a matrix equation, as a function of tokens representing discrete materials depicted in the image and tokens representing regions of robust similar color; and utilizing a result of the organizing step to identify multi-band material and illumination aspects of the image for image segregation. 21. An automated, computerized method for processing an image, comprising the steps of: providing an image; organizing spatio-spectral operators as a function of tokens representing discrete materials depicted in the image and tokens representing regions of robust similar color, wherein the step of organizing spatio-spectral operators as a function of tokens representing discrete materials depicted in the image and tokens representing regions of robust similar color is carried out by constraining the tokens to a constraint selected from the group consisting of an absolute material color constraint, a same material constraint and a relative reflectance constraint; and utilizing a result of the organizing step to identify material and illumination aspects of the image for image segregation. 22. An automated, computerized method for processing an image, comprising the steps of: providing an image file depicting an image, in a computer memory; identifying information in the image file relevant to a logical deduction regarding multi-band material and illumination aspects of an image; defining a constraint as a function of the information; and utilizing the constraint in an image segregation operation to identify a multi-band representation for at least one of a material or illumination image corresponding to the image, wherein each band corresponds to a segment of the electro-magnetic spectrum. 23. An automated, computerized method for processing an image, comprising the steps of: providing an image file depicting an image, in a computer memory; organizing information for the image file relevant to a logical deduction regarding material and illumination aspects of an image, in a matrix equation expressed by: [A][x]=[b], wherein [A] expresses values determined by a constraining relationship imposed upon the information relevant to a logical deduction regarding material and illumination aspects of an image, [b] expresses information obtained form the image file, in the computer memory, and [x] expresses an unknown material/illumination component of the image; and utilizing the matrix equation in an image segregation operation. 24. The method of claim 23 wherein the information for the image file relevant to a logical deduction regarding material and illumination aspects of an image is selected from information relevant to spatio-spectral aspects of an image. 25. A computer system which comprises: a CPU; and a memory storing an image file defining an image; the CPU being arranged and configured to execute a routine to identify information in the image file relevant to a logical deduction regarding multi-band material and illumination aspects of an image, define a constraint as a function of the information and utilize the constraint in an image segregation operation to identify a multi-band representation for at least one of a material or illumination image corresponding to the image, wherein each band corresponds to a segment of the electro-magnetic spectrum. 26. A computer system which comprises: a CPU; and a memory storing an image file defining an image; the CPU being arranged and configured to execute a routine to organize information for the image file relevant to a logical deduction regarding material and illumination aspects of an image, in a matrix equation expressed by: [A][x]=[b], wherein [A] expresses values determined by a constraining relationship imposed upon the information relevant to a logical deduction regarding material and illumination aspects of an image, [b] expresses information obtained form the image file, in the computer memory, and [x] expresses an unknown material/illumination component of the image and utilize the matrix equation in an image segregation operation. 27. A computer program product, disposed on a non-transitory computer readable media, the product including computer executable process steps operable to control a computer to: provide an image file depicting an image, in a computer memory; identify information in the image file relevant to a logical deduction regarding multi-band material and illumination aspects of an image; define a constraint as a function of the information; and utilize the constraint in an image segregation operation to identify a multi-band representation for at least one of a material or illumination image corresponding to the image, wherein each band corresponds to a segment of the electro-magnetic spectrum. 28. The computer program product of claim 27 wherein the information in the image file relevant to a logical deduction regarding material and illumination aspects of an image is selected from information relevant to spatio-spectral aspects of an image. 29. A computer program product, disposed on a non-transitory computer readable media, the product including computer executable process steps operable to control a computer to: provide an image file depicting an image, in a computer memory; organize information for the image file relevant to a logical deduction regarding material and illumination aspects of an image, in a matrix equation expressed by: [A][x]=[b], wherein [A] expresses values determined by a constraining relationship imposed upon the information relevant to a logical deduction regarding material and illumination aspects of an image, [b] expresses information obtained form the image file, in the computer memory, and [x] expresses an unknown material/illumination component of the image; and utilize the matrix equation in an image segregation operation. 30. The computer program product of claim 29 wherein the information for the image file relevant to a logical deduction regarding material and illumination aspects of an image is selected from information relevant to spatio-spectral aspects of an image. 