A robotic surgical system positions and holds an endoscope. A visible imaging system is coupled to the endoscope. The visible imaging system captures a visible image of tissue. An alternate imaging system is also coupled to the endoscope. The alternate imaging system captures a fluorescence image of at least a portion of the tissue. A stereoscopic video display system is coupled to the visible imaging system and to the alternate imaging system. The stereoscopic video display system outputs a real-time stereoscopic image comprising a three-dimensional presentation of a blend of a fluorescence image associated with the captured fluorescence image, and the visible image.
Claims We claim: 1. A robotic surgical system comprising: an endoscope held by and positioned by a robotic manipulator arm of the robotic surgical system; a visible imaging system coupled to the endoscope, wherein the visible imaging system captures a visible image of tissue; an alternate imaging system coupled to the endoscope, the alternate imaging system comprising: a capture unit configured to capture a first fluorescence image of at least a portion of the tissue, and a device coupled to the capture unit, the device configured to use information associated with the first fluorescence image to generate a second fluorescence image in a stereoscopic pair of fluorescence images; and a stereoscopic video display system coupled to the visible imaging system and to the alternate imaging system, wherein the stereoscopic video display system outputs a real-time stereoscopic image comprising a blend of another fluorescence image associated with the captured fluorescence image, the second fluorescence image and the visible image. 2. The robotic surgical system of claim 1 further comprising: a combination light source comprising: a first light source, and a second light source, wherein the second light source excites the fluorescence; and at least one fiber optic bundle connected to the combination light source and to the endoscope to provide light from the combination light source to the endoscope. 3. The robotic surgical system of claim 2 wherein the second light source can be changed to a different light source while the at least one fiber optic bundle remains connected to endoscope and to the combination light source. 4. The robotic surgical system of claim 1 wherein the visible imaging system further comprises: at least a portion of an intelligent image processing system wherein the at least a portion of the intelligent image processing system uses information associated with the visible image to generate a second visible image wherein the visible image and the second visible image comprise a stereoscopic pair of visible images. 5. The robotic surgical system of claim 1: wherein the first fluorescence image is captured as a combined image of a visible image and the first fluorescence image, and wherein the alternate imaging system comprises: another portion of an intelligent image processing system, the another portion comprising: an image subtractor configured to receive the combined image and the visible image, and configured to output a third fluorescence image, wherein the third fluorescence image is the information associated with the first fluorescence image. 6. The robotic surgical system of claim 1 wherein the stereoscopic video display system further comprises: a stereoscopic display mode selector having a plurality of modes including: a first mode wherein upon selection of the first mode, the stereoscopic video display system outputs the real-time stereoscopic image comprising the blend of the visible image and the second fluorescence image, and a second mode wherein upon selection of the second mode, the stereoscopic video display system outputs only a real-time stereoscopic visible image. 7. The robotic surgical system of claim 1, wherein said visible imaging system captures the visible image at a first frame rate; and wherein said alternate imaging system captures the first fluorescence image at a second frame rate wherein the first frame rate is different from the second frame rate. 8. The robotic surgical system of claim 7 wherein the alternate imaging system provides fluorescence images to the stereoscopic video display system at the first frame rate and further wherein the alternate imaging system generates artificial fluorescence images to synchronize the fluorescence images with the visible images. 9. A method comprising: capturing, from an endoscope held by and positioned by a robotic manipulator arm of a robotic surgical system, a visible image of tissue; capturing, from the endoscope, an alternate image of at least a portion of the tissue, wherein the alternate image comprises a first fluorescence image; generating a second fluorescence image from information associated with the first fluorescence image, wherein the second fluorescence image is included in a stereoscopic pair of fluorescence images; and outputting a real-time stereoscopic image comprising a blend of the second fluorescence image and the visible image in a real-time stereoscopic video display to a person operating the robotic surgical system. 10. The method of claim 9 further comprising: illuminating a scene by first light from a combination light source coupled to the endoscope to provide the first light from the combination light source to the endoscope. 11. The method of claim 10 illuminating the scene by second light from the combination light source after a light source in the combination light source is changed to a different light source while the combination light source remains coupled to the endoscope. 12. The method of claim 9 further comprising: generating a second visible image using information associated with the visible image wherein the visible image and the second visible image comprise a stereoscopic pair of visible images. 13. The method of claim 9 wherein the alternate image comprises a combined image of a visible image and the fluorescence image, and the method further comprises: generating a third fluorescence image by an image subtractor subtracting the visible image from the combined image, wherein the third fluorescence image is the information associated with the first fluorescence image. 14. The method claim 9 further comprising: performing the outputting the blend of the visible image and the second fluorescence image in the real-time stereoscopic video display upon the surgeon selecting a first display mode; and outputting only the visible image in the real-time stereoscopic video display, upon the surgeon selecting a second display mode. 15. The method claim 9, wherein said capturing the visible image of tissue further comprises capturing the visible image at a first frame rate; wherein said capturing an alternate image of at least a portion of the tissue further comprises capturing the alternate image at a second frame rate; and wherein the first frame rate is different from the second frame rate. 16. The method of claim 15 further comprising: generating artificial fluorescence images; and synchronizing the fluorescence images with the visible images using the artificial fluorescence images. 