A method for separating carriers from a solution, the carriers being adapted to have biomolecules, such as DNA, RNA, proteins, polypeptides or carbohydrates attached thereto. The method includes the steps of introducing a tubular member (13) into a receptacle which holds a solution containing the carriers immersing an end portion of the tubular member in the solution attracting and holding the carriers to the end portion and removing the tubular member together with the held carriers from the solution. The attracting and holding step includes the step of providing an under-pressure within the tubular member so as to attract and hold the carriers to a filter (25) being disposed in the end portion of the tubular member. The invention also relates to an apparatus (10) performing such a method.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An apparatus for moving carriers or beads between different receptacles, said carriers or beads containing biomolecules, the apparatus comprising: at least one tubular member having a first end portion adapted to be introduced into a receptacle, which holds a solution containing said carriers or beads, the first end portion being immersed in the solution; a filter disposed in a cross section of the first end portion such that the carriers or beads are caught by the surface of the filter exterior of the tubular member; and a housing having an inner space which is connectable to a vacuum supply for providing an under-pressure inside the inner space, wherein the at least one tubular member is in fluid communication with said inner space, and the at least one tubular member has a second portion that projects into the inner space. 2. The apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising means for creating at least one of an under-pressure and an over-pressure within the inner space. 3. The apparatus according to claim 2, further comprising means for controlling the over-pressure. 4. The apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising means for controlling the under-pressure. 5. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the filter is made of sintered material. 6. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the filter is made of sintered polypropylene plastic. 7. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said biomolecules comprise at least one of DNAs, RNAs, proteins, polypeptides or carbohydrates. 8. An apparatus for moving carriers or beads between different receptacles, said carriers or beads containing biomolecules, the apparatus comprising: a plurality of tubular members adapted to be introduced into a receptacle, which holds a solution containing said carriers or beads, each of said tubular members having an end portion to be immersed in the solution, wherein the receptacle is a multiple-well receptacle; a filter disposed in a cross section of the end portion such that the carriers or beads are caught by the surface of the filter exterior of each of the tubular members; and each of the plurality of tubular members inserting into each of the wells of the multiple-well receptacle and forming a mutual arrangement corresponding to the arrangement of the multi-well receptacle. 9. The apparatus according to claim 8, wherein the plurality of tubular member is integrated in a separate support unit, which is detachable from the housing. 10. The apparatus according to claim 8, wherein the multi-well receptacle is a micro titre plate (MTP). 