A method of calibrating positions within a materials handling system, wherein the materials handling system includes multiple stations for carrying out tasks and a carrier that is movable between the multiple stations, includes the steps of: providing calibration points at a plurality of the multiple stations; moving the carrier to at least some of the calibration points; contacting the calibration points; recording the locations of the calibration points; and determining locations of key components of the stations based on the locations of the calibration points. In some embodiments, the method includes contacting the calibration points with a calibration tool, which may include: a cylindrical body; a groove in the cylindrical body sized and configured to receive jaws from the carrier; and a cylindrical upper flange positioned on an upper end of the cylindrical body. In this configuration, the tool can be gripped by the carrier and employed to perform a variety of calibration functions.
Claims That which is claimed is: 1. A calibration system for an automated materials handling system, the materials handling system having a carrier that is configured to move between multiple stations within the materials handling system, the calibration system comprising: a pair of gripping jaws attached to the carrier; and a tool having a groove and a cylindrical flange, the tool being gripped by the gripping jaws in the groove. 2. The calibration system defined in claim 1, wherein the flange comprises a flat upper surface and the tool includes a flat lower surface. 3. The calibration system defined in claim 1, wherein the carrier is mounted on a set of vertical and horizontal rails for movement in vertical and horizontal planes. 4. The calibration system defined in claim 3, wherein the carrier includes a traveler that is mounted on the vertical rail and an arm, the arm being revolvable about the vertical rail. 5. The tool defined in claim 1, wherein the flange has a diameter that is at least 0.5 inches greater than a diameter of a body of the tool. 6. The tool defined in claim 1, wherein the flange has a diameter of between about 1.5 and 2.5 inches. 7. The tool defined in claim 1, wherein the flange has a thickness of between about 0.1 and 1.0 inches. 8. The tool defined in claim 1, wherein the tool has a body has a flat lower surface. 9. A calibration system for an automated materials handling system, the materials handling system having a carrier that is configured to move between multiple stations within the materials handling system, the calibration system comprising: a pair of gripping jaws attached to the carrier; and a tool having a groove and a cylindrical flange, the tool being gripped by the gripping jaws in the groove; wherein the materials handling system includes a frame, and wherein a storage location for the tool is positioned on the frame. 10. The calibration system defined in claim 9, wherein the carrier is mounted on a set of vertical and horizontal rails for movement in vertical and horizontal planes. 11. The calibration system defined in claim 10, wherein the carrier includes a traveler that is mounted on the vertical rail and an arm, the arm being revolvable about the vertical rail. 12. A calibration system for an automated pharmaceutical dispensing machine, the automated pharmaceutical dispensing machine having a carrier that is configured to move between multiple stations within the machine, the calibration system comprising: a pair of gripping jaws attached to the carrier; and a tool having a groove and a cylindrical flange, the tool being gripped by the gripping jaws in the groove. 13. The calibration system defined in claim 12, wherein the automated pharmaceutical dispensing machine comprises a tablet dispensing station and at least one of the following: a vial dispensing station; a labeling station; a capping station; and an offload station. 14. The calibration station defined in claim 13, wherein the tablet dispensing station comprises a plurality of tablet dispensing bins. 