An automated analyzer for performing multiple diagnostic assays simultaneously includes multiple stations, or modules, in which discrete aspects of the assay are performed on fluid samples contained in reaction receptacles. The analyzer includes stations for automatically preparing a specimen sample, incubating the sample at prescribed temperatures for prescribed periods, performing an analyte isolation procedure, and ascertaining the presence of a target analyte. An automated receptacle transporting system moves the reaction receptacles from one station to the next. The analyzer further includes devices for carrying a plurality of specimen tubes and disposable pipette tips in a machine-accessible manner, a device for agitating containers of target capture reagents comprising suspensions of solid support material and for presenting the containers for machine access thereto, and a device for holding containers of reagents in a temperature controlled environment and presenting the containers for machine access thereto. A method for performing an automated diagnostic assay includes an automated process for isolating and amplifying a target analyte. The process is performed by automatically moving each of a plurality of reaction receptacles containing a solid support material and a fluid sample between stations for incubating the contents of the reaction receptacle and for separating the target analyte bound to the solid support from the fluid sample. An amplification reagent is added to the separated analyte after the analyte separation step and before a final incubation step.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An incubator for receiving a plurality of reaction receptacles and for maintaining the contents of the reaction receptacles in a temperature controlled environment, said incubator comprising: a housing including a receptacle access opening formed therein for allowing movement of a reaction receptacle into or out of said housing through said receptacle access opening; a door operatively positioned with respect to said receptacle access opening and movable between a closed position preventing access to said housing through said access opening and an open position permitting access to said housing through said access opening, wherein said door comprises an arcuate closure panel, wherein said door further comprises; a hinge plate extending transversely from an end of said closure panel, said hinge plate being rotatably secured relative to said housing; and an actuating plate extending transversely from an opposite end of said closure panel, said actuating plate being coupled to said motor for transferring powered rotation of a shaft of said motor to rotation of said closure panel; said housing and said arcuate closure panel constituting an enclosure defining an incubation chamber therein; a heat source in thermal communication with said incubation chamber; and a receptacle carrier disposed within said incubation chamber and including a plurality of receptacle stations, each of said receptacle stations being constructed and arranged to carry a reaction receptacle, said receptacle carrier being constructed and arranged to present any of said plurality of receptacle stations in a receptacle transfer position with respect to said receptacle access opening. 2. The incubator of claim 1, wherein said door is constructed and arranged for rotational movement between said closed position and said open position. 3. The incubator of claim 1, further comprising a motor operatively coupled to said door for effecting powered movement of said door between said closed position and said open position. 4. The incubator of claim 1, further comprising a receptacle mixing mechanism mounted on said housing and constructed and arranged to agitate a reaction receptacle carried in one of said receptacle stations disposed in an operative position with respect to said mixing mechanism to thereby mix the contents of the reaction receptacle. 5. The incubator of claim 4, wherein said receptacle mixing mechanism comprises: a motor; a shaft operatively coupled to said motor, at least a portion of said shaft extending into said housing; and a disk mounted on the portion of said shaft disposed within said housing, said disk mounted in such a manner that the plane of the disk is disposed at an acute angle with respect to the longitudinal axis of said shaft. 6. The incubator of claim 1, wherein said heat source comprises electrically-resistive heating coils secured to one or more surfaces of said housing. 7. The incubator of claim 1, further comprising a heat sensor constructed and arranged to measure the temperature within said incubation chamber. 8. The incubator of claim 1, wherein said housing includes one or more openings formed therein to permit access to a reaction receptacle carried in said housing to allow fluid transfer to or from said reaction receptacle while said reaction receptacle is carried in said housing. 9. The incubator of claim 1, wherein said receptacle carrier comprises a carousel rotatably mounted within said housing and constructed and arranged to carry a reaction receptacle in each of said receptacle stations, said receptacle stations being arranged circumferentially about said carousel. 10. The incubator of claim 9, further comprising a position encoder operatively coupled to said carousel and constructed and arranged to indicate a rotational position of said carousel. 11. The incubator of claim 9, wherein each of said receptacle stations is elongated in a radial direction with respect to said carousel to accommodate an elongated reaction receptacle and to carry the reaction receptacle supported in a radial orientation. 12. The incubator of claim 9, further comprising shelves disposed along opposite sides of each of said receptacle stations for supporting a projecting rib structure disposed on opposite sides of a reaction receptacle carried therein. 13. The incubator of claim 9, further comprising: a pulley wheel coaxially mounted to said carousel; a motor mounted with respect to said housing and having an output shaft; and a belt trained around said pulley wheel and said output shaft for transferring powered rotation of said output shaft to said pulley wheel. 14. The incubator of claim 1, said receptacle carrier further comprising one or more reaction receptacle sensors disposed with respect to each of said receptacle stations to sense the presence of a reaction receptacle in said receptacle station. 15. The incubator of claim 1, wherein said housing is generally cylindrical in shape and includes a generally circular cover. 16. The incubator of claim 15, wherein said housing further includes outwardly-projecting wall portions extending along opposite sides of said receptacle access opening, wherein said wall portions cooperate with said arcuate closure panel when said door is in the closed position to prevent access through said access opening. 17. The incubator of claim 1, further comprising feet supporting said housing, said feet being formed from resin. 18. The incubator of claim 1, further comprising thermal insulation substantially covering said housing. 19. The incubator of claim 1, further comprising a powered fan mechanism disposed within said incubation chamber and constructed and arranged to generate air movement within said incubation chamber to promote a generally uniform temperature distribution internal to said incubation chamber. 20. The incubator of claim 19, wherein said powered fan mechanism comprises a motorized centrifugal fan located in a central portion of said incubation chamber. 21. The incubator of claim 1, further comprising a receptacle bridge extending outwardly from said housing from a location below said receptacle access opening for supporting a bottom surface of a reaction receptacle being transferred through said receptacle access opening. 22. The incubator of claim 1, further comprising: a second receptacle access opening formed in said housing for allowing movement of a reaction receptacle into or out of said housing through said second receptacle access opening; and a second door operatively positioned with respect to said second receptacle access opening and movable between a closed position and an open position with respect to said second receptacle access opening, wherein said second door comprises an arcuate closure panel. 23. The incubator of claim 1, further comprising one or more sensors operatively associated with said door and constructed and arranged to indicate whether said door is in said closed position or in said open position. 24. The incubator of claim 23, wherein said sensors comprise two slotted optical sensors and said door includes two sensor tabs which cooperate with the slotted optical sensors to indicate whether said door is in said closed position or in said open position. 25. An incubator for receiving a plurality of reaction receptacles and for maintaining the contents of the reaction receptacles in a temperature controlled environment, said incubator comprising: a housing including a receptacle access opening formed therein for allowing movement of a reaction receptacle into or out of said housing through said receptacle access opening; a door operatively positioned with respect to said receptacle access opening and movable between a closed position preventing access to said housing through said access opening and an open position permitting access to said housing through said access opening, wherein said door comprises an arcuate closure panel; said housing and said arcuate closure panel constituting an enclosure defining an incubation chamber therein; a heat source in thermal communication with said incubation chamber; a receptacle carrier disposed within said incubation chamber and including a plurality of receptacle stations, each of said receptacle stations being constructed and arranged to carry a reaction receptacle, said receptacle carrier being constructed and arranged to present any of said plurality of receptacle stations in a receptacle transfer position with respect to said receptacle access opening; and a receptacle mixing mechanism mounted on said housing and constructed and arranged to agitate a reaction receptacle carried in one of said receptacle stations disposed in an operative position with respect to said mixing mechanism to thereby mix the contents of the reaction receptacle, wherein said receptacle mixing mechanism comprises: a motor; a shaft operatively coupled to said motor, at least a portion of said shaft extending into said housing; and a disk mounted on the portion of said shaft disposed within said housing, said disk mounted in such a manner that the plane of the disk is disposed at an acute angle with respect to the longitudinal axis of said shaft. 26. An incubator for receiving a plurality of reaction receptacles and for maintaining the contents of the reaction receptacles in a temperature controlled environment, said incubator comprising: a housing including a receptacle access opening formed therein for allowing movement of a reaction receptacle into or out of said housing through said receptacle access opening; a door operatively positioned with respect to said receptacle access opening and movable between a closed position preventing access to said housing through said access opening and an open position permitting access to said housing through said access opening, wherein said door comprises an arcuate closure panel; said housing and said arcuate closure panel constituting an enclosure defining an incubation chamber therein; a heat source in thermal communication with said incubation chamber; and a receptacle carrier disposed within said incubation chamber and including a plurality of receptacle stations, each of said receptacle stations being constructed and arranged to carry a reaction receptacle, said receptacle carrier being constructed and arranged to present any of said plurality of receptacle stations in a receptacle transfer position with respect to said receptacle access opening, wherein said receptacle carrier comprises a carousel rotatably mounted within said housing and constructed and arranged to carry a reaction receptacle in each of said receptacle stations, said receptacle stations being arranged circumferentially about said carousel, and wherein said carousel comprises shelves disposed along opposite sides of each of said receptacle stations for supporting a projecting rib structure disposed on opposite sides of a reaction receptacle carried therein. 27. The incubator of claim 26, further comprising a position encoder operatively coupled to said carousel and constructed and arranged to indicate a rotational position of said carousel. 28. The incubator of claim 26, wherein each of said receptacle stations is elongated in a radial direction with respect to said carousel to accommodate an elongated reaction receptacle and to carry the reaction receptacle supported in a radial orientation. 29. An incubator for receiving a plurality of reaction receptacles and for maintaining the contents of the reaction receptacles in a temperature controlled environment, said incubator comprising: a housing including a receptacle access opening formed therein for allowing movement of a reaction receptacle into or out of said housing through said receptacle access opening; a door operatively positioned with respect to said receptacle access opening and movable between a closed position preventing access to said housing through said access opening and an open position permitting access to said housing through said access opening, wherein said door comprises an arcuate closure panel; said housing and said arcuate closure panel constituting an enclosure defining an incubation chamber therein; a heat source in thermal communication with said incubation chamber; a receptacle carrier disposed within said incubation chamber and including a plurality of receptacle stations, each of said receptacle stations being constructed and arranged to carry a reaction receptacle, said receptacle carrier being constructed and arranged to present any of said plurality of receptacle stations in a receptacle transfer position with respect to said receptacle access opening, wherein said receptacle carrier comprises a carousel rotatably mounted within said housing and constructed and arranged to carry a reaction receptacle in each of said receptacle stations, said receptacle stations being arranged circumferentially about said carousel; a pulley wheel coaxially mounted to said carousel; a motor mounted with respect to said housing and having an output shaft; and a belt trained around said pulley wheel and said output shaft for transferring powered rotation of said output shaft to said pulley wheel. 30. An incubator for receiving a plurality of reaction receptacles and for maintaining the contents of the reaction receptacles in a temperature controlled environment, said incubator comprising: a housing including a receptacle access opening formed therein for allowing movement of a reaction receptacle into or out of said housing through said receptacle access opening; a door operatively positioned with respect to said receptacle access opening and movable between a closed position preventing access to said housing through said access opening and an open position permitting access to said housing through said access opening, wherein said door comprises an arcuate closure panel; said housing and said arcuate closure panel constituting an enclosure defining an incubation chamber therein; a heat source in thermal communication with said incubation chamber; a receptacle carrier disposed within said incubation chamber and including a plurality of receptacle stations, each of said receptacle stations being constructed and arranged to carry a reaction receptacle, said receptacle carrier being constructed and arranged to present any of said plurality of receptacle stations in a receptacle transfer position with respect to said receptacle access opening; and a receptacle bridge extending outwardly from said housing from a location below said receptacle access opening for supporting a bottom surface of a reaction receptacle being transferred through said receptacle access opening. 31. An incubator for receiving a plurality of reaction receptacles and for maintaining the contents of the reaction receptacles in a temperature controlled environment, said incubator comprising: a housing including a receptacle access opening formed therein for allowing movement of a reaction receptacle into or out of said housing through said receptacle access opening; a door operatively positioned with respect to said receptacle access opening and movable between a closed position preventing access to said housing through said access opening and an open position permitting access to said housing through said access opening, wherein said door comprises an arcuate closure panel; said housing and said arcuate closure panel constituting an enclosure defining an incubation chamber therein; a heat source in thermal communication with said incubation chamber; a receptacle carrier disposed within said incubation chamber and including a plurality of receptacle stations, each of said receptacle stations being constructed and arranged to carry a reaction receptacle, said receptacle carrier being constructed and arranged to present any of said plurality of receptacle stations in a receptacle transfer position with respect to said receptacle access opening; and one or more sensors operatively associated with said door and constructed and arranged to indicate whether said door is in said closed position or in said open position, wherein said sensors comprise two slotted optical sensors and said door includes two sensor tabs which cooperate with the slotted optical sensors to indicate whether said door is in said closed position or in said open position. 32. The incubator of claim 31, wherein said door further comprises: a hinge plate extending transversely from an end of said closure panel, said hinge plate being rotatably secured relative to said housing; and an actuating plate extending transversely from an opposite end of said closure panel, said actuating plate being coupled to said motor for transferring powered rotation of a shaft of said motor to rotation of said closure panel. 