A telescopic insertion axis, a robotic surgical system including the telescopic insertion axis, and a method of instrument insertion are provided. In one embodiment, a telescopic insertion axis includes a base link operably coupled to a distal end of a manipulator arm, and a carriage link movably coupled to the base link along a lengthwise axis, the carriage link including an instrument interface.
Claims We claim: 1. A link assembly, comprising: a base link operably coupled to a distal end of a manipulator arm; an idler link movably coupled to the base link along a lengthwise axis of the link assembly; and a carriage link movably coupled to the idler link along the lengthwise axis, wherein the carriage link includes an instrument interface adapted to mount an instrument, wherein the idler link includes an idler link portion having a narrower form factor than the carriage link, and wherein the base link includes a base link portion having a narrower form factor than the idler link. 2. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the idler link is operably coupled between the base link and the carriage link. 3. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the idler link and the carriage link are movable relative to the base link along the lengthwise axis. 4. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the base link and the carriage link are operably coupled via a linear bearing mounted to the idler link. 5. The assembly of claim 4, further comprising a pressure plate mounted to the idler link, the pressure plate clamping two linear bearings. 6. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the base link and the carriage link are operably coupled via a cable drivetrain. 7. The assembly of claim 6, wherein the cable drivetrain includes a first set of cables for moving the carriage link along the lengthwise axis and a second set of cables for operating an instrument mounted via the instrument interface. 8. The assembly of claim 7, wherein the first set of cables for moving the carriage link and the second set of cables for operating an instrument are decoupled. 9. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the base link and the carriage link are electrically grounded via a plurality of flat flexible cables running along the idler link. 10. The assembly of claim 9, further comprising a flexible cover over at least one flat flexible cable. 11. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the carriage link includes a manipulator clutch button. 12. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the base link includes an accessory mount. 13. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the instrument interface is configured to mount an instrument having an element selected from the group consisting of jaws, scissors, graspers, needle holders, micro-dissectors, staple appliers, tackers, suction irrigation tools, clip appliers, cutting blades, cautery probes, irrigators, catheters, and suction orifices. 14. The assembly of claim 1, further comprising a sterile adaptor operably coupled to the instrument interface of the carriage link. 15. A robotic surgical manipulator system, comprising: a manipulator assembly, including: a base link operably coupled to a distal end of a manipulator arm; an idler link movably coupled to the base link along a lengthwise axis of the manipulator assembly; and a carriage link movably coupled to the idler link along the lengthwise axis, the carriage link including an instrument interface adapted to mount an instrument, the idler link including an idler link portion having a narrower form factor than the carriage link, and the base link including a base link portion having a narrower form factor than the idler link; an instrument coupled to the carriage link via the instrument interface; and a processor operably coupled to the manipulator assembly and configured to move the base, idler, and carriage links relative to one another along the lengthwise axis. 16. The system of claim 15, wherein the base, idler, and carriage links are operably coupled via a plurality of linear bearings mounted to the idler link. 17. The system of claim 16, further comprising a pressure plate mounted to the idler link, the pressure plate clamping two of the linear bearings. 18. The system of claim 15, wherein the base, idler, and carriage links are operably coupled via a cable drivetrain. 19. The system of claim 18, wherein the cable drivetrain includes a first set of cables for moving the idler and carriage links along the lengthwise axis and a second set of cables for operating the instrument. 20. The system of claim 19, wherein the first set of cables for moving the idler and carriage links along the lengthwise axis and the second set of cables for operating the instrument are decoupled. 21. The system of claim 15, wherein the base, idler, and carriage links are electrically grounded via a plurality of flat flexible cables. 22. The system of claim 15, wherein the instrument includes an element selected from the group consisting of jaws, scissors, graspers, needle holders, micro-dissectors, staple appliers, tackers, suction irrigation tools, clip appliers, cutting blades, cautery probes, irrigators, catheters, and suction orifices. 23. The system of claim 15, further comprising a sterile adaptor operably coupled between the instrument interface and the instrument. 24. The system of claim 23, wherein the sterile adaptor is integrated with a sterile drape for separating a part of the robotic surgical system from a surgical field. 25. A method of moving a surgical instrument, comprising: providing a telescoping link assembly of a robotic manipulator, the link assembly including: a base link operably coupled to a distal end of a manipulator arm; an idler link movably coupled to the base link along a lengthwise axis of the link assembly; and a carriage link movably coupled to the idler link along the lengthwise axis, the carriage link including an instrument interface adapted to mount an instrument, the idler link including an idler link portion having a narrower form factor than the carriage link, and the base link including a base link portion having a narrower form factor than the idler link; mounting an instrument on the carriage link via the instrument interface; and moving the carriage link relative to the base link for moving the instrument along the lengthwise axis. 26. The method of claim 25, further comprising moving the carriage link via a cable drivetrain. 27. The method of claim 26, further comprising operating the instrument via a wrist cable drivetrain decoupled from the insertion cable drivetrain. 28. The method of claim 25, further comprising electrically grounding the base link and the carriage link via a flat flexible cable running along the idler link operably coupled between the base link and the carriage link. 29. The method of claim 25, further comprising mounting a sterile adaptor on the instrument interface, and mounting the instrument on the sterile adaptor. 30. The method of claim 25, further comprising mounting a cannula on the base link via an accessory mount. 