An apparatus for muscle activation includes least one electrode adapted to deliver a neuromuscular stimulation (NMES) signal to a body portion. A controller provides a NMES signal comprising a sequence of stimulation signals to the electrode. A mechanical motion element coupled to the body portion and a mirror body portion is operatively coupled to the controller. The controller controls the NMES signal in conjunction with the mechanical motion element.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. Apparatus for muscle activation, comprising: at least one electrode adapted to deliver a neuromuscular stimulation (NMES) signal to a body portion of a patient; at least one controller adapted to provide a NMES signal comprising a sequence of stimulation signals to said at least one electrode; a mechanical motion element configured to be coupled to at least one of said body portion and a mirror body portion of the patient, wherein said mechanical motion element is operatively coupled to said at least one controller and wherein said at least one controller controls said NMES signal in conjunction with said mechanical motion element; at least one EMG sensor coupled to said mirror body portion, wherein said controller is adapted to generate said NMES signal based on sensed EMG signals from said at least one EMG sensor; and, at least one EMG sensor configured to be coupled to a minor body portion on a different person for measuring EMG signals from the different person, wherein said controller generates said NMES signal at least partly based on EMG signals received by the controller from the minor body portion of the different person. 2. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said mechanical motion element moves said body portion. 3. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said mechanical motion element measures motion of said body portion, which motion is in response to said NMES sequence. 4. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said mechanical motion element guides motion of said body portion, which motion is in response to said NMES signal. 5. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said mechanical motion element guides motion of said minor body portion, which NMES is generated in response to said motion. 6. Apparatus according to claim 1, comprising a programmer adapted to program NMES sequences for said electrodes. 7. Apparatus according to claim 6, wherein said programmer includes a sequence optimizer which modifies NMES sequences in response to at least one optimization criterion. 8. Apparatus according to claim 7, wherein said optimization criterion comprises the ability of a patient. 9. Apparatus according to claim 7, wherein said optimization criterion comprises electrode limitations. 10. Apparatus according to claim 7, wherein said optimization criterion comprises a quality of result, as measured by said mechanical motion element. 11. Apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising at least one EMG sensor coupled to said body portion for measuring EMG signals from the body portion. 12. Apparatus according to claim 11, wherein said controller generates a NMES signal responsive to at least one of an amplitude and existence of EMG signal at a location to which NMES is to be applied. 13. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said controller is adapted to generate an indication of which electrodes of said at least one electrode to use. 14. Apparatus according to claim 1, comprising a memory storing therein a plurality of NMES sequences, for at least one daily activity. 15. Apparatus according to claim 1, comprising a user input for generating a NMES sequence. 16. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said controller is adapted to generate a NMES sequence for use for said electrodes based on a desired motion of said body portion. 17. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said controller is adapted to modify a stored NMES sequence for use for said electrodes based on a desired motion of said body portion. 18. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said controller is adapted to compare an actual effect of a NMES sequence and a desired effect of said sequence and detect at least one deviation. 19. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said mechanical motion element is adapted to measure force applied by said body portion in response to said NMES. 20. Apparatus according to claim 1, comprising a calibrator adapted to calibrate at least one sensor associated with motion of said portion. 21. Apparatus according to claim 1, comprising an interactive user guide for electrode NMES programming. 22. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said electrodes are implantable. 23. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said electrodes form part of a prosthesis. 24. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said electrodes are adapted to be worn for a long term. 25. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said electrodes and at least one of said at least one controller are adapted to act independently of and removed from said mechanical motion element. 26. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said NMES sequence comprises a sequence for application to at least two muscles. 27. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said NMES sequence is at least 20 seconds long. 28. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said mechanical motion element comprises an actuator. 29. Apparatus according to claim 28, wherein said actuator comprises a robotic actuator with at least 3 degrees of motion. 30. A method of electrode setting for NMES, comprising: measuring motion of a limb of a healthy person using at least one EMG sensor; applying a NMES sequence to a limb of a paretic person which is the mirror of the limb of the healthy person; measuring motion of the limb of the paretic person; modifying said NMES sequence responsive to said measured motion of the healthy person and of the paretic person; and repeating said applying, said measuring and said modifying, using a mechanical motion element to at least one of move said paretic person's limb, resist motion of said limb and measure motion of said limb until the measuring of the paretic person's limb matches the measuring of the healthy person's limb. 