A system and method for providing multiple priority impedance control for a robot manipulator where impedance laws are realized simultaneously and with a given order of priority. The method includes a control scheme for realizing a Cartesian space impedance objective as a first priority while also realizing a joint space impedance objective as a second priority. The method also includes a control scheme for realizing two Cartesian space impedance objectives with different levels of priority. The method includes instances of the control schemes that use feedback from force sensors mounted at an end-effector and other instances of the control schemes that do not use this feedback.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for providing multiple priority operational space impedance or stiffness control for robotic manipulators, said method comprising: defining, on a processor a plurality of different impedance or stiffness objectives defined operational space or joint space; assigning a priority to the different impedance or stiffness objectives; controlling a manipulator impedance such that a primary priority impedance or stiffness objective is realized; controlling the manipulator impedance such that a secondary priority impedance or stiffness objective is realized to the extent possible while still realizing the primary priority impedance or stiffness objective; and controlling the manipulator impedance such that lower priority impedance or stiffness objectives are realized to the extent possible while realizing all higher priority impedance or stiffness objectives. 2. The method according to claim 1 wherein, at a given instant in time, a set of high priority impedance objectives describe a manifold of joint accelerations or joint torques that realize a set of high priority impedance objectives equally well. 3. The method according to claim 1 wherein the impedance or stiffness objectives are zero order, first order or second order linear impedances. 4. The method according to claim 2 wherein the manipulators realize an impedance that minimizes an acceleration error between a lower priority impedance objective and a manifold of equally good joint accelerations, the manipulator realizes an impedance or stiffness objective that minimizes a torque error between the lower priority impedance objective and a manifold of equally good joint torques. 5. The method according to claim 4 wherein a pseudoinverse is used to calculate a minimum acceleration or torque error. 6. The method according to claim 4 wherein either a null space of a Jacobian or a Jacobian null space weighted by passive manipulator inertia is used to realize lower-priority impedance or stiffness objectives. 7. The method according to claim 3 wherein the primary priority impedance objective is defined in Cartesian space and the secondary priority impedance objective is defined in the joint space, the primary and secondary priority impedance or stiffness objectives are defined in Cartesian space. 8. The method according to claim 7 wherein Cartesian space force sensors mounted on the robot manipulator are used to measure applied forces at multiple positions and these force measurements are used to implement prioritized impedance objectives. 9. The method according to claim 7 wherein multiple priority impedance or stiffness objectives are realized without using Cartesian space force sensors and while retaining passive inertia of the manipulator. 10. The method according to claim 7 wherein the Cartesian space impedance or stiffness objectives are defined with zero stiffness in one or more of Cartesian space directions. 11. The method according to claim 7 wherein an offset force is applied in zero stiffness directions such that the manipulator applies a constant Cartesian space force in this direction. 12. The method according to claim 11 wherein an additional force compensation scheme is used to regulate forces in the zero-stiffness Cartesian space direction. 13. A system for providing multiple priority operational space impedance or stiffness control for robotic manipulators, said system comprising: means for defining a plurality of different impedance or stiffness objectives defined operational space or joint space; means for assigning a priority to the different impedance or stiffness objectives; means for controlling a manipulator impedance such that a primary priority impedance or stiffness objective is realized; means for controlling the manipulator impedance such that a secondary priority impedance or stiffness objective is realized to the extent possible while still realizing the primary priority impedance or stiffness objective; and means for controlling the manipulator impedance such that lower priority impedance or stiffness objectives are realized to the extent possible while realizing all higher priority impedance or stiffness objectives. 14. The system according to claim 13 wherein the impedance or stiffness objectives are zero order, first order or second order linear impedances. 15. The system according to claim 14 wherein the manipulators realize an impedance that minimizes an acceleration error between a lower priority impedance objective and a manifold of equally good joint accelerations, the manipulator realizes an impedance or stiffness objective that minimizes a torque error between the lower priority impedance objective and a manifold of equally good joint torques. 16. The system according to claim 15 wherein a pseudoinverse is used to calculate a minimum acceleration or torque error. 17. The system according to claim 15 wherein either a null space of a Jacobian or a Jacobian null space weighted by passive manipulator inertia is used to realize lower-priority impedance or stiffness objectives. 18. The system according to claim 14 wherein the primary priority impedance objective is defined in Cartesian space and the secondary priority impedance objective is defined in the joint space, the primary and secondary priority impedance or stiffness objectives are defined in Cartesian space. 