Various robotic devices and related medical procedures are disclosed herein. Each of the various robotic devices have an agent delivery component. The devices include mobile robotic devices and fixed base robotic devices as disclosed herein. The agent delivery component can have at least one agent reservoir and a discharge component in fluidic communication with the at least one reservoir.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic device for surgical procedures, the device comprising: (a) a body comprising a camera disposed within the body; (b) a rotation component pivotally coupled with the body, the rotation component comprising at least one of a pan component and a tilt component; and (c) a non-attachable support component coupled with the body, wherein the body, rotation component, and support component are sized to fit within a body cavity of a patient. 2. The robotic device of claim 1, wherein the non-attachable support component is moveable between a collapsed configuration and a deployed configuration. 3. The robotic device of claim 1, wherein the non-attachable support component is a collapsible tripod. 4. The robotic device of claim 1, wherein the camera comprises an adjustable-focus component. 5. The robotic device of claim 1, wherein the body is substantially cylindrical. 6. The robotic device of claim 1, further comprising an external controller operably coupled with the robotic device. 7. The robotic device of claim 6, wherein the external controller is wirelessly coupled with the robot. 8. A robotic system for surgical procedures, the system comprising: (a) a robotic device sized to fit within a body cavity of a patient, the device comprising: (i) a cylindrical device body comprising a camera disposed within the device body; (ii) a rotation component pivotally coupled with the body; (iii) a non-attachable support component coupled with the body, wherein the body, rotation component, and support component are sized to fit within a body cavity of a patient; and (b) an external controller operably coupled with the robot. 9. The robotic system of claim 8, wherein the external controller is wirelessly coupled with the robot. 10. The robotic system of claim 8, wherein the non-attachable support component is moveable between a collapsed configuration and a deployed configuration. 11. The robotic system of claim 8, wherein the rotation component comprises at least one of a pan component and a tilt component. 12. The robotic system of claim 8, wherein the camera comprises an adjustable-focus component. 13. The robotic system of claim 12, wherein the adjustable-focus component comprises: (a) an adjustable focus motor; (b) a lead screw operably coupled to the motor; and (c) a lead nut rotatably coupled to the lead screw, wherein the lead nut is operably coupled to the camera. 14. The robotic system of claim 8, further comprising a light source operably coupled to the device body. 15. A robotic system for surgical procedures, the system comprising: (a) a robotic device sized to fit within a body cavity of a patient, the device comprising: (i) a cylindrical device body comprising a camera disposed within the device body; (ii) an adjustable-focus component disposed within the device body, the adjustable-focus component comprising: (A) an adjustable focus motor; (B) a lead screw operably coupled to the motor; and (C) a lead nut rotatably coupled to the lead screw, wherein the lead nut is operably coupled to the camera; and (iii) a non-attachable support component coupled with the device body, wherein the body and support component are sized to fit within a body cavity of a patient; and (b) an external controller operably coupled with the robot. 16. The robotic system of claim 15, wherein the external controller is wirelessly coupled with the robotic device. 17. The robotic system of claim 15, wherein the non-attachable support component is moveable between a collapsed configuration and a deployed configuration. 18. The robotic system of claim 15, the system further comprising a rotation component pivotally coupled with the device body. 19. The robotic system of claim 18, wherein the rotation component comprises at least one of a pan component and a tilt component. 