Embodiments of the invention generally provide a high efficiency solar cell using a novel processing sequence to form a solar cell device. In one embodiment, the methods include forming one or more layers on a backside of a solar cell substrate prior to the texturing process to prevent attack of the backside surface of the substrate. In one embodiment, the one or more layers are a metalized backside contact structure that is formed on the backside of the solar cell substrate. In another embodiment, the one or more layers are a chemical resistant dielectric layer that is formed over the backside of the solar cell substrate.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of forming a solar cell device, comprising: forming a first dielectric layer on a back surface of a substrate; removing portions of the first dielectric layer from the back surface to form a plurality of exposed regions of the substrate; depositing a metal layer over at least a portion of the first dielectric layer, wherein the metal layer is in electrical communication with at least one of the exposed regions of the substrate; texturing a front surface of the substrate after depositing the metal layer; and depositing at least one intrinsic silicon containing layer on the front surface of the substrate after texturing the front surface. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the metal layer comprises a metal or a metal alloy that is selected from a group consisting of titanium (Ti), tantalum (Ta), tungsten (W), molybdenum (Mo), titanium nitride (TiN), tantalum nitride (TaN), tungsten nitride (WN), and molybdenum nitride (MoN). 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising depositing an ARC layer on the front surface, wherein the ARC layer comprises silicon nitride (SiN). 4. The method of claim 1, wherein removing portions of the first dielectric layer from the back surface is performed by selectively etching the first dielectric layer to form the plurality of exposed regions of the substrate. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the etching the first dielectric layer comprises exposing the substrate to an etching chemistry comprising ammonium fluoride. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the texturing of the front surface comprises exposing the substrate to an etch chemistry comprising an etchant material selected from a list consisting of ammonium fluoride, hydrogen fluoride, potassium hydroxide, and hydrofluoric acid. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the etchant material further comprises polyethylene glycol. 8. The method of claim 1, further comprising depositing a contact layer on at least a portion of the first dielectric layer prior to depositing the metal layer, wherein the contact layer comprises a metal that is selected from a group consisting of copper (Cu), silver (Ag), gold (Au), tin (Sn), cobalt (Co), rhenium (Rh), nickel (Ni), zinc (Zn), lead (Pb), palladium (Pd), tungsten (W), titanium (Ti), tantalum (Ta), molybdenum (Mo) and aluminum (Al). 9. The method of claim 1, further comprising forming a second dielectric layer on the front surface of the substrate before texturing the front surface of the substrate. 10. The method of claim 1, further comprising: forming a doping layer on the back surface of the substrate prior to depositing the first dielectric layer on the back surface of the substrate; and heating the doping layer and the substrate to a temperature greater than about 800 .degree. C. to cause a dopant in the doping layer to diffuse into the back surface of the substrate. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the doping layer comprises silicate glass material having an n-type or a p-type dopant atom disposed therein. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein silicate glass comprises a phosphosilicate glass (PSG), a borophosphosilicate glass (BPSG), or a borosilicate glass (BSG). 13. The method of claim 10, wherein forming the doping layer on the back surface of the substrate is performed on a crystalline solar cell substrate. 14. The method of claim 1, further comprising: depositing a doped silicon containing layer on the intrinsic silicon containing layer. 15. The method of claim 10, wherein the dopant is diffused into the back surface of the substrate to form a heavily doped region. 