An ink ejection printhead includes an elongate support frame. The support frame supports ink ejection printhead modules. An end plate is mounted to an end of the support frame and defines two guide recesses. A connector arrangement is received in the guide recesses and includes a body portion interconnected to a region by at least one bridge. The connector arrangement includes a connector extending from the body portion. An end housing defines an opening and is mounted to the end plate so that the connector is accessible through the opening.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An ink ejection printhead comprising: an elongate support frame having an elongate channel extending in a longitudinal direction; a fluid channel member having ink ejection printhead modules mounted thereon, the fluid channel member being movably mounted in the elongate channel, the elongate channel allowing movement of the fluid channel member and mounted ink ejection printhead modules in the longitudinal direction, and relative to the elongate support frame, during operation; an end plate mounted to a longitudinal end of the support frame and defining two guide recesses; a connector arrangement received in the guide recesses and including a body portion and a connector extending from the body portion; and an end housing defining an opening and which is mounted to the end plate so that the connector is accessible through the opening. 2. An ink ejection printhead as claimed in claim 1, wherein said body portion is interconnected to a region by a pair of bridges which collectively form a spring portion. 3. An ink ejection printhead as claimed in claim 2, wherein: the body portion, region and bridges are integrally formed; and each bridge is curvilinear. 4. An ink ejection printhead as claimed in claim 2, wherein the bridges extend through a common one of the guide recesses. 5. An ink ejection printhead as claimed in claim 4, wherein the body portion defines a protrusion which is received in the other one of the guide recesses. 6. An ink ejection printhead as claimed in claim 1, wherein: the connector is a power supply connector; and the connector arrangement further includes a data connection connector and a fluid delivery connector which are both accessible through respective other openings defined in the end housing. 7. An ink ejection printhead as claimed in claim 6, wherein the end plate further defines another guide recess cradling fluid delivery tubes extending from the fluid delivery connector. 8. An ink ejection printhead as claimed in claim 1, wherein the support frame defines an elongate channel in which the printhead modules are received. 