An open ocean floating algae farm built around a ship. The ship provides propulsion power for navigation, storage capacity for materials and algae products, machinery for harvesting and processing the algae, housing for crew, and facilities for maintenance of the floating farm. The invention is also comprised of transparent tubes that circulate a broth of seawater saturated with CO.sub.2, nutrients, and algae. The circulation path flows from the ship through the tubes and back to the ship where the algae is filtered out to be processed. The fields of transparent tubes circulating the algae broth are supported by a square matrix of pressurized tubes filled with seawater. This matrix is neutrally buoyant and submerged just below the ocean surface. The internal pressure in the tubes causes the matrix to be stiff in the horizontal plane, but flexible in the vertical dimension so as to conform to long ocean waves.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus for an open ocean floating algae farm consisting of: a ship having sides and a rear; an algae farm structured around said ship; said algae farm further comprised of: a plurality of transparent tubes creating a matrix of transparent tubes that circulates an algae broth of seawater saturated with CO.sub.2, nutrients, and algae; a circulation path flows from the ship through the matrix of transparent tubes and back to the ship where the algae is filtered out to be processed, and nutrients and CO.sub.2 are added to the seawater; the transparent tubes circulating the algae broth are supported by a matrix of one or more pressurized tubes filled with seawater; and the matrix of pressurized tubes is neutrally buoyant and is capable of being submerged just below an ocean surface. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: a waterproof fabric base stretched over a top surface of the pressurized tubes; said water-proof fabric base supports the transparent tubes that circulate the algae broth, and also serves as a barrier to a vertical flow of seawater; and switchable flow check valves located in corner connectors are electronically switched open or closed to pump water upward for submerging, or downward for surfacing. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the internal pressure in the pressurized tubes would cause the matrix of pressurized tubes to be stiff in a horizontal plane, but flexible in a vertical dimension, with respect to an ocean surface, so as to conform to long ocean waves. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the ship has propulsion capabilities to allow the algae farm to navigate out of shipping lanes and away from hurricanes; and the pressurized support matrix of pressurized tubes would be attached to the ship's sides or rear and towing forces would be distributed throughout the matrix of pressurized tubes by a series of steel cables. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the algae farm is comprised of: a plurality of single cell elements; and the elements consist of pressurized fabric tubes that filled with seawater pressurized to about three psi. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein the elements are twenty meters by twenty meters in size. 7. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein the elements consist of pressurized fabric tubes that are one meter in diameter. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein a diameter ratio of an element size to the pressurized fabric tube is twenty to one. 9. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the matrix of transparent tubes is further comprised of directional valves that pump water and algae through the transparent tubes. 10. The apparatus of claim 9 further comprising a fabric base attached to the transparent tubes that is penetrated in the corners by the directional valves. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 further comprising a robot moving through the transparent tubes and scrubbing them. 12. The apparatus of claim 10 further comprising a floatation collar around the matrix of pressurized tubes to prevent breaking waves from interacting with the transparent tubes. 