An articulated arm CMM system comprises an articulated arm comprising a plurality of articulated arm members, a measuring probe at a distal end, and a base at a proximal end, the base comprising a docking portion. The articulated arm CMM system also includes a plurality of feature packs configured to electronically connect to the articulated arm via the docking portions and provide additional electronic functionality.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An articulated arm CMM comprising: an articulated arm comprising a plurality of articulated arm members, a measuring probe at a distal end, and a base at a proximal end; and a docking portion on the base, the docking portion configured to form a connection with a modular feature pack, wherein the docking portion comprises a thermal connection and connects to electronics in the arm by thermally conductive members, allowing substantial heat transfer between the arm and the feature pack. 2. The articulated arm CCM of claim 1, wherein the articulated arm is configured to measure and output a position of an end of the articulated arm; and wherein the docking portion is a single docking portion, the docking portion configured to form a connection with a modular feature pack that can allow a variety of different features and functionality, and wherein the articulated arm is configured to measure and output a position of an end of the articulated arm with or without a modular feature pack attached. 3. The articulated arm CMM of claim 1, wherein the docking portion comprises an electronic connector configured to form an electronic connection with the feature pack. 4. The articulated arm CMM of claim 3, wherein the electronic connection is a data transfer connection. 5. The articulated arm CMM of claim 3, wherein the electronic connection is further configured to provide a power transmission connection. 6. The articulated arm CMM of claim 1, wherein the docking portion comprises a mechanical connection. 7. An articulated arm CMM system comprising: an articulated arm comprising a plurality of articulated arm members, a measuring probe at a distal end, and a base at a proximal end, the base comprising a docking portion; and two or more feature packs configured to electronically connect to the articulated arm via the same docking portion and wherein a first feature pack provides a first additional electronic feature or functionality to the articulated arm and a second feature pack provides a second additional electronic feature or functionality distinct from the first additional electronic functionality to the articulated arm. 8. The articulated arm CMM system of claim 7, wherein at least one feature pack comprises a tilt sensor. 9. The articulated arm CMM system of claim 7, wherein at least one feature pack comprises a data storage device. 10. The articulated arm CMM system of claim 9, wherein the at least one feature pack comprises instructions for arm operation. 11. The articulated arm CMM system of claim 7, wherein at least one feature pack comprises a wireless capability for data transfer. 12. The articulated arm CMM system of claim 7, wherein at least one feature pack comprises a battery. 13. An articulated arm CMM system comprising: an articulated arm comprising a plurality of articulated arm members, a measuring probe at a distal end, and a base at a proximal end, the base comprising a docking portion; and a plurality of feature packs configured to electronically connect to the articulated arm via the docking portion and provide additional electronic functionality, wherein at least one feature pack includes a heat sink or cooling fan. 14. A feature pack for an articulated arm portable CMM system comprising a modular design with a shape substantially matching the shape of the base of the portable CMM, the feature pack further comprising a heat sink or cooling fan. 15. The feature pack of claim 14, wherein said feature pack further provides functionality chosen from the group consisting of data storage, wireless data transfer capability, and thermal heat transfer. 16. A method of providing modular functionality to an articulated arm CMM comprising: attaching a first feature pack to an articulated arm CMM at a docking portion to provide a first additional feature or functionality to the articulated arm CMM; measuring one or more coordinates with the articulated arm CMM and utilizing the first additional feature or functionality; replacing the first feature pack with a second feature pack at the docking portion to provide a second additional feature or functionality to the articulated arm CMM; and measuring one or more coordinates with the articulated arm CMM and utilizing the second additional feature or functionality. 17. The method of claim 16, further comprising the step of measuring one or more coordinates with the articulated arm CMM while no feature pack is attached to the articulated arm CMM. 18. The method of claim 16, wherein the step of replacing is done while the articulated arm CMM is still in use. 