A robotic arm with a parallel spherical five-bar linkage having a ground link, two inboard links, and two outboard links. Each inboard link is coupled to the ground link at an axis of rotation and has an intermediate axis spaced apart from the axis of rotation. Each outboard link is pivotally coupled to one of the inboard links at the intermediate axis. The two outboard links are pivotally coupled together at an outboard axis. A constraint limits the rotation of a first one of the outboard links about the intermediate axis of the coupled inboard link such that a maximum angle between the links is substantially less than 180.degree.. A second one of the outboard links and the coupled inboard link are constructed and assembled such that the two intermediate axes are on the same side of a plane including the outboard axis and one of the axes of rotation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic arm for a minimally invasive surgical system, the robotic arm comprising: a parallel five-bar spherical linkage that includes a ground link having a first end and an opposing second end; a first pair of links pivotally coupled at a first intermediate joint and coupled at a first end of the first pair of links to the first end of the ground link; and a second pair of links pivotally coupled at a second intermediate joint, coupled at a first end of the second pair of links to the second end of the ground link, and coupled at a second end of the second pair of links to a second end of the first pair of links to form an outboard joint; the parallel five-bar spherical linkage to spherically rotationally move a robotic surgical tool coupled to the parallel five-bar spherical linkage about a remote center of spherical rotation; and a constraint coupled to the robotic arm, the constraint to limit the parallel five-bar spherical linkage to only a range of compact poses in which the first intermediate joint is constrained to only a predetermined side of a first plane that includes the remote center, the outboard joint, and the first end of the ground link, and the second intermediate joint is constrained to only the predetermined side of a second plane that includes the remote center, the outboard joint, and the second end of the ground link. 2. The robotic arm of claim 1, wherein the robotic arm includes a first motor and a second motor to provide two parallel rotary motion inputs to the parallel five-bar spherical linkage; and the constraint is a controller coupled to the first motor and the second motor to control the parallel five-bar spherical linkage to maintain only the range of compact poses. 3. The robotic arm of claim 1, wherein the constraint includes a mechanical stop coupled to the first intermediate joint to limit the parallel five-bar spherical linkage to only the range of compact poses. 4. The robotic arm of claim 1, wherein the constraint includes a mechanical stop on each of two parallel rotary motion inputs to the parallel five-bar spherical linkage to maintain only the range of compact poses. 5. The robotic arm of claim 1, wherein the constraint limits the range of compact poses of the parallel five-bar spherical linkage such that both the first pair of links and the second pair of links have only the same handedness. 6. The robotic arm of claim 1, wherein the first intermediate joint is maintained only on the right side of the first plane to point in a direction to the right of the first plane and the second intermediate joint is maintained only on the right side of the second plane to point in a direction to the right of the second plane. 7. The robotic arm of claim 1, wherein the first intermediate joint is maintained only on the left side of the first plane to point in a direction to the left of the first plane and the second intermediate joint is maintained only on the left side of the second plane to point in a direction to the left of the second plane. 8. The robotic arm of claim 1, wherein the first pair of links and the second pair of links have arcuate shapes lying on a plurality of spheres of differing radii. 9. The robotic arm of claim 1, wherein the constraint provides clearance for other surgical equipment around the robotic arm. 10. The robotic arm of claim 1, wherein the parallel five-bar spherical linkage has a ground link to couple to a table to support the robotic arm over a patient. 11. The robotic arm of claim 10, further comprising: a set-up arm coupled between the parallel five-bar spherical linkage and the table to support the robotic arm over a patient. 12. A method for a robotic arm in a minimally invasive surgical system, the method comprising: posing a parallel five-bar spherical linkage into only a compact pose, the parallel five-bar spherical linkage including a ground link having a first end and an opposing second end, a first pair of links pivotally coupled at a first intermediate joint and coupled at a first end of the first pair of links to the first end of the ground link, and a second pair of links pivotally coupled at a second intermediate joint, coupled at a first end of the second pair of links to the second end of the ground link, and coupled at a second end of the second pair of links to a second end of the first pair of links to form an outboard joint, where in a compact pose the first intermediate joint is on a predetermined side of a first plane that includes the remote center, the outboard joint, and the first end of the ground link, and the second intermediate joint is on the predetermined side of a second plane that includes the remote center, the outboard joint, and the second end of the ground link; moving the parallel five-bar spherical linkage with a spherical motion about a remote center of spherical rotation; and constraining the spherical motion of the parallel five-bar spherical linkage within only a range of compact poses. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein points of the parallel five-bar spherical linkage move over differing spherical surfaces to spherically move the parallel five-bar spherical linkage. 14. The method of claim 12, wherein the method further includes coupling a link of the parallel five-bar spherical linkage to a table to support the robotic arm over a patient. 15. The method of claim 12, further comprising: coupling a link of the parallel five-bar spherical linkage to a table with a set-up arm to support the robotic arm over a patient. 16. The method of claim 12, wherein posing the parallel five-bar spherical linkage in the compact pose includes only positioning the first pair of links the second pair of links with a same handedness. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein in constraining the spherical motion of the parallel five-bar spherical linkage within the range of compact poses, mechanically limiting motion of the first intermediate joint and the second intermediate joint to maintain only the same handedness. 18. The method of claim 12, wherein the robotic arm has a first motor and a second motor coupled to the parallel five-bar spherical linkage, and in constraining the spherical motion of the parallel five-bar spherical linkage within only the range of compact poses, controlling the first motor and the second motor to constrain the spherical motion of the parallel five-bar spherical linkage within only the range of compact poses. 