An actuator subsystem preferably for a robot or bionic linkage. A joint between two robotic or bionic members includes at least first and second actuators such as piston-cylinder assemblies connected between the members. A hydraulic circuit includes a sensor subsystem for sensing the magnitude of the load on the piston-cylinder assemblies and/or members. A fluid supply system includes an actuatable control valve operable to supply fluid to one or both piston-cylinder assemblies. A control circuit is responsive to the sensor and is configured to electronically control the fluid subsystem to supply fluid to the first piston-cylinder assembly when the sensor subsystem senses a load below a predetermined magnitude and to supply fluid to both piston-cylinder assemblies when the sensor subsystem senses a load above the predetermined magnitude.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An actuator system for a linkage comprising: a joint between two members; at least first and second actuator assemblies connected between the members; and a hydraulic circuit including: a sensor subsystem for sensing a magnitude of a load on the actuator assemblies and/or members; a fluid supply system including an actuatable control valve operable to supply fluid to one or both actuator assemblies, and a control circuit responsive to the sensor and configured to electronically control the fluid subsystem to supply fluid to the first actuator assembly when the sensor subsystem senses a load below a predetermined magnitude and to supply fluid to both actuator assemblies when the sensor subsystem senses a load above the predetermined magnitude. 2. The system of claim 1 in which both actuator assemblies are piston-cylinder assemblies. 3. The system of claim 2 in which the fluid supply system includes: a pump providing hydraulic fluid to the actuatable control valve; a conduit between the first piston-cylinder assembly and the control valve for providing fluid to the first piston-cylinder assembly to drive the piston in one direction; and a conduit between the control valve and the second piston-cylinder assembly with a supply side valve actuatable to selectively supply fluid to the second piston-cylinder assembly. 4. The system of claim 3 in which the control circuit is configured to electronically control the control valve and the supply side valve opening both when the sensor subsystem senses a load above the predetermined magnitude and closing the supply side valve when the sensor subsystem senses a load below the predetermined magnitude. 5. The system of claim 3 in which at least the first piston-cylinder assembly is bi-directionally operable and the fluid supply subsystem includes a second conduit between the control valve and the first piston cylinder assembly for driving the piston in the opposite direction. 6. The system of claim 3 in which the fluid supply subsystem further includes a return side valve actuatable to connect the second piston-cylinder assembly to return. 7. The system of claim 6 in which the control circuit is configured to electronically open the return side valve when the supply side valve is closed and to close the return side valve when the supply side valve is open. 8. The system of claim 2 in which the first and second piston-cylinder assemblies are separate components. 9. The system of claim 2 in which the first and second piston-cylinder assemblies are integrated. 10. The system of claim 9 in which the integrated assembly includes a first piston of the first piston-cylinder assembly connected to a first piston of the second piston-cylinder assembly. 11. The system of claim 10 in which the second piston-cylinder assembly includes a second piston connected to the first piston of the first piston-cylinder assembly and to the first piston of the second piston-cylinder assembly to balance the first piston of the second piston-cylinder assembly. 12. A legged robot comprising: a robot body; at least one leg including two or more actuatable jointed members; select jointed members including at least first and second actuator assemblies connected therebetween; a sensor subsystem for sensing a magnitude of a load applied to a robot member; a fluid supply subsystem operable to supply fluid to one or both actuator assemblies; and a control circuit responsive to the sensor subsystem and configured to electronically control the fluid supply subsystem to supply fluid to the first actuator assembly when the sensor subsystem senses a load below a predetermined magnitude and to supply fluid to both actuator assemblies when the sensor subsystem senses a load above the predetermined magnitude. 13. The robot of claim 12 in which the first and second actuator assemblies are piston-cylinder assemblies. 14. The robot of claim 13 in which the fluid supply system includes: a pump providing hydraulic fluid to an electronically actuatable control valve; a conduit between the first piston-cylinder assembly and the control valve for providing fluid to the first piston-cylinder assembly to drive the piston in one direction; and a conduit between the control valve and the second piston-cylinder assembly with a supply side valve actuatable to selectively supply fluid to the second piston-cylinder assembly. 15. The robot of claim 14 in which the control circuit is configured to electronically control the control valve and the supply side valve opening both when the sensor subsystem senses a load above the predetermined magnitude and closing the supply side valve when the load sensor subsystem senses a load below the predetermined magnitude. 16. The robot of claim 14 in which at least the first piston-cylinder assembly is bi-directionally operable and the fluid supply subsystem includes a second conduit between the control valve and the first piston cylinder assembly for driving the piston in the opposite direction. 17. The robot of claim 14 in which the fluid supply subsystem further includes a return side valve actuatable to allow fluid from the second piston-cylinder assembly to return to the pump. 18. The robot of claim 17 in which the control circuit is configured to electronically open the return side valve when the supply side valve is closed and to close the return side valve when the supply side valve is open. 19. The robot of claim 13 in which the first and second piston-cylinder assemblies are separate components. 20. The robot of claim 13 in which the first and second piston-cylinder assemblies are integrated. 21. The robot of claim 20 in which the integrated assembly includes a first piston of the first piston-cylinder assembly connected to a first piston of the second piston-cylinder assembly. 22. The robot of claim 21 in which the second piston-cylinder assembly includes a second piston connected to the first piston of the first piston-cylinder assembly and to the first piston of the second piston-cylinder assembly to balance the first piston of the second piston-cylinder assembly. 