The present invention provides a system and single or multi-functional element device that can be inserted and temporarily placed or implanted into a structure having a lumen or hollow space, such as a subject's abdominal cavity to provide therewith access to the site of interest in connection with minimally invasive surgical procedures. The insertable device may be configured such that the functional elements have various degrees of freedom of movement with respect to orienting the functional elements or elements to provide access to the site from multiple and different orientations/perspectives as the procedure dictates, e.g., to provide multiple selectable views of the site, and may provide a stereoscopic view of the site of interest.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A device insertable into a bodily lumen, comprising: a first housing having an aperture and completely insertable within the bodily lumen; a second housing rotatably attached to and at least partially surrounding the first housing; a securing element adapted to removably secure the first housing entirely within the bodily lumen; a functional element movably connected to the first housing; and an actuator connected to and situated entirely within the first housing and adapted to move the functional element in relation to the first housing; wherein at least one of: (i) the functional element is movable through the aperture between a first position inside the first housing and a second position at least partially outside the first housing; and (ii) an entirety of the functional element is movable inside the first housing along a longitudinal axis of the first housing. 2. The device according to claim 1, wherein the functional element includes an imaging device. 3. The device according to claim 1, wherein the functional element includes at least one of a camera, a laser, a light element, a scissor ultrasonic dissector, a dissecting instrument, a needle, a grasper, a scalpel, and a diathermy/cautery instrument. 4. The device according to claim 1, wherein the functional element includes a camera which includes a lens and a sensor mounted in a lens housing having threads therein adapted to receive the lens and to accommodate focal adjustments. 5. The device according to claim 1, wherein the functional element includes at least one of a CMOS imaging sensor and a CCD imaging sensor. 6. The device according to claim 1, wherein the securing element includes at least one of a magnet, a clamp, and a needle. 7. The device according to claim 1, wherein the functional element is rotatable along the longitudinal axis of the device. 8. The device according to claim 1, wherein the aperture is openable and closeable. 9. The device according to claim 1, wherein the second housing has an aperture. 10. The device according to claim 1, wherein the functional element is controllable from outside the bodily lumen while the housing of the device is completely contained within the bodily lumen. 11. The device according to claim 1, wherein the securing element is fixed in place relative to the first housing. 12. The device according to claim 1, wherein the device is adapted to be completely inserted into the bodily lumen. 13. A device insertable into a structure having a lumen, comprising: a first housing completely insertable within the lumen; a second housing completely insertable within the lumen along with the first housing and rotatably connected to the first housing; a functional element movably connected to at least one of the first housing and the second housing; at least one first actuator connected to and situated within at least one of the first housing and the second housing adapted to rotate the first housing and the second housing in relation to each other; at least one second actuator connected to the at least one functional element and connected to and situated within at least one of the first housing and the second housing, and adapted to move the functional element in relation to at least one of the first housing and the second housing; and a securing element associated with at least one of the first housing and the second housing adapted to removably secure the device inside the structure. 14. The device according to claim 13, wherein the functional element includes an imaging device. 15. The device according to claim 13, wherein the at least one second actuator is adapted to move the functional element into and out of an aperture in each of the first housing and second housing when these apertures are aligned by the one first actuator. 16. The device according to claim 13, wherein the device is adapted to be completely inserted into the lumen. 