Rather than trying to immobilize a living, moving organ to place the organ in the fixed frame of reference of a table-mounted robotic device, the present disclosure teaches mounting a robot in the moving frame of reference of the organ. That task can be accomplished with a wide variety of robots including a miniature crawling robotic device designed to be introduced, in the case of the heart, into the pericardium through a port, attach itself to the epicardial surface, and then, under the direct control of the surgeon, travel to the desired location for treatment. The problem of beating-heart motion is largely avoided by attaching the device directly to the epicardium. The problem of access is resolved by incorporating the capability for locomotion. The device and technique can be used on other organs and on other living bodies such as pets, farm animals, etc. Because of the rules governing abstracts, this abstract should not be used in construing the claims.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of using a robot in a living body, the method comprising: inserting the robot into a pericardial space; attaching the robot to an epicardial surface of a pumping heart within the living body with at least one of a first suction device and a second suction device and actuating movement of the robot across a distance on the epicardial surface of the heart from a first position to a second position with a control system, the control system operable to actuate the first suction device and the second suction device in combination with control wires to translate and steer the robot in a selected direction from a plurality of selectable directions along the epicardial surface of the heart. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said attaching step includes applying a suction with the first suction device while releasing the second suction device from the surface of the heart. 3. The method of claim 1 additionally comprising controlling the movement of the robot in any direction along the epicardial surface of the heart within the pericardial space with the control system. 4. The method of claim 3, comprising: establishing a length of cable between a control system and a proximal body of the robot and between the proximal body and a distal body, said cable passing through the proximal body and connected to the distal body, said cable carried in a flexible sheath between the control system and said proximal body; anchoring the proximal body through the use of a prehension device; moving the distal body forward by increasing the length of the cable between the proximal and distal body thereby causing said flexible sheath to deform; anchoring the distal section through the use of a prehension device and releasing the proximal section; and moving the proximal body by allowing the flexible sheath to return to its undeformed state. 5. The method of claim 3 further comprising using the robot that includes a plurality of body sections that are interconnected such that the sections move relative to one another, said movement being responsive to said control system. 6. The method of claim 5 further comprising connecting the body sections using the control wires that include at least one of a plurality of manually actuated wires, cables or flexible drive shafts. 7. The method of claim 6 further comprising using the control system that includes a handle and said manually actuated wires, cables or flexible drive shafts which are carried, for at least part of their length, in sheaths. 8. The method of claim 1 comprising: placing the robot on the surface of the heart; affixing the robot to the surface so the robot is in the same frame of reference as the heart; and enabling the robot to move along the surface while remaining at least partially attached to the surface and in the same frame of reference as the heart. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein said robot further comprises a shell covering. 10. The method of claim 1 further comprising using a tool attached to the robot. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein the tool comprises at least one of an ultrasound transducer, a diagnostic aid, a sensor, a drug delivery system, a therapeutic device, or a surgical tool. 12. The method of claim 10 further comprising using the tool for an electrode placement device. 13. The method of claim 1 further comprising using a sensor on the robot. 14. The method of claim 1 further comprising using the sensor to view a heart surface region. 15. The method of claim 14 further comprising using a camera or fiberscope with the robot. 16. The method of claim 14 further comprising using a fiberscope attached to the robot. 17. The method of claim 14 further comprising using a camera attached to the robot that generates an image of the heart. 18. The method of claim 1 further comprising using a placement device for subxiphoid transpericardial insertion of the robot. 19. The method of claim 18 further comprising using an endoscope for the placement device. 20. The method of claim 1 further comprising steering the robot having two orthogonal degrees of freedom to select a direction of movement. 21. A method for moving a device along a surface of a beating heart comprising: endoscopically inserting a device into a living body; attaching the device to an epicardial surface of a beating heart within the living body with at least one of a plurality of suction devices; actuating movement of the device across the surface of the beating heart from a first position to a second position with a control system, the control system operable to actuate the suction devices in combination with control wires to steer the device in one of a plurality of selectable directions along the epicardial surface. 22. The method of claim 21 further comprising actuating movement of the device along the surface of the beating heart with the control system from outside of the living body. 23. The method of claim 21 further comprising using a plurality of cables that translate relative to at least a portion of the device to move the device across the surface. 24. The method of claim 21 further comprising using a tool on the device for placement of an electrode. 25. The method of claim 21 wherein the inserting step comprises inserting the device with a subxiphoid transpericardial placement. 26. The method of claim 21 further comprising using a camera to image the heart. 27. The method of claim 21 wherein the device comprises a first body section that attaches to the heart surface on a side of the device and a second body section that attaches to the heart surface on the same side of the device. 28. The method of claim 21 further comprising inserting the robot within a 20 mm diameter port. 