A roller hemming system for hemming nested panels includes a single hemming workstation providing for tooling exchange operations simultaneous with hemming operations. A plurality of robots that perform tooling exchange at the hemming workstation, movement of nested panels through the system, and hemming operations on nested panels at the hemming workstation. Nested panels are inputted into the system and hemmed nested panel assemblies are outputted from the system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of hemming nested panels, said method comprising the steps of: providing a single hemming workstation including a turntable adapted to simultaneously mount at least two anvils thereon at a first anvil mounting position and a second anvil mounting position; mounting an anvil on said first anvil mounting position of said turntable using an anvil load robot; mounting a clamping spider and an engaged set of nested panels on said anvil at said first anvil mounting position using a clamping spider load robot; rotating said turntable to present said anvil and said mounted clamping spider and nested panels to a plurality of roller hemming robots; performing hemming operations on said nested panels using said roller hemming robots; and while performing said hemming operations, performing at least one of (a) unloading a clamping spider and an engaged hemmed nested panel assembly from an anvil mounted on said second anvil mounting position of said turntable using said clamping spider load robot, (b) unloading an anvil from said second anvil mounting position using said anvil load robot, (c) mounting an anvil on said second anvil mounting position using said anvil load robot, and (d) mounting a clamping spider and an engaged set of nested panels onto an anvil disposed at said second anvil mounting position using said clamping spider load robot. 2. The method of claim 1, including storing at least one anvil on at least one anvil storage stand disposed in proximity to and within reaching distance of said anvil load robot. 3. The method of claim 1, including storing at least one clamping spider on at least one clamping spider storage stand disposed in proximity to and within reaching distance of said clamping spider load robot. 4. The method of claim 1, including loading a set of nested panels onto said clamping spider held by said clamping spider load robot using a panel load robot that engages said nested panels and presents said nested panels to said clamping spider load robot, wherein said nested panels are mounted on said clamping spider and released from said panel load robot. 5. The method of claim 1, including unloading a hemmed nested panel assembly from a clamping spider mounted on said clamping spider load robot using an unload robot, wherein said clamping spider load robot presents said hemmed nested panel assembly to said unload robot, said unload robot engages said hemmed nested panel assembly, and said clamping spider load robot releases said hemmed nested panel assembly. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein said unload robot manipulates said hemmed nested panel assembly relative to a pedestal mounted roller hemming head to perform localized hemming operations. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein hemming operations are simultaneously performed from a front side and a back side of said nested panels. 8. The method of claim 1, including the step of cornering on the load side of the turntable before rotating said turntable to present said panels for hemming. 