Systems and methods are described for configuring and using displays, speakers, or other output devices positioned by an article of clothing or other such structure wearable by a healthcare recipient, for example, in a clinic or residential care facility.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system comprising: first means for receiving a wireless signal; second means for transmitting at least some health-related information responsive to the wireless signal and to a status update relating to a healthcare recipient; and wearable means for positioning the first means and the second means in relation to the healthcare recipient. 2. A system comprising: a positioning structure configured to be worn by a healthcare recipient; a receiver supported by the positioning structure and configured to receive a wireless signal; and a first output device supported by the positioning structure and configured to transmit at least some health-related information responsive to the wireless signal and to a status update relating to the healthcare recipient. 3. The system of claim 2, further comprising: a second output device supported by the positioning structure; and circuitry for causing a notification to be routed to at least one of the first output device or the second output device. 4. The system of claim 2, further comprising: circuitry for invoking at least one of the first output device or a second output device selected in response to a configuration parameter and to the wireless signal. 5. The system of claim 2, further comprising: circuitry for including at least some medical history data in the health-related information. 6. The system of claim 2, further comprising: circuitry for including at least some real-time data in the health-related information. 7. The system of claim 2, further comprising: circuitry for signaling at least a clot-reducing agent in response to an apparent circulatory degradation. 8. The system of claim 2, further comprising: circuitry for transmitting data indicating one or more concentrations of a nutrient or medication. 9. The system of claim 2, further comprising: circuitry for detecting thermal data. 10. The system of claim 2, further comprising: circuitry for transmitting one or more swelling indications. 11. The system of claim 2, further comprising: an accelerometer supported by the positioning structure. 12. The system of claim 2, further comprising: a proximity sensor supported by the positioning structure. 13. The system of claim 2, further comprising: one or more sensors adjacent a body part of the healthcare recipient. 14. The system of claim 2, further comprising: a sensor supported by the positioning structure; and circuitry for recognizing a pattern in data from the sensor. 15. The system of claim 14, further comprising: circuitry for detecting one or more indications of normalcy in the data from the sensor. 16. The system of claim 14, further comprising: circuitry for indicating one or more conditional notifications responsive to the data from the sensor. 17. The system of claim 14, further comprising: circuitry for performing a comparison using an updated normalcy threshold. 18. The system of claim 14, in which the positioning structure comprises: the positioning structure mechanically supporting at least a portion of the circuitry for recognizing the pattern in the data from the sensor. 19. The system of claim 2, in which the positioning structure comprises: clothing. 20. The system of claim 2, in which the positioning structure comprises: one or more of a cuff, a sleeve, or a wristband. 21. The system of claim 2, in which the positioning structure comprises: one or more of an earpiece or a headpiece. 22. The system of claim 2, in which the positioning structure comprises: the positioning structure configured to surround a portion of the healthcare recipient. 23. The system of claim 2, in which the positioning structure comprises: the output device configured to receive optical energy as the wireless signal. 24. The system of claim 2, further comprising: a user interface operable to receive input from the healthcare recipient. 25. The system of claim 24, in which the user interface comprises: a sonic sensor. 26. The system of claim 24, in which the user interface comprises: a touchscreen. 27. The system of claim 24, in which the user interface comprises: circuitry for presenting content provided by a healthcare facility in the healthcare facility. 28. The system of claim 2, in which the first output device comprises: circuitry for transmitting one or more of a verification or a resource status indication. 29. The system of claim 2, in which the first output device comprises: circuitry for transmitting other information to one or more other recipients. 30. The system of claim 2, in which the first output device comprises: circuitry for transmitting likelihood-indicative data. 31. The system of claim 2, further comprising: circuitry for obtaining information indicating a current thermal condition in a peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient. 32. The system of claim 31 in which the circuitry for obtaining information indicating a current thermal condition in a peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient comprises: circuitry for determining that the information apparently manifests the current thermal condition in the peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient. 33. The system of claim 31 in which the circuitry for obtaining information indicating a current thermal condition in a peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient comprises: circuitry for extracting a portion of detected information as the information indicating the current thermal condition in the peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient. 34. The system of claim 31 in which the circuitry for obtaining information indicating a current thermal condition in a peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient comprises: circuitry for obtaining an optical image of the peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient of the information indicating the current thermal condition in the peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient. 35. The system of claim 31, further comprising: circuitry for signaling a decision whether to transmit a notification at least partly in response to one or more comparisons between the information indicating the current thermal condition in the peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient and information indicating a prior thermal condition in the peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient. 36. The system of claim 35 in which the circuitry for signaling a decision whether to transmit a notification at least partly in response to one or more comparisons between the information indicating the current thermal condition in the peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient and information indicating a prior thermal condition in the peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient comprises: circuitry for deciding whether to transmit the notification responsive to whether any of the one or more comparisons indicate an abnormal temperature change in the peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient. 37. The system of claim 35 in which the circuitry for signaling a decision whether to transmit a notification at least partly in response to one or more comparisons between the information indicating the current thermal condition in the peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient and information indicating a prior thermal condition in the peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient comprises: circuitry for ranking a higher-priority destination and a lower-priority destination for the notification. 38. The system of claim 35 in which the circuitry for signaling a decision whether to transmit a notification at least partly in response to one or more comparisons between the information indicating the current thermal condition in the peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient and information indicating a prior thermal condition in the peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient comprises: circuitry for signaling the decision whether to transmit the notification partly in response to auditory information from the healthcare recipient. 39. The system of claim 35 in which the circuitry for signaling a decision whether to transmit a notification at least partly in response to one or more comparisons between the information indicating the current thermal condition in the peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient and information indicating a prior thermal condition in the peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient comprises: circuitry for including auditory data with the notification. 40. The system of claim 35 in which the circuitry for signaling a decision whether to transmit a notification at least partly in response to one or more comparisons between the information indicating the current thermal condition in the peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient and information indicating a prior thermal condition in the peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient comprises: circuitry for including thermal-decrease-size-indicative information with the notification. 41. The system of claim 35 in which the circuitry for signaling a decision whether to transmit a notification at least partly in response to one or more comparisons between the information indicating the current thermal condition in the peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient and information indicating a prior thermal condition in the peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient comprises: circuitry for including spatial-size-indicative information with the notification. 