A method for fractionating a target fraction from a sample is disclosed herein. The method includes providing a polymer brush having a substrate and a polymer chain attached to and extending outwardly from the substrate. The method further comprising contacting the polymer brush with the sample to allow for sorption of the target fraction by the polymer chain. The polymer chain is then stimulated with a stimulus to contract and release the target fraction.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A method of fractionating a sample comprising a mixture of a first fraction and a second fraction, comprising: contacting a sample comprising a mixture of a first and a second fraction to a polymer brush comprising a substrate and a polymer chain attached to and extending outwardly from the substrate; selectively sorbing one of the first and second fractions from the sample with the polymer chain; and, releasing the sorbed fraction from the polymer chain by stimulating the polymer chain with a first stimulus to contract the polymer chain. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising selectively removing the non-sorbed fraction from the polymer brush before releasing the sorbed fraction from the polymer chain. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising characterizing one or both of the first and second fractions using an analytical method selected from the group consisting of MALDI MS, fluorescence spectroscopy, surface plasmon spectroscopy, and secondary ion mass spectrometry. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising stimulating the polymer chain with a second stimulus to expand the polymer chain before contacting the sample to the polymer brush. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the sample provides a second stimulus that causes the polymer chain to expand when contacted with the sample. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the substrate is formed from a material selected from the group consisting of inorganic metals, silicon oxides, the nuclei of a hyperbranched polymer, high surface area oxides, organic polymer films, sol-gels, carbon nanotube composites, MALDI targets, and combinations thereof. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the substrate is selected from the group consisting of polystyrenes, polyacrylates, polymethacrylates, polyolefins, polyesters, polyamides, polycarbonates, polysiloxanes, polythiophenes, polyacetylenes, polypyrroles, polyanilines, polyfluorenes, polytetrathiafulvalenes, polynaphthalenes, polyphenylenevinylenes, polysilanes, and combinations thereof. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the polymer chain is selected from the group consisting of a homopolymer, a random copolymer, an alternating copolymer, a hyperbranched polymer, a dendron, a block copolymer, and combinations thereof. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the polymer chain comprises one of an anionic polymer chain, a cationic polymer chain, and a neutral polymer chain. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the target fraction has a complementary charge to the polymer chain. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the polymer chain comprises a functional group selected from the group consisting of a pH-sensitive functional group, a magnetic functional group, an ionic strength-sensitive group, a temperature-sensitive group, a dipolar functional group, a photo-acid, a photoisomerizable functional group, and combinations thereof. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the first and/or second polymer chains are attached to the substrate by a process selected from the group consisting of covalent bonding, non-covalent bonding, grafting-to, grafting-from, and combinations thereof. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the polymer chain comprises a monomer having the structure ##STR00002## comprising functional groups X and Y. 14. The method of 13, wherein the functional group Y is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, (C.sub.1-C.sub.20)alkyl, (CH.sub.2OC.sub.nH.sub.2n+1)alkoxy, (C.sub.1-C.sub.20)fluoroalkyl, (CH.sub.2OC.sub.nF.sub.2n+1)fluoroalkoxy, aryl, halogen, nitrile, hydroxyl, and combinations thereof. 15. The method of claim 13, wherein the functional group X is selected from the group consisting of quarternary ammonium salts, N-alkyl pyridines, nitrogen oxides, hydroxyls, carboxylic acids, amines, sulfonic acids, phosphoric acids, spiropyran, oxazine, fulgimide, dihydroindolizine, o-nitrobenzyl ester, alpha-diazoketone, diazonium salt, and combinations thereof. 16. A method of assaying for a target fraction in a sample, comprising: contacting a sample to a polymer brush comprising a substrate and a polymer chain attached to an extending from the substrate; selectively sorbing a target fraction, if present, with the polymer chain; stimulating the polymer chain with a first stimulus to contract the polymer chain and release the sorbed target fraction, if present. 17. The method of claim 16, further comprising characterizing the released target fraction. 18. The method of claim 17, comprising characterizing the released fraction using an analytical method selected from the group consisting of MALDI MS, fluorescence spectroscopy, surface plasmon spectroscopy, and secondary ion mass spectrometry. 19. The method of claim 16, wherein the polymer chain is provided with an anionic or cationic functionality to selectively sorb a cationic or anionic target fraction, respectively. 20. A method of extracting a target fraction from a sample, comprising: contacting a sample comprising first and second fractions to a polymer brush array, the polymer brush array comprising first and second polymer brushes and a substrate, the polymer brushes each comprising a polymer chain attached to and extending outwardly from the substrate; selectively sorbing the first fraction with the first polymer brush and selectively sorbing the second fraction with the second polymer brush; and selectively stimulating the first polymer brush with a first stimulus to contract the first polymer brush and release the first fraction. 21. The method of claim 20, further comprising removing the released first fraction and selectively stimulating the second polymer brush with a second stimulus, same or different from the first stimulus, to contract and release the second fraction. 22. An array of polymer brushes, comprising a substrate; a first polymer brush comprising a first polymer chain attached to the substrate; and a second polymer brush comprising a second polymer chain attached to the substrate; wherein the first polymer chain selectively sorbs a first fraction of a sample and the second polymer chain selectively sorbs a second fraction of the sample, the first polymer chain contracting in response to a first contracting stimulus to release a sorbed first fraction, and the second polymer chain contracting in response to a second contracting stimulus, same or different from the first stimulus, to release a sorbed second fraction. 