In embodiments of the present invention, a system and method for enabling a user to interact with a computer platform using a voice command may comprise the steps of defining a structured grammar for handling a global voice command, defining a global voice command of the structured grammar wherein the global voice command enables access to an object of the computer platform using a single command, and mapping at least one function of the object to the global voice command, wherein upon receiving voice input from the user of the computer platform the object recognizes the global voice command and controls the function.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A computer program product embodied in a non-transitory computer readable medium, the computer program product comprising computer code that when executed on a processor, performs the following steps for enabling a user to interact with a computer platform using a voice command: defining a structured grammar for handling a global voice command; defining a global voice command for using the structured grammar, wherein the global voice command operates on multiple objects of the computer platform; and mapping at least one function of at least one object to the global voice command, wherein upon receiving the global voice command from the user of the computer platform the object recognizes the global voice command and controls the function. 2. The computer program product of claim 1, wherein the structured grammar enables combinatorial voice commands. 3. The computer program product of claim 1 wherein the function involves at least one of a keystroke, a keyboard shortcut, a mouse action, a cursor, and a combination of input functions. 4. The computer program product of claim 1 wherein multiple functions are mapped to a single speech command. 5. The computer program product of claim 1 wherein the voice command controls an input function of a plurality of objects. 6. The computer program product of claim 1, wherein the voice command enables independent control of at least two cursors with respect to at least one object of a computer platform. 7. The computer program product of claim 6, further comprising, specifying a placement of the cursor with respect to an x-y or x-y-z coordinate system associated with the object. 8. The computer program product of claim 6, wherein the at least two cursors are associated with the same object. 9. The computer program product of claim 6, wherein the at least two cursors are associated with different objects. 10. The computer program product of claim 1, wherein the structured grammar enables a phrase mode wherein a keyword of a phrase modifies the meaning of at least one word within that phrase, and upon recognizing the keyword, an action is taken on at least one word within the phrase associated with the keyword. 11. The computer program product of claim 10, wherein the mode is automatically terminated at the end of the phrase. 12. The computer program product of claim 1, wherein the voice command incorporates a wait state. 13. The computer program product of claim 1, wherein the voice command is executed from a sleep state. 14. The computer program product of claim 1, wherein the voice command executes an action for an indicated period of time. 15. A computer program product embodied in a non-transitory computer readable medium, the computer program product comprising computer code that when executed on a processor, performs the following steps for controlling a computer platform via a voice recognition system: recognizing a global voice command in a computer platform, wherein the global voice command is adapted to control multiple software applications and enable actions possible by keyboard and mouse; and controlling an object in accordance with the global voice command, wherein the global voice command is defined using a structured grammar that facilitates access to objects of the platform using a single voice command. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the structured grammar enables combinatorial voice commands. 17. The computer program product of claim 15 wherein the function is at least one of a keystroke, a keyboard shortcut, a mouse action, a cursor, and a combination of input functions. 18. The computer program product of claim 15 wherein multiple functions are mapped to a single speech command. 19. The computer program product of claim 15 wherein the voice command controls an input function of a plurality of objects. 20. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the voice command enables independent control of at least two cursors with respect to at least one object of a computer platform. 21. The computer program product of claim 20, further comprising, specifying a placement of the cursor with respect to an x-y or x-y-z coordinate system associated with the object. 22. The computer program product of claim 20, wherein the at least two cursors are associated with the same object. 23. The computer program product of claim 20, wherein the at least two cursors are associated with different objects. 24. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the structured grammar enables a phrase mode wherein a keyword of a phrase modifies the meaning of at least one word within that phrase, and upon recognizing the keyword, an action is taken on at least one word within the phrase associated with the keyword. 25. The computer program product of claim 24, wherein the mode is automatically terminated at the end of the phrase. 26. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the voice command incorporates a wait state. 27. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the voice command is executed from a sleep state. 28. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the voice command executes an action for an indicated period of time. 