High density magnetic disks are each placed on testers. Each tester tests a portion of the disk. If the tester finds an error, a new disk is placed on the tester. The tester goes to the allocated portion of the disk and tests whether the error is on the new disk. This process may be repeated several times to confirm the error. After an error is confirmed an alarm is sent indicating that there may be a defect in the disk manufacturing process.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of testing a magnetic disk comprising: using a first robotic arm, loading a first magnetic disk having a disk layout onto a first tester; using the first robotic arm, loading a second magnetic disk having the disk layout onto a second tester; using the first tester, running a first test on the first magnetic disk on a first disk portion of the disk layout; using the second tester, running a second test on the second magnetic disk on a second disk portion of the disk layout, wherein the second disk portion is different from the first disk portion, and the second test is being run concurrently when the first test is being run; while the running a first test on the first magnetic disk, after detecting a defect error on the first magnetic disk, storing a location of the defect error, unloading the first magnetic disk, and loading a third magnetic disk; and using the first tester, running a third test on the third magnetic disk on the first disk portion of the disk layout. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the defect error detected on the first magnetic disk error is a first defect error identified during the first test. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein there is no overlapping sector locations between the first and second magnetic disks. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the defect comprises a servo pattern read error. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the defect comprises at least one of a write magnetic media error or read magnetic media error. 6. The method of claim 2 comprising: counting a number of first defect errors when testing using the first tester during a first time period; and when the number of first defect errors exceeds a threshold value during the first time period, providing a user-visible indication of a first tester error condition. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein the user-visible indication of a first tester error condition is shown on a computer display. 8. The method of claim 2 comprising: counting a number of first defect errors when testing using the first tester during a first time period; counting a number of magnetic disks tested during the first tester during a first time period; when the number of first defect errors divided by the number of magnetic disks tests exceeds a threshold value during the first time period, indicating a first tester error condition. 9. The method of claim 8 comprising: transmitting an indication of the first tester error condition to a main test center, which the first and second testers are coupled to. 10. A method of testing magnetic disks comprising: providing N testers, wherein N is an integer 2 or greater and a magnetic disk layout has at least N portions to be tested; using a first test program for a first tester of the N testers to test a first portion of the N portions; and using a second test program for a second tester of the N testers to test a second portion of the N portions, wherein the first portion of the disk layout has no overlap with the second portion of the disk layout; providing a third tester, separate from the N testers; providing code to the third tester to test the first portion of the N portions; and upon detecting a defect error on a first magnetic disk tested by the first tester, loading a second magnetic disk that has already been tested by the second tester onto the third tester. 11. The method claim 10 comprising: providing at least one automated loading mechanism for the N testers; via the automated loading mechanism, loading a first magnetic disk onto the first tester; after the first magnetic disk has been tested by the first tester, via the automated loading mechanism, unloading a first magnetic disk from the first tester, wherein the first magnetic disk is not subsequently tested by any other tester that can be loaded via the automated loading mechanism. 12. The method of claim 10 wherein the first test program evaluates a magnetic disk for servo pattern read errors. 13. The method of claim 10 wherein the first test program evaluates a magnetic disk for read or write errors. 14. The method of claim 10 comprising: using the third tester, testing the first portion of the N portions on the second magnetic disk. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein during the test of the second magnetic disk on the second tester, detecting no defect errors. 16. A system for testing magnetic disks comprising: a first group of N testers, wherein N is an integer 2 or greater; a first automated loading mechanism for the N testers of the first group; a second group of M testers, wherein M is an integer 2 or greater and a magnetic disk layout has at least N+M portions to be tested; a second automated loading mechanism for the M testers of the second group; a first tester of the first group, wherein the first tester has first executable code to test of a first portion of the N+M portions; a second tester of first group, wherein the second tester has second executable code to test of a second portion of the N+M portions; a third tester of the second group, wherein the third tester has third executable code to test of a third portion of the N+M portions; and a fourth tester of the first group, wherein the fourth tester has fourth executable code to test of a fourth portion of the N+M portions, wherein the first portion does not overlap the second, third, or fourth portions. 17. The system of claim 16 comprising: a main controller, wherein the main controller is coupled to the first group and second group of testers. 18. The system of claim 16 wherein a size of each of the first, second, third, and fourth portions is approximately the same. 19. The system of claim 16 wherein upon detecting a first defect error on a magnetic disk at the first tester, the first executable code ceases further testing of the magnetic disk at the first tester. 