Disclosed are a method, device kit, and automated system for simple, reproducible, and high-throughput quantification of mRNA from whole blood. More particularly, the method, device, kit and automated system involve combinations of leukocyte filters attached to oligo(dT)-immobilized multi-well plates.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of high throughput quantification of a specific mRNA in whole blood, comprising the following steps in order: (a) obtaining a blood sample by a method consisting of: (i) collecting whole blood in a container consisting of a blood collection tube, wherein, prior to the collecting step, the content of the blood collection tube consists of an anticoagulant; (ii) freezing the whole blood; and (iii) thawing the whole blood; (b) lysing leukocytes of the whole blood thereby producing a lysate comprising mRNA; wherein said lysing step is performed with a lysis buffer which inhibits RNases; and (c) quantifying the specific mRNA in the lysate. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein erythrocytes and blood components other than leukocytes are removed from the whole blood before the lysing step. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the erythrocytes and blood components other than the leukocytes are removed by filtration and the leukocytes are captured on a filter membrane; and the leukocytes are lysed on the filter membrane. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein, after the lysing step, the lysate is transferred to an oligo(dT)-immobilized plate to capture the mRNA. 5. A method of high throughput quantification of a specific mRNA in whole blood, comprising the following steps in order: (a) obtaining a blood sample by a method consisting of: (i) collecting whole blood in a container consisting of a blood collection tube, wherein, prior to the collecting step, the content of the blood collection tube consists of an anticoagulant; (ii) stimulating the whole blood with a bioactive agent; (iii) freezing the whole blood; and (iv) thawing the whole blood; (b) lysing leukocytes of the whole blood thereby producing a lysate comprising mRNA; wherein said lysing is performed with a lysis buffer which inhibits RNases; and (c) quantifying the specific mRNA in the lysate. 