A real-world representation system includes a set of devices, each device being arranged to provide one or more real-world parameters, for example, audio and visual characteristics. At least one of the devices is arranged to receive a real-world description in the form of an instruction set of a markup language and the devices are operated according to the description. General terms expressed in the language are interpreted by either a local server or a distributed browser to operate the devices to render the real-world experience to the user.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of operating a set of real devices in a real environment, each real device being arranged to provide one or more parameters to generate an ambient environment, comprising: generating a real-world description in the form of an instruction set of a markup language; automatically applying said real-world description to at least one of said real devices; automatically adjusting one or more parameters of said real device according to the instruction set; and operating said real devices according to said real-world description to generate the ambient environment. 2. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein said method further comprises: distributing said real-world description among said real devices. 3. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein said generating step comprises: reading said real-world description at a local server. 4. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein said generating step comprises: receiving said real-world description, said real-world description forming part of a broadcast signal. 5. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein said real-world description relates to an activity that a user is undertaking. 6. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein said real-world description is triggered from a user interface. 7. The method as claimed in claim 6, wherein said triggering is carried out via a wireless connection. 8. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein said real-world description is triggered from a physical carrier. 9. A real-world representation system comprising: a generated real-world description in the form of an instruction set of a markup language; a set of real devices in a real environment, said real devices providing one or more real-world parameters to generate an ambient environment, at least one of said real devices arranged to receive the real-world description in the form of an instruction set of a markup language and for automatically adjusting one or more parameters of said real device according to the instruction set, and said at least one real device being operated according to said real-world description to generate the ambient environment. 10. The real-world representation system as claimed in claim 9, wherein said real-world representation system comprises a wireless network for interconnecting said real devices. 11. The real-world representation system as claimed in claim 9, wherein said real-world representation system further comprises a powerline carrier network for interconnecting said real devices. 12. The real-world representation system as claimed in claim 9, wherein at least one of said real devices comprises a local server. 13. The real-world representation system as claimed in claim 9, wherein said real-world description is distributed among said real devices. 14. The real-world representation system as claimed in claim 9, wherein at least one of said real devices comprises a user interface. 15. A markup-language-enabled real device being arranged to provide one or more parameters to generate an ambient environment, comprising: a generated real-world description in the form of an instruction set of a markup language; receiving means for receiving the real-world description in the form of an instruction set of a markup language; and adjusting means for automatically adjusting one or more parameters of the real device according to said description to generate the ambient environment. 16. The markup-language-enabled real device as claimed in claim 15, wherein said markup-language-enabled real device is an electronic device. 17. The markup-language-enabled real device as claimed in claim 15, wherein said markup-language-enabled real device is a display device. 18. The markup-language-enabled real device as claimed in claim 15, wherein said markup-language-enabled real device has audio capabilities. 19. The markup-language-enabled real device as claimed in claim 15, wherein said markup-language-enabled real device is a lighting device. 20. The markup-language-enabled real device as claimed in claim 15, wherein said markup-language-enabled real device is a heating device. 21. The markup-language-enabled real device as claimed in claim 15, wherein said receiving means includes part of a distributed browser stored on a record carrier, said part of the distributed browser interpreting said instruction set and communicating with said adjusting means. 22. The markup-language-enabled real device as claimed in claim 21, wherein said part of said browser is arranged to interpret instructions of a general type to generate specific parameter adjustments for communicating to said adjusting means. 23. A real-world representation system comprising: A) a generated real-world description in the form of an instruction set of a markup language; B) a plurality of real devices having one or more real-world parameters and capable of generating an ambient environment; C) a server, operably coupled to the plurality of real devices, and configured for: i) interpreting a received real-world description; ii) generating specific parameter adjustments in accordance with an interpretation of a received real-world description; and iii) communicating the specific parameter adjustments to at least one of the plurality of real devices. 24. The real-world representation system of claim 23 further comprising: D) a source of the real-world description. 25. The real-world representation system of claim 24 wherein the real-world description comprises an instruction set of a markup language and wherein the real-world parameters of the plurality of real devices are markup-language-enabled. 26. A method of operating a real device capable of generating an ambient environment and having at least one adjustable parameter associated therewith, the method comprising: generating a real-world description in the form of an instruction set of a markup language; receiving with the real device a real-world description in the form of markup language instructions; interpreting with the real device the instructions and generating device specific parameter adjustments therefrom; modifying with the real device the at least one parameter according to the specific parameter adjustments; and generating with the real device an ambient environment according to the modified parameter. 