A piggable pipeline system is disclosed. One or more pig launcher/receivers may be coupled to a pipeline. At least one fitting may be coupled to the pipeline. The fitting may include a body and at least two passages through the body. The passages are in fluid communication within the body. A diverter is located in at least one of the passages. The diverter is movable between an open position and a closed position. In the open position, the diverter allows open flow between two of the passages. In the closed position, the diverter inhibits flow between the two passages. The pipeline may allow a pig to be launched from at least one of the pig launcher/receivers and returned through the pipeline to at least one of the pig launcher/receivers.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A piggable pipeline system, comprising: a pipeline; one or more pig launcher/receivers coupled to the pipeline; at least one fitting coupled to the pipeline, the fitting comprising: a body; at least two passages through the body, wherein the passages are in fluid communication within the body; a tubular diverter located lengthwise in one of the passages, wherein the tubular diverter fits snugly inside the passage such that fluid flows longitudinally from one end of the passage to the other end of the passage through the inside of the tubular diverter, wherein the tubular diverter rotates within the passage in which the tubular diverter is located during use, and wherein the tubular diverter comprises an opening in a portion of its wall. wherein the tubular diverter is rotated in the passage during use such that, when the opening in the wall of the tubular diverter at least partially aligns with at least one other passage, there is open flow between the at least one other passage and the inside of the tubular diverter, and, when the opening in the wall of the tubular diverter is not aligned with at least one other passage, flow is inhibited between the at least one other passage and the inside of the tubular diverter; and wherein the pipeline is configured to allow a pig to be launched from at least one of the pig launcher/receivers and returned through the pipeline to at least one of the pig launcher/receivers. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is configured to allow the pig to be launched into the pipeline and received from the pipeline without a return pipeline being coupled to the pipeline. 3. The system of claim 1, further comprising a host platform coupled to the pipeline. 4. The system of claim 3, wherein the pig launcher/receiver is coupled to the host platform. 5. The system of claim 3, wherein the system is configured to allow the pig to be launched into the pipeline from the upstream of the system and received from the pipeline without an additional pipeline being coupled to the system. 6. The system of claim 1, further comprising at least one tie-back system coupled to the pipeline, wherein the tie-back system is configured to reverse the direction of travel of the pig through the pipeline. 7. The system of claim 6, wherein the tie-back system is coupled to the pipeline at or proximate to a subsea well. 8. The system of claim 6, further comprising at least one kicker line coupled to the tie-back system, wherein the kicker line is configured to provide fluid to push the pig along the tie-back system. 9. The system of claim 8, wherein the kicker line is configured to be provided fluid from the system. 10. The system of claim 8, wherein the kicker line is configured to provide fluid to the system. 11. The system of claim 1, wherein the fitting is operable using a remotely operated vehicle (ROV), an autonomous underwater vehicle (AUV), or human operator. 12. The system of claim 1, wherein the fitting is a subsea fitting. 13. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is a subsea system. 14. A piggable pipeline system, comprising: a pipeline; a pig launcher/receiver coupled to the pipeline; at least two fittings coupled to the pipeline, the fittings comprising: a body; at least two passages through the body, wherein the passages are in fluid communication within the body; a tubular diverter located lengthwise in one of the passages, wherein the tubular diverter fits snugly inside the passage such that fluid flows longitudinally from one end of the passage to the other end of the passage through the inside of the tubular diverter, wherein the tubular diverter rotates within the passage in which the tubular diverter is located during use, and wherein the tubular diverter comprises an opening in a portion of its wall: wherein the tubular diverter is rotated in the passage during use such that, when the opening in the wall of the tubular diverter at least partially aligns with at least one other passage, there is open flow between the at least one other passage and the inside of the tubular diverter, and, when the opening in the wall of the tubular diverter is not aligned with at least one other passage, flow is inhibited between the at least one other passage and the inside of the tubular diverter; and two or more pipeline branches coupled to the pipeline, wherein the branches are coupled to the pipeline at the fittings. 15. The system of claim 14, wherein the system is configured to use only one pig launcher/receiver. 16. The system of claim 14, further comprising a facility coupled to the pipeline. 17. The system of claim 16, wherein the pig launcher/receiver is coupled to the host platform. 18. The system of claim 14, further comprising at least one tie-back system coupled to the pipeline, wherein the tie-back system is configured to reverse the direction of travel of a pig through the pipeline. 19. The system of claim 18, wherein the tie-back system is coupled to the pipeline at or proximate to a subsea well. 20. The system of claim 14, wherein the fitting is operable using a remotely operated vehicle (ROV), an autonomous underwater vehicle (AUV), or human operator. 21. The system of claim 14, wherein the fitting is a subsea fitting. 22. The system of claim 14, wherein the system is a subsea system. 23. A piggable subsea pipeline system, comprising: a pipeline; at least one subsea fitting coupled to the pipeline, the fitting comprising: a body; at least two passages through the body, wherein the passages are in fluid communication within the body; a tubular diverter located lengthwise in one of the passages, wherein the tubular diverter fits snugly inside the passage such that fluid flows longitudinally from one end of the passage to the other end of the passage through the inside of the tubular diverter, wherein the tubular diverter rotates within the passage in which the tubular diverter is located during use, and wherein the tubular diverter comprises an opening in a portion of its wall: wherein the tubular diverter is rotated in the passage during use such that, when the opening in the wall of the tubular diverter at least partially aligns with at least one other passage, there is open flow between the at least one other passage and the inside of the tubular diverter, and, when the opening in the wall of the tubular diverter is not aligned with at least one other passage, flow is inhibited between the at least one other passage and the inside of the tubular diverter; and a coiled tubing insertion apparatus coupled to the fitting; wherein the fitting allows coiled tubing to be inserted into the pipeline and fluid to be pumped from a subsea well coupled to the pipeline. 