A heart monitoring system for a person includes a wearable appliance in communication with the one or more wireless nodes, the appliance including a heart disease recognizer to determine the person's cardiovascular health.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A heart monitoring system for a person, comprising: one or more wireless nodes forming a wireless network; and a wearable appliance in communication with the one or more wireless nodes, the appliance including a heart disease recognizer to determine the person's cardiovascular health. 2. The system of claim 1, comprising an accelerometer to detect a dangerous condition and to generate a warning when the dangerous condition is detected. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the appliance is coupled to one of: a POTS network and a PSTN network. 4. The system of claim 1, comprising one of: EKG detector, ECG detector, electromagnetic detector, ultrasonic detector, optical detector, a Hidden Markov Model (HMM) recognizer, a dynamic time warp (DTW) recognizer, a neural network, a fuzzy logic engine. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the appliance monitors patient movement. 6. The system of claim 1, comprising an in-door positioning system coupled to one or more mesh network appliances to provide location information. 7. The system of claim 1, comprising a call center coupled to the appliance to provide a human response. 8. The system of claim 1, comprising a web server coupled to the mesh network and to the POTS to provide information to an authorized remote user. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein the heart disease recognizer detects stroke symptom or heart attack symptom. 10. The system of claim 1, wherein the appliance transmits and receives voice from the person over the mesh network. 11. The system of claim 1, comprising code to store and analyze patient information. 12. The system of claim 1, comprising code to store medicine taking habits, eating and drinking habits, sleeping habits, or exercise habits. 13. The system of claim 1, further comprising a patient interface for accessing information including: a touch screen; voice-activated text reading; and touch telephone dialing. 14. A monitoring system, comprising: one or more cameras positioned to capture three dimensional (3D) video of the patient; and a server coupled to the one or more cameras, the server executing code to detect a dangerous condition for the patient based on the 3D video and allow a remote third party to view images of the patient when the dangerous condition is detected. 15. The system of claim 14, comprising a heart disease recognizer to detect stroke symptom or heart attack symptom. 16. The system of claim 14, comprising code to store medicine taking habits, eating and drinking habits, sleeping habits, or exercise habits. 17. The system of claim 14, wherein the appliance transmits and receives voice from the person over the mesh network. 18. A monitoring system for a person, comprising: one or more wireless nodes; and a wearable appliance having a sound transducer coupled to an artery of a patient to transmit sound from the sound transducer acoustically to a remote listener to render assistance upon the transmitted sound meeting a predetermined condition. 19. The system of claim 18, comprising a heart disease recognizer to detect stroke symptom or heart attack symptom. 20. The system of claim 18, comprising code to store medicine taking habits, eating and drinking habits, sleeping habits, or exercise habits. 