Devices, including a wash ring assembly, and methods are provided for the removal of excess fluid or solids from the exterior or interior of a probe used to transfer fluids, for instance, in an automated assay device. Typically, a probe is used to aspirate and dispense a sample fluid material such as whole blood or a reagent. The devices and methods provided herein are useful for removing excess fluid from the exterior or interior of the probe so as to prevent dripping and cross-contamination between samples or reagents. It is also contemplated that, utilizing the devices and methods provided herein, washing and/or drying can be performed simultaneously as the probe is in motion, aspirating a sample and/or dispensing a sample.
Claims It is claimed: 1. A wash ring comprising: a top surface; a bottom surface; an outer side surface; an inner surface forming a bore comprising an inner diameter, a long axis, an upper bore portion, and a lower bore portion, wherein the upper bore portion has an opening in the top surface and the lower bore portion has an opening in the bottom surface; an inlet comprising an opening in the top surface, bottom surface or outer side surface, and an opening in the upper bore portion; and an outlet comprising an opening in the top surface, bottom surface or outer side surface, and an opening in the lower bore portion; wherein the inner diameter of the bore is adapted to receive a probe such that when the probe is present in the bore, a space is formed between the exterior surface of the probe and the inner surface forming the bore, wherein a width of the space between the exterior surface of the probe and the inner surface forming the bore is about 0.008 inches to about 0.12 inches, wherein the diameter of the outlet opening in the inner surface forming the bore is larger than the diameter of the inlet opening in the inner surface forming the bore, and wherein the bore is cylindrical between the upper port and the lower port. 2. The wash ring of claim 1, wherein the inner surface of the bore is made of a hydrophobic material or coated with a hydrophobic material. 3. The wash ring of claim 2, wherein the hydrophobic material is plastic, silicon, polyethylene, or TEFLON. 4. The wash ring of claim 1, wherein the width of the space formed between the exterior surface of the probe and the inner surface forming the bore is about 0.01 inches to about 0.12 inches. 5. The wash ring of claim 1, wherein the outer side surface comprises a first outer side surface and a second outer side surface, and wherein the inlet comprises an opening in the first outer side surface and the outlet comprises an opening in the second outer side surface. 6. The wash ring of claim 1, wherein the inlet opening in the inner surface forming the bore and the outlet opening in the inner surface forming the bore are on opposing sides of the bore. 7. The wash ring of claim 1, wherein the ratio of the diameter of the outlet opening in the inner surface forming the bore to the diameter of the inlet opening in the inner surface forming the bore is about 2 to 1 or about 3 to 1. 8. A wash ring assembly for washing a probe, the wash ring assembly comprising: i) a frame mountable on a robotic probe assembly comprising a probe; ii) a wash ring comprising: a top surface; a bottom surface; an outer side surface; an inner surface forming a bore comprising an inner diameter, a long axis, an upper bore portion, and a lower bore portion, wherein the upper bore portion has an opening in the top surface and the lower bore portion has an opening in the bottom surface; an inlet comprising an opening in the top surface, bottom surface or outer side surface, and an opening in the upper bore portion; an outlet comprising an opening in the top surface, bottom surface or outer side surface, and an opening in the lower bore portion; wherein the inner diameter of the bore is adapted to receive the probe such that when the probe is present in the bore, a capillary space is formed between the exterior surface of the probe and the inner surface forming the bore, wherein a width of the space between the exterior surface of the probe and the inner surface forming the bore is about 0.008 inches to about 0.12 inches, wherein the diameter of the outlet opening in the inner surface forming the bore is larger than the diameter or the inlet opening in the inner surface forming the bore, and wherein the bore is cylindrical between the upper port and the lower port; and iii) a coupling means, wherein the wash ring is coupled to the frame by the coupling means, wherein the coupling means is capable of moving the wash ring toward and away from the frame in parallel to a longitudinal axis of the probe when the probe is present in the bore. 9. The wash ring assembly of claim 8, wherein the coupling means comprises a bearing, a lead screw and a motor. 10. The wash ring assembly of claim 9, further comprising a first guide shaft connected with the wash ring and extending through the frame. 11. The wash ring assembly of claim 10, further comprising a second guide shaft connected with the wash ring and extending through the frame. 12. The wash ring assembly of claim 9, further comprising a bearing assembly comprising a bearing and a sled, wherein the bearing is coupled to the robotic probe assembly, wherein the sled is coupled to the wash ring, and wherein the sled travels along the hearing assembly in parallel to the longitudinal axis of the probe when the probe is present in the bore. 13. A robotic aspiration and dispensing system comprising: i) a robotic probe assembly comprising a probe; ii) a wash ring assembly according to claim 9, wherein the probe is present in the bore of the wash ring; iii) a pumping means for pumping fluid through the inlet port into the bore of the wash ring; and iv) a suction means for removing fluid from the bore of the wash ring through the outlet port, wherein the wash ring is capable of moving in parallel to a longitudinal axis of the probe as the probe is in motion, aspirating and/or dispensing. 14. The robotic aspiration and dispensing system of claim 13, wherein the width of the space formed between the probe and the inner surface forming the bore is about 0.01 inches to about 0.12 inches. 15. The robotic aspiration and dispensing system of claim 13, wherein the coupling means of the wash ring assembly comprises a bearing, a lead screw and a motor. 16. The robotic aspiration and dispensing system of claim 15, wherein the wash ring assembly further comprising a hearing assembly comprising a bearing and a sled, wherein the bearing is coupled to the robotic probe assembly, wherein the sled is coupled to the wash ring, and wherein the sled travels along the bearing assembly in parallel to the longitudinal axis of the probe when the probe is present in the bore. 