A system and method for generating three dimensional CT-type information from a conventional C-arm fluoroscope imaging system. A small number of fluoroscope images are used, taken from angles whose pose is determined by means of a three-dimensional target attached to the region of interest, aided by the participation of the surgeon or an image processing routine to pinpoint known anatomical features in the region of interest of the patient. This procedure enables the reconstruction of virtual images in any desired plane, even in planes other than those accessible by the C-arm imaging process, such as the axial plane of a vertebra. Use of this system and method of marking of the feature to be treated in a small number of angularly dissimilar images, enables the generation of CT-type information which can be used to accurately align a robotically guided surgical tool with the anatomical feature.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of determining a path for performing a surgical procedure through an anatomical feature of a subject, comprising the steps of: disposing a target having an array of X-ray opaque markers in a three dimensional pattern, in the region of said anatomical feature of said subject, and in a location fixed relative to said anatomical feature of said subject; providing an X-ray source to generate fluoroscopic images of said region of said anatomical feature of said subject, including said target; taking at least two fluoroscopic images of said anatomical feature of said subject including said target, said images being aligned in a generally anterior-posterior orientation; marking on each of said at least two fluoroscopic images the estimated position of the center of said anatomical feature; using said target to define the spatial position of said source relative to said anatomical feature of a subject; generating an axial plane virtual image of said anatomical feature of said subject, including a line for each image alignment, said lines for each image alignment being computed to run between said source and said marked position; and using the intersection of said lines to generate a safe zone for performing said surgical procedure through said anatomical feature. 2. A method according to claim 1 and wherein said anatomical feature is a pedicle of a vertebra of the subject. 3. A method according to claim 2 and wherein said safe zone is used to provide instructions to a device for drilling pedicle screw holes. 4. A method according to claim 1 and wherein said marking is performed by means of operator intervention. 5. A method according to claim 4 and wherein said marking is performed by means of an image processing procedure. 6. A method of determining a path through an orthopedic feature of a subject, comprising the steps of: attaching a target to said subject in the region of said orthopedic feature; providing an X-ray source to generate fluoroscopic images of said orthopedic feature of said subject; taking at least two fluoroscopic images of said orthopedic feature, said images aligned in a generally anterior-posterior orientation; marking on each of said fluoroscopic images the estimated position of the center of said orthopedic feature; using said target to define the spatial position of said source relative to said orthopedic feature of said subject; generating an axial plane virtual image of said orthopedic feature, comprising lines for each image alignment, said lines to run between said source and said marked positions; and using the data relating to said lines to determine said path through said orthopedic feature of said subject. 7. A method according to claim 6 and wherein said orthopedic feature is a pedicle of a vertebra of the subject, and said path is a safe path for the insertion of a pedicle screw. 