A device (1) for housing a scientific sample comprising at least one sample well (2) and an on-board buffering substance (3) wherein the onboard buffering substance (3) at least partly surrounds the sample well (2). The on-board buffering substance (3) may be in the form of a matrix, such as a gel-like matrix. The device (1) may further comprise an insulating means. Also described is a substance for use in culturing and/or assaying a sample whereby the substance provides atmospheric and thermal buffering. The invention further provides a lid for a single-well or multi-well sample plate, the lid being configured to facilitate delivery of a sample through the lid into a well, and for sealing the well. The lid comprises moveable portions (52, 53) that have at least one orifice (54, 57) formed through the moveable portions (52, 53) such that a conduit is formed by alignment of the orifices (54, 57) of both the lid portions (52, 53).
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A multi-well plate for housing a sample comprising a plurality of sample wells arranged to form inter-well spaces and a space between side walls defining the multi-well plate and sample wells nearest to the side walls, and an aqueous gel like material onboard buffering substance wherein the onboard buffering substance is located in the inter-well spaces and in the space between side walls defining the multi-well plate and sample wells nearest to the side walls. 2. The multi-well plate as claimed in claim 1, wherein the sample is one or more selected from the group comprising: biological, chemical, physical, biochemical, and nanotechnical. 3. The multi-well plate as claimed in claim 1 wherein the substance is solid or semi-solid at room temperature. 4. The multi-well plate as claimed in claim 1 wherein the substance is selected from: a natural gel-like material, a synthetic gel-like material, or a semi-synthetic gel-like material. 5. The multi-well plate as claimed in claim 1 wherein the substance is a polymer. 6. The multi-well plate as claimed in claim 1 wherein the substance comprises one or more selected from the group consisting of agar, agarose, acrylamide and gelatine. 7. The multi-well plate as claimed in claim 1 wherein the substance further comprises one or more additive selected from the group consisting of oxygen scavengers, exothermic compounds, endothermic compounds, pH indicators, dyes, carbon dioxide maintainers/stabilizers, oxygen maintainers/stabilizers, nitrogen maintainers/stabilizers, antioxidants, carbon sources, infection indicators and anti-microbial agents. 8. The multi-well plate as claimed in claim 1 wherein the onboard buffering system substance is a thermal buffer. 9. The multi-well plate as claimed in claim 1 further comprising a lid, the lid may be moveable to allow access to the sample retaining means. 10. The multi-well plate as claimed in claim 1 further comprising insulating means, the insulating means may be a layer of insulating material, the insulating means may be polystyrene, the insulating means may be a lid. 11. The multi-well plate as claimed in claim 1 wherein the onboard buffering substance is an atmospheric buffer. 12. The multi-well plate as claimed in claim 7 wherein the additive is an oxygen scavenger, and wherein the oxygen scavenger is selected from one or more of the group consisting of: sulphite, catalase, carnosine, N-acetylcarnosine, homocarnosine, carbohydrazide, oxygen scavenging enxymes and pyrogalol. 13. The multi-well plate as claimed in claim 7 wherein the additive is an exothermic compound, and wherein the exothermic compound is selected from one or both of: sodium hydroxide and hydrochloric acid; glycine (glycerol) and lower polyglycols. 14. The multi-well plate as claimed in claim 7 wherein the additive is an endothermic compound, and wherein the endothermic compound is selected from one or both of: sodium hydroxide and water; citric acid and sodium hydroxide. 15. The multi-well plate as claimed in claim 7 wherein the additive is a pH indicator, and wherein the pH indicator is phenol red. 16. The multi-well plate as claimed in claim 7 wherein the additive is a dye, and wherein the dye is selected from the group consisting of: Remazol Brilliant Blue R (RBBR), poly R-478, guaiacol and tannic acid. 17. The multi-well plate as claimed in claim 7 wherein the additive is carbon dioxide maintainer/stabilizer, and wherein the carbon dioxide maintainer/stabilizer is selected from bicarbonate of soda or soda lime. 18. The multi-well plate as claimed in claim 7 wherein the additive is a carbon source, and wherein the carbon source is selected from one or more of the group consisting of: glucose, lactose, and sucrose. 19. The multi-well plate as claimed in claim 7 wherein the additive is an infection indicator, and wherein the infection indicator is a chemical inhibitor of microbial growth such as citric acid and bromothymol blue. 20. The multi-well plate as claimed in claim 7 wherein the additive is an antimicrobial agent, and wherein the antimicrobial agent is selected from one or more of: bacteriocidals, antibiotics, and fungicidals. 21. The multi-well plate as claimed in claim 5 wherein the polymer has a weight/volume (w/v) percentage concentration of between about 0.1% to about 10%. 22. The multi-well plate as claimed in claim 5 wherein the polymer has a weight/volume (w/v) percentage concentration of between about 0.1% to about 5%. 23. The multi-well plate as claimed in claim 5 wherein the polymer has a weight/volume (w/v) percentage concentration of between about 0.1% to about 2.5%. 24. The multi-well plate as claimed in claim 5 wherein the polymer has a weight/volume (w/v) percentage concentration of between about 0.1% to about 2%. 25. The multi-well plate as claimed in claim 5 wherein the polymer has a weight/volume (w/v) percentage concentration of about 1%. 26. The multi-well plate as claimed in claim 1 wherein the substance is solid or semi-solid in use. 