Methods for certifying data retained by a tape cartridge in a tape library are shown. Error rates that are encountered when the tape cartridge is being read by a tape drive can be accounted for without actually reading data for data content retrieval. A record of the error rate can be stored in a medium auxiliary memory device associated with the tape cartridge. An older record containing a formerly accounted for error rate of read errors when the tape cartridge was formerly read can be accessed and compared with the record presently assessed. If there is a difference between the presently found error rate and the formerly found error rate an action can be executed if the difference exceeds a predetermined threshold.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for certifying data, the method comprising: providing a library with a tape drive and a tape cartridge, said tape cartridge possessing a tape medium with data retained thereon and a medium auxiliary memory device wherein said medium auxiliary memory device contains a first record of first read error results; loading said tape cartridge in said tape drive; reading said data; assessing said data for read errors; determining second read error results; recording said second read error results on said medium auxiliary memory device; comparing said first read error results with said second read error results; establishing a numerical difference between said first read error results and said second read error results; executing a data recovery action of said data if said second read error results exceeds said first read error results and said numerical difference exceeds a predetermined threshold set by an end user. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said data recovery action consists essentially of alerting an end user that said tape cartridge may be unreliable. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein said data recovery action consists essentially of replacing said tape cartridge with a replacement tape cartridge. 4. The method of claim 1 further comprising maintaining said first record and said second record in a data base wherein said first read error results are obtained via said data base for said comparison. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein said first read error results are obtained via said medium auxiliary memory device for said comparison. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein said read errors essentially consist of hard read errors and soft read errors. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein said read error results essentially consist of a percentage of the number of said read errors to the amount of said data. 8. The method of claim 1 further comprising transmitting to and end user a tape health notification according to comparison results wherein said comparison results are based on said numerical difference. 9. The method of claim 1 further comprising replacing said first read error results with said second read error results if said numerical difference does not exceed said predetermined threshold. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein said data recovery action is also executed if said second read error results exceed a second predetermined threshold set by an end user. 11. The method of claim 1 wherein said data assessed is a fraction of all data retained on said tape medium. 12. A method for certifying data retained by a tape cartridge in a tape library, the method comprising: reading said data; assessing the quantity of said data that fails to meet a readability threshold; recording new results of said quantity to a medium auxiliary memory device associated with said tape cartridge; comparing said new results with former results of a former assessment, said former assessment ascertaining an former quantity of said data that failed to meet said readability threshold from an earlier time; establishing a numerical difference of said quantity and said former quantity; and executing a data recovery action if said new results exceeds results of said former assessment and said numerical difference exceeds a predetermined threshold set by an end user. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein said reading step is performed at a scheduled time. 14. The method of claim 12 wherein said action consists essentially of alerting an end user that said tape cartridge may be unreliable. 15. The method of claim 12 wherein said predetermined threshold is set by an end user. 16. The method of claim 12 wherein said action consists essentially of replacing said tape cartridge with a replacement tape cartridge and storing a copy of said data to said replacement tape cartridge. 17. The method of claim 12 further comprising maintaining said new results and said former results in a data base wherein said former results are obtained via said data base as used in said comparing step. 18. The method of claim 12 wherein said former results are obtained via said medium auxiliary memory device as used in said comparing step. 19. The method of claim 12 wherein said quantity of said data that fails to meet a readability threshold is related to the number of hard read errors and soft read errors. 20. A method for certifying data retained by a tape cartridge in a tape library, the method comprising: accounting for an error rate of read errors encountered when said tape cartridge is being read by a tape drive wherein said tape cartridge is essentially not being read for data content retrieval; storing a record of said error rate in a medium auxiliary memory device associated with said tape cartridge; accessing an older record containing a formerly accounted for error rate of read errors when said tape cartridge was formerly read; comparing said record with said older record; determining if there is a difference between said error rate and said formerly accounted for error rate; executing a data recovery action if said record of said error rate exceeds said older record of said formerly accounted for error rate and said difference exceeds a predetermined threshold set by an end user. 