Mechanical and electromechanical components for rapidly constructing a user-definable apparatus may include components that are reconfigurable into other construction set components, and that have at least one demarcation defining adjacent segments thereof. The demarcations facilitate reconfiguration of the components to produce other construction set components. Openings to substantially prevent sharp edges from being formed during reconfiguration may be included in the components. An electromechanical drive assembly having an integrated speed control and operable to receive interchangeable, non-circular drive shafts may be provided. The electromechanical drive assembly may be configured to attach to and self-align relative to other construction set components. One or more of the components may be provided with openings through which the non-circular drive shafts may rotate. The drive shaft may be locked in relation to openings of components that allow the drive shaft to rotate via a lock plate. A bearing plate may also be included.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A housing for mounting an electromechanical drive apparatus in relation to a construction set component, the construction set component for use in constructing a user-definable apparatus and having a plurality of spaced apertures therein, the housing comprising: a body portion attachable to the construction set component and operable to at least partially support the electromechanical drive apparatus; and a first mounting protrusion extending outwardly from the body portion and adapted for fastening to the construction set component through a first aperture of the construction set component using a fastener, the first mounting protrusion comprising a stand-off providing a predetermined spacing distance between the body portion and the construction set component. 2. The housing of claim 1, wherein said first mounting protrusion is operable to align an edge of said body portion parallel to an edge of the construction set component when inserted at least partially into the first aperture. 3. The housing of claim 1, wherein said first mounting protrusion is operable to substantially center a drive port of the electromechanical drive apparatus in an aperture when said first mounting protrusion is inserted at least partially into the first aperture. 4. The housing of claim 1, wherein at least one of the apertures has a substantially flat edge surface and wherein said first mounting protrusion is operable to engage the substantially flat edge surface. 5. The housing of claim 1, wherein the electromechanical drive apparatus has an existing housing and the body portion is operable to engage the existing housing of the electromechanical drive apparatus. 6. The housing of claim 1, wherein the fastener comprises a screw. 7. The housing of claim 1, wherein the fastener comprises a nut. 8. The housing of claim 1, further comprising a second mounting protrusion extending outwardly from the body portion and adapted for fastening to the construction set component through the first aperture of the construction set component using a second fastener, the second mounting protrusion comprising a stand-off providing a predetermined spacing distance between the body portion and the construction set component. 9. The housing of claim 8, wherein said first mounting protrusion and second mounting protrusion are operable to substantially center a drive port of the electromechanical drive apparatus in an aperture when said first mounting protrusion and second mounting protrusion are fastened through the first aperture. 