A ferris wheel workpiece positioner may include a base and a workpiece holder operatively connected to the base and configured to be rotated about a central axis. The ferris wheel workpiece positioner may also include a first-side set of rails operatively connected to a first side of the workpiece holder and a second-side set of rails operatively connected to a second side of the workpiece holder. The ferris wheel workpiece positioner may further include a first-side set of workpiece supports including at least one first-side support operatively connected to the first-side set of rails, and a second-side set of workpiece supports including at least one second-side support operatively connected to the second-side set of rails.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A ferris wheel workpiece positioner comprising: a base; a workpiece holder operatively connected to the base and configured to be rotated about a central axis; a first-side set of rails operatively connected to a first side of the workpiece holder; a second-side set of rails operatively connected to a second side of the workpiece holder; a first-side set of workpiece supports including at least two first-side supports, including a first-side forward support operatively connected to the first-side set of rails such that the first-side forward support slides along the first-side set of rails, and a first-side rearward support operatively connected to the first-side set of rails such that the first-side rearward support slides along the first-side set of rails; and a second-side set of workpiece supports including at least one second-side support operatively connected to the second-side set of rails such that the at least one second-side support slides along the second-side set of rails. 2. The ferris wheel workpiece positioner of claim 1, where the second-side set of workpiece supports includes at least two second-side supports, including a second-side forward support operatively connected to the second-side set of rails such that the second-side forward support slides along the second-side set of rails and a second-side reward support operatively connected to the second-side set of rails such that the second-side reward support slides along the second-side set of rails. 3. The ferris wheel workpiece positioner of claim 1, comprising a locking mechanism configured to lock the at least one first-side support to a fixed position along the first-side set of rails. 4. The ferris wheel workpiece positioner of claim 3, where the locking mechanism is selected from the group consisting of a pull pin, a quick release pull pin, a hand crank, a rack and pinion combination, a pneumatic tail stock advance system, a motor driven tail stock advance system, a clamp, a screw, and a bolt. 5. The ferris wheel workpiece positioner of claim 1, comprising a locking mechanism configured to lock the at least one second-side support to a fixed position along the second-side set of rails. 6. The ferris wheel workpiece positioner of claim 5, where the locking mechanism is selected from the group consisting of a pull pin, a quick release pull pin, a hand crank, a rack and pinion combination, a pneumatic tail stock advance system, a motor driven tail stock advance system, a clamp, a screw, and a bolt. 7. A welding apparatus comprising: a workpiece fixture holder configured to secure a first workpiece fixture to a first-side of the workpiece fixture holder and a second workpiece fixture to a second-side of the workpiece fixture holder, where the workpiece fixture holder is configured to rotate about an axis of rotation, the workpiece fixture holder including: at least one first-side rail disposed on the first side of the workpiece fixture holder and parallel to the axis of rotation; at least one second-side rail disposed on the second side of the workpiece fixture holder and parallel to the axis of rotation; a first-side tail stock slidably engaged to the at least one first-side rail; and a second-side tail stock slidably engaged to the at least one second-side rail. 8. The welding apparatus of claim 7, comprising a first-side head stock slidably engaged to the at least one first-side rail. 9. The welding apparatus of claim 8, comprising a second-side head stock slidably engaged to the at least one second-side rail. 10. The welding apparatus of claim 7, comprising a second first-side rail disposed on the first side of the workpiece fixture holder and a first-side headstock slidably engaged to the second first-side rail. 11. The welding apparatus of claim 10, comprising a second second-side rail disposed on the second side of the workpiece fixture holder and a second-side headstock slidably engaged to the second second-side rail. 12. The welding apparatus of claim 7, comprising locking means for locking the first-side tail stock to a fixed position along the at least one first-side rail. 13. The welding apparatus of claim 7, comprising locking means for locking the second-side tail stock to a fixed position along the at least one second-side rail. 14. The ferris wheel workpiece positioner of claim 1, wherein the first-side set of rails are substantially parallel to the central axis, and wherein the second-side set of rails are substantially parallel to the central axis. 15. A robotic welding system comprising: a workpiece fixture holder having a rotational axis, the workpiece fixture holder including: a first head stock disposed on a first side of the workpiece fixture, means for sliding the first head stock in a direction parallel to the axis of rotation, a first tail stock disposed on the first side of the workpiece fixture, a second head stock disposed on a second side of the workpiece fixture, means for sliding the second head stock in a direction parallel to the axis of rotation, and a second tail stock disposed on the second side of the workpiece fixture; and means for rotating the workpiece fixture holder about the rotational axis. 16. The robotic welding system of claim 15, further comprising means for locking the first head stock to a fixed position. 17. The robotic welding system of claim 15, further comprising means for sliding the first tail stock in a direction parallel to the axis of rotation. 18. The robotic welding system of claim 17, further comprising means for locking the first tail stock to a fixed position. 19. The robotic welding system of claim 15, further comprising means for locking the second head stock to a fixed position. 20. The robotic welding system of claim 15, further comprising means for sliding the second tail stock in a direction parallel to the axis of rotation, and means for locking the second tail stock to a fixed position. 