A robotic hub assembly is provided which comprises a spacer configuration (101) that includes first (103) and second (105) spacers disposed in opposing relation to each other, and a device, such as a pin (111), for restricting the relative motion of the first and second spacers in a lateral direction.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot, comprising: a hub; first and second rings which are rotatably mounted on said hub; a spacer structure disposed between said first and second rings, wherein said spacer structure comprises first and second spacer elements having a plurality of springs disposed between them, and wherein said first and second spacer elements have at least one pin disposed between them; and first and second arms attached, respectively, to said first and second rings. 2. The robot of claim 1, wherein said at least one pin restricts the motion of the first and second spacers in a direction perpendicular to a longitudinal axis of said hub. 3. The robot of claim 1, wherein said at least one pin restricts lateral motion of the first and second spacers. 4. The robot of claim 3, wherein said first and second pins are disposed on opposing sides of said first ring. 5. The robot of claim 1, wherein said at least one pin includes first and second pins. 6. The robot of claim 1, wherein said at least one pin includes first, second, third and fourth pins, wherein said first and second pins are disposed on opposing sides of said first ring, and wherein said third and fourth pins are disposed on opposing sides of said second ring. 7. The robot of claim 1, wherein said at least one pin rotatingly engages a first threaded aperture disposed in said first ring, and extends into a second aperture disposed in said second ring. 8. The robot of claim 7, wherein said second aperture slidingly engages said at least one pin. 9. The robot of claim 7, wherein the at least one pin moves freely in said second aperture in a direction parallel to a longitudinal axis of the at least one pin. 10. The robot of claim 1, wherein said spacer maintains said first and second rings in a spaced apart relationship. 11. The robot of claim 1, wherein said first ring has a first edge which engages a beveled surface on said first ring, and wherein said second ring has a second edge which engages a beveled surface on said second ring. 12. The robot of claim 1, wherein said first ring is equipped with a first ball bearing assembly, and wherein said second ring is equipped with a second ball bearing assembly. 13. The robot of claim 12, wherein said first and second arms have a frog-leg configuration. 14. The robot of claim 12, wherein said first and second arms extend when said first and second rings rotate in first and second opposing directions, respectively. 15. The robot of claim 14, wherein said first and second arms retract when said first and second rings rotate in third and fourth opposing directions, respectively, wherein said third direction is opposite of said first direction, and wherein said third direction is opposite of said second direction. 16. The robot of claim 12, wherein said hub is cylindrical. 17. The robot of claim 1, wherein said first arm includes a first upper arm and a first lower arm. 18. The robot of claim 17, wherein said second arm includes a second upper arm and a second lower arm. 19. The robot of claim 18, wherein said first and second lower arms are attached to a wrist assembly. 20. The robot of claim 19, wherein said wrist assembly is connected to an end effector. 21. The robot of claim 18, wherein said first upper arm is connected to said first ring, and wherein said second upper arm is connected to said second ring. 