The present application is directed to various spinal stabilization systems. The systems can include one or more guiding elements attached to screw members to assist in guiding rod implants and tools to desired locations within a patient. The guiding elements can include a plurality of wires, blades, or tabs. The guiding elements can be capable of criss-crossing or intersecting at or near an incision, such that only a single incision may be needed to perform a surgery. The guiding elements can also include telescoping features that allow the height of the guiding elements to be adjusted in use, thereby allowing multiple telescoping guiding elements to be used with the same incision.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A system for performing spine stabilization through an opening in skin of a patient, comprising: a first screw having a screw head, the first screw configured to be implanted in a first vertebra; a first guiding element comprising an adjustable height component, wherein the first guiding element is configured to be detachably connected to the first screw, and wherein the adjustable height component is configured to adjust the height of the first guiding element before it is detached from the first screw; a second screw having a screw head, the second screw configured to be implanted in a second vertebra; a second guiding element configured to be detachably connected to the second screw; and a spinal implant sized and configured to be delivered down one or both of the first and second guiding elements, the spinal implant having a first portion that is configured to be fixed to the first screw head and a second portion that is configured to be fixed to the second screw head; wherein the first screw with the first guiding element and the second screw with the second guiding element are configured to be delivered into the first and second vertebra, respectively, and the adjustable height component of the first guiding element is adjustable to reduce a height of the first guiding element at or below a level of the skin opening to allow the second guiding element to extend through the skin opening when the second screw is implanted in the second vertebra. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the adjustable height component comprises telescoping components. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the second guiding element comprises an adjustable height component. 4. The system of claim 3, further comprising first extension elements in contact with a proximal portion of the adjustable height component of the first guiding element and second extension elements in contact with a proximal portion of the adjustable height component of the second guiding element, the first and second extension elements capable of criss-crossing while still providing a pathway to deliver a spinal implant. 5. The system of claim 3, wherein the adjustable height components of the first and second guiding elements are partial cylinders configured to couple at the skin incision to form an elliptical or partially elliptical portal for tools and implants to reach the first and second guiding elements and screw heads. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein the second guiding element is non-telescoping and has a fixed length. 7. The system of claim 6, wherein the second guiding element comprises a rigid tube or one or more blades having a height that extends through and above the skin opening when the second screw is implanted in the second vertebra. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein the adjustable height component comprises a plurality of cylindrical members, each cylindrical member comprising a complete or partial cylinder. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein the adjustable height component comprises a plurality of blades. 10. The system of claim 1, further comprising one or more extension elements attached to the adjustable height component, wherein the one or more extension elements are configured to extend through the skin opening when the adjustable height component is reduced in height at or below the skin opening. 11. The system of claim 1, wherein the adjustable height component comprises a lower cylinder detachably connected to the screw head and a partial cylinder slidably coupled to the lower cylinder. 12. The system of claim 1, further comprising a third screw having a screw head and a third guiding element detachably connected to the third screw, the third screw configured to be implanted in a third vertebra. 13. The system of claim 12, wherein the third guiding element comprises telescoping components. 14. The system of claim 1, wherein the spinal implant is sized to be fixed to the first and second screw heads and is further configured to have one or more detachable flexible extensions at one or more ends of the spinal implant that prevents the spinal implant from rotating and further extends through one or more guiding elements to keep the ends of the spinal implant within the guiding elements and the screw heads when the spinal implant is delivered to the first and second screws. 15. The system of claim 1, wherein a width of the skin opening is smaller than the combined widths of the first screw and the second screw. 16. The system of claim 1, wherein the adjustable height component is capable of bending at the skin level to reduce a distance of the components above the skin opening to the skin opening itself. 17. A system for performing spine stabilization on a patient through an opening in skin of a patient, comprising: a first screw having a screw head configured to be implanted in a first vertebra; a second screw having a screw head configured to be implanted in a second vertebra; at least one or both of: (i) a first guiding element comprising an adjustable height component that is configured to be detachably connected to the first screw, wherein the first guiding element is adjustable to reduce a height of the first guiding element at or below a level of the skin opening before the first guiding element is detached from the first screw, and (ii) one or more flexible wire(s) configured to extend upwardly from the first screw and/or from the first guiding element and through the skin opening when the second screw is implanted in the second vertebra, wherein the one or more flexible wire(s) are movable relative to the first screw when attached to the first screw and/or the first guiding element; a second guiding element configured to be detachably connected to the second screw, the second guiding element comprising a rigid or semi-rigid material configured to extend through and above the skin opening when the second screw is implanted in the second vertebra; and a spinal implant member connectable between the first screw and the second screw. 18. The system of claim 17, wherein one or both of the first and second guiding elements comprise one or more tubes, partial tubes, or blades. 19. The system of claim 17, comprising one or more flexible wires configured to extend upwardly from the first screw, wherein the one or more flexible wires are detachably connected to either the first screw or a guiding element configured to be detachably connected to the first screw. 20. The system of claim 17, wherein the second guiding element comprises telescoping components configured to provide an adjustable height to the second guiding element. 21. A method of treating the spine, comprising: making an incision in the skin of a patient to provide access to a spinal location; delivering a first screw through the incision and into a first vertebra and a second screw through the same incision and into a second vertebra, wherein at least one of the first screw and second screw has detachably connected thereto a guiding element extending upwardly through the incision, wherein the guiding element comprises an adjustable height component configured to adjust a height of the guiding element at or below a level of the skin incision before the guiding element is detached from one of the first screw or second screw; delivering a rod or flexible connector to the screws; and locking the rod or flexible connector to each of the screws. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein the adjustable height component comprises a plurality of telescoping guiding elements. 23. The method of claim 22, wherein the telescoping guiding elements comprises a plurality of tubes, partial tubes, or blades. 24. The method of claim 22, wherein the telescoping guiding elements further comprise at least one wire or extension element extending upwardly away from the vertebrae through the incision when the screw or screws are delivered in the vertebrae. 25. The method of claim 22, wherein delivering the rod or flexible connector comprises passing the rod or flexible connector through a window in one of the telescoping guiding elements detachably connected to the first screw into contact with the second screw. 26. The method of claim 25, wherein delivering the rod or flexible connector further comprises passing the rod into a window in one of a plurality of telescoping guiding elements detachably connected to the second screw. 27. The method of claim 21, wherein both the first screw and the second screw have detachably connected thereto a guiding element, wherein the guiding element detachably connected to the first screw comprises an adjustable height component having a first plurality of telescoping guiding elements and the guiding element detachably connected to the second screw comprises an adjustable height component having a second plurality of telescoping guiding elements, the method comprising: delivering the first screw through the incision and into the first vertebra with the first plurality of telescoping guiding elements extending through the incision; reducing a height of the first plurality of telescoping guiding elements so that an uppermost one of the telescoping guiding elements is positioned at or below the incision; and delivering the second screw through the same incision into the second vertebra with the second plurality of telescoping guiding elements extending through the incision. 28. The method of claim 21, wherein the first screw has detachably connected thereto a guiding element comprising an adjustable height component having plurality of telescoping guiding elements, and the second screw has detachably connected thereto a non-telescoping guiding element. 29. A method of treating the spine, comprising: making an incision in the skin of a patient to provide access to a spinal location; delivering a first screw through the incision and into a first vertebra, wherein the first screw has detachably connected thereto a guiding element having a height, after implantation of the first screw, at or below a level of the skin incision before the guiding element is detached from the first screw; delivering a second screw through the same incision and into a second vertebra, wherein the second screw has detachably connected thereto a second guiding element comprising a rigid or semi-rigid material extending through and above the skin incision when the second screw is implanted in the second vertebra; delivering a rod or flexible connector to the screws; and locking the rod or flexible connector to each of the screws. 30. The method of claim 29, wherein the first screw is delivered into the first vertebra having an extension element or flexible wire attached to a proximal end of the first guiding element. 