A method of polishing transparent armor, preferably to optical clarity. The method can be used on flat or contoured armor, manually or via robotic automation. The method includes using a step-wise progression of diamond, structured abrasive articles.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of finishing transparent ceramic armor selected form the group consisting of spinel, sapphire, and aluminum oxynitride, the method comprising the steps of: rough grinding a first surface of the transparent armor; intermediate pre-polish grinding the first surface after rough grinding with a first structured abrasive article comprising: a structured abrasive layer adhered to a first side of a backing, the structured abrasive layer having a plurality of abrasive composites; the plurality of abrasive composites comprising agglomerates and a matrix binder; the agglomerates comprising a glass binder and diamond abrasive particles having an average size of 15 micrometers or less and the agglomerate size is about 40 to about 400 micrometers; and the structured abrasive layer having a bearing area ratio between about 40 percent to about 70 percent; intermediate pre-polish grinding the first surface after pre-polish grinding the first surface with the first structured abrasive article with a second structured abrasive article comprising: a structured abrasive layer adhered to a first side of a backing, the structured abrasive layer having a plurality of abrasive composites; the plurality of abrasive composites comprising agglomerates and a matrix binder; the agglomerates comprising a glass binder and diamond abrasive particles having an average size of 15 micrometers or less and the agglomerates size is about 40 to about 400 micrometers; the structured abrasive layer having a bearing area ratio between about 40 percent to about 70 percent; and wherein the diamond abrasive particles of the second structured abrasive article have a particle size no more than 50% of the size of the diamond abrasive particles in the first structured abrasive article. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the rough grinding step comprises using a Blanchard grinding machine. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein after pre-polish grinding the first surface with the second structured abrasive article, the first surface is final polished to optical clarity with an abrasive slurry. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein after pre-polish grinding the first surface with the second structured abrasive article, the first surface has an Ra between 0.0 and about 1 .mu.in. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein a second side of the backing of both the first and the second structured abrasive articles is attached to a reinforcing layer with and adhesive layer. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein a removal rate, T, is 76.3 .mu.m/min or greater when using the first structured abrasive article. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein the diamond abrasive particles comprise about 4 weight percent to about 30 weight percent of the structured abrasive layer of the first structured abrasive article. 