A heart monitoring system for a person includes one or more wireless nodes; and a wearable appliance in communication with the one or more wireless nodes, the appliance monitoring cardiac abnormalities. Other implementations can monitor heart rate, heart rate variability, respiratory rate, fluid status, posture and activity.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A heart monitoring system for a person, comprising: one or more wireless nodes; and a wearable patch or bandage appliance adhesively secured to the person' skin and coupled to a low power short range radio mounted on the person and in communication with the one or more wireless nodes, the patch or bandage appliance monitoring cardiac abnormalities, wherein the short range radio transmits cardiac abnormalities to the wireless nodes. 2. The system of claim 1, comprising an accelerometer to detect a dangerous condition and to generate a warning when the dangerous condition is detected. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the appliance is coupled to one of: a POTS network and a PSTN network. 4. The system of claim 1, comprising one of: EKG detector, ECG detector, electromagnetic detector, ultrasonic detector, optical detector, a Hidden Markov Model (HMM) recognizer, a dynamic time warp (DTW) recognizer, a neural network, a fuzzy logic engine. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the appliance monitors patient movement. 6. The system of claim 1, comprising an in-door positioning system coupled to one or more network appliances to provide location information. 7. The system of claim 1, comprising a call center coupled to the appliance to provide a human response. 8. The system of claim 1, comprising a web server coupled to the wireless nodes to provide information to an authorized remote user. 9. The system of claim 1, comprising a heart disease recognizer to detect stroke symptom or heart attack symptom. 10. The system of claim 1, comprising code to store and analyze patient information. 11. The system of claim 1, comprising code to store medicine taking habits, eating and drinking habits, sleeping habits, or exercise habits. 12. The system of claim 1, further comprising a patient interface for accessing information including: a touch screen; voice-activated text reading; and touch telephone dialing. 13. A monitoring system, comprising: one or more wireless nodes; and a wearable patch or bandage appliance in communication with the one or more wireless nodes, the appliance monitoring one of: heart rate, heart rate variability, respiratory rate, fluid status, posture and activity. 14. The system of claim 13, comprising a heart disease recognizer to detect stroke symptom or heart attack symptom. 15. The system of claim 13, comprising code to store medicine taking habits, eating and drinking habits, sleeping habits, or exercise habits. 16. The system of claim 13, wherein the appliance transmits and receives voice from the person over the network. 17. The system of claim 13, wherein the appliance continuously monitors key vital signs to help physicians track the person's health status and detect potential health risks or worsening conditions. 18. A monitoring system for a person, comprising: one or more wireless nodes; and a wearable patch or bandage appliance in communication with the one or more wireless nodes, the appliance monitoring heart rate, heart rate variability, and patient activity. 19. The system of claim 18, comprising a heart disease recognizer to detect stroke symptom or heart attack symptom. 20. The system of claim 18, comprising code to capture ECG when arrhythmias are detected. 21. The system of claim 1, comprising a continuous blood pressure monitoring unit having to a blood flow velocity sensor coupled to a blood pressure model to continuously estimate blood pressure. 