Method and apparatus for testing of LCD cells is disclosed. An LCD cell under test (14, 30) may be mounted to translatable table (40) between polarization state generator (10) and polarization state analyzer (16). For each location on cell (14, 30) to be tested, a variety of known polarization states (22) are launched through LCD cell (14, 30) and detected by polarization state analyzer (16). Electrical signals representative of polarization states are acquired by computer (18). Within computer (18), a model (58, 60) of polarization properties of LCD cell (14, 30) is developed based on estimations of what physical parameters of LCD cell (14, 30) are believed to be. RMS differences between simulated polarization properties and measured polarization properties are minimized by iteratively refining (60) modeled physical cell properties, at which point cell thickness and other physical parameters of the LCD cell may be deduced.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for using a computer processing device to analyze data representative of measured polarization states of a polarization-altering element under test to determine at least one physical parameter of said polarization-altering element under test and comprising: A) launching a beam of light having a plurality of polarization states through said polarization-altering element under test, each polarization state of said plurality of polarization states having different orientation, ellipticity and handedness from other said polarization states of said plurality of polarization states, B) after said plurality of polarization states pass through said polarization-altering element under test, measuring polarization states as altered by said polarization-altering element under test at selected points along launched said plurality of polarization states, and converting measured said polarization states into said data representative of said measured polarization states, C) in a computer processing device, developing a polarization-altering element model including modeled polarization properties based on at least one estimated physical parameter of said polarization-altering element under test, D) using said data representative of said measured polarization states, adjusting said computer model until a close match is obtained between said modeled polarization properties and polarization properties of said polarization-altering element under test, E) whereby when said close match is obtained, said at least one estimated physical parameter of said polarization-altering element model is indicative of a corresponding said physical parameter of said polarization-altering element under test. 2. A method as set forth in claim 1 wherein said A) further comprises launching a continuum of time-varying polarization states containing said plurality of polarization states having different orientation, ellipticity and handedness. 3. A method as set forth in claim 1 further comprising launching and measuring a sufficient number of said plurality of polarization states having different orientation, ellipticity and handedness to calculate at least a pure retardance matrix. 4. A method as set forth in claim 1 further comprising launching and measuring a sufficient number of said plurality of polarization states having different orientation, ellipticity and handedness to allow calculation of a full Mueller or Jones matrix. 5. A method as set forth in claim 1 wherein said D) further comprises iteratively adjusting said at least one of said estimated physical parameters of said polarization-altering element model until a lowest root mean square difference between said polarization properties of said polarization-altering element model and polarization properties of said polarization-altering element under test is obtained. 6. A method as set forth in claim 5 wherein said D) further comprises varying at least one of said estimated physical parameters comprising gap, twist angle, rubbing direction and pre-tilt angle. 7. A method as set forth in claim 6 further comprising displaying a varied said at least one estimated physical parameter after said close match is obtained, said at least one closely matched, varied estimated physical parameter representative of a corresponding physical parameter of said polarization-altering element under test. 8. A method as set forth in claim 1 further comprising mounting said polarization-altering element to an XY translatable stage so that said polarization-altering element may be moved in X and Y directions to enable measurement at any location on said polarization-altering element. 9. A method as set forth in claim 1 wherein said D) further comprises: varying an incident angle, a direction of said incident angle or varying both said incident angle and said direction of said incident angle at which said plurality of polarization states having different orientation, ellipticity and handedness is launched through said polarization-altering element. 10. A polarization-altering element viewing screen tested for defects during manufacture using the method of claim 1. 11. A method for using a computer processor to determine physical parameters of a polarization-altering element, said method comprising: A) measuring polarization properties of said polarization-altering element under test, and converting measured said polarization properties into signals representative of said measured polarization properties of said polarization-altering element under test, B) In said computer processor, developing a mathematical model of a polarization-altering element, said mathematical model using estimated physical parameters to model said polarization-altering element under test, C) using said signals representative of said measured polarization properties of said polarization-altering element under test, adjusting values in said mathematical model of said polarization-altering element until a close match is obtained between polarization properties of said mathematical model of a polarization-altering element and said measured polarization properties of said polarization-altering element under test, D) providing an indication of quality of said polarization-altering element under test based on said estimated physical parameters of a closely matched said mathematical model of a polarization-altering element to said polarization-altering element under test. 12. A method as set forth in claim 11 wherein said A) further comprises: launching and analyzing a sufficient number of timevarying polarization states each having significantly different orientation, ellipticity and handedness, so as to cover a large portion of a Poincare sphere through said polarization-altering element under test. 13. A method as set forth in claim 12 wherein said B) further comprises: modeling said polarization-altering element as a plurality of homogenous layers of a uniaxial birefringent material with known values for ordinary and extraordinary refractive indices of each layer, and wherein orientation and tilt of said layers vary in a known manner, calculating a polarization matrix for each said layer of said homogenous layers, from a plurality of polarization matrices developed from respective said plurality of homogenous layers, calculating a composite polarization matrix for said mathematical model using the formula M.sub.element=M.sub.QM.sub.Q-1 . . . M.sub.2M.sub.1. 14. A method as set forth in claim 13 wherein said C) further comprises iteratively varying one or more mathematical values corresponding to one or more of said estimated physical parameters until said close match is obtained. 15. A method as set forth in claim 14 wherein said D) further comprises displaying closely matched said one or more of said estimated physical parameters representative of physical parameters of said polarization-altering element under test. 16. A polarization-altering element viewing screen tested for defects during manufacture using the method of claim 11. 17. A method for utilizing a computer processor for determining at least one physical parameter of a polarization-altering element under test to determine whether said polarization-altering element under test is defective comprising: A) directing sequences of polarization states generated by a polarization state generator at said polarization-altering element under test, each polarization state of said sequences of polarization states differing from other polarization states of said sequences of polarization states in orientation, ellipticity and handedness, B) analyzing said sequences of polarization states as modified by said polarization-altering element under test by a polarization state analyzer, and converting analyzed said sequences of polarization states into corresponding sequences of electrical signals, C) using said computer processor to calculate polarization properties of said polarization-altering element under test from said sequences of electrical signals, D) using said computer to develop a computer model including at least one estimated physical parameter of said polarization-altering element under test, and adjust said at least one estimated physical parameter until a close match is obtained between analyzed said polarization properties of said polarization-altering element under test and calculated said polarization properties of said computer model of a polarization-altering element, E) providing at least one indication of a closely matched said estimated physical parameter representative of a corresponding physical parameter of said polarization-altering element under test. 18. A method as set forth in claim 17 further comprising selecting a repeat ratio between said sequences of polarization states directed at said polarization-altering element under test and received said sequences of polarization states such that sequential polarization measurements of said polarization-altering element under test are made with dissimilar said polarization state generator and said polarization state analyzer configurations so that accuracy of said step C) is enhanced. 19. A method as set forth in claim 18 further comprising: calculating a plurality of polarization matrices from said sequences of polarization states, and; developing a composite polarization matrix from said plurality of polarization matrices, said composite polarization matrix indicative of polarization properties of said polarization-altering element under test. 20. A method as set forth in claim 17 wherein said E) further comprises indicating one or more of the group of said estimated physical parameters comprising element gap, twist angle, rubbing direction and pre-tilt angle. 21. A method as set forth in claim 20 further comprising: calculating a polarization matrix of said polarization-altering element under test, said polarization matrix indicative of polarization properties obtained from analyzed said sequences of polarization states as modified by said polarization-altering element under test, calculating a polarization matrix indicative of polarization properties of said computer model of said polarization-altering element under test, iteratively modifying one or more of said estimated physical parameters comprising pre-tilt, rubbing direction, element gap and twist angle in said computer model until said polarization matrix indicative of polarization properties of said computer model is closely matched to said polarization matrix of said polarization-altering element under test. 22. A method as set forth in claim 21 wherein said calculating a polarization matrix indicative of polarization properties of said computer model further comprises: representing a cross-section of said computer model of a polarization-altering element as a plurality of layers of a uniaxial birefringent material, with tilt angle and orientation of each said layer of said plurality of layers varying in a known manner, calculating a polarization matrix for each said layer of said plurality of layers, and from a plurality of polarization matrices developed by said plurality of layers, calculating a composite polarization matrix from said plurality of layers using the formula: M.sub.element=M.sub.QM.sub.Q-1 . . . M.sub.2M.sub.1. 23. A method as set forth in claim 21 wherein said calculating a polarization matrix indicative of polarization properties of said computer model further comprises: representing a cross-section of said computer model of a polarization-altering element as a plurality of layers of a uniaxial birefringent material wherein values for an ordinary and extraordinary refractive index of each layer of said plurality of layers is known, calculating a polarization matrix for each said layer of said plurality of layers, from plurality of polarization matrices developed by said plurality of layers, calculating a composite polarization matrix using the formula: M.sub.element=M.sub.QM.sub.Q-1 . . . M.sub.2M.sub.1. 24. A method as set forth in claim 21 wherein at least one of said group of estimates of physical parameters of pre-tilt, rubbing direction, element gap and twist angle for said polarization-altering element under test are known a priori, and calculating a said polarization matrix associated with said polarization-altering element under test and calculating a said polarization matrix associated with said computer model having said known at least one a priori parameter incorporated therein. 25. A method as set forth in claim 21 further comprising obtaining a lowest root mean square difference between elements of said polarization matrix indicative of polarization properties of said computer model and said polarization matrix obtained from said polarization properties of said polarization-altering element under test to determine when said polarization matrix indicative of polarization properties of said polarization-altering element under test and said polarization matrix indicative of said polarization states from said polarization-altering element are closely matched. 26. A method as set forth in claim 25 further comprising using a Mueller matrix format or a Jones matrix format for each said matrix. 27. A method as set forth in claim 25 further comprising calculating said polarization matrix of said polarization-altering element under test and said polarization matrix of said computer model considering only retardance components for each respective said polarization matrix. 28. A method as set forth in claim 27 further comprising: directing said sequences of polarization states at one or more incident angles and from one or more directions through said polarization-altering element, performing a polar decomposition on said polarization matrix of said polarization-altering element under test, performing a curve fit on said polarization matrix of said polarization-altering element under test in order to minimize said root mean square difference between said elements of said polarization matrix indicative of polarization properties of said computer model and corresponding elements of said polarization matrix indicative of said polarization properties of said polarization-altering element under test. 29. A method as set forth in claim 28 further comprising: displaying an image illustrating trajectory of said polarization properties of said polarization-altering element under test and said polarization properties of said curve fit on a Poincare sphere, and providing adjustments for varying a viewing angle of said Poincare sphere. 30. A method as set forth in claim 29 further comprising: allowing a selection of which of said at least one estimated physical parameters of said polarization-altering element under test are to be measured, and allowing a priori ones of said at least one estimated physical parameters to be held constant in said computer model. 31. A method as set forth in claim 17 further comprising allowing a choice of either a specific location on said polarization-altering element under test to be measured or automated measurements using a map of predetermined XY coordinates on said polarization-altering element under test to be measured. 32. A polarization-altering element viewing screen tested for defects during manufacture using the method of claim 17. 