The invention provides a non-invasive system and method for treatment of the heart. In a first aspect, a method for treatment of an anatomical site related to arrhythmogenesis of a heart of a patient comprises creating a target shape encompassing the anatomical site, directing particle beam radiation or x-ray radiation from outside the patient toward the target shape wherein one or more doses of radiation ablates the target shape and disregarding at least one orientation of cardiac motion while creating the target shape or directing the particle beam or both.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for treatment of an anatomical site related to arrhythmogenesis of a heart of a patient, the method comprising: creating a target shape encompassing the anatomical site; directing particle beam radiation or x-ray radiation from outside the patient toward the target shape during a procedure, wherein one or more doses of radiation ablates the target shape; repeatedly obtaining images of the patient; identifying movement of the target in response to the images, the identified movement of the target comprising cardiac motion and respiratory motion; adjusting a location of the particle beam radiation or x-ray radiation during the procedure so as to compensate for the respiratory motion; and disregarding at least one orientation of the cardiac motion while creating the target shape or directing the particle beam or both. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein disregarding the cardiac motion includes not compensating for cardiac motion of less than 2 mm. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein disregarding the cardiac motion includes disregarding cardiac motion in the direction along which the motion is the least. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein disregarding the cardiac motion includes disregarding cardiac motion in two orientations. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein disregarding the cardiac motion includes disregarding motion along three orientations in three dimensional space. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein directing the particle beam radiation or x-ray radiation from outside the patient toward the target shape is done with an accuracy tighter than 2 mm. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein a range of the cardiac motion within the target is less than 2 mm. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the anatomical site includes an ostium of a pulmonary vein (PV). 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the anatomical site includes a cavotricuspid isthmus (CTI). 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the patient has ventricular tachycardia and/or ventricular fibrillation and the anatomical site includes a valve annulus, a ventricular site, ventricular outflow tract, or a ventricular aneurysm. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein compensating for the respiratory motion includes compensating for motion greater than 2 mm. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the anatomical site includes a pulmonary vein (PV). 13. The method of claim 11, wherein the anatomical site includes a cavotricuspid isthmus (CTI). 14. The method of claim 11, wherein the anatomical site includes an Atrioventricular (AV) node or junction, Sinoatrial (SA) node, or His-Purkinje fibers. 15. The method of claim 11, wherein the anatomical site includes an atrial or ventricular site. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein the anatomical site includes neural fibers near or adjacent to the heart (ganglionic) or neural fibers in the chest or neck. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein creating the target shape includes combining two or more images selected from the group consisting of a Computer Tomography (CT) scan, a Magnetic Resonance Image (MRI) scan, a sonogram, an X-ray, an angiogram, electrophysiologic map or PET scan. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein creating the target shape includes using one or more fiducials. 19. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more doses is between 15-80 Gy. 20. The method of claim 1, wherein creating a target shape includes determining anatomical structures proximate to the target shape when determining a dose strength of the one or more doses. 21. A system for treatment an anatomical site related to arrhythmogenesis of a heart of a patient, the system comprising: an apparatus configured to create a target shape encompassing the anatomical site, wherein the apparatus disregards at least one orientation of cardiac motion, including not compensating for cardiac motion of less than 2 mm; a particle beam radiation or x-ray radiation device configured to direct one or more doses of radiation from outside the patient toward the target shape to ablate the target shape; and an image guidance system coupled to the particle beam radiation or x-ray radiation device, the image guidance system including: an image capture device configured to obtain a series of images of the patient, and a processor configured to determine changes in position of the target tissue using the series of images, the changes in position comprising the cardiac motion and respiratory motion wherein the system is configured to adjust a location of the particle beam or x-ray radiation in response to the series of images so as to track the respiratory motion of the target. 22. The system of claim 21, wherein the apparatus is configured to disregard at least one orientation of the cardiac motion by disregarding cardiac motion in the direction along which the motion is the least. 23. The system of claim 21, wherein the apparatus is configured to disregard at least one orientation of the cardiac motion by disregarding cardiac motion in two orientations. 24. The system of claim 21, wherein the apparatus is configured to disregard at least one orientation of the cardiac motion by disregarding the cardiac motion in three orientations of three dimensional space. 25. The system of claim 21, wherein the apparatus is configured to create the target shape by combining two or more images selected from the group consisting of a Computer Tomography (CT) scan, a Magnetic Resonance Image (MRI) scan, a sonogram, an X-ray, an angiogram, electrophysiologic map or PET scan. 26. The system of claim 21, wherein the apparatus is configured to create a target shape using one or more fiducials. 27. The method of claim 1, wherein disregarding the cardiac motion includes not compensating for cardiac motion of less than 2 mm and compensating for cardiac motion of greater than 2 mm. 28. The method of claim 1, wherein disregarding the cardiac motion includes disregarding cardiac motion only in the direction along which the motion is the least. 29. The method of claim 1, wherein disregarding the cardiac motion includes disregarding cardiac motion only in two orientations. 30. The method of claim 1, wherein disregarding the cardiac motion includes disregarding motion in all three dimensions. 31. A method for treatment of an anatomical site related to an arrhythmia of a heart of a patient, pumping of the heart inducing cardiac motion of the anatomical site in three dimensional space, the three-dimensional space defined by three orientations, the method comprising: creating a target shape encompassing the anatomical site; directing particle beam radiation or x-ray radiation from outside the patient toward the target shape during a procedure, wherein one or more doses of radiation ablates the target shape; repeatedly obtaining images of the patient; identifying movement of the target in response to the images, the identified movement of the target comprising cardiac motion and respiratory motion; adjusting a location of the particle beam radiation or x-ray radiation during the procedure so as to compensate for the respiratory motion; and disregarding at least one of the orientations of the cardiac motion while creating the target shape or directing the particle beam or both, wherein the directing of the particle beam radiation or x-ray radiation mitigates the arrhythmia. 32. A system for treatment an anatomical site related to an arrhythmia of a heart of a patient, pumping of the heart inducing cardiac motion of the anatomical site in three dimensional space, the three-dimensional space defined by three orientations, the system comprising: an apparatus configured to create a target shape encompassing the anatomical site; and a particle beam radiation or x-ray radiation device configured to direct one or more doses of radiation from outside the patient toward the target shape during a procedure to ablate the target shape such that the arrhythmia is mitigated; an image guidance system coupled to the particle beam radiation or x-ray radiation device, the image guidance system including: an image capture device configured to obtain a series of images of the patient, and a processor configured to determine changes in position of the target tissue using the series of images, the changes in position comprising the cardiac motion and respiratory motion; wherein the apparatus is configured to disregard at least one of the orientations of the cardiac motion, including not compensating for cardiac motion of less than 2 mm along the at least one orientation when creating the target shape or directing the radiation or both, and to adjust a location of the particle beam or x-ray radiation in response to the series of images so as to track the respiratory motion of the target. 