A robotic vehicle (10,100,150A,150B150C,160,1000,1000A, includes a chassis (20,106,152,162) having front and rear ends (20A,152A,20B,152B) and supported on right and left driven tracks (34,44,108,165). Right and left elongated flippers (50,60,102,154,164) are disposed on corresponding sides of the chassis and operable to pivot. A linkage (70,156,166) connects a payload deck assembly (D1,D2,D3,80,158,168,806), configured to support a removable functional payload, to the chassis. The linkage has a first end (70A) rotatably connected to the chassis at a first pivot (71), and a second end (70B) rotatably connected to the deck at a second pivot (73). Both of the first and second pivots include independently controllable pivot drivers (72,74) operable to rotatably position their corresponding pivots (71,73) to control both fore-aft position and pitch orientation of the payload deck (D1,D2,D3,80,158,168,806) with respect to the chassis (20,106,152,162).
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A mobile robot comprising: a chassis defining at least one chassis volume; first and second sets of right and left driven flippers associated with the chassis, each flipper having a drive wheel and defining a flipper volume adjacent to the drive wheel, the first set of flippers disposed between the second set of flippers and the chassis; motive power elements distributed among the chassis volume and the flipper volumes, the motive power elements comprising a battery assembly, a main drive motor assembly, and a load shifting motor assembly; and a load shifting assembly pivotally attached to the chassis and comprising a load tilting motor and a load shifting motor, the load shifting assembly defining a load shifting volume adjacent the load tilting motor, the motive power elements being distributed among the chassis volume, the load shifting volume, and the flipper volumes, wherein the load shifting assembly comprises a linkage connecting a payload assembly to the chassis, the linkage having a first end rotatably connected to the chassis at a first pivot, and a second end rotatably connected to the payload assembly at a second pivot, both of the first and second pivots including independently controllable pivot drivers operable to rotatably position their corresponding pivots to control both fore-aft position and pitch orientation of the payload assembly with respect to the chassis, wherein the payload assembly comprises a sensor unit. 2. The mobile robot of claim 1, wherein each flipper is independently rotatable about a pivot axis with respect to the chassis, allowing the chassis to tilt about the pivot axis with respect to the first and second sets of flippers. 3. The mobile robot of claim 2, wherein the chassis has first and second ends, the pivot axis of the flippers being located near the first end of the chassis. 4. A mobile robot comprising: a chassis defining at least one chassis volume; first and second sets of right and left driven flippers associated with the chassis, each flipper having a drive wheel and defining a flipper volume adjacent to the drive wheel, the first set of flippers disposed between the second set of flippers and the chassis; motive power elements distributed among the chassis volume and the flipper volumes, the motive power elements comprising a battery assembly, a main drive motor assembly, and a load shifting motor assembly; and a load shifting assembly pivotally attached to the chassis and comprising a load tilting motor and a load shifting motor, the load shifting assembly defining a load shifting volume adjacent the load tilting motor, the motive power elements being distributed among the chassis volume, the load shifting volume, and the flipper volumes, and wherein the main drive motor assembly comprises a main drive motor and a main drive motor amplifier, and the load shifting motor assembly comprises the load shifting motor and a load shifting motor amplifier, and wherein the chassis comprises a cast unitary chassis, wherein the chassis defines first and second chassis volumes each adjacent a flipper volume defined by the first set of flippers with a connecting passageway defined between the first and second chassis volumes, the load shifting assembly comprises a cast unitary linkage defining a passageway therethrough that connects the chassis volumes to the load shifting volume, and wherein the main drive motor amplifier is sealed in at least one flipper volume and at least one chassis volume and delivers power to the main drive motor disposed in at least one chassis volume, wherein the battery assembly and the load tilting motor are sealed in load shifting volume, the battery assembly tilts together with the load shifting assembly, and the battery delivers power through the linkage passageway to the main drive motor amplifier. 5. A mobile robot comprising: a chassis defining at least one chassis volume; first and second sets of right and left driven flippers associated with the chassis, each flipper having a drive wheel and defining a flipper volume adjacent to the drive wheel, the first set of flippers disposed between the second set of flippers and the chassis; motive power elements distributed among the chassis volume and the flipper volumes, the motive power elements comprising a battery assembly, a main drive motor assembly, and a load shifting motor assembly; and a load shifting assembly pivotally attached to the chassis and comprising a load tilting motor and a load shifting motor, the load shifting assembly defining a load shifting volume adjacent the load tilting motor, the motive power elements being distributed among the chassis volume, the load shifting volume, and the flipper volumes, wherein the load shifting assembly comprises a linkage connecting a payload assembly to the chassis, the linkage having a first end rotatably connected to the chassis at a first pivot, and a second end rotatably connected to the payload assembly at a second pivot, both of the first and second pivots including independently controllable pivot drivers operable to rotatably position their corresponding pivots to control both fore-aft position and pitch orientation of the payload assembly with respect to the chassis, wherein the payload assembly comprises a modular deck assembly configured to support a removable payload. 6. A mobile robot comprising: a chassis defining at least one chassis volume; first and second sets of right and left driven flippers associated with the chassis, each flipper having a drive wheel and defining a flipper volume adjacent to the drive wheel, the first set of flippers disposed between the second set of flippers and the chassis; motive power elements distributed among the chassis volume and the flipper volumes, the motive power elements comprising a battery assembly, a main drive motor assembly, and a load shifting motor assembly; and a load shifting assembly pivotally attached to the chassis and comprising a load tilting motor and a load shifting motor, the load shifting assembly defining a load shifting volume adjacent the load tilting motor, the motive power elements being distributed among the chassis volume, the load shifting volume, and the flipper volumes, wherein the load shifting assembly comprises a linkage connecting a payload assembly to the chassis, the linkage having a first end rotatably connected to the chassis at a first pivot, and a second end rotatably connected to the payload assembly at a second pivot, both of the first and second pivots including independently controllable pivot drivers operable to rotatably position their corresponding pivots to control both fore-aft position and pitch orientation of the payload assembly with respect to the chassis, wherein the linkage comprises an extendable mast. 7. A mobile robot comprising: a chassis; a first set of right and left driven flippers rotatably coupled to the chassis; a second set of right and left driven flippers rotatably coupled to the chassis; a head rotatably coupled to the chassis; and a load shifting assembly pivotally attached to the chassis and comprising a load tilting motor and a load shifting motor, wherein the load shifting assembly comprises a linkage connecting a payload assembly to the chassis, the linkage having a first end rotatably connected to the chassis at a first pivot, and a second end rotatably connected to the payload assembly at a second pivot, both of the first and second pivots including independently controllable pivot drivers operable to rotatably position their corresponding pivots to control both fore-aft position and pitch orientation of the payload assembly with respect to the chassis; wherein each flipper is independently rotatable about a pivot axis with respect to the chassis, allowing the chassis to tilt about the pivot axis with respect to the first and second sets of flippers. 8. The mobile robot of claim 7, wherein the chassis has first and second ends, the pivot axis of each flippers is the located near the first end of the chassis. 9. The mobile robot of claim 7, wherein each flipper comprises a driven track, each track trained about a corresponding drive wheel. 10. The mobile robot of claim 7, wherein the first and second sets of flippers are rotatable 360 degrees about a pivot axis near a forward end of the chassis, the first and second sets of flippers having a drive axis common with the pivot axis. 11. The mobile robot of claim 7, wherein a center of gravity of the robot remains within an envelope of rotation of the second set of flippers. 12. The mobile robot of claim 7, wherein the independently controllable pivot drivers provide both fore-aft position and pitch orientation of the payload assembly with respect to the chassis to selectively displace a center of gravity of the payload assembly both forward and rearward of a center of gravity of the chassis. 13. The mobile robot of claim 7, wherein the first end of the linkage is rotatably connected near the front of the chassis, such that the payload assembly is displaceable to an aftmost position in which the payload assembly is located within a footprint of the chassis. 14. The mobile robot of claim 7, wherein the payload assembly comprises a sensor unit. 15. The mobile robot of claim 7, wherein the payload assembly comprises a modular deck assembly configured to support a removable payload. 16. The mobile robot of claim 7, wherein the linkage comprises an extendable mast. 