This invention relates to methods and apparatus for improving communications between humans and devices. The invention provides a method of modulating operation of a device, comprising: providing an attentive user interface for obtaining information about an attentive state of a user; and modulating operation of a device on the basis of the obtained information, wherein the operation that is modulated is initiated by the device. Preferably, the information about the user's attentive state is eye contact of the user with the device that is sensed by the attentive user interface.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of controlling operation of a device, comprising: using at least one sensor coupled to the device to output a sensor signal; processing the sensor signal to produce a user state signal that is indicative of user attention toward a screen of the device; and using the user state signal as a basis for controlling operation of the device; wherein the controlling operation includes determining whether to output information to the user; wherein the information is visual information, audible information, or visual and audible information; and wherein the outputting information is initiated by the device. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the outputting information includes the device soliciting user input. 3. The method of claim 1, including outputting the visual information on the screen of the device. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the user state signal is based on user head or face orientation. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the sensor is an infrared sensor. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the outputting information includes the device soliciting user input. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the user state signal is based on user body presence. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the sensor is an infrared sensor. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the outputting information includes the device soliciting user input. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the user state signal is based on user activity. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the sensor is an infrared sensor. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the outputting information includes the device soliciting user input. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the user state signal is based on user body orientation. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the sensor is an infrared sensor. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the outputting information includes the device soliciting user input. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein the sensor is an infrared sensor. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein the sensor is electronically coupled to the device. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein the sensor is wirelessly coupled to the device. 19. The method of claim 1, wherein the sensor is physically coupled to the device. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein the sensor is attached to or embedded in the screen. 21. The method of claim 1, wherein the device is selected from the group consisting of a personal computer, a cellular telephone, a telephone, a personal digital assistant (PDA), an electronic device, a machine, and an appliance. 22. The method of claim 1, wherein the device comprises furniture. 23. The method of claim 1, further comprising the user communicating with the device using a keyboard. 24. The method of claim 1, further comprising the user communicating with the device using manual interactions. 25. The method of claim 1, further comprising the device using speech recognition responsive to user communication. 26. The method of claim 1, wherein the screen is a video screen. 27. The method of claim 1, wherein the screen is a computer screen. 28. A method of controlling operation of a device, comprising: using at least one sensor coupled to the device to output a sensor signal; processing the sensor signal to produce a user state signal that is indicative of user attention toward a screen of the device; and using the user state signal as a basis for controlling operation of the device; wherein the controlling operation includes determining whether to output information to the user; wherein the information is visual information audible information or visual and audible information; and wherein the controlling operation comprises notifying the user when the user state signal indicates that the user attention toward the screen is at least at a selected level. 29. The method of claim 28, wherein notifying the user comprises using a less interruptive notification and progressing to a more interruptive notification. 30. The method of claim 28, wherein the outputting information is initiated by the device. 