Multi-well plates having contoured well designs allow multi-stage high throughput parallel assaying of ion channels or ion transporters. A well of a multi-well plate has a bottom region that is sized and shaped to simultaneous accommodate a sensing electrode and a pipette for delivering, e.g., test compounds, wash fluid, and optionally ligands. Such multi-well plates may be coupled with an instrument having a pipette head and an electrode plate. Such arrangement facilitates fluidic contact between cells and fluids provided via a pipette. It also facilitates washing of wells with buffers or other wash solutions to allow serial exposure of test cells to various reagents or other stimuli. Generally, the design allows control and test experiments to be performed on the same cell (or cells) in a single well.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of conducting a patch clamp assay, the method comprising: (a) providing a well wherein the well comprises a bottom comprising (1) an electrode pocket sized and shaped to accommodate a sensing electrode and (2) a cell cavity wherein the cell cavity comprises a cell sealing aperture in a bottom surface of the cell cavity and pipette guide sized and shaped for mating with a pipette tip; (b) providing a cell positioned within the cell cavity and sealed to the aperture on the bottom surface of the cell cavity; (c) exposing the cell to a first conductive solution; (d) measuring a first electrical signal from the cell while or after the cell is exposed to the first conductive solution and allowing for continuous control of a voltage applied to the cell; and (e) delivering an additional solution to the bottom of the well from a pipette inserted in the well. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising the steps of: (f) raising the pipette within the well without removing the pipette for lowering a level of a liquid within the well by drawing the liquid from an upper region of the well into the pipette; and (g) removing the liquid drawn into the pipette from the well. 3. The method of claim 2, further comprising exposing the cell to a second conductive solution after removing the liquid in (g); measuring a second electrical signal from the cell while or after the cell is exposed to the second solution and allowing for continuous control of a voltage being applied to the cell. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the first electrical signal provides a control measurement and the second electrical signal provides a test measurement. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein measuring a first electrical signal in (d) is performed immediately upon introduction of the first conductive solution to the well. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the additional solution delivered in (e) is a wash solution. 7. The method of 1, wherein the additional solution delivered in e is an extracellular buffer solution. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein measuring the first electrical signal comprises detecting the current from a sensing electrode in the well. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the well comprises an open top sized and shaped to simultaneously accommodate a pipette tip with a pipette guide and a sensing electrode positioned within an electrode pocket, and wherein a fluid pass is formed further between the cell cavity and electrode pocket. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the cell cavity is sized and shaped to accommodate the pipette tip. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the well further comprises an electrode pocket and a fluidic connection between the cell cavity and the electrode pocket at their respective bottoms, whereby, during (c) the first conductive solution is dispensed from the pipette tip and flows primarily into the cell cavity and then through the electrode pocket prior to exiting into an upper region of the well. 12. The method of claim 10, wherein the cell cavity comprises a pipette guide capturing the pipette and having a shape and size for mating with the pipette tip directed into the well. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the pipette guide is substantially coaxial with a corresponding through hole in an electrode plate disposed above the well. 14. The method of claim 12, wherein the pipette guide is tapered in the vertical direction. 15. The method of claim 10, wherein a height of the cell cavity, in the vertical direction, is between about 0.2 and 2 mm. 