A container for use in processing a biopsy sample. Biopsy sample and materials are received within a sample processing area of the container. A semi-permeable barrier is positioned at a downstream portion of the sample processing area and prevents the prevent passage of the biopsy sample. A cap is positioned at the downstream side of the barrier, and holds fluids within the container.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of embedding a biopsy sample, the method comprising: providing a container comprising a chamber, wherein the chamber comprises a sample processing area and a permeable barrier positioned at a downstream portion of the sample processing area, wherein a sample is disposed in an upstream portion of the sample processing area; inserting a bolus of solid embedding material into the upstream portion of the sample processing area of the chamber, wherein the bolus is above and adjacent to the sample, wherein the bolus is solid and sized to fit within the sample processing area prior to positioning the bolus; and embedding the sample in embedding material. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein positioning the bolus of solid embedding material comprises positioning a bolus of solid embedding material that conforms, in shape, to a cross-sectional shape of the sample processing area. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein positioning the bolus of solid embedding material comprises deforming the bolus of solid embedding material against walls of the sample processing area when the bolus is positioned therein. 4. The method of claim 2, wherein positioning the bolus of embedding material comprises sliding the bolus of embedding material through the sample processing area with minimal if any deformation of the bolus occurring. 5. The method of claim 1: wherein embedding the sample further comprises heating the bolus of solid embedding material to embed the biopsy sample. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: drawing air and/or fluid from the sample processing area to urge the bolus and the sample toward the permeable barrier, wherein the permeable barrier is positioned at a downstream portion of the sample processing area. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: thermally softening a portion of the bolus of solid embedding material prior to positioning the bolus into the sample processing area. 8. The method of claim 2, wherein positioning the bolus further comprises positioning an oval-shaped bolus of solid embedding material. 9. The method of claim 1 further comprising, prior to the step of positioning the bolus, processing the biopsy sample in the sample processing area with reagents. 10. The method of claim 1 further comprising applying pressure to the bolus to urge the sample and bolus towards the permeable barrier, wherein the permeable barrier is positioned at a downstream portion of the sample processing area. 11. The method of claim 5 wherein heating the bolus further comprises heating a portion of the bolus in the sample processing area. 12. The method of claim 11 further comprising melting a portion of the bolus adjacent to the biopsy sample. 13. The method of claim 12 further comprising applying pressure to the bolus to urge the sample and molten embedding material towards the permeable barrier, wherein the permeable barrier that is positioned at a downstream portion of the sample processing area. 14. The method of claim 5 further comprising allowing the embedding material to cool. 15. The method of claim 14 further comprising remelting a portion of the embedding material to provide uniform bonding of the sample and embedding material. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein the permeable barrier is a semi-permeable barrier. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein embedding the sample further comprises embedding the sample with embedding material from the bolus of solid embedding material. 