A system for manufacturing free-standing films from work pieces. The system includes a racetrack structure being configured to transfer at least one work piece and one or more accelerator-based ion implanters coupled to the racetrack structure via an end station. Each of the accelerator-based ion implanters is configured to introduce particles having an energy of greater than 1 MeV to implant into a surface of the work piece loaded in the end station to form a cleave region in the work piece. The system includes one or more cleave modules coupled to the racetrack structure configured to perform a cleave process to release a free-standing film from the work piece along the cleave region. Additionally, the system includes an output port coupled to each cleave module to output the free standing film detached from the work piece and one or more service modules each connected to the racetrack structure.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for manufacturing free-standing films from bulk work pieces,the system comprising: a racetrack structure being configured to transfer at least one work piece; one or more accelerator-based ion implanters coupled to the racetrack structure via an end station, each of the accelerator-based ion implanters being configured to introduce particles to implant into a surface of the work piece loaded in the end station to form a cleave region in the work piece; one or more cleave modules coupled to the racetrack structure, each of the cleave modules being configured to perform a cleave process to release a free-standing film from the work piece along the cleave region, whereupon following release of the free-standing film from the work piece, the work piece is returned to the end station for introduction of more particles; and one or more service modules each connected to the racetrack structure; wherein the one or more service modules include a quality control station for inspecting and preparing the work piece to be used for repeated implantation and cleave processes. 2. The system of claim 1 further comprising an output port coupled to the cleave module to output the free standing film that is detached from the work piece. 3. The system of claim 1 wherein the one or more service modules include a tray service module for loading one or more work pieces to a supporting tray, and performing a maintenance to the tray. 4. The system of claim 1 wherein the one or more service modules include an anneal station for performing thermal treatment before or after a cleave process in the one or more cleave modules. 5. The system of claim 1 wherein the at least one of the accelerator-based ion implanters is configured to introduce particles having an energy of greater than 1 MeV. 6. The system of claim 1 wherein the racetrack structure can be configured to be a closed loop architecture or a single runway architecture. 7. The system of claim 1 wherein the racetrack structure includes a first conveyor to transfer the at least one work piece in a tray from one location to another location, said another location including an end station, one of the one or more cleave modules, or one of the one or more service modules. 8. The system of claim 7 wherein the racetrack structure is scalable to extend the first conveyor and add additional process modules coupled thereto. 9. The system of claim 1 wherein the work piece is returned to the end station utilizing a track robot, a robotic arm, an automated guide vehicle, or a rotating platform. 10. The system of claim 1 further comprising a line balance for the racetrack structure with an adjustable ratio of a number of the one or more accelerator based ion implanters and a number of the one or more cleave modules. 11. A system for manufacturing free-standing films from bulk work pieces, the system comprising: a racetrack structure being configured to transfer at least one work piece; one or more accelerator-based ion implanters coupled to the racetrack structure via an end station, each of the accelerator-based ion implanters being configured to introduce particles to implant into a surface of the work piece loaded in the end station to form a cleave region in the work piece; and one or more cleave modules coupled to the racetrack structure, each of the cleave modules being configured to perform a cleave process to release a free-standing film from the work piece along the cleave region, whereupon following release of the free-standing film from the work piece, the work piece is returned to the end station for introduction of more particles; wherein the one or more accelerator-based ion implanters comprises a RFQ-based linear accelerator, a QFI-based linear accelerator, a cyclotron accelerator, or an electrostatic accelerator for producing particles having energy up to about 5 MeV. 12. The system of claim 11 wherein the particles include hydrogen ions or other light ions with either positive charges or negative charges. 13. The system of claim 11 wherein the work piece can be a boule of crystalline silicon and the surface can be selected to be along crystallographic (111) or (110) plane with a small miscut angles of a few degrees and square or pseudo-square cross-sectional shape. 14. The system of claim 11 wherein the one or more cleave modules further comprise tools for irradiating and scanning using an electronic-magnetic process to the work piece and performing a cleaving process. 15. A method for volume manufacturing free standing thickness of materials from bulk work pieces, the method comprising: providing a racetrack structure including a first conveyor; loading at least a work piece in the conveyor, the work piece having a surface substantially in a predetermined crystallographic plane; transferring the work piece to an end station coupled to the racetrack structure via the first conveyor; generating an ionic particle beam by an implant subsystem coupled to the racetrack structure, the ionic particle beam being introduced to the surface of the work piece in the end station and implanted to a depth defining a cleave region; transferring the work piece via the first conveyor to a cleave module coupled to the racetrack structure, the work piece being treated by one or more processes to cleave a free standing thickness of material along the cleave region; releasing the free standing thickness of material having a thickness substantially equal to the depth; returning the work piece to the end station; transferring the free standing thickness of material out of the cleave module via a second conveyor; and transferring the free standing thickness of material to a QC module and performing inspection of the work piece within the QC module, the QC module being coupled to the racetrack structure. 16. The method of claim 15 wherein the loading at least a work piece in a tray is performed in a tray service module coupled to the racetrack structure. 17. The method of claim 15 wherein the tray is a platen comprising a plurality of pallets each being configured to hold one work piece with an mechanism to adjust relative surface angle and relative height. 18. The method of claim 15 wherein the racetrack structure can be configured to be a closed loop architecture or a single runway architecture. 19. The method of claim 15 wherein generating an ionic particle beam by the implant subsystem comprises using an accelerator to produce the ionic particle beam having an energy of a few MeV, redirecting the ionic particle beam to the end station, and using a magnetic scanner to scan the ionic particle beam. 20. The method of claim 15 wherein the depth defining the cleave region depends on an combination of energy level and dosage of the ionic particle beam. 21. The method of claim 15 further comprising annealing the work piece within an annealing module coupled to the racetrack structure before it is transferred to the cleave module via the first conveyor. 22. The method of claim 15 wherein the work piece is loaded in the conveyor supported on a tray. 23. The method of claim 15 wherein the work piece is returned to the end station utilizing a conveyor, a track robot, a robotic arm, an automated guide vehicle, or a rotating platform. 