A system, method and device for providing communications with an in-home system at a residence of a user are provided. In one embodiment, the method comprises receiving digital television programming content from a television service provider, receiving a first user input of a selected digital television programming content, in response to receiving the first user input, causing the selected digital television programming content to be displayed on a television, receiving a message from an in-home system, in response to receiving the message, causing a notification to be displayed on the television as an overlay over the displayed television programming content, receiving a first user command, determining a first control message to transmit to the in-home system in response to receiving the first user command, transmitting the first control message to the in-home system, wherein the in-home system may comprise a video camera, an entry way security system, an HVAC system, a lighting system, an alarm system, or other in-home system. User inputs may be received via a remote control to a set top box or from a computing device at a remote computer system through the internet and/or a mobile telephone network.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for providing communications with an in-home system at a residence of a user, comprising: a set top box having a first communication port configured to receive digital television programming content; said set top box being responsive to a user input to tune to a selected digital television programming content; said set top box having a second port configured to be connected to a television; said set top box having a third port configured to transmit data to, and receive data from, an in-home system that includes a video camera; wherein said set top box is configured to receive video content from the video camera and is configurable by the user to cause said video content to be displayed on a television connected to said second port; wherein said set top box includes a memory and is configurable by the user to cause said received video content to be stored in said memory for subsequent display in response to a user input; wherein one or more templates are stored in the memory; wherein said set top box is configured to cause at least some of the templates to be displayed on a television connected to said second port; and wherein said at least some of said templates are configured to present information to the user for monitoring operation of the in-home system. 2. The system according to claim 1, wherein said set top box is configured to receive a first message from the in-home system and, in response, to cause a notification to be displayed on a television connected to said second port; and wherein the notification is displayed in an overlay over television programming content being displayed by the television. 3. The system according to claim 1, wherein the in-home system includes a microphone and a speaker; wherein said set top box is configured to receive audio content captured by the microphone and wherein said set top box is configurable by the user to: cause a television connected to the second port to audibly output audio content captured by the microphone; and transmit out the third port audio content from the user for audible production by the speaker of the in-home system. 4. The system according to claim 1, wherein the memory storing: one or more user commands available to the user for the in-home system; one or more messages for transmitting to the in-home system; and wherein at least one message is associated in the memory with each of the one or more user commands. 5. The system according to claim 1, wherein the in-home system includes an entry way access mechanism configured to control access through an entry way; and wherein said set top box is configured to receive a first user input and, in response to receiving the first user input, to transmit a message to the in-home system to control operation of the entry way access mechanism in accordance with the first user input. 6. The system according to claim 1, wherein said third port comprises a wireless transceiver integrated into the set top box. 7. The system according to claim 1, further comprising: a computer system remote from the residence and including a memory storing: one or more user commands available to the user for the in-home system; one or more messages for transmitting to the in-home system; wherein at least one message is associated in memory with each of the one or more user commands; and wherein the computer system is configured to select a first message in response to receiving a first user command and to transmit the first message to the set top box for transmission to the in-home system. 8. A set top box for providing communications with an in-home system at a residence of a user, comprising: a first port configured to receive digital television programming content; said set top box being responsive to a user input to tune to a selected digital television programming content; a second port configured to be connected to a television; a third port configured to transmit data to, and receive data from, an in-home system; a memory; wherein said memory stores one or more user commands available to the user for controlling the in-home system; wherein said memory stores one or more messages recognizable by the in-home system; wherein at least one message is associated in said memory with each of the one or more user commands; wherein said set top box is configured to receive a first user command from the user, to select at least one message associated with the first user command, and to transmit via the third port the selected at least one message to the in-home system; wherein said set top box is configured to receive a message from the in-home system and, in response, to cause a notification to be displayed on a television connected to said second port; and wherein the notification is displayed in an overlay over television programming content being displayed by the television. 9. The set top box according to claim 8, wherein said first user command is received via the first port from a remote computer system. 10. The set top box according to claim 8, wherein said set top box is configured to transmit via the first port a request for the one or more messages to a remote computer system. 11. The set top box according to claim 8, wherein the in-home system includes a video camera and said set top box is configured to receive video content from the in-home system; and wherein said set top box is configurable by the user to cause said received video content to be stored in said memory for subsequent display in response to a user input. 12. The set top box according to claim 11, wherein the in-home system includes a microphone and a speaker and said set top box is configured to receive audio content captured by the microphone and wherein said set top box is configurable by the user to: cause a television connected to the second port to audibly output audio content captured by the microphone; and transmit out the third port audio content from the user for audible production by the speaker of the in-home system. 13. A method of using a set top box to provide communications with an in-home system at a residence of a user, comprising: receiving digital television programming content from a television service provider; receiving a first user input of a selected digital television programming content; in response to receiving the first user input, causing the selected digital television programming content to be displayed on a television; receiving a message from an in-home system; in response to receiving the message, causing a notification to be displayed on the television as an overlay over the displayed television programming content; receiving a first user command; determining a first control message to transmit to the in-home system in response to receiving the first user command; and transmitting the first control message to the in-home system, wherein the in-home system comprises one of the group of: a video camera, an entry way security system, and an air conditioning system, wherein said displaying a notification, said receiving a first user command, said determining a first control message to transmit, and said transmitting the first control message are performed by the set top box located at the residence of the user. 14. The method according to claim 13, further comprising: storing in a memory on the set top box one or more user commands available to the user for controlling the in-home system; storing in the memory one or more messages recognizable by the in-home system; wherein at least one of the messages is associated in the memory with each of the one or more user commands; and wherein said determining comprises selecting at least one message associated with the first user command; and wherein the first user command comprises the selected command. 15. The method according to claim 13, further comprising: receiving video content from a video camera of the in-home system; and storing the video content in the memory of the set top box at the residence. 16. A method of using a set top box to provide communications with an in-home system at a residence of a user, comprising: receiving digital television programming content from a television service provider; receiving a first user input of a selected digital television programming content; in response to receiving the first user input, causing the selected digital television programming content to be displayed on a television; receiving a message from an in-home system; in response to receiving the message, causing a notification to be displayed on the television as an overlay over the displayed television programming content; receiving a first user command; determining a first control message to transmit to the in-home system in response to receiving the first user command; and transmitting the first control message to the in-home system, wherein the in-home system comprises one of the group of: a video camera, an entry way security system, and an air conditioning system, wherein said displaying a notification, said receiving a first user command, said determining a first control message to transmit, and said transmitting the first control message are performed by a computer system remote from the residence of the user; the method further comprising at the residence of the user with the set top box: receiving the first control message; and transmitting the first control message to the in-home system. 17. The method according to claim 16, wherein the first user command is received via a communication path that includes the Internet. 18. The method according to claim 16, wherein the first user command is received via a communication path that includes a mobile telephone network. 