A surface inspection system includes a beam source subsystem, a beam scanning subsystem, a workpiece movement subsystem, an optical collection and detection subsystem, and a processing subsystem. The optical collection and detection system features back collectors disposed in the back quartersphere, outside the incident plane, for collecting light scattered from the surface of the workpiece. The back collectors are disposed at a relative minimum in the portion of scattered light attributable to haze relative to the portion of scattered light attributable to defect scatter portion, or, alternatively, at a relative minimum in the Rayleigh scatter.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An optical collection system for use in a surface inspection system for inspecting a surface of a workpiece, the surface inspection system having an incident beam projected through a back quartersphere and toward a location on the surface of the workpiece to impinge on the surface to form a reflected beam that extends along a light channel axis in a front quartersphere and to form scattered light having a haze scatter portion, comprising a portion of the scattered light attributable to haze, and a defect scatter portion, comprising a portion of the scattered light attributable to defects on the surface, the incident beam and the light channel axis forming an incident plane, the optical collection system comprising: a plurality of back collectors positioned in the back quartersphere for collecting the scattered light, each of the back collectors being disposed entirely in the back quartersphere, entirely outside the incident plane, and at a relative minimum in the haze portion relative to the defect scatter portion. 2. An optical collection system as recited in claim 1, wherein the plurality of back collectors are substantially identical. 3. An optical collection system as recited in claim 1, wherein the plurality of back collectors consists of two back collectors. 4. An optical collection system as recited in claim 3, wherein the two back collectors are located symmetrically with respect to the incident plane. 5. An optical collection system as recited in claim 3, wherein the two back collectors are equidistant from the incident plane. 6. An optical collection system as recited in claim 3, wherein the two back collectors are positioned at an azimuth angle of up to about ninety degrees with respect to the incident beam. 7. An optical collection system as recited in claim 3, wherein the two back collectors are positioned at an azimuth angle of about ten to about ninety degrees with respect to the incident beam. 8. An optical collection system as recited in claim 3, wherein the two back collectors are positioned at an azimuth angle of from about forty-five degrees to about fifty-five degrees with respect to the incident beam. 9. An optical collection system as recited in claim 3, wherein the two back collectors are positioned at an azimuth angle of about fifty-five degrees with respect to the incident beam. 10. An optical collection system as recited in claim 3, wherein the two back collectors are equidistant from the surface of the workpiece. 11. An optical collection system as recited in claim 1, wherein the back collectors have an elevation angle of about fifty-five degrees with respect to the surface of the workpiece at the desired location. 12. An optical collection system as recited in claim 1, wherein the two back collectors are positioned at an azimuth angle of about fifty-five degrees with respect to the incident beam, and an elevation angle of about fifty-five degrees with respect to the surface of the workpiece at the desired location. 13. An optical collection system as recited in claim 1, wherein the two back collectors are positioned at an elevation angle of about fifty-five degrees with respect to the surface of the workpiece at the desired location. 14. An optical collection system as recited in claim 1, wherein the two back collectors are positioned at an azimuth angle of about fifty-five degrees with respect to the incident beam, and an elevation angle of about fifty-five degrees with respect to the surface of the workpiece at the desired location. 15. An optical collection system as recited in claim 1, wherein each of the back collectors has a collection angle of about twenty degrees to about sixty degrees. 16. An optical collection system as recited in claim 1, wherein each of the back collectors has a collection angle of about thirty degrees. 17. An optical collection system as recited in claim 1, further comprising a detection subsystem operatively coupled to the optical collection subsystem that detects the scattered light and generates signals in response, the detection subsystem having a back detection component that is associated with each back collector, and a polarizing beam splitter disposed in an optical path of the scattered light between the desired location and each back detection component. 18. An optical collection system as recited in claim 1, further comprising a light channel collector positioned in the incident plane to receive the reflected beam. 19. An optical collection system as recited in claim 1, further comprising a central collector. 20. An optical collection system as recited in claim 1, wherein the plurality of back collectors consists of two back collectors positioned substantially at a maximum in the signal-to-noise ratio of defect scatter to surface roughness scatter. 21. A surface inspection system for inspecting a surface of a workpiece, the surface inspection system comprising: a scanning beam source for directing an incident beam through a back quartersphere and toward a desired location on the surface of the workpiece at an oblique angle with respect to the normal to the surface to impinge on the surface to form a reflected beam that extends along a light channel axis in a front quartersphere and to form scattered light, having a haze scatter portion, comprising a portion of the scattered light attributable to haze, and a defect scatter portion, comprising a portion of the scattered light attributable to defects on the surface, the incident beam and the light channel axis forming an incident plane, a workpiece movement subsystem that moves the workpiece relative to the incident beam, an optical collection subsystem comprising a plurality of back collectors positioned in the back quartersphere for collecting the scattered light, each of the back collectors being disposed entirely in the back quartersphere, entirely outside the incident plane, and at a relative minimum in the haze portion relative to the defect scatter portion, a detection subsystem operatively coupled to the optical collection subsystem that detects the scattered light and generates signals in response, and a processing subsystem operatively coupled to the detection subsystem for processing the signals. 22. A surface inspection system as recited in claim 21, wherein the optical collection subsystem comprises a wing collector positioned to collect the scattered light, the wing collector being disposed in the front quartersphere, outside the incident plane, and at a minimum of a bi-directional reflectance distribution function when the incident beam is P polarized. 23. A surface inspection system as recited in claim 21, wherein the plurality of back collectors consists of two back collectors. 24. A surface inspection system as recited in claim 23, wherein the two back collectors are positioned substantially at a maximum in the signal-to-noise ratio of defect scatter to surface roughness scatter. 