An emotional memory control system and method for generating behavior. A sensory encoder provides a condensed encoding of a current circumstance received from an external environment. A memory associated with a regulator recognizes the encoding and activates one or more emotional springs according to a predefined set of instructions. The activated emotional springs can then transmit signals to at least one moment on a fractal moment sheet incorporated with a timeline for each channel in order to form one or more watersheds. An activation magnitude can be calculated for each moment and transmitted to a reaction relay. A synaptic link can then form between the moment and a motor encoder, thereby linking a specific moment with a specific action state.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A watershed memory system, said system comprising: a sensory encoder for generating a condensed encoding associated with at least one circumstance received from an external environment; a memory associated with a regulator for recognizing said condensed encoding and activating at least one emotional spring in accordance with a predefined set of instructions, wherein said at least one emotional spring is capable of transmitting a plurality of signals; a fractal moment sheet comprising at least one moment arranged in a fractal branching structure and connected locally via a plurality of timelines, wherein said fractal moment sheet generates at least one watershed based on said plurality of signals thereby generating a behavior for said at least one circumstances; and a moment writer for configuring a location associated with said at least one moment on said fractal moment sheet wherein said moment writer writes and overwrites said at least one moment according to availability associated with said fractal moment sheet. 2. The system of claim 1 further comprising a plurality of sensors for converting energy associated with said external environment into an electrical signal. 3. The system of claim 1 further comprising a plurality of activation signals generated by encoding a moment activation magnitude from said at least one moment. 4. The system of claim 1 further comprising a reaction relay for receiving said plurality of activation signals wherein said reaction relay links said at least one moment with an action state. 5. The system of claim 4 further comprising a motor encoder associated with said reaction relay wherein said reaction relay provides a synaptic link between said at least one moment and said motor encoder. 6. The system of claim 2 further comprising a plurality of connections associated with said memory. 7. The system of claim 1 wherein said regulator generates and maintains a plurality of watershed levels associated with said at least one circumstance. 8. The system of claim 5 wherein said motor encoder is capable of executing a series of motor sequences required by said action state. 9. The system of claim 1 wherein said memory records said at least one circumstance in said fractal moment sheet in order to learn an expected response of action. 10. The system of claim 1 further comprising a plurality of connections associated with said memory. 11. The system of claim 10 wherein said plurality of connections includes a non-plastic connection. 12. The system of claim 10 wherein said plurality of connections includes a plastic connection. 13. The system of claim 10 wherein said plurality of connections includes a modulatory connection. 14. A watershed memory system, said system comprising: a sensory encoder for generating a condensed encoding associated with at least one circumstance received from an external environment; a memory associated with a regulator for recognizing said condensed encoding and activating at least one emotional spring in accordance with a predefined set of instructions, wherein said at least one emotional spring is capable of transmitting a plurality of signals; a fractal moment sheet comprising at least one moment arranged in a fractal branching structure and connected locally via a plurality of timelines, wherein said fractal moment sheet generates at least one watershed based on said plurality of signals thereby generating a behavior for said at least one circumstance; a plurality of sensors for converting energy associated with said external environment into an electrical signal; and a moment writer for configuring a location associated with said at least one moment on said fractal moment sheet wherein said moment writer writes and overwrites said at least one moment according to a space availability associated with said fractal moment sheet. 15. The system of claim 14 further comprising: a plurality of activation signals generated by encoding a moment activation magnitude from said at least one moment; and a reaction relay for receiving said plurality of activation signals wherein said reaction relay links said at least one moment with an action state. 16. The system of claim 15 further comprising a motor encoder associated with said reaction relay wherein said reaction relay provides a synaptic link between said at least one moment and said motor encoder. 17. The system of claim 15 further comprising a motor encoder associated with said reaction relay wherein said reaction relay provides a synaptic link between said at least one moment and said motor encoder. 18. The system of claim 14 wherein said regulator generates and maintains a plurality of watershed levels associated with said at least one circumstance and wherein said motor encoder is capable of executing a series of motor sequences required by said action state. 19. A watershed memory system, said system comprising: a sensory encoder for generating a condensed encoding associated with at least one circumstance received from an external environment; a memory associated with a regulator for recognizing said condensed encoding and activating at least one emotional spring in accordance with a predefined set of instructions, wherein said at least one emotional spring is capable of transmitting a plurality of signals; a fractal moment sheet comprising at least one moment arranged in a fractal branching structure and connected locally via a plurality of timelines, wherein said fractal moment sheet generates at least one watershed based on said plurality of signals thereby generating a behavior for said at least one circumstance; a plurality of sensors for converting energy associated with said external environment into an electrical signal; a plurality of activation signals generated by encoding a moment activation magnitude from said at least one moment; a reaction relay for receiving said plurality of activation signals wherein said reaction relay links said at least one moment with an action state; and a moment writer for configuring a location associated with said at least one moment on said fractal moment sheet wherein said moment writer writes and overwrites said at least one moment according to a space availability associated with said fractal moment sheet. 20. The system of claim 19 wherein said memory records said at least one circumstance in said fractal moment sheet in order to learn an expected response of action. 