An apparatus for enhancing an operational capacity of a hobby servo motor having a splined output shaft is disclosed. An apparatus illustratively includes a spline receiving portion. The spline receiving portion includes a plurality of circumferentially distributed protrusions sized and dispersed so as to support a functional engagement of the apparatus to the splined rotatable output shaft. The spline receiving portion optionally includes a top receiving surface. When the spline receiving portion is functionally engaged to the splined rotatable output shaft, the top receiving surface is positioned proximate to and flushly engages a top surface of the splined rotatable output shaft. An apparatus may further include an elongated shaft. The elongated shaft has an outer surface and at least a portion of the outer surface is textured.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for providing enhanced hobby servo motor operational capacity, the apparatus comprising: a hobby servo motor having a rotatable output shaft, wherein the rotatable output shaft is splined in that it includes a plurality of circumferentially distributed splines; a shaft attachment mechanism having a spline receiving portion, the spline receiving portion including a plurality of circumferentially distributed protrusions sized and dispersed so as to support a functional engagement of the shaft attachment mechanism to the rotatable output shaft, the functional engagement being such that rotation of the rotatable output shaft causes a corresponding rotation of the shaft attachment mechanism; wherein the shaft attachment mechanism further comprises an elongated shaft that is positioned inline with the rotatable output shaft when the shaft attachment mechanism is functionally engaged to the rotatable output shaft; wherein the rotatable shaft includes a top surface that is positioned within a plane that is substantially perpendicular relative to the plurality of circumferentially distributed splines; wherein the shaft attachment mechanism includes a top receiving surface that, when the shaft attachment mechanism is functionally engaged to the rotatable output shaft, is positioned proximate to the top surface of the rotatable output shaft within a plane that is substantially perpendicular relative to the plurality of circumferentially distributed splines; wherein the top receiving surface flushly engages the top surface of the rotatable output shaft when the shaft attachment mechanism is functionally engaged to the rotatable output shaft; and wherein the elongated shaft of the shaft attachment mechanism has an outer surface and at least a portion of the outer surface is textured. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the textured portion of the outer surface includes threads. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the threads are screw threads. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the screw threads are worm screw threads. 5. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the threads includes gear teeth. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the outer surface of the attachment mechanism includes multiple portions. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein one of the multiple portions is textured and another one of the multiple portions is non-textured. 8. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein at least two of the multiple portions are textured. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein one of the at least two portions includes screw threads and a second one of the at least two portions includes gear teeth. 10. An apparatus for enhancing an operational capacity of a hobby servo motor having a splined rotatable output shaft, the apparatus comprising: a spline receiving portion that includes a plurality of circumferentially distributed protrusions sized and dispersed so as to support a functional engagement of the apparatus to the splined rotatable output shaft of the hobby servo motor, the functional engagement being such that rotation of the splined rotatable output shaft causes a corresponding rotation of the apparatus, the spline receiving portion also including a top receiving surface that, when the spline receiving portion is functionally engaged to the splined rotatable output shaft, is positioned proximate to and flushly engages a top surface of the splined rotatable output shaft; and an elongated shaft that is positioned inline with the splined rotatable output shaft when the apparatus is functionally engaged to the splined rotatable output shaft, the elongated shaft having an outer surface and at least a portion of the outer surface is textured. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein another portion of the elongated shaft outer surface is non-textured. 12. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the entire outer surface of the elongated shaft is textured. 13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the textured outer surface of the elongated shaft includes at least two different types of textures. 14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein one of the at least two different types of textures includes screw threading. 15. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein one of the at least two different types of textures includes gear teeth. 16. An apparatus for enhancing an operational capacity of a hobby servo motor having a rotatable output shaft, the apparatus comprising: a shaft attachment mechanism configured to functionally engage the rotatable output shaft of the hobby servo motor such that rotation of the rotatable output shaft causes a corresponding rotation of the shaft attachment mechanism, the shaft attachment mechanism including an elongated shaft that, when the shaft attachment mechanism is functionally engaged to the rotatable output shaft, is positioned along a common axis relative to the rotatable output shaft; wherein the shaft attachment mechanism includes a bottom surface configured to flushly engage a portion of a housing associated with the hobby servo motor when the shaft attachment mechanism is functionally engaged to the rotatable output shaft; wherein the shaft attachment mechanism includes a top receiving surface that, when the shaft attachment mechanism is functionally engaged to the rotatable output shaft, is positioned proximate to and flushly engages a top surface of the rotatable output shaft; and wherein the elongated shaft of the shaft attachment mechanism includes an outer surface and at least a portion of the outer surface is textured. 17. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the textured outer surface of the elongated shaft includes only one type of texturing. 18. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the textured outer surface of the elongated shaft include multiple types of texturing. 19. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein one of the multiple types of texturing includes screw threading. 20. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein one of the multiple types of texturing includes gear teeth. 