A tactile contact and impact display system comprises a receiver, operable to receive therein a user's digit while leaving a target area of skin of the user's digit at least partially exposed. A contact pad is operable to engage the target area of the user's skin. An actuation system is actuatably coupled to the contact pad and is operable to move the contact pad relative to the target area of skin. A distance sensor is coupled to the contact pad, the distance sensor being operable to sense a separation distance between the contact pad and the target area of the user's digit. A restraining system is operable to substantially restrain the contact pad from moving in at least one degree of freedom relative to the receiver while allowing the contact pad to move in at least one degree of freedom relative to the receiver.
Claims I claim: 1. A tactile contact and impact display system, comprising: a receiver, operable to receive therein a user's digit while leaving a target area of skin of the user's digit at least partially exposed; a contact pad, operable to engage the target area of the user's skin; an actuation system, actuatably coupled to the contact pad and being operable to move the contact pad relative to the target area of skin; a sensor, operably coupled to the contact pad, the sensor being operable to sense a separation distance between the contact pad and the target area of the user's digit; and a restraining system, operable to substantially restrain the contact pad from moving in at least one degree of freedom relative to the receiver while allowing the contact pad to move in at least one degree of freedom relative to the receiver. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the restraining system includes at least one biasing member capable of restraining the contact pad to movement in substantially a single degree of freedom. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the restraining system includes a pair of biasing members, the pair of biasing members being capable of collectively restraining the contact pad to movement in substantially two degrees of freedom. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the receiver comprises a thimble that substantially encompasses the user's digit while leaving the target area of skin of the user's digit at least partially exposed. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the sensor is carried by, and is moveable with, the contact pad. 6. The system of claim 5, wherein the sensor is embedded within the contact pad. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the sensor comprises an infrared distance sensor. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein the actuation system comprises a robotic arm capable of moving in at least three degrees of freedom. 9. A tactile contact and impact display system, comprising: a receiver, operable to receive therein a user's digit while leaving a target area of skin of the user's digit at least partially exposed; a contact pad, operable to engage the target area of the user's skin; an actuation system, actuatably coupled to the contact pad and being operable to move the contact pad relative to the target area of skin; a sensor, carried by the contact pad, the sensor being operable to sense a separation distance between the contact pad and the target area of the user's digit along a movement axis; and a restraining system, operable to allow the sensor to move along the movement axis while restraining the sensor from movement in at least one other degree of freedom relative to the receiver. 10. The system of claim 9, wherein the restraining system includes a biasing member capable of restraining the contact pad to movement in substantially a single degree of freedom along the movement axis. 11. The system of claim 9, wherein the contact pad includes a pair of sensors, and wherein the restraining system includes a pair of biasing members, the pair of biasing members being capable of collectively restraining the contact pad to movement in substantially two degrees of freedom. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein each of the pair of sensors is embedded within the contact pad. 13. The system of claim 9, wherein the receiver comprises a thimble that substantially encompasses the user's digit while leaving the target area of skin of the user's digit at least partially exposed. 14. The system of claim 9, wherein the sensor comprises an infrared distance sensor. 15. The system of claim 9, wherein the actuation system comprises a robotic arm capable of moving in at least three degrees of freedom. 16. A method of indicating tactile contact and/or impact to a user, comprising: restraining a digit of the user in a receiver while leaving a target area of skin of the user's digit at least partially exposed; sensing a separation distance between the target area of skin and a contact pad of a tactile impact display; actuating the contact pad with an actuation system to drive the contact pad to a predetermined velocity prior to contacting the target area of skin of the user. 17. The method of claim 16, further comprising sensing a separation distance between the target area of skin and the contact pad while the contact pad is driven with the actuation system; and modifying a velocity at which the contact pad is driven based on the separation distance sensed. 18. The method of claim 16, wherein sensing a separation distance between the target area of skin and the contact pad of the tactile impact display utilizes a distance sensor carried by and moveable with the contact pad. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein the distance sensor comprises an infrared sensor. 20. The method of claim 16, wherein actuating the contact pad with an actuation system to drive the contact pad includes actuating the contact pad while the contact pad is restrained to a predetermined path by at least one biasing member. 