An electroadhesive gripping device or system includes a plurality of electroadhesive gripping surfaces, each having electrode(s) and each configured to be placed against respective surface regions of a foreign object, such that one or more electroadhesive forces can be provided between the electroadhesive gripping surfaces and the foreign object. Such electroadhesive forces operating to hold the foreign object against the electroadhesive gripping surfaces while the foreign object is held or moved by the electroadhesive gripping system. The electroadhesive gripping surfaces can be arranged onto a plurality of continuous fingers, and various gripping surfaces on each finger can be coupled together and manipulated with respect to each other by an actuating component, such as a cable actuator. A variable voltage can be delivered to the electrodes to control the amount of electroadhesive force generated, such that only a portion of a foreign object is held or moved.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An electroadhesive gripping system, comprising: a first electroadhesive end effector having a first electroadhesive gripping surface configured to be placed against a first surface region of a foreign object, said first electroadhesive gripping surface including at least one electrode; and a second electroadhesive end effector having a second electroadhesive gripping surface configured to be placed against a second surface region of the foreign object, said second electroadhesive gripping surface including at least one electrode, wherein said first and second electroadhesive end effectors are adapted to move independently with respect to each other, and wherein said first and second electroadhesive gripping surfaces combine to provide an overall electroadhesive force that operates to hold the foreign object against said first and second electroadhesive gripping surfaces while the foreign object is controlled by the electroadhesive gripping system. 2. The electroadhesive gripping system of claim 1, wherein said first electroadhesive gripping surface includes a first electrode configured to apply a first voltage at a first surface location at said first surface region and a second electrode configured to apply a second voltage at a second surface location at said first surface region of the foreign object, wherein the difference in voltage between the first voltage and second voltage includes a first electrostatic adhesion voltage that produces a local electroadhesive force. 3. The electroadhesive gripping system of claim 2, wherein said first electroadhesive gripping surface is less than about 1 millimeter from the surface of the foreign object when said first electrostatic adhesion voltage is on. 4. The electroadhesive gripping system of claim 2, further including: an insulation material disposed between said first electrode and said second electrode and configured to substantially maintain said first electrostatic adhesion voltage difference between said first and second electrodes. 5. The electroadhesive gripping system of claim 1, further including: an actuating component coupled to said first electroadhesive gripping surface, said actuating component configured to help position said first electroadhesive gripping surface with respect to the foreign object. 6. The electroadhesive gripping system of claim 5, wherein said actuating component is selected from the group consisting of a cable driven by an actuator, an electromagnetic motor, a stepper motor, a hydraulic system, a pneumatic system, a shape memory alloy, and an electro active polymer. 7. The electroadhesive gripping system of claim 1, wherein said overall electroadhesive force is a variable force that depends upon a variable voltage delivered to the electrodes of said first and second electroadhesive end effectors. 8. The electroadhesive gripping system of claim 7, wherein said overall electroadhesive force can be varied such that only a portion of said foreign object is controlled by the electroadhesive gripping system. 9. The electroadhesive gripping system of claim 1, further including: a third electroadhesive gripping surface configured to be placed against a third surface region of the foreign object, said third electroadhesive gripping surface including at least one electrode. 10. The electroadhesive gripping system of claim 1, wherein said first and second electroadhesive gripping surfaces operate to pick, lift, manipulate and place the foreign object. 11. The electroadhesive gripping system of claim 1, wherein said first electroadhesive gripping surface further includes a deformable surface portion adapted to conform to at least one aspect particular to the first surface region of the foreign object. 12. The electroadhesive gripping system of claim 11, wherein said deformable surface portion is adapted to move closer to the first surface region of the foreign object when voltage is applied to said first electroadhesive gripping surface. 13. The electroadhesive gripping system of claim 1, wherein the foreign object has a round, cylindrical or irregular three-dimensional shape. 14. The electroadhesive gripping system of claim 13, wherein the first surface region of the foreign object defines a three-dimensional profile, and wherein said first electroadhesive gripping surface comprises a fixed three-dimensional shape that conforms to the three-dimensional profile of the first surface region. 15. The electroadhesive gripping system of claim 13, wherein the first surface region of the foreign object defines a three-dimensional profile, and wherein said first electroadhesive gripping surface comprises a flexible material adapted to conform to the three-dimensional profile of the first surface region. 16. An electroadhesive gripper, comprising: a first electroadhesive gripping surface configured to be placed against a first surface region of a foreign object, said first electroadhesive gripping surface including at least one electrode; and a second electroadhesive gripping surface configured to be placed against a second surface region of the foreign object, said second electroadhesive gripping surface including at least one electrode, wherein said first and second electroadhesive gripping surfaces are separate and distinct with respect to each other, and wherein said first and second electroadhesive gripping surfaces combine to provide an overall electroadhesive force that operates to hold the foreign object against said first and second electroadhesive gripping surfaces while the foreign object is held, moved or manipulated by the electroadhesive gripper. 17. The electroadhesive gripper of claim 16, further including: a first cable driven by an actuator coupled to both of said first and second electroadhesive gripping surfaces, wherein said first cable driven by an actuator operates to position both of said first and second electroadhesive gripping surfaces with respect to the foreign object prior to the electroadhesive gripper gripping the foreign object, and wherein said overall electroadhesive force operates to hold the foreign object against said first and second electroadhesive gripping surfaces while the foreign object is held, moved or manipulated by the electroadhesive gripper. 18. The electroadhesive gripper of claim 16, wherein said first and second electroadhesive gripping surfaces are adapted to move independently with respect to each other. 19. The electroadhesive gripper of claim 16, wherein said first and second electroadhesive gripping surfaces are formed along a first continuous finger of said electroadhesive gripper, the electroadhesive gripper further comprising: a second continuous finger having a plurality of additional separate and distinct electroadhesive gripping surfaces, each of said plurality of additional separate and distinct electroadhesive gripping surfaces having at least one electrode. 20. The electroadhesive gripper of claim 19, wherein each of said first continuous finger and said second continuous finger are adapted to extend around three-dimensional surface regions of the foreign object in different directions. 21. The electroadhesive gripper of claim 16, wherein at least one feature of said first electroadhesive gripping surface comprises a deformable surface portion adapted to conform to the first surface region of the foreign object. 22. The electroadhesive gripper of claim 21, wherein said deformable surface portion is adapted to move closer to the first surface region of the foreign object when voltage is applied to said first electroadhesive gripping surface. 23. A method of gripping an object, comprising: placing a first electroadhesive gripping surface having at least one electrode against a first surface region of a foreign object; placing a second electroadhesive gripping surface having at least one electrode against a second surface region of the foreign object, the second surface region being spaced apart from the first surface region; and applying or maintaining a first electrostatic adhesion voltage difference at a plurality of the electrodes on said first and second electroadhesive gripping surfaces such that a first electrostatic attraction force is created between one or both of said first and second electroadhesive gripping surfaces and the foreign object. 24. The method of claim 23, further including the step of: moving said second electroadhesive gripping surface independently with respect to said first electroadhesive gripping surface. 25. The method of claim 24, wherein said step of moving said second electroadhesive gripping surface with respect to said first electroadhesive gripping surface includes using an actuator selected from the group consisting of a cable driven by an actuator, an electromagnetic motor, a stepper motor, a hydraulic system, a pneumatic system, a shape memory alloy, and an electroactive polymer. 26. The method of claim 23, wherein each of said first and second electroadhesive gripping surfaces includes a plurality of electrodes, and wherein each of said first and second electroadhesive gripping surfaces are adapted to provide a localized electrostatic adhesion voltage difference at their respect surface regions of the foreign object. 27. The method of claim 23, further including the step of: applying a second electrostatic adhesion voltage difference at a different plurality of the electrodes of one or both of said first and second electroadhesive gripping surfaces such that a second electrostatic attraction force is created between one or both of said first and second electroadhesive gripping surfaces and the object. 28. An electroadhesive gripping system, comprising: a first electroadhesive gripping surface configured to be placed against a first surface region of a three-dimensional foreign object, said first electroadhesive gripping surface including at least one electrode and a deformable surface portion adapted to conform to at least one aspect particular to the first surface region; and a second electroadhesive gripping surface configured to be placed against a second surface region of the foreign object, said second electroadhesive gripping surface including at least one electrode, wherein said first and second electroadhesive gripping surfaces combine to provide an overall electroadhesive force that operates to hold the foreign object against said first and second electroadhesive gripping surfaces while the foreign object is held or moved by the electroadhesive gripping system. 29. The electroadhesive gripping system of claim 28, wherein said deformable surface portion is adapted to move closer to the first surface region of the foreign object when voltage is applied to said first electroadhesive gripping surface. 30. The electroadhesive gripping system of claim 28, wherein said first and second electroadhesive gripping surfaces are adapted to be moved independently with respect to each other. 31. The electroadhesive gripping system of claim 28, wherein said first and second electroadhesive gripping surfaces are part of the same electroadhesive end effector. 32. The electroadhesive gripping system of claim 31, wherein said electroadhesive end effector resembles a human hand. 33. The electroadhesive gripping system of claim 31, wherein said electroadhesive end effector defines a thin and flexible veil having a plurality of electrode pairs, each electrode pair defining a separate gripping surface. 