A threaded blind fastener intended for installation in aerodynamically smooth or aesthetically critical panels, further adapted to minimize discontinuities on paintable surfaces of the head resulting from clearances between male and female threads that may adversely affect the quality of paint coverage.
Claims We claim: 1. A fastener for clamping work pieces together through aligned apertures, the work pieces including a front side and a blind surface, the fastener comprising: a core bolt comprising a bolt head, a first externally threaded portion and an unthreaded shank portion; a body positioned on the core bolt comprising an enlarged head, a first internally threaded portion, and a smooth wall through bore portion positioned proximate to the enlarged head; and a deformable sleeve positioned on the core bolt between the bolt head and the body, wherein the fastener is constructed and arranged to be insertable through the aligned apertures from the front side, wherein the deformable sleeve expands over the body by rotating the core bolt causing threaded engagement between the first externally and first internally threaded portions and causing the deformable sleeve to bulb and form a bearing surface against the blind surface thereby clamping the work pieces together with the unthreaded shank portion aligned with the smooth wall through bore portion and wherein an outer diameter of the unthreaded shank portion of the core bolt is approximately equal to an inner diameter of the smooth wall through bore portion of the body permitting a close fit of the unthreaded shank portion in the smooth wall through bore portion. 2. The fastener of claim 1, further comprising a drive nut wherein the core bolt further comprises a second externally threaded portion in threaded engagement with the drive nut, wherein the drive nut is substantially rotationally constrained with the body. 3. The fastener of claim 1, wherein a pitch diameter of both the first externally threaded portion and the first internally threaded portion of the body is approximately equal to the diameter of the unthreaded shank portion of the core bolt and the smooth wall through bore portion of the body. 4. The fastener of claim 3, wherein the first internally threaded portion of the body comprises threads with crest truncation to the pitch diameter. 5. The fastener of claim 1, wherein the enlarged head of the body is constructed and arranged to fit in a counter sunk recess in the work pieces. 6. The fastener of claim 5, wherein the body further comprises a domed portion on the enlarged head that can be shaved off to be substantially flush with the work pieces. 7. The fastener of claim 6, wherein the domed portion is colored or dyed so that a band of color on the periphery of the domed portion remains after the enlarged head is shaved off. 8. The fastener of claim 1, wherein the core bolt further comprises an annular groove that is constructed and arranged to separate the core bolt into two sections after the work pieces are clamped together. 9. The fastener of claim 1, wherein the body further comprises an extension that extends from the enlarged head and a second internally threaded portion in the extension and wherein the core bolt further comprises a second externally threaded portion in threaded engagement with the extension. 10. The fastener of claim 9, wherein the smooth wall through bore portion extends through a portion of the extension. 11. The fastener of claim 9, wherein the pitch diameter of both the second externally threaded portion and the second internally threaded portion of the body is approximately equal to the diameter of the unthreaded shank portion and the smooth wall through bore portion. 12. The fastener of claim 9, further comprising a drive nut in threaded engagement with the second externally threaded portion, wherein the drive nut is substantially rotationally constrained with the body. 13. A method comprising: inserting a blind fastener through aligned apertures of a plurality of work pieces, wherein the blind fastener comprises a core bolt including a bolt head, a first externally threaded portion and an unthreaded shank portion, a body positioned on the core bolt including an enlarged head, a first internally threaded portion and a smooth wall through bore portion positioned proximate to the enlarged head, and a deformable sleeve positioned on the core bolt between the bolt head and the body, wherein an outer diameter of the unthreaded shank portion of the core bolt is approximately equal to an inner diameter of the smooth wall through bore portion of the body permitting a close fit of the unthreaded shank portion in the smooth wall through bore portion; and rotating the core bolt with respect to the body thereby expanding the deformable sleeve over the body causing threaded engagement between the first externally and first internally threaded portions and causing the deformable sleeve to bulb and form a bearing surface against a blind surface of the work pieces to clamp the work pieces together and aligning the unthreaded shank portion with the smooth wall through bore portion. 14. A method comprising: inserting a blind fastener through aligned apertures of a plurality of work pieces, wherein the blind fastener comprises a core bolt including a bolt head, a first externally threaded portion and an unthreaded shank portion, a body positioned on the core bolt including an enlarged head, a first internally threaded portion and a smooth wall through bore portion positioned proximate to the enlarged head, and a deformable sleeve positioned on the core bolt between the bolt head and the body; rotating the core bolt with respect to the body thereby expanding the deformable sleeve over the body causing threaded engagement between the first externally and first internally threaded portions and causing the deformable sleeve to bulb and form a bearing surface against a blind surface of the work pieces to clamp the work pieces together and aligning the unthreaded shank portion with the smooth wall through bore portion; and shaving the blind fastener substantially flush with an outer surface of the work pieces, wherein the shaving removes a portion of the unthreaded shank portion and a portion of the smooth wall through bore portion leaving a close fit therebetween. 15. The method of claim 14, further comprising: inspecting a band of color on the shaved head of the blind fastener to confirm that excessive material was not removed during the shaving act. 16. A fastener for clamping work pieces together through aligned apertures, the work pieces including a front side, a counter sunk recess on the front side and a blind surface, the fastener comprising: a core bolt comprising a bolt head, a first externally threaded portion threaded at a pitch diameter, a second externally threaded portion threaded at the pitch diameter with crest truncation approximately to the pitch diameter and an unthreaded shank portion with a shank diameter approximately equal to the pitch diameter positioned between the first and second externally threaded portions; a body positioned on the core bolt comprising an enlarged head constructed and arranged to fit in the counter sunk recess, a first internally threaded portion threaded at the pitch diameter with crest truncation approximately to the pitch diameter, and a smooth wall through bore portion with a bore diameter approximately equal to the pitch diameter positioned proximate to the enlarged head; and a deformable sleeve positioned on the core bolt between the bolt head and the body, wherein the fastener is constructed and arranged to be insertable through the aligned apertures from the front side, wherein the deformable sleeve expands over the body by rotating the core bolt relative to the body causing threaded engagement between the first externally and first internally threaded portions and causing the deformable sleeve to bulb and form a bearing surface against the blind surface thereby clamping the work pieces together with the unthreaded shank portion aligned with the smooth wall through bore portion. 17. The fastener of claim 16, wherein the body further comprises an extension that extends from the enlarged head and a second internally threaded portion threaded at the pitch diameter positioned within the extension. 18. The fastener of claim 16, further comprising a drive nut in threaded engagement with the second externally threaded portion, wherein the drive nut is substantially rotationally constrained with the body. 19. A fastener for clamping work pieces together through aligned apertures, the work pieces including a front side and a blind surface, the fastener comprising: a core bolt comprising a bolt head, a first externally threaded portion and an unthreaded shank portion; a body positioned on the core bolt comprising an enlarged head, a first internally threaded portion, and a smooth wall through bore portion positioned proximate to the enlarged head; and a deformable sleeve positioned on the core bolt between the bolt head and the body, wherein the fastener is constructed and arranged to be insertable through the aligned apertures from the front side, wherein the deformable sleeve expands over the body by rotating the core bolt causing threaded engagement between the first externally and first internally threaded portions and causing the deformable sleeve to bulb and form a bearing surface against the blind surface thereby clamping the work pieces together with the unthreaded shank portion aligned with the smooth wall through bore portion and wherein the enlarged head of the body is constructed and arranged to fit in a counter sunk recess in the work pieces. 20. The fastener of claim 19, wherein the body further comprises a domed portion on the enlarged head that can be shaved off to be substantially flush with the work pieces. 21. The fastener of claim 20, wherein the domed portion is colored or dyed so that a band of color on the periphery of the domed portion remains after the enlarged head is shaved off. 22. The fastener of claim 19, wherein the body further comprises an extension that extends from the enlarged head and a second internally threaded portion in the extension and wherein the core bolt further comprises a second externally threaded portion in threaded engagement with the extension. 23. A fastener for clamping work pieces together through aligned apertures, the work pieces including a front side and a blind surface, the fastener comprising: a core bolt comprising a bolt head, a first externally threaded portion and an unthreaded shank portion; a body positioned on the core bolt comprising an enlarged head, a first internally threaded portion, and a smooth wall through bore portion positioned proximate to the enlarged head; and a deformable sleeve positioned on the core bolt between the bolt head and the body, wherein the fastener is constructed and arranged to be insertable through the aligned apertures from the front side, wherein the deformable sleeve expands over the body by rotating the core bolt causing threaded engagement between the first externally and first internally threaded portions and causing the deformable sleeve to bulb and form a bearing surface against the blind surface thereby clamping the work pieces together with the unthreaded shank portion aligned with the smooth wall through bore portion and wherein the body further comprises an extension that extends from the enlarged head and a second internally threaded portion in the extension and wherein the core bolt further comprises a second externally threaded portion in threaded engagement with the extension. 24. The fastener of claim 23, wherein the smooth wall through bore portion extends through a portion of the extension. 25. The fastener of claim 23, wherein the pitch diameter of both the second externally threaded portion and the second internally threaded portion of the body is approximately equal to the diameter of the unthreaded shank portion and the smooth wall through bore portion. 26. A fastener for clamping work pieces together through aligned apertures, the work pieces including a front side and a blind surface, the fastener comprising: a core bolt comprising a bolt head, a first externally threaded portion and an unthreaded shank portion; a body positioned on the core bolt comprising an enlarged head, a first internally threaded portion, and a smooth wall through bore portion positioned proximate to the enlarged head; and a deformable sleeve positioned on the core bolt between the bolt head and the body, wherein the fastener is constructed and arranged to be insertable through the aligned apertures from the front side, wherein the deformable sleeve expands over the body by rotating the core bolt causing threaded engagement between the first externally and first internally threaded portions and causing the deformable sleeve to bulb and form a bearing surface against the blind surface thereby clamping the work pieces together with the unthreaded shank portion aligned with the smooth wall through bore portion and wherein a pitch diameter of both the first externally threaded portion and the first internally threaded portion of the body is approximately equal to the diameter of the unthreaded shank portion of the core bolt and the smooth wall through bore portion of the body. 27. The fastener of claim 26, wherein the first internally threaded portion of the body comprises threads with crest truncation to the pitch diameter. 28. The fastener of claim 26, wherein the core bolt further comprises an annular groove that is constructed and arranged to separate the core bolt into two sections after the work pieces are clamped together. 