A method for communicating between at least one environment-independent application logic code (AL code) and at least one environment which is a combination of hardware and software. The method includes creating at least one interaction style code (IS code) that is specific to and communicates with the at least one environment, and is provided with an interaction style interface (IS interface) for interfacing an interaction style with said at least one application logic code (AL code). The interaction style interface (IS interface) is independent of and does not specify properties of said at least one environment, and the at least one environment-independent application logic code (AL code) runs unchanged in all environments. The at least one interaction style code (IS code) is operable with all of a graphical user interface, a non-graphical user interface, an HTML-based web browser user interface, and no user interface.
Claims We claim: 1. A method that is executable by a processor for communicating between (i) at least one environment-independent application logic code (AL code) and (ii) at least one environment, which is a combination of hardware and software, the method comprising: creating at least one interaction style code (IS code) that is specific to and communicates with said at least one environment, the interaction style code being provided with an interaction style interface (IS interface) for interfacing an interaction style with said at least one application logic code (AL code); wherein said interaction style interface (IS interface) is independent of and does not specify properties of said at least one environment; wherein said at least one environment-independent application logic code (AL code) runs unchanged in all environments; and wherein said at least one interaction style code (IS code) is operable with all of a graphical user interface, a non-graphical user interface, an HTML-based web browser user interface, and no user interface. 2. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the hardware in said at least one environment comprises a user interface device. 3. The method as claimed in claim 2, wherein the user interface device comprises a keyboard and a monitor. 4. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the hardware in said at least one environment comprises a sensor. 5. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the hardware in said at least one environment comprises a robotic device. 6. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the hardware in said at least one environment comprises a personal digital assistant (PDA) device. 7. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the hardware in said at least one environment comprises a personal computer (PC) device. 8. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the properties of said at least one environment comprise physical properties. 9. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the properties of said at least one environment comprise graphical properties. 10. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the interaction style interface specifies input and output data. 11. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the interaction style interface specifies input and output messages. 12. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the interaction style code interfaces with the hardware in said at least one environment. 13. A non-transitory computer-readable recording medium having a software architecture stored thereon for communicating between (i) at least one environment-independent application logic code (AL code) and (ii) at least one environment, which is a combination of hardware and software, the architecture comprising: at least one interaction style code (IS code) that is specific to and interfaces with said at least one environment, the interaction style code being provided with an interaction style interface (IS interface) for interfacing an interaction style with said at least one application logic code (AL code); wherein said interaction style interface (IS interface) is independent of and does not specify properties of said at least one environment; wherein said at least one environment-independent application logic code (AL code) runs unchanged in all environments; and wherein said at least one interaction style code (IS code) is operable with all of a graphical user interface, a non-graphical user interface, an HTML-based web browser user interface, and no user interface. 14. The non-transitory computer-readable recording medium as claimed in claim 13, wherein the properties of said at least one environment comprise physical properties. 15. The non-transitory computer-readable recording medium as claimed in claim 13, wherein the properties of said at least one environment comprise graphical properties. 