Techniques for the production of flow-oriented collagen gels using hydrodynamics to influence the assembly of collagen fibers. Highly concentrated monomeric solutions of collagen are subjected to shear and extensional flow as they are drawn onto a substrate to induce fibrillogenesis under a high Ph buffer. The produced gel captures the flow induced ordering of molecular collagen upon fibril formation. The depositing or the induction of fibrillogenosis occurs without the application of a magnetic field to the concentration of collagen. These highly oriented 3D scaffolds are capable inducing contact guidance and guiding mammalian cell growth. The collagen fibers mimic the construction of in vivo fibers with the characteristic D-periodicity and the integrin receptors on the fibroblasts respond to this organization. The industrial applications of three-dimensional collagen gels as a biomaterial are widespread from drug delivery to burn repair or tissue engineering system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of making an oriented collagen gel, comprising the step of depositing with a depositing device a concentration of collagen onto a substrate to induce fibrillogenesis, wherein said depositing device having a depositing speed during said deposition and wherein said concentration of collagen having a travelling speed while being deposited, wherein said depositing speed and travelling speed are both larger than zero, but moving in opposite direction from each other, wherein said depositing step applies both a shear and an extensional force component to said concentration of collagen during said fibrillogenosis, and while said deposited concentration is under a pH buffer of at least 5. 2. The method as set forth in claim 1, wherein said depositing speed is at least 100 mm/s. 3. The method as set forth in claim 1, wherein said travelling speed is at least 0.3 mL/min. 4. The method as set forth in claim 1, wherein the ratio of said depositing speed and said travelling speed is defined as a draw ratio being larger than 0. 5. The method as set forth in claim 1, wherein said concentration of collagen is at least 3 mg/ml. 6. The method as set forth in claim 1, wherein said deposited concentration is under a pH buffer of at least 7. 7. The method as set forth in claim 1, wherein the collagen fibers of said oriented collagen gel have a D-periodicity of 67 nm or about 67 nm. 8. The method as set forth in claim 1, wherein said depositing or the induction of said fibrillogenosis occurs without the application of a magnetic field to said concentration of collagen. 9. The method as set forth in claim 1, wherein said depositing occurs under a physiological temperature. 10. The method as set forth in claim 1, wherein said substrate contains a coating of collagen prior to said depositing step. 11. The method as set forth in claim 1, wherein said oriented collagen gel is used as a drug delivery device or as a tissue engineering system. 12. The method as set forth in claim 1, further comprising pulling or stretching said oriented collagen gel. 13. The method as set forth in claim 1, wherein the ratio of said depositing speed and said travelling speed is defined as a draw ratio is at least 1. 14. The method as set forth in claim 1, wherein the ratio of said depositing speed and said travelling speed is defined as a draw ratio is at least 2. 15. The method as set forth in claim 1, wherein the ratio of said depositing speed and said travelling speed is defined as a draw ratio is at least 3. 16. The method as set forth in claim 1, wherein the ratio of said depositing speed and said travelling speed is defined as a draw ratio is at least 4. 17. The method as set forth in claim 1, wherein said concentration of collagen is at least 5 mg/ml. 18. The method as set forth in claim 1, wherein said concentration of collagen is at least 10 mg/ml. 19. The method as set forth in claim 1, wherein said concentration of collagen is at least 20 mg/ml. 20. The method as set forth in claim 1, wherein said concentration of collagen is at least 40 mg/ml. 