Disparate robotic devices can be automatically recharged and reprogrammed by self-scheduling individual time slots for the available recharging area(s) of a charging station. These charging stations provide a nest to which each robot must return periodically for power. These nests can also provide new tasking or patches for the robotic devices. The charging station and the robotic devices are both provided with communications capabilities and a protocol by which they can negotiate to find a time slot in which the device can be recharged, as well as determining a correct connector and a battery type.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A recharging station, comprising: a first connector for a self-mobile device, said first connector being configured in such a manner that self-mobile devices can self-position into a position for charging; a first communications device capable of carrying on two-way communications with a plurality of self-mobile devices; and a processor connected to said first connector and said first communications device, said processor negotiates with the plurality of self-mobile devices according to a first protocol in order to administer time slots for charging the plurality of self-mobile devices. 2. The recharging station of claim 1, further comprising a second protocol that automatically provides new instructions or updates to basic programming to ones of the plurality of self-mobile devices. 3. The recharging station of claim 2, further comprising a second connector configured in such a manner that self-mobile devices can self-position into a position for charging. 4. The recharging station of claim 3, wherein said first connector and said second connector are identical. 5. The recharging station of claim 3, wherein said first connector and said second connector work with different types of self-mobile devices. 6. The recharging station of claim 2, wherein the processor accesses a record of scheduled charging times for the plurality of self-mobile devices. 7. The recharging station of claim 6, wherein a separate schedule of charging times is maintained for each different type of connector of the charging station. 8. The recharging station of claim 1, wherein said first connector comprises a first flat plate connected to form a negative contact and a second flat plate connected to form a positive contact. 9. The recharging station of claim 8, wherein said first and second flat plates are mounted horizontally and a self-mobile device positions over said first and said second plates for charging. 10. The recharging station of claim 8, wherein said first and second flat plates are mounted vertically and a self-mobile device positions over said first and said second plates for charging. 11. The recharging station of claim 1, further comprising a second connector configured in such a manner that self-mobile devices can self-position into a position for charging. 12. The recharging station of claim 11, wherein said first connector and said second connector are identical. 13. The recharging station of claim 11, wherein said first connector and said second connector work with different types of self-mobile devices. 14. The recharging station of claim 13, wherein the processor accesses a record of scheduled charging times for the plurality of self-mobile devices. 15. The recharging station of claim 14, wherein a separate schedule of charging times is maintained for each different type of connector of the charging station. 16. The recharging station of claim 11, wherein the processor accesses a record of scheduled charging times for the plurality of self-mobile devices. 17. The recharging station of claim 1, wherein the processor accesses a record of scheduled charging times for the plurality of self-mobile devices. 18. The recharging station of claim 17, wherein a separate schedule of charging times is maintained for each different type of connector of the charging station. 19. A recharging station, comprising: a first connector for a self-mobile device, said first connector being configured in such a manner that self-mobile devices can self-position into a position for charging; a first communications device capable of carrying on two-way communications with a plurality of self-mobile devices; and a processor connected to said first connector and said first communications device, said processor comprising means for negotiating with the plurality of self-mobile devices according to a first protocol in order to administer time slots for charging the plurality of self-mobile devices. 20. The recharging station of claim 19, further comprising a second protocol that automatically provides new instructions or updates to basic programming to ones of the plurality of self-mobile devices. 