A method for recovering data from a failed tape cartridge is presented. The reliability of a tape cartridge is assessed via the number of read errors encountered. If the number or read errors is excessive, the tape cartridge is deemed unreliable and the tape cartridge is restricted from storing anymore data. A search is performed to look for duplicate data and if found a copy of the duplicate data is stored to a replacement tape cartridge. The replacement tape cartridge assumes all identity of the original failed tape cartridge.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A data recovery method for tape cartridges, the method comprising steps for: providing a library with a first tape cartridge that possesses a tape medium with data thereon and a first tape drive; loading said first tape cartridge in said first tape drive; reading a first portion of said data followed by a second portion of said data wherein said first portion and said second portion are separated by a third portion of said data; assessing whether at least said second portion of said data contains an expected data structure wherein said assessing is devoid of data content analysis; restricting any new data from being written to said tape medium if said first portion or said second portion of said data fails to meet a predetermined threshold of an acceptable error percentage; searching for duplicate data of said data; and storing a copy of said duplicate data on a replacement tape cartridge. 2. The data recovery method of claim 1 further comprising remapping said replacement tape cartridge to assume any identity associated with said first tape cartridge. 3. The data recovery method of claim 1 further comprising indicating that said first tape cartridge is a failed tape cartridge. 4. The data recovery method of claim 3 further comprising storing information indicating that said first tape cartridge is a failed tape cartridge to a medium auxiliary memory device that is substantially disposed in said first tape cartridge. 5. The data recovery method of claim 1 further comprising indicating that said first tape cartridge is a failed tape cartridge and recording information indicating that said first tape cartridge is a failed tape cartridge in a data base. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein said assessing step is accomplished by determining a percentage of hard and soft read errors to said data read. 7. A data recovery method for a tape cartridge, the method comprising steps for: providing a tape library with said tape cartridge disposed therein; reading data from a tape medium comprised by said tape cartridge assessing an amount of said data that fails to contain an expected data structure without requiring data content analysis, wherein said data is separated by a separate portion of data; restricting any new data from being written to said tape medium if said amount exceeds a predetermined limit; searching for duplicate data of said data; and storing a copy of said duplicate data on a replacement tape cartridge. 8. The method of claim 7 further comprising reporting, via a display device, to an end user if said expected data structure exceeds said predetermined limit. 9. The method of claim 7 wherein said predetermined limit is set by an end user. 10. The data recovery method of claim 7 further comprising remapping said replacement tape cartridge to assume any identity associated with said first tape cartridge. 11. The data recovery method of claim 7 further comprising storing information indicating that said first tape cartridge is a failed tape cartridge to a medium auxiliary memory device wherein said medium auxiliary memory device is substantially disposed in said first tape cartridge. 12. The data recovery method of claim 7 wherein said reading and assessing said data is only performed on a portion of the entire amount of data stored on said tape medium. 13. A data recovery method comprising steps of: reading a first portion of data and a second portion of data stored on a tape medium, wherein said first portion and said second portion are separated by a third portion of data stored on said tape medium; determining how many errors were found from said reading step; initiating a search for a duplicate copy of all of said data stored on said tape medium if said errors exceed an acceptable limit wherein said search is independent of said tape medium; and storing a copy of said duplicate copy on a replacement tape cartridge. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein said data read in said reading step is less than all of the data stored on the tape medium. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein said errors include both hard errors and soft read errors. 16. The method of claim 14 wherein said acceptable limit is determined by an end user. 17. The method of claim 14 further comprising remapping said replacement tape cartridge to assume an identity associated with said first tape cartridge. 18. A method comprising: providing a tape library with a plurality of tape cartridges disposed therein; at a predetermined scheduled time commencing data validation of a first of said tape cartridges without initiation by a host computer system, wherein said data validation is accomplished by reading to assess integrity of data retained on a tape medium comprised by said first tape cartridge; determining that said first tape cartridge has an unacceptably poor integrity of said data; failing said first tape cartridge due to said unacceptably poor integrity of said data; taking said first tape cartridge off-line. 19. The method of claim 7 wherein said reading step is performed at a scheduled time that is predetermined. 