The present inventions relate to methods and apparatus for detecting and mechanically removing defects and a surrounding portion of the photovoltaic layer and the substrate in a thin film solar cell such as a Group IBIIIAVIA compound thin film solar cell to improve its efficiency.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of detecting and removing at least one defect from solar cells, comprising: providing a solar cell including a back side and a front light receiving side disposed over the back side, wherein the back side includes a substrate, and the front light receiving side includes a photovoltaic layer disposed over the substrate and a terminal disposed over the photovoltaic layer; detecting the at least one defect in at least one area of the solar cell; and mechanically cutting out at least one segment including the at least one defect and a surrounding portion of the photovoltaic layer and the substrate around the at least one defect to remove the at least one defect from the solar cell, wherein the step of mechanically cutting out the at least one segment leaves a cavity extending between and including the front light receiving side and back side of the solar cell including the substrate wherein the step of mechanically cutting is performed by a punch that is laterally and longitudinally movable across the surface of the solar cell for accurate positioning over the at least one defect, and wherein the punch mechanically cuts through the solar cell to remove the at least one segment including the at least one defect. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising coating the solar cell with a stabilizing film before the step of mechanically cutting. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein the step of mechanically cutting is performed with the at least one segment submerged in a solution. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the at least one segment includes a portion of the terminal. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of mechanically cutting is performed with at least one segment submerged in a solution. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the photovoltaic layer includes an absorber film, a transparent conductive film formed over the absorber film, and wherein the absorber film is formed over a contact layer disposed on the substrate. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein the absorber film includes a Group IBIIIAVIA thin film semiconductor and the substrate is a stainless steel foil. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of detecting is performed using illuminated lock-in thermography using a near IR illumination source to improve a signal to noise ratio. 9. The method of claim 1 further comprising occluding the cavity with one of a patch or filler after the step of mechanically cutting. 10. The method of claim 1 further comprising determining a position of the at least one defect and registering the position using a memory device of a control system including a computer prior to the step of mechanically cutting. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein the step of detecting includes obtaining an image of atop surface of the at least one area of the solar cell by an optical camera. 12. The method of claim 11 further comprising occluding the cavity with at least one of a patch and filler after the step of mechanically cutting. 13. The method of claim 12 further comprising printing at least one color over the at least one of the patch and the filler to provide a more uniform surface appearance over the cavity. 14. The method of claim 11 wherein the step of detecting includes marking the top surface of the at least one segment with a marker ink that is detectable by the optical camera, and wherein the step of mechanically cutting includes detecting the marking ink with the optical camera. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein after the step of detecting, the solar cell is positioned by a positioning device over a punch station that includes the punch, wherein the positioning device comprises one of a robotic arm and x-y stage. 16. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of detecting detects a first defect in a first area of the solar cell as the at least one defect and a second defect in a second area of the solar cell, and the step of mechanically cutting out a first segment and a second segment by simultaneously punching through the solar cell using a first punch and a second punch with one punch action to remove the first defect and the second defect. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the after the step of detecting, the solar cell is positioned by a positioning device over a punch station that includes the first punch and the second punch, wherein the positioning device comprises one of a robotic arm and x-y stage. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of detecting includes obtaining an image of a top surface of the solar cell by an optical camera. 19. The method of claim 18 further comprising: dispensing fiducial marks on the terminal of the front light receiving surface with a marker ink that is detectable by the optical camera using an ink dispenser that has an ink dispenser coordinate system; wherein the step of detecting includes recording fiducial positions of the fiducial marks together with a position of the at least one defect using the ink dispenser coordinate system; and wherein the step of mechanically cutting includes aligning the punch using the recorded fiducial positions and the position of the at least one defect from the ink dispenser coordinate system in a coordinate system of the punch. 20. A method of solar cell manufacturing including a defect detection and removal process in a roll to roll system, comprising: forming a continuous flexible solar cell structure including a plurality of solar cells, wherein each solar cell includes a back side and a front light receiving side disposed over the back side, wherein the back side includes a substrate, and the front light receiving side includes a photovoltaic layer disposed over the substrate and a terminal disposed over the photovoltaic layer; dispensing fiducial marks on the terminal of the front light receiving surface with a marker ink that is detectable by the optical camera using an ink dispenser that has an ink dispenser coordinate system; advancing a section of the continuous flexible solar cell structure in front of a detector, wherein the section of the continuous flexible solar cell structure includes a first solar cell of the plurality of solar cells; detecting a defect in the first solar cell using the detector, wherein the step of detecting includes obtaining a color image of a top surface of the segment by an optical camera, and wherein the step of detecting includes recording fiducial positions of the fiducial marks together with a position of the defect using the ink dispenser coordinate system; and mechanically cutting out a segment that includes the defect and a surrounding portion of the photovoltaic layer and the substrate around the defect using a cutter tool to thereby remove the defect from the first solar cell, wherein the mechanically cutting out the segment of the solar cell leaves a cavity extending between and including the front light receiving side and back side of the first solar cell including the substrate, wherein the cutter tool is a punch that is laterally and longitudinally movable across the surface of the solar cell for accurate positioning over the defect, wherein the punch mechanically cuts through the solar cell to remove the segment including the defect, and wherein the step of mechanically cutting includes aligning the punch using the recorded fiducial positions and the position of the defect from the ink dispenser coordinate system in a coordinate system of the punch. 21. The method claim 20, wherein the detecting and mechanically cutting out steps are performed in a detection and removal station such that after detecting the defect by the detector, the cutter tool cuts out the segment without movement of the first solar cell within the detection and removal station. 22. The method claim 20, wherein the detecting step is performed in a detection station where the detector is located. 23. The method of claim 22, further comprising the step of advancing the section of the continuous flexible solar cell structure including the first solar cell into a defect removal station, where the cutter tool that cuts out the segment is located. 24. The method of claim 20 further comprising coating the first solar cell with a stabilizing film before the step of mechanically cutting. 25. The method of claim 24 wherein the step of mechanically cutting is performed with the segment submerged in a solution. 26. The method of claim 24 wherein the step of mechanically cutting is performed using a cutting edge coated with a solution. 27. The method of claim 20, wherein the step of detecting is performed by illuminated lock-in thermography using a near IR illumination source to improve a signal to noise ratio. 28. The method of claim 20 further comprising occluding the cavity with one of a patch or filler after the step of mechanically cutting. 29. The method of claim 20 wherein the step of detecting includes determining a position of the defect and registering the position using a memory device of a control system including a computer prior to the step of mechanically cutting. 30. The method of claim 20 further comprising occluding the cavity with one of a patch and filler after the step of mechanically cutting. 31. The method of claim 30 further comprising printing at least one color over the at least one of the patch and the filler to provide a more uniform surface appearance over the cavity. 32. The method of claim 20, wherein the photovoltaic layer includes an absorber film, a transparent conductive film formed over the absorber film, and wherein the absorber film is formed over a contact layer disposed on the substrate. 33. The method of claim 32, wherein the absorber film includes a Group IBIIIAVIA thin film semiconductor and the substrate is a stainless steel foil. 