An apparatus and a method for robotic control that allows an unbalanced pendulum robot to raise its Center of Mass and balance on two motorized wheels. The robot includes a pair of arms that are connected to the upper body of the robot through motorized joints. The method consists of a series of movements employing the arms of the robot to raise the robot to the upright position. The method comprises a control loop in which the motorized drives are included for dynamic balance of the robot and the control of the arm apparatus. The robot is first configured as a low Center of Mass four-wheeled vehicle, then its Center of Mass is raised using a combination of its wheels and the joint located at the attachment point of the arm apparatus and the robot body, between the rear and front wheels; the method then applies accelerations to the rear wheels to dynamically pivot and further raise the Center of Mass up and over the main drive wheels bringing the robot into a balancing pendulum configuration.
Claims Having described our invention, we claim: 1. A method for transitioning a reconfigurable robot over an obstacle in its path, comprising: a. providing a reconfigurable robot, said reconfigurable robot including, i. a base, having a first end, a second end, and a forward facing side, with a first rear wheel and a second rear wheel being attached to said first end of said base, ii. an arm, having a first end and a second end, with a front wheel being attached to said second end of said arm; iii. a rotating shoulder joint connecting said first end of said arm to said second end of said base, iv. a track system proximate said forward facing side of said base and attached to said base; b. providing said reconfigurable robot in a high center of mass configuration wherein said front wheel is lifted off the ground and said reconfigurable robot is balanced on said rear wheels; c. Detecting the presence of said obstacle in said path of said robot; d. applying torque to said shoulder joint in order to raise said arm to a height sufficient so that said front wheel clears the top of said obstacle; e. moving said robot forward so that said arm lies over said obstacle and said track system lies against said obstacle; and f. activating said track system to pull said body over the top of said obstacle. 2. A method for transitioning a reconfigurable robot over an obstacle in its path as recited in claim 1, further comprising: a. while said track system lies proximate said obstacle, applying torque to said shoulder joint to lower said arm in order to force said front wheel against said obstacle; and b. applying forward torque to said front wheel, thereby pulling said track system against said obstacle. 3. A method for transitioning a reconfigurable robot over an obstacle in its path as recited in claim 2, further comprising while said arm is lowered and forcing said front wheel against said obstacle, applying forward torque to said front wheel in order to assist said track system in propelling said robot over said obstacle. 4. A method for transitioning a reconfigurable robot over an obstacle in its path as recited in claim 3, further comprising while said arm is lowered and forcing said front wheel against said obstacle, applying forward torque to said first and second rear wheels in order to assist said track system in propelling said robot over said obstacle. 5. A method for transitioning a reconfigurable robot over an obstacle in its path as recited in claim 1, further comprising: a. providing a second arm, having a first end and a second end, with said second end having a second front wheel; and b. providing a second rotating shoulder joint connecting said first end of said second arm to said second end of said base. 6. A method for transitioning a reconfigurable robot over an obstacle in its path as recited in claim 5, further wherein said first front wheel and said second front wheel can be driven at different speeds in order to steer said reconfigurable robot. 7. A method for transitioning a reconfigurable robot over an obstacle in its path as recited in claim 1, further wherein said first rear wheel and said second rear wheel can be driven at different speeds in order to steer said reconfigurable robot. 8. A method for transitioning a reconfigurable robot over an obstacle in its path, comprising: a. providing a reconfigurable robot, said reconfigurable robot including, i. a base, having a forward facing side with a track system forward of said forward facing side, said track system being attached to said reconfigurable robot, ii. said base having a first end and a second end, with a first rear wheel and a second rear wheel being attached to said first end of said base, ii. an arm, having a first end and a second end, with a front wheel being attached to said second end of said arm, iii. a rotating shoulder joint connecting said first end of said arm to said second end of said base; b. providing said reconfigurable robot in a high center of mass configuration wherein said front wheel is lifted off the ground and said reconfigurable robot is balanced on said rear wheels; c. Detecting the presence of said obstacle in said path of said robot; d. applying torque to said shoulder joint in order to raise said arm to a height sufficient so that said front wheel clears the top of said obstacle; e. moving said robot forward so that said arm lies over said obstacle and said track system lies against said obstacle; and f. activating said track system to pull said body over the top of said obstacle. 9. A method for transitioning a reconfigurable robot over an obstacle in its path as recited in claim 8, further comprising: a. while said track system lies proximate said obstacle, applying torque to said shoulder joint to lower said arm in order to force said front wheel against said obstacle; and b. applying forward torque to said front wheel, thereby pulling said track system against said obstacle. 10. A method for transitioning a reconfigurable robot over an obstacle in its path as recited in claim 9, further comprising while said arm is lowered and forcing said front wheel against said obstacle, applying forward torque to said front wheel in order to assist said track system in propelling said robot over said obstacle. 11. A method for transitioning a reconfigurable robot over an obstacle in its path as recited in claim 10, further comprising while said arm is lowered and forcing said front wheel against said obstacle, applying forward torque to said rear wheel in order to assist said track system in propelling said robot over said obstacle. 12. A method for transitioning a reconfigurable robot over an obstacle in its path as recited in claim 8, further comprising: a. providing a second arm, having a first end and a second end, with said second end having a second front wheel; and b. providing a second rotating shoulder joint connecting said first end of said second arm to said second end of said base. 13. A method for transitioning a reconfigurable robot over an obstacle in its path as recited in claim 12, further wherein said first front wheel and said second front wheel can be driven at different speeds in order to steer said reconfigurable robot. 14. A method for transitioning a reconfigurable robot over an obstacle in its path as recited in claim 8, further wherein said first rear wheel and said second rear wheel can be driven at different speeds in order to steer said reconfigurable robot. 15. A method for transitioning a reconfigurable robot over an obstacle in its path, comprising: a. providing a reconfigurable robot, said reconfigurable robot including, i. a base, having a first end, a second end, and a forward facing side, with a first rear wheel and a second rear wheel being attached to said first end of said base, ii. an arm, having a first end and a second end, with a front wheel being attached to said second end of said arm, iii. a rotating shoulder joint connecting said first end of said arm to said second end of said base, iv. a track system proximate said forward facing side of said base and attached to said base; b. providing a turret attached to said base, said turret including a leveling mechanism so that it can be maintained in a desired orientation as said reconfigurable robot transitions over said obstacle; c. providing said reconfigurable robot in a high center of mass configuration wherein said front wheel is lifted off the ground and said reconfigurable robot is balanced on said rear wheels; c. Detecting the presence of said obstacle in said path of said robot; d. applying torque to said shoulder joint in order to raise said arm to a height sufficient so that said front wheel clears the top of said obstacle; e. moving said robot forward so that said arm lies over said obstacle and said track system lies against said obstacle; and f. activating said track system to pull said body over the top of said obstacle: 16. A method for transitioning a reconfigurable robot as recited in claim 15, further comprising: a. providing a control system for controlling said torque applied to said front wheel, said rear wheels, and said shoulder joint; b. providing an angle sensor for sensing the angle between said base and said ground, said angle sensor providing a value for said angle to said control system; and c. said control system using said value for said angle to control said applied torques in order to achieve said high center of mass balanced configuration. 17. A method for transitioning a reconfigurable robot as recited in claim 16, further comprising providing a second angle sensor for sensing the angle between said arm and said body, said second angle sensor providing a value for said angle between said arm and said body to said control system. 18. A method for transitioning a reconfigurable robot as recited in claim 15, wherein after said reconfigurable robot is balanced on said rear wheels, applying torque to said shoulder joint in the direction needed to lift said front wheel higher off said ground. 19. A method for transitioning a reconfigurable robot as recited in claim 15, wherein said torques applied to said front wheel, said rear wheels, and said shoulder joint are applied simultaneously. 20. A method for transitioning a reconfigurable robot as recited in claim 15, wherein said first rear wheel and said second rear wheel can be driven at different speeds in order to steer said reconfigurable robot. 