The present invention features methods for operating, such as methods for dispersing and clustering, robotic devices (i.e., "robots") that employ adaptive behavior relative to neighboring robots and external (e.g., environmental) conditions. Each robot is capable of receiving, processing, and acting on one or more multi-device primitive commands that describe a task the robot will perform in response to other robots and the external conditions. The commands facilitate a distributed command and control structure, relieving a central apparatus or operator from the need to monitor the progress of each robot. This virtually eliminates the corresponding constraint on the maximum number of robots that can be deployed to perform a task (e.g., data collection, mapping, searching, dispersion, and retrieval). By increasing the number of robots, the efficiency in completing the task is also increased.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for operating a plurality of devices, the method comprising the steps of: transmitting a wireless signal from an autonomous mobile robotic device to a second device, the wireless signal comprising a command to turn on the second device, and each of the robotic device and the second device being battery-operated; and turning on the second device following receipt of the wireless signal thereat. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the wireless signal is selected from the group consisting of an infrared signal, a radio frequency signal, and an audio signal. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the second device comprises a mobile device. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the robotic device comprises a locomotion apparatus. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the locomotion apparatus comprises at least one of wheels, a motor, and gearing. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the robotic device comprises a sensor. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the sensor comprises a tactile sensor for detecting an external mechanical contact force. 8. The method of claim 7 further comprising the step of using the robotic device and the second device to create a map of an environment within which the robotic device is operating. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the robotic device comprises an indicator light. 10. The method of claim 1, where the second device comprises an indicator light. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein at least a portion of the second device is powered prior to receiving the wireless signal thereat, thereby permitting the second device to receive the command to turn on. 12. A system comprising: (a) a battery-operated autonomous mobile robotic device comprising: (i) a locomotion apparatus; and (ii) a transmitter for transmitting a wireless signal; and (b) a battery-operated second device comprising: (i) a receiver for receiving the wireless signal from the robotic device, the wireless signal comprising a command to turn on the second device; and (ii) a processing apparatus for turning on the second device following receipt of the wireless signal thereat. 13. The system of claim 12, wherein the transmitter is selected from the group consisting of an optical transmitter for transmitting an infrared signal, a radio frequency transmitter for transmitting a radio frequency signal, and an audio transmitter for transmitting an audio signal. 14. The system of claim 12, wherein the receiver is selected from the group consisting of an optical receiver for receiving an infrared signal, a radio frequency receiver for receiving a radio frequency signal, and an audio receiver for receiving an audio signal. 15. The system of claim 12, wherein the wireless signal is selected from the group consisting of an infrared signal, a radio frequency signal, and an audio signal. 16. The system of claim 12, wherein the second device comprises a mobile device. 17. The system of claim 12, wherein the locomotion apparatus comprises at least one of wheels, a motor, and gearing. 18. The system of claim 12, wherein the robotic device further comprises a sensor. 19. The system of claim 18, wherein the sensor comprises a tactile sensor for detecting an external mechanical contact force. 20. The system of claim 19, wherein the robotic device is configured to create a map of an environment within which the robotic device is operating. 21. The system of claim 12, wherein the robotic device further comprises an indicator light. 22. The system of claim 12, wherein the second device further comprises an indicator light. 23. The system of claim 12, wherein at least a portion of the second device is powered to enable the receiver to receive the wireless signal thereat. 24. The system of claim 12, wherein the robotic device further comprises a battery. 25. The system of claim 12, wherein the second device further comprises a battery. 