Methods, systems, and apparatus, including computer program products, implementing techniques for mixing liquid components. Quantities of two or more liquid components are transferred from pressurized source reservoirs to one or more destination locations by means of a fluid outlet that includes a dispense valve, and the two or more liquid components are mixed in the destination locations to create a plurality of fluid mixtures. Two or more dispensing technologies can be combined to provide for increased efficiency in the dispensing of high volume liquid components. The amounts of liquid components being dispensed can be monitored during the dispensing to provide feedback control of the dispensing.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for dispensing fluids, the system comprising: a liquid handling robot having one or more robotic arms; a plurality of source reservoirs, each of the plurality of source reservoirs containing a liquid component; one or more conduit networks defining one or more flow paths from one or more of the plurality of source reservoirs; one or more destination substrates having one or more destination locations for receiving liquid components to prepare one or more liquid mixtures; a plurality of fluid outlets mounted on the one or more robotic arms, each of the fluid outlets being configured to receive liquid components from one or more of the source reservoirs, the fluid outlets comprising a first fluid outlet configured to dispense the received liquid components into one or more of the destination locations according to a high-volume dispensing system and a second fluid outlet configured to dispense the received liquid components into one or more of the destination locations according to a low-volume dispensing system; and a control system programmed to control the liquid handling robot and the first and second fluid outlets to cause the system to dispense the liquid components at the one or more destination locations. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein: the high-volume dispensing system comprises a back-pressure dispense system wherein the first fluid outlet comprises a dispense valve in fluid communication with a first conduit network of the one or more conduit networks, the first conduit network comprising a plurality of inlets, each of the plurality of inlets being associated with one of a first plurality of the source reservoirs, each of the first plurality of source reservoirs containing a first liquid component and maintaining an elevated pressure for forcing the corresponding liquid component to exit the first source reservoir, the first conduit network defining a flow path from each of the plurality of inlets to the first fluid outlet, the first fluid outlet being positionable using the one or more robotic arms to dispense the first liquid components through the dispense valve into any of the one or more destination locations. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein: the low-volume dispensing system comprises an aspirate/dispense system. 4. The system of claim 3, wherein: the second fluid outlet comprises or is in fluid communication with a positive displacement pipette, the positive displacement pipette being in fluid communication with a second plurality of the plurality of source reservoirs, the second plurality of source reservoirs containing a plurality of second liquid components, the positive displacement pipette being operable to withdraw one or more of the second liquid components from the second source reservoirs and to dispense the withdrawn second liquid components at the one or more destination locations through the second fluid outlet. 5. The system of claim 2, wherein: the first source reservoirs are independently pressurized to provide for a target flow rate of the first liquid components at the dispense valve. 6. The system of claim 2, wherein: the control system is programmed to cause the dispensing of quantities of each of a plurality of the first liquid components into each of a plurality of the destination locations by, sequentially for each of the plurality of first liquid components, activating the inlet associated with the corresponding first source reservoir to introduce the first liquid component into the first conduit network, positioning the first fluid outlet at one or more of the destination locations, activating the dispense outlet to dispense a quantity of the first liquid component at the one or more destination locations, and flushing the first conduit network to prevent contamination of subsequent first liquid components by the first liquid component. 7. The system of claim 2, wherein: the first conduit network comprises a plurality of three-way valves configured to define a hierarchical flow path from each of the plurality of inlets to the first fluid outlet, the conduit network having substantially no dead space in the hierarchical flow path from any of the plurality of inlets to the first fluid outlet. 8. The system of claim 2, wherein the control system is programmed, before dispensing a given first liquid component of the plurality of first liquid components, to generate a calibration for the given first liquid component by: determining a range of volumes of the given first liquid component to be dispensed to locations in the one or more destination locations; performing a plurality of dispenses of the given first liquid component, including, for each of the plurality of dispenses, activating the dispense valve for a time period corresponding to a volume in the determined range of volumes; measuring a quantity of the given first liquid component dispensed in each of the plurality of dispenses; and calculating a calibration curve for the given first liquid component based on the time periods and the measured quantities of the given first liquid component for each of the plurality of dispenses; wherein the control system is programmed to control the dispense valve by, for each destination location into which the given first liquid component will be dispensed, calculating a dispense interval based on a desired quantity of the given first liquid component and the calibration curve and activating the dispense valve for the calculated dispense interval to dispense the given first liquid component. 9. The system of claim 8, wherein the control system is programmed to control the dispense valve to dispense the given first liquid component by: activating the dispense valve for a first dispense interval corresponding to a first desired quantity of the given first liquid component that is less than a target quantity of the given first liquid component and measuring a quantity of the given first liquid component dispensed during the first dispense interval; calculating a second dispense interval based on the measured quantity and the target quantity of the given first liquid component, the second dispense interval corresponding to a second desired quantity of the given first liquid component, the second desired quantity being less than the difference between the target quantity and the first desired quantity; activating the dispense valve for the second dispense interval and measuring a quantity of the given first liquid component dispensed during the second dispense interval; and repeating the calculating and the activating until an amount of the given liquid component that is within a predetermined amount of the target quantity of the given first liquid component is dispensed. 10. The system of claim 1, wherein: the plurality of source reservoirs comprises a cleaning fluid reservoir in fluid communication with first conduit network, the cleaning fluid reservoir being positioned and configured to introduce a cleaning fluid into the first conduit network to flush the flow path from any one of the plurality of inlets. 11. The system of claim 1, wherein: the control system is programmed to control the dispensing of liquid components based on a measured quantity of liquid components being dispensed at the one or more destination locations. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein: the system includes one or more balances configured to support the destination substrates, the control system being configured to receive, from the one or more balances, signals representing the measured quantity of liquid components being dispensed at the one or more destination locations. 