In accordance with the principles of the present invention utilizing a first radiation monitoring module, radiation information associated with the first radiation monitoring module within a tunnel is wirelessly transmitted to a second radiation monitoring module. The second radiation monitoring module is able to receive radiation information from the first radiation monitoring module for relay of the received radiation information to a central monitoring system. The radiation monitoring modules of the present invention allow long term monitoring of a tunnel's radiation levels with maintenance simply requiring replacement of a non-operational tunnel monitoring module by a robot.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A radiation tunnel mounted radiation detection system, comprising: a radiation detector to detect radiation within a proximate vicinity of a first radiation monitoring module; a wireless transmitter to wirelessly communicate said detected radiation with a second radiation monitoring module; and a detachable mount to detachably mount said first radiation monitoring module and said second radiation monitoring module to a radiation storage facility tunnel leading to a radiation storage facility. 2. The radiation tunnel mounted radiation detection system according to claim 1, wherein: said detachable mount is a hook mechanism. 3. The radiation tunnel mounted radiation detection system according to claim 1, further comprising: a redundant battery system. 4. The radiation tunnel mounted radiation detection system according to claim 1, wherein: said wireless transmitter is a piconet transmitter. 5. The radiation tunnel mounted radiation detection system according to claim 1, wherein: said wireless transmitter is operable in a low power mode and a high power mode. 6. The radiation tunnel mounted radiation detection system according to claim 1, wherein: said second radiation monitoring module is able to communicate with a third radiation monitoring module further away from said first radiation monitoring module than said second radiation monitoring module. 7. The radiation tunnel mounted radiation detection system according to claim 1, wherein: said wireless transmitter is an infrared transmitter. 8. The radiation tunnel mounted radiation detection system according to claim 1, wherein: said wireless transmitter is adapted to communicate with a scatternet. 9. A tunnel mounted radiation detection system comprised of a first radiation monitoring module and a second radiation monitoring module, comprising: a radiation detector to detect radiation within a proximate vicinity of said first radiation monitoring module; a wireless transmitter to wirelessly communicate said detected radiation with said second radiation monitoring module; and a detachable mount to detachably mount said first radiation monitoring module and said second radiation monitoring module to said tunnel; wherein said radiation detector is comprised of an indirect RF port to allow fore and aft communications while exposing shielded radiation detectors to said proximate vicinity. 10. The tunnel mounted radiation detection system according to claim 9, wherein: said indirect RF port is a serpentine RF port. 11. The tunnel mounted radiation detection system according to claim 9, wherein: said indirect RF port is comprised of vanes on a downwind port to create a slight vacuum to facilitate an air draw across shielded radiation detectors. 12. The radiation tunnel mounted radiation detection system according to claim 1, wherein: said detachable mount mounts said first radiation monitoring module and said second radiation monitoring module to a ceiling of radiation storage facility tunnel. 13. A method of monitoring radiation within a radiation tunnel, comprising: detachably mounting, with a detachable mount, a first radiation monitoring module and a second radiation monitoring module to a radiation storage facility tunnel leading to a radiation storage facility; determining radiation information within a proximate vicinity of said first radiation monitoring module; establishing a wireless communication link between said first radiation monitoring module and said second radiation monitoring module; and communicating said radiation information with said second radiation monitoring module over said wireless communication link. 14. The method of monitoring radiation within a radiation tunnel according to claim 13, wherein: said detachable mount is a hook mechanism. 15. The method of monitoring radiation within a radiation tunnel according to claim 13, further comprising: periodically transmitting status information related to said first radiation monitoring module to said second radiation monitoring module. 16. The method of monitoring radiation within a radiation tunnel according to claim 13, further comprising: receiving at said first radiation monitoring module at least one of a status information and a radiation information from at least one of said second radiation monitoring module and a third radiation monitoring module; and communicating said radiation information from said first radiation monitoring module to a central monitoring subsystem. 17. The method of monitoring radiation within a radiation tunnel according to claim 13, wherein: said wireless communication link is a piconet communication link. 18. The method of monitoring radiation within a radiation tunnel according to claim 13, wherein: said wireless communication link is an infrared communication link. 19. The method of monitoring radiation within a radiation tunnel according to claim 13, wherein: said detachable mount mounts said first radiation monitoring module and said second radiation monitoring module to a ceiling of radiation storage facility tunnel. 20. A method of monitoring radiation within a tunnel, comprising: detachably mounting a first radiation monitoring module and a second radiation monitoring module to said tunnel with a detachable mount; determining radiation information within a proximate vicinity of said first radiation monitoring module; establishing a wireless communication link between said first radiation monitoring module and said second radiation monitoring module; and communicating said radiation information with said second radiation monitoring module over said wireless communication link; wherein said first radiation monitoring module and said second radiation monitoring module comprise an indirect RF port to allow fore and aft communications while exposing shielded radiation detectors to said proximate vicinity. 21. The method of monitoring radiation within a tunnel according to claim 20, wherein: said indirect RF port is a serpentine RF port. 22. The method of monitoring radiation within a tunnel according to claim 20, wherein: said indirect RF port is comprised of vanes on a downwind port to create a slight vacuum to facilitate an air draw across shielded radiation detectors. 23. Apparatus for monitoring radiation within a radiation tunnel, comprising: means for detachably mounting, with a detachable mount, a first radiation monitoring module and a second radiation monitoring module to a radiation storage facility tunnel leading to a radiation storage facility; means for determining radiation information within a proximate vicinity of said first radiation monitoring module; means for establishing a wireless communication link between said first radiation monitoring module and said second radiation monitoring module; and means for communicating said radiation information with said second radiation monitoring module over said wireless communication link. 24. The apparatus for monitoring radiation within a radiation tunnel according to claim 23, wherein: said detachable mount is a hook mechanism. 25. The apparatus for monitoring radiation within a radiation tunnel according to claim 23, further comprising: means for periodically transmitting status information related to said first radiation monitoring module to said second radiation monitoring module. 26. The apparatus for monitoring radiation within a radiation tunnel according to claim 23, further comprising: means for receiving at said first radiation monitoring module at least one of a status information and a radiation information from at least one of said second radiation monitoring module and a third radiation monitoring module; and means for communicating said radiation information from said first radiation monitoring module to a central monitoring subsystem. 27. The apparatus for monitoring radiation within a radiation tunnel according to claim 23, wherein: said wireless communication link is a piconet communication link. 28. The apparatus for monitoring radiation within a radiation tunnel according to claim 23, wherein: said wireless communication link is an infrared communication link. 29. The apparatus for monitoring radiation within a radiation tunnel according to claim 23, wherein: said detachable mount mounts said first radiation monitoring module and said second radiation monitoring module to a ceiling of radiation storage facility tunnel. 30. Apparatus for monitoring radiation within a tunnel, comprising: means for detachably mounting a first radiation monitoring module and a second radiation monitoring module to said tunnel with a detachable mount; means for determining radiation information within a proximate vicinity of said first radiation monitoring module; means for establishing a wireless communication link between said first radiation monitoring module and said second radiation monitoring module; and means for communicating said radiation information with said second radiation monitoring module over said wireless communication link; wherein said first radiation monitoring module and said second radiation monitoring module comprise an indirect RF port to allow fore and aft communications while exposing shielded radiation detectors to said proximate vicinity. 31. The apparatus for monitoring radiation within a tunnel according to claim 30, wherein: said indirect RF port is a serpentine RF port. 32. The apparatus for monitoring radiation within a tunnel according to claim 30, wherein: said indirect RF port is comprised of vanes on a downwind port to create a slight vacuum to facilitate an air draw across shielded radiation detectors. 