Robotized installation for the guided and controlled positioning and movement of a component or an instrument for diagnostic or surgical treatment at or around the head of a patient, whereby the installation includes a robotic device that forms a serial kinematic chain and carries component or instrument at its free and position-controlled end. The robotic device has three kinematic sub-assemblies that are mutually combined in series and include, a first sub-assembly in the form of a rotary-articulation mechanism corresponding to a serial-type, spherical kinematic arrangement with three degrees of freedom, a second sub-assembly in the form of a mechanism with linear translation along an axis, and a third sub-assembly in the form of a second rotary-articulation mechanism, integral with the moving part of the second sub-assembly and also corresponding to a serial-type spherical kinematic arrangement with three degrees of freedom.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A robotized installation configured for guided and controlled positioning and movement of a transcranial magnetic stimulation probe at or around a head of a patient, comprising: a support structure on which are mounted constituent elements of a robotic device forming a serial kinematic chain and carrying the probe at a free and position-controlled end; and an adjustable device for supporting and holding the patient, in a seated position, forming part of or being combined with said support structure, wherein said robotic device (5) comprises three (7, 7', 7'') kinematic sub-assemblies that are mutually combined in series and that comprise: i) a first sub-assembly (7) comprising a rotary-articulation mechanism having first, second and third articulation elements (8, 8', 8''), integral with the support structure (4) by the first articulation element (8) and corresponding to a serial spherical kinematic arrangement with three degrees of freedom, and the first, second and third articulation elements (8, 8', 8'') are all located outside of a space (9) that can accommodate the patient (3') and comprise respective axes of rotation, axis 1, axis 2, and axis 3, whereby axes of rotation, axis 1, axis 2, and axis 3 are concurrent at a focal point (PF) that corresponds approximately to a hypothetical center of the head (3) of the patient (3') in an intervention position, ii) a second sub-assembly (7') comprising a mechanism with linear translation along an axis 4 that passes through the focal point (PF) and is integral with a moving part (10) of the third articulation element (8'') in series of the first sub-assembly (7), and, iii) a third sub-assembly (7'') comprising a second rotary-articulation mechanism, integral with a moving part (12) of the second sub-assembly (7') and making possible imposition of tangency of a plane of the probe (2) relative to the head (3) of the patient, wherein said third sub-assembly (7'') is a serial spherical kinematic arrangement forming a spherical wrist and comprising three separate rotary articulation elements (11, 11' and 11'') arranged in series and whose respective axes of rotation, axis 5, axis 6 and axis 7, are mutually concurrent at a point (PR) adapted to correspond to a point of contact between the probe (2) and the head (3) of the patient (3'). 2. The installation according to claim 1, wherein the first rotary articulation (8) of the first sub-assembly (7) comprises a circular sliding connection, comprising a guide rail (13), comprising an essentially semi-circular arc, integral with the support structure (4), and a moving carriage (14) that can circulate on said guide rail (13) and whose movement is controlled by a transmission linkage (15) that is connected to an actuator (16), whereby a circular movement is carried out in a median plane of the patient (3) in the intervention position, and said guide rail (13) has a positioning and an extension adapted to extend around the head (3) of said patient (3') essentially at a rear base of a skull up to a forehead. 3. The installation according to claim 2, wherein the second rotary articulation element (8') of the first sub-assembly (7) comprises an axial articulation with a shaft (17) that is mounted to rotate in a bearing (18) that is provided in the moving carriage (14) that is part of the first rotary articulation element (8), whereby movement in rotation of said shaft is controlled by an actuator (19) or a geared motor unit, carried by said carriage (14). 4. The installation according to claim 3, wherein one (20) of the rails (20, 21) forms the third rotary articulation element (8'') and is assembled rigidly with the shaft (17) of the second rotary articulation element (8') of the two rails (20 and 21), and the two rails can be structurally locked in position relative to one another, by mechanical connection or by locking of the actuator or geared motor unit, ensuring mutual relative movement of the two rails. 5. The installation according to claim 3, wherein a device (23) for locking the shaft (17) in rotation is combined with the actuator (19) or geared motor unit, to form an active brake in an event of a power failure at the level of the actuator or geared motor unit, whereby said device (23) can be unlocked by an operator by means of a manual control for current supply, so as to allow a free rotation of the shaft (17) around the shaft's axis of rotation which is axis 2. 6. The installation according to claim 3, wherein the actuator or geared motor unit is an electromagnetic actuator or geared motor unit. 7. The installation according to claim 2, wherein the moving carriage (14) of the first rotary articulation element (8) is permanently stressed in an upper end position by a constant-tension return mechanism (22) or a cable (22'). 8. The installation according to claim 2, wherein the rail is a double rail. 9. The installation according to claim 1, wherein the third rotary articulation element (8'') of the first sub-assembly (7) comprises a circular slide connection comprising two rails (20, 21) that work in a sliding manner and that are each in a shape of an arc, whereby said rails (20 and 21) can be moved relative to one another between a folded arrangement in which the two rails are essentially placed on top of one another, or overlap over an entire length of the two rails, and a deployed arrangement, in which the two rails are no longer placed on top of one another except on a small part. 10. The installation according to claim 9, wherein an actuator of the third rotary articulation element (8'') of the first sub-assembly (7) carries out a locking in mutual position of the two rails (20 and 21) in an event of a power failure. 11. The installation according to claim 1, wherein a force sensor is combined with the second sub-assembly (7'), to produce a force control of said second sub-assembly (7') in the translation direction along axis 4 that is essentially perpendicular to a surface of the head (3) of the patient (3') in the intervention position, whereby the second sub-assembly (7') also comprises a return mechanism, forcing the probe remotely from the surface of the head (3) of the patient (3'). 12. The installation according to claim 11, wherein the return mechanism is a mechanical return mechanism. 13. The installation according to claim 1, wherein the installation further comprises a redundant robotic device (5) with seven degrees of freedom, integrating the first, second and third sub-assemblies (7, 7' and 7''), whereby the third sub-assembly (7'') comprises a mechanism with three rotary articulations in a series (11, 11', 11'') forming a spherical wrist with three degrees of freedom. 14. The installation according to claim 13, wherein the third sub-assembly (7'') that forms the spherical wrist comprises a first articulation (11) that is formed by a rail (24) in an arc that is integral with the moving part (12) of the second sub-assembly (7') and on which circulates a carriage (25) whose movement is controlled by an actuator (26), by a second articulation (11') that is formed by two arms (27) that are mounted rigidly on the moving carriage (25) by one of their ends and the two arms carrying at their opposite ends a stationary carriage (28), and each stationary carriage works with a corresponding moving rail portion (29) in a shape of an arc, and parallel between the moving rail portions, and by a third articulation (11'') comprising a bearing plate (30), integral with the moving rails (29) and able to accommodate with axis of rotation 7 a hub (31) that is integral with the component probe. 15. The installation according to claim 1, wherein a force sensor is integrated in the probe that is carried by a robotic device (5), whereby said force sensor is part of a force control of the second sub-assembly (7'). 16. The installation according to claim 15, wherein the force sensor is a pressure sensor. 17. A device for treatment by transcranial magnetic stimulation, comprising a probe that comprises a magnetic stimulation coil and is carried by a robotized installation, the device comprising the installation according to claim 1, integrating a robotic device (5) with seven degrees of freedom, which is able to produce automatic positioning and movement of said probe (2) around the head (3) of the patient (3') based on a previously determined path, under monitoring of a control and guiding unit. 18. The device according to claim 17, further comprising a locating system of the head (3) of the patient (3') in the space (9) that accommodates the patient, working with the control and guiding unit for the purpose of carrying out an adjustment of the head (3) relative to the focal point (PF) of the first sub-assembly (7) of the robotic device (5) and a control, based on movements of the head (3), of the position of the probe (2) by means of the robotized installation (1), under the monitoring of the control and guiding unit and based on signals or data provided by the locating system. 19. A process for transcranial magnetic stimulation that uses the robotized installation according to claim 1, comprising: producing several images of the brain and the head of the patient to be treated; manufacturing a three-dimensional model of a brain and of the head of the patient; determining cortical regions to be stimulated and their respective order in the stimulation sequence, as well as frequency, duration and, a power of stimulation for each region; calculating by the control and guiding unit of the device, or by a unit for external calculation of the path of the functional center of the coil of the probe around the head of the patient to stimulate optimally each cortical region in question based on predetermined specificities; positioning of the patient in the robotized installation and implementation of adjustment or framing of the head relative to the focal point of the robotized installation and to the three-dimensional model; and start-up and autonomous execution of the stimulation procedure with controlled movement of the probe by the robotized installation, optionally with acquisition of the location and the orientation of the probe for analysis subsequent to treatment. 20. A robotic device for controlling and manipulating a transcranial magnetic stimulation probe, comprising: i) a first sub-assembly comprising a rotary-articulation mechanism having first, second and third articulation elements, and corresponding to a serial, spherical kinematic arrangement with three degrees of freedom, and the first, second and third articulation elements are all located outside of a space that can accommodate a patient and comprise respective axes of rotation, axis 1, axis 2, and axis 3, which are concurrent at a focal point PF that corresponds approximately to a hypothetical center of a head of a patient in an intervention position; ii) a second sub-assembly comprising a mechanism with linear translation along an axis 4 that passes through the focal point PF and is integral with a moving part of the third articulation element in series of the first sub-assembly; and iii) a third sub-assembly comprising a second rotary-articulation mechanism, integral with a moving part of the second sub-assembly and making possible to impose tangency of a plane of the probe relative to the head of the patient, wherein said third sub-assembly is a serial spherical kinematic arrangement forming a spherical wrist and comprising three separate rotary articulation elements arranged in series and whose respective axes of rotation, axis 5, axis 6 and axis 7, are mutually concurrent at a point PR adapted to correspond to a point of contact between the probe and the head of the patient. 