There is described apparatus and methods for transporting and processing substrates including wafers as to efficiently produce at reasonable costs improved throughput as compared to systems in use today. A key element is the use of a transport chamber along the sides of processing chambers for feeding substrates into a controlled atmosphere through a load lock and then along a transport chamber as a way of reaching processing chambers and then out of the controlled atmosphere following processing in the processing chambers.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A substrate transfer system for transferring substrates to substrate processing chambers, comprising: a linear chamber body supporting a vacuum condition, the linear chamber body having an opening at one end for coupling to a loadlock and having a plurality of openings on at least one side thereof, each opening for coupling to a respective substrate processing chamber; a linear drive track situated inside the linear chamber body within the vacuum condition; a support mechanism linearly riding on the linear drive track; a rotatable magnetic head attached to the support mechanism within the vacuum condition; a substrate support arm connected to the support mechanism and coupled to the magnetic head such that rotation of the magnetic head rotates the substrate support aim; an outer rail coupled to the linear chamber body outside the vacuum condition; a driving mechanism comprising a driver linearly riding on the outer rail outside the vacuum and acting on the magnetic head from outside the vacuum through a wall of the linear chamber body to provide the support aim both linear and rotary movements through the magnetic head. 2. The substrate transfer system of claim 1, further comprising: a second linear drive track; a second support mechanism riding on the second linear drive track; a second substrate support arm connected to the second support mechanism; a second outer rail; and, a second driving mechanism riding on the second outer rail and acting from outside the vacuum through wall of the chamber to provide the second support arm linear and rotary movements. 3. The substrate transfer system of claim 2, wherein the support arms are positioned to pass above and below each other and without contact. 4. The substrate transfer system of claim 3, wherein at least one of the support arms comprises an articulated arm. 5. The substrate transfer system of claim 2, wherein each arm moves and acts independently of the other. 6. The substrate transfer system of claim 2, wherein each of the driving mechanism and the second driving mechanism further comprise a rotary motor and a magnetic coupler affixed to the rotary motor. 7. The substrate transfer system of claim 6, wherein the magnetic coupler comprises a magnetic driver positioned outside the vacuum wall. 8. The substrate transfer system of claim 6, wherein the magnetic head and the magnetic coupler comprise a plurality of magnets arrange to simultaneously impart attractive magnetic forces and repulsive magnetic forces between the magnetic head and the magnetic coupler. 9. The substrate transfer system of claim 2, wherein the substrate support arm comprises a non-articulated arm and the second substrate support aim comprises a SCARA robotic arm. 10. The substrate transfer system of claim 2, wherein the SCARA robotic arm is configured to pass over the non-articulated arm. 11. A substrate processing system, comprising: a loadlock; a linear transfer chamber supporting a vacuum condition, the linear chamber body having an opening at one end for coupling to the loadlock, and having a plurality of openings on at least one side thereof, each opening for coupling to a respective substrate processing chamber; a linear drive track mounted inside the linear transfer chamber within the vacuum condition; first and second support mechanisms riding on the linear drive track; first and second support arms connected respectively to the first and second support mechanisms; outer rail assembly positioned outside the vacuum condition; first and second drivers riding on the outer rail assembly; first and second magnetic coupler arrangements respectively provided on the first and second drivers and acting from outside the vacuum through vacuum wall of the chamber to provide each of the support arms both linear and rotary movements. 12. The substrate processing system of claim 11, wherein the first support arm is a straight arm while the second support arm is a selective compliant articulated assembly robotic arm (SCARA), and wherein the SCARA is positioned to pass above the straight arm. 13. The substrate processing system of claim 12, further comprising rotary motors and wherein the rotary movement is driven by the rotary motors. 14. The substrate processing system of claim 11, wherein the support arms are positioned to pass above and below each other and without contact. 15. The substrate processing system of claim 11, wherein the support arms can pass by each other. 16. The substrate processing system of claim 11, wherein the support mechanisms independently ride on the linear drive track, whereby each arm moves and acts independently of the other. 17. The substrate processing system of claim 11, wherein the linear drive track comprises linear rails and the support aims move along the linear rails. 18. The substrate processing system of claim 11, wherein each of the first and second drivers comprise a rotary motor and the magnetic coupling arrangements are affixed to the respective rotary motor. 19. The substrate processing system of claim 11, further comprising a first and a second magnetic head, respectively coupled to the first and second support arms. 20. The substrate processing system of claim 19, wherein the first and second magnetic heads and the magnetic coupling arrangements comprise a plurality of magnets arrange to simultaneously impart attractive magnetic forces and repulsive magnetic forces between the magnetic heads and the magnetic coupling arrangements. 