An automated analyzer for performing multiple diagnostic assays simultaneously includes multiple stations, or modules, in which discrete aspects of the assay are performed on fluid samples contained in reaction receptacles. The analyzer includes stations for automatically preparing a specimen sample, incubating the sample at prescribed temperatures for prescribed periods, performing an analyte isolation procedure, and ascertaining the presence of a target analyte. An automated receptacle transporting system moves the reaction receptacles from one station to the next. The analyzer further includes devices for carrying a plurality of specimen tubes and disposable pipette tips in a machine-accessible manner, a device for agitating containers of target capture reagents comprising suspensions of solid support material and for presenting the containers for machine access thereto, and a device for holding containers of reagents in a temperature controlled environment and presenting the containers for machine access thereto. A method for performing an automated diagnostic assay includes an automated process for isolating and amplifying a target analyte. The process is performed by automatically moving each of a plurality of reaction receptacles containing a solid support material and a fluid sample between stations for incubating the contents of the reaction receptacle and for separating the target analyte bound to the solid support from the fluid sample. An amplification reagent is added to the separated analyte after the analyte separation step and before a final incubation step.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A computer-controlled method for providing a fluid to a reaction receptacle contained within a temperature-controlled environment, said method comprising the automated steps of: (a) placing at least one reaction receptacle on a receptacle carrier within a temperature-controlled incubator having a housing defining an enclosure; (b) moving the receptacle carrier to position said reaction receptacle beneath a hole formed in said housing; (c) moving a pipette located outside said enclosure into alignment with said hole and extending at least a portion of said pipette into said hole; (d) providing, with said pipette, a fluid to said reaction receptacle through said hole while maintaining a substantially uniform temperature within said enclosure; and (e) after performing step (d), agitating said reaction receptacle within said enclosure to thereby agitate the contents of said reaction receptacle by moving the reaction receptacle on the receptacle carrier in a generally horizontal, reciprocating path. 2. The computer-controlled method of claim 1, wherein the temperature within said enclosure varies by no more than about 0.5.degree. C. during the providing step. 3. The computer-controlled method of claim 1, wherein the temperature within said enclosure varies by no more than about 0.1.degree. C. during the providing step. 4. The computer-controlled method of claim 1, wherein said hole is one of a plurality of holes formed in said housing and wherein said method comprises the automated steps of: positioning a reaction receptacle beneath each of said plurality of holes; for each of said holes in sequence, moving said pipette into alignment with the hole, extending at least a portion of said pipette into said hole, and providing a fluid into the reaction receptacle positioned beneath the hole with said pipette while maintaining a substantially uniform temperature within said enclosure. 5. The computer-controlled method of claim 4, wherein the reaction receptacles positioned beneath the plurality of holes are connected to one another as an integrally formed unit. 6. The computer-controlled method of claim 1 further comprising a step of performing an amplification procedure within said reaction receptacle, said fluid comprising a reagent for performing said amplification procedure. 7. The computer-controlled method of claim 6, wherein the temperature within said enclosure does not vary by more than about 0.1.degree. C. during the amplification procedure. 8. The computer-controlled method of claim 1, comprising monitoring the position of said receptacle carrier to determine when a reaction receptacle carried thereby is in the location situated beneath said hole in said housing. 9. The computer-controlled method of claim 1, further comprising an automated step of adjusting the temperature of the contents of said reaction receptacle to the approximate temperature of said incubator prior to placing said reaction receptacle into said incubator. 10. The computer-controlled method of claim 1, wherein the reaction receptacle is placed within said enclosure through a receptacle access opening formed in said housing of said incubator, and wherein said incubator includes a closure mechanism constructed and arranged to be movable between a closed position preventing access to said incubator through said receptacle access opening and an open position permitting access to said enclosure through said receptacle access opening. 11. The computer-controlled method of claim 1, further comprising repeating steps (b) through (e) for each of a plurality of the reaction receptacles placed within the enclosure of said incubator. 12. The computer-controlled method of claim 1, further comprising the step of maintaining the housing in a stationary position during steps (a) through (e), and wherein step (b) comprises moving the reaction receptacle relative to the housing. 13. A computer-controlled method for providing a fluid to each of a plurality of reaction receptacles contained within a temperature-controlled environment, said method comprising the automated steps of: (a) placing reaction receptacles on a receptacle carrier within a temperature-controlled incubator having a housing defining an enclosure; (b) moving the receptacle carrier to position a reaction receptacle beneath each of a plurality of holes formed in said housing; (c) moving a pipette located outside said enclosure into alignment with one of said holes and extending at least a portion of said pipette into said hole; (d) providing, with said pipette, a fluid to the reaction receptacle positioned beneath the hole while maintaining a substantially uniform temperature within said enclosure; and (e) sequentially repeating steps (c) and (d) for each hole until a fluid has been provided to all the reaction receptacles positioned beneath the plurality of holes; and (f) after performing step (e), agitating the reaction receptacles to which fluid is provided in steps (c) through (e) to thereby agitate the contents of said reaction receptacles by moving the reaction receptacle on the receptacle carrier in a generally horizontal, reciprocating path. 14. The computer-controlled method of claim 13, wherein the temperature within said enclosure varies by no more than about 0.5.degree. C. during the providing step. 15. The computer-controlled method of claim 13, wherein the temperature within said enclosure varies by no more than about 0.1.degree. C. during the providing step. 16. The computer-controlled method of claim 13, wherein the reaction receptacles positioned beneath the plurality of holes are connected to one another as an integrally formed unit. 17. The computer-controlled method of claim 13, further comprising a step of performing an amplification procedure within said reaction receptacles, said fluid comprising a reagent for performing said amplification procedure. 18. The computer-controlled method of claim 17, wherein the temperature within said enclosure does not vary by more than about 0.1.degree. C. during the amplification procedure. 19. The computer-controlled method of claim 13, comprising monitoring the position of said receptacle carrier to determine when a plurality of reaction receptacle carried thereby are in the positions beneath each of the plurality of holes formed in said housing. 20. The computer-controlled method of claim 13, further comprising an automated step of adjusting the temperature of the contents of said reaction receptacles to the approximate temperature of said incubator prior to placing said reaction receptacles into said incubator. 21. The computer-controlled method of claim 13, wherein the reaction receptacles are placed within said enclosure through a receptacle access opening formed in said housing of said incubator, and wherein said incubator includes a closure mechanism constructed and arranged to be movable between a closed position preventing access to said incubator through said receptacle access opening and an open position permitting access to said enclosure through said receptacle access opening. 22. The computer-controlled method of claim 13, further comprising repeating steps (b) through (f) for each of two or more groups of reaction receptacles placed within the enclosure of said incubator. 23. The computer-controlled method of claim 13, further comprising the step of maintaining the housing in a stationary position during steps (a) through (f), and wherein step (b) comprises moving each reaction receptacle relative to the housing. 