Mobile self-balancing robots for telepresence are provided. The robots comprise a base, a head, and a shaft therebetween. The shaft can be telescoping to allow the head to be extended above the base to about the height of a normal sized person, or can be retracted to make the robot more compact for easier storage and transportation. The head includes components for telepresence such as cameras, a speaker, a microphone, a laser pointer, and a display screen, as well as protection from impacts and falls. The base provides locomotion and balance, and a narrow shaft between the head and base minimizes the robot's weight and reduces the likelihood of collisions with protrusions like table edges.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot comprising: a base supported on wheels; a control system configured to maintain balance of the robotic system on the wheels; and a head joined to the base by a shaft extending therebetween, the head including impact protection. 2. The robot of claim 1 wherein the head includes a down camera. 3. The robot of claim 1 wherein the head includes a display screen. 4. The robot of claim 1 wherein the impact protection comprises a circumferential bumper. 5. The robot of claim 1 wherein the shaft is telescoping. 6. The robot of claim 5 wherein the shaft includes a helical coiled cord. 7. The robot of claim 5 wherein the robot stands no more than 6 feet tall when the shaft is fully extended and stands about 2 feet tall when the shaft is fully retracted. 8. The robot of claim 1 wherein the shaft has a width of between about 1 inch and 4 inches. 9. The robot of claim 1 wherein the shaft comprises carbon fiber or fiberglass. 10. A robot comprising: a base, supported on wheels, and including a retractable tail that retracts into the base and that, when extended, can form a tripod with the wheels on which the robot can stably rest; a control system configured to maintain balance of the robotic system on the wheels; and a head joined to the base by a shaft extending therebetween. 11. The robot of claim 10 wherein the tail comprises a lead screw. 12. The robot of claim 10 wherein the tail, when retracted, does not protrude from the base. 13. The robot of claim 10 wherein the tail is remotely actuated. 14. The robot of claim 10 further comprising electronics configured to autonomously extend the tail. 15. The robot of claim 10 wherein the head includes a forward-facing camera aimed essentially perpendicular to a longitudinal axis of the shaft, and a down camera aimed towards the ground in front of the robot. 16. A robot comprising: a base supported on wheels; a control system configured to maintain balance of the robotic system on the wheels; and a head joined to the base by a shaft extending therebetween, the head including a remotely controllable laser pointer. 17. A robot comprising: a base supported on wheels; a control system configured to maintain balance of the robotic system on the wheels; and a head joined to the base by a shaft extending therebetween, the head including a camera and a laser pointer arranged side-by-side to resemble eyes. 