Provided is a substrate dechucking system of a plasma processing chamber adapted to remove a substrate from an ESC with reduction in voltage potential spike during dechucking of the substrate.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A pneumatic lift mechanism for a plasma reactor wherein lift pins raise and lower a substrate in at least three positions with respect to an upper surface of an electrostatic chuck, the lift mechanism comprising: a housing having an upper chamber and a lower chamber; an upper piston slidably mounted to move up and down in the upper chamber; a lower piston slidably mounted to move up and down in the lower chamber, the lower chamber comprising a hard stop defining an upper limit of travel of the lower piston; the at least three positions comprising (1) a lower position at which the upper piston positions the lift pins below the upper surface of the electrostatic chuck, (2) a mid-lift position at which the lower piston is in contact with the hard stop and a shaft of the lower piston raises the upper piston, and (3) an up position at which the upper piston positions the lift pins so the substrate can be removed from the plasma chamber; and wherein the upper piston and the lower piston are independently pneumatically operated. 2. The lift mechanism of claim 1, further comprising a lift pin yoke operably connected to a shaft extending upward from the upper piston. 3. The lift mechanism of claim 1, wherein: the housing includes gas inlets operably connected to pressurized gas sources, the gas inlets including a first gas inlet in fluid communication with a portion of the upper chamber above the upper piston, a second gas inlet in fluid communication with a portion of the upper chamber below the upper piston, a third gas inlet in fluid communication with a portion of the lower chamber above the lower piston, and a fourth gas inlet in fluid communication with a portion of the lower chamber below the lower piston; and an up force on the upper piston is limited by an opposing pneumatic pressure provided by pressurized gas supplied to the first inlet. 4. The lift mechanism of claim 3, wherein: the first gas inlet is in fluid communication with a first gas source supplying gas at a pressure of 25 to 65 psig and the second, third, and fourth gas inlets are in fluid communication with a second gas source supplying gas at a pressure of 70 to 120 psig, and the lift mechanism further comprises a controller operable to selectively supply gas from the first and second gas sources to the gas inlets. 5. The lift mechanism of claim 4, further comprising a valve operating to place the first gas inlet in fluid communication with either the first gas source or the second gas source. 