A method and system for reducing methane emissions by ruminants. The method includes providing a feed dispenser for feeding ruminants nutrient supplements, and the feed dispenser includes a gas analyzer where a ruminant places its head. The method includes determining a particular ruminant has accessed the feed dispenser such as by reading an identifier from an RFID ear tag and operating the feed dispenser to provide a ration of methane-controlling nutrient supplement. The method includes using the gas analyzer to determine levels of carbon dioxide and methane and operating a data analyzing station to determine a ratio of methane to carbon dioxide and modify the type or amount of nutrient supplement for the ruminant for a next feeding to control methane production or achieve an animal production goal, such as by operating a hopper with supplement compartments. The unit can be monitored remotely and controlled through an Internet connection.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of managing methane emissions from a ruminant, comprising: providing a mechanism for dispensing feed to a ruminant into a food tray; first measuring carbon dioxide and methane in air proximate to the food tray to determine a background gas level; sensing a ruminant proximate to the food tray in the feed dispensing mechanism; in response to the sensing of the ruminant, second measuring carbon dioxide and methane in air proximate to the food tray; with a data analyzing station, processing the first and second measured carbon dioxide and methane concentrations to determine an increase in carbon dioxide and methane concentration; and with the data analyzing station, determining carbon dioxide and methane fluxes for the ruminant based on a total airflow and on the determined increase in the carbon dioxide and methane. 2. The method of claim 1, operating the data analyzing station to determine, based on the determined carbon dioxide and methane fluxes, a supplement to be presented in feed dispensed by the dispensing feed mechanism to the ruminant to control methane emitted by the ruminant. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the feed dispensing mechanism includes a gas collection pipe with an inlet adjacent the food tray, a fan moving air over the food tray into the gas collection pipe, and an airflow sensor measuring air flow in the collection pipe to determine the total airflow when the ruminant is sensed to be in the feed dispensing mechanism. 4. The method of claim 3, further comprising operating a tracer system to discharge a quantity of a tracer in the feed dispensing mechanism, sensing a concentration of the discharged tracer in the gas collection pipe, and, with the data analyzing station, quantifying a capture rate for breath emitted by the ruminant during the second measuring step and applying the capture rate to the determined mass fluxes to generate capture rate-adjusted fluxes for the ruminant. 5. The method of claim 3, wherein the gas collection pipe includes a flow distributor providing a mixing of the air flow drawn into the gas collection pipe across the gas collection pipe, whereby mixing of the air flow is provided across a flow path with minimal mixing along the flow path in the gas collection pipe. 6. The method of claim 3, wherein an inlet plenum to the gas collection pipe inlet is positioned in feed dispensing mechanism to extend upward from at least two sides of the food tray, the inlet plenum including a plurality of inlet holes for directing ruminant breath and air into the gas collection pipe inlet. 7. The method of claim 6, further comprising differentiating emissions of methane and carbon dioxide by the ruminant during eructations from emissions of methane and carbon dioxide in tidal air of the ruminant. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the total air flow is at least about 8 times greater than breath emitted from the ruminant. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the sensing of the ruminant comprises operating an infrared or ultrasonic head sensor to determine a position of the ruminant's head relative to the food tray including a distance of a portion of the ruminant's head to the head sensor. 10. An apparatus for monitoring methane emissions from a ruminant, comprising: means to entice a ruminant to voluntarily place its nose and mouth in a position that facilitates measurement of exhaled breath; a gas collection manifold with an inlet near the nose and mouth position in the ruminant enticement means, the gas collection manifold drawing a flow of air into the inlet; a methane monitoring device monitoring methane in the gas collection manifold including methane concentrations in exhaled breath of the ruminant and in air in the absence of the ruminant; and a data analyzing station processing the monitored methane concentrations to determine methane emitted by the ruminant from rumen metabolism. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, further comprising a container dispensing a supplement into the ruminant enticement means for consumption by the ruminant, wherein the container is operable to dispense the supplement in response to the determined methane emitted during rumen metabolism and wherein the supplement is adapted to reduce emission of methane in the exhaled breath of the ruminant. 12. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the ruminant enticement means comprises a feeder shell with an opening for receiving the nose and mount of the ruminant, the feeder shell including a wedge-shaped body and being pivotal in wind such that the opening faces away from a direction of the wind to limit mixing in the feeder shell. 13. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the ruminant enticement means includes an animal identifier for identifying the ruminant and a light and sound assembly for selectively emitting light and sound when the identified ruminant is eligible for monitoring or feeding via the apparatus. 14. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the determined methane emitted by the ruminant is a measure of a flux of methane in the exhaled breath, the measured flux being determined based on total flow in the gas collection manifold. 15. The apparatus of claim 14, further including an airflow sensor measuring the total flow and a tracer release mechanism for selectively discharging a quantity of a trace gas, the data analyzing station further operating to determine a capture rate for the exhaled breath via the inlet based on a monitoring of the trace gas and the measured total flow. 16. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the data analyzing station further initiates a report on health, dry matter intake, or breeding status for the ruminant based on a comparison of the determined methane to a threshold methane value. 17. A method for monitoring and controlling methane production by a ruminant, comprising: with a proximity sensor, determining a ruminant has positioned its nose and mouth into a hood of a feeding station; while the ruminant accesses the hood, measuring a level of methane and a level of carbon dioxide in air flow and concurrently measuring a level of a tracer in the air flow; measuring the air flow to determine a total air flow in a collection pipe; with a data analyzing processor, processing the measured level of the tracer to determine a capture rate of breath of the ruminant in the collection pipe; and with the data analyzing processor, determining mass fluxes of methane and carbon dioxide for the ruminant. 18. The method of claim 17, further comprising, with a processing module run by a processor, modifying a prescribed ration stored in memory to include a differing type or amount of one or more dietary supplements in the prescribed ration of nutritional supplement and feed, wherein the modified prescribed ration is used when operating a supplement and feed dispenser supplying the feeder for the ruminant, whereby methane production by the ruminant is controlled. 19. The method of claim 17, further comprising, with the data analyzing processor, determining a food supply for the ruminant has a quality below a threshold value and communicating an alert reporting a change in food supply based on the quality to a user system. 20. The method of claim 17, wherein the feeding station includes a fan drawing the air flow into the collection pipe and wherein the hood includes an inlet plenum with a plurality of holes positioned about a periphery of a food tray, the proximity sensor positioned in the hood to detect when the ruminant has positioned its nose or mouth proximate to the food tray. 21. A method for monitoring and controlling methane production by a ruminant, comprising: when a ruminant accesses a feeder dispenser, reading data from a tag on the ruminant identifying the ruminant; accessing a methane production monitoring database in memory with the identifying data to determine a feed mix associated with the ruminant; operating a dispenser to dispense the feed mix into the feed dispenser; while the ruminant accesses the feed dispenser to feed, measuring a level of methane and a level of carbon dioxide in breath of the ruminant; with a processing module run by a processor, determining a metabolic efficiency of the ruminant and modifying a nutritional supplement in the feed mix based on the metabolic efficiency to reduce methane production by the ruminant; and generating a report in a user interface of a user system that includes the metabolic efficiency, an identifier for the ruminant, and at least one other ruminant management parameter. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein the other ruminant management parameter includes caloric intake or dry matter intake. 23. The method of claim 21, further including measuring a quantity of a tracer gas during the measuring of the methane and carbon dioxide and determining a capture rate for the ruminant breath based on the measured tracer gas and total airflow, wherein the metabolic efficiency comprises a mass flux of methane determined based on the capture rate and the total airflow. 24. The method of claim 23, wherein the tracer gas comprises propane. 25. The method of claim 21, further comprising tagging the ruminant when the metabolic efficiency is determined to be below a predetermined threshold limit. 