A machine for the preparation of pharmaceutical products is provided with a gripping and carrier device to transfer at least one container between a magazine and a dosage station for the preparation of a pharmaceutical product, and a box-type holding frame defining a chamber for the housing of magazine, gripping and carrier device, and dosage station; the chamber displaying an access aperture to magazine and being crossed by a sterile air flow adapted to avoid the entry of air from the external environment through aperture itself.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A machine for the preparation of pharmaceutical products comprising a magazine for a plurality of containers, each container of at least part of the containers containing a pharmaceutical compound and/or a diluent; a dosage station for the preparation of a pharmaceutical product comprising at least one said pharmaceutical compound and at least one said diluent; gripping and carrier means to transfer the containers between the magazine and the dosage station; a box-type holding frame defining a chamber for the housing of the magazine, the dosage station, and the gripping and carrier means; and a pneumatic device to supply a sterile air flow through the entire said chamber; wherein the chamber displays an access aperture to the magazine; the pneumatic device comprising a pneumatic circuit configured so as to generate a sterile air barrier at said aperture, adapted to prevent the entry in the chamber of air from the external environment. 2. The machine according to claim 1, wherein the pneumatic circuit extends along a ring path; the pneumatic device also comprising supplying means to push the air along the pneumatic circuit itself. 3. The machine according to claim 2, wherein the pneumatic device further comprises a second filtering device arranged between said supplying means and said chamber to filter the air supplied to the chamber itself. 4. The machine according to claim 1, wherein the pneumatic device also comprises first diverting means to divert at least part of said sterile air flow towards said aperture so as to generate said sterile air barrier. 5. The machine according to claim 1, wherein the pneumatic device further comprises second diverting means to prevent the exit of the sterile air flow to the external environment through said aperture. 6. The machine according to claim 5, wherein the pneumatic circuit comprises an inlet communicating with the external environment and arranged at said aperture. 7. The machine according to claim 6, wherein the second diverting means comprise a first diverting surface to prevent the exit of sterile air flow to the external environment through said aperture. 8. The machine according to claim 7, wherein the second diverting means further comprise a second diverting surface to divert the air towards said inlet from said first diverting surface. 9. The machine according to claim 8, wherein said first and second diverting surfaces are substantially cylindrical. 10. The machine according to claim 9, wherein the first diverting surface displays a radium of curvature greater than the radium of curvature of the second diverting surface. 11. The machine according to claim 8, wherein said aperture is provided with support means defining a resting base for the containers to be transferred from and to the magazine; the resting base being connected to said first and second diverting surfaces. 12. The machine according to claim 11, wherein said inlet is arranged under said resting base. 13. The machine according to claim 6, wherein the pneumatic circuit further comprises an outlet to discharge air from the pneumatic circuit to the external environment. 14. The machine according to claim 13, wherein said inlet and outlet are configured such that the air flow rate supplied inside the pneumatic circuit through said inlet is substantially equal to the air flow rate released to the external environment through said outlet. 15. The machine according to claim 13, wherein the pneumatic device further comprises a third filtering device arranged between said supplying means and said outlet to filter the air supplied to the outlet itself. 16. The machine according to claim 13, wherein the pneumatic device further comprises valve means arranged along the pneumatic circuit to selectively control the supply of air to said outlet and chamber. 17. The machine according to claim 6, wherein the pneumatic device further comprises a first filtering device to filter the air supplied in the pneumatic circuit through said inlet. 18. The machine according to claim 1, wherein the pneumatic device further comprises first diverting means to divert at least part of said sterile air flow towards said aperture so as to generate said sterile air barrier and second diverting means to prevent the exit of the sterile air flow to the external environment through the aperture itself; said first and second diverting means being arranged on opposite bands of said aperture in a direction of forward motion of the air along the pneumatic circuit. 