A system and method for converting static/still medical images of a particular patient into dynamic and interactive images interacting with medical tools including medical devices by coupling a model of tissue dynamics and tool characteristics to the patient specific imagery for simulating a medical procedure in an accurate and dynamic manner.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A modeling system comprising one or more computers for performing a surgical simulation, said system further comprising: a database for storing patient medical images of one or more organs of a particular patient; said database also for storing standard characteristics of said one or more organs; an image generator using one or more of said computers for executing software for generating a dynamic image of said one or more organs by utilizing said patient medical images of said one or more organs in combination with said characteristics of said one or more organs to create realistic dynamic images of said one or more organs representing the one or more organs of said particular patient; a user tool generator using one or more of said computers for executing software for generating a tool model of a user tool for dynamically interacting with said realistic dynamic images; a user input interface for accepting inputs from a user, said inputs for dynamically manipulating said user tool image for said dynamic interacting with said realistic dynamic images for simulating a medical procedure, such that said tool model is utilized by said image generator for generating an image of said tool image dynamically interacting with said realistic dynamic images based on said characteristics and said inputs for realistically simulating the medical procedure; and a display for displaying, to a user, the simulated medical procedure in real time including showing said user tool image dynamically interacting with said realistic dynamic images of said one or more organs according to said inputs. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein said user input interface includes a feedback mechanism for providing realistic feedback to the user, said feedback realistically representing the interactions of said user tool with said realistic dynamic images for accurately providing said simulated medical procedure. 3. The system of claim 1, further comprising a first network, and a host computer connected to said first network, wherein first software for executing said user tool generator, second software for executing said image generator, and third software for executing said user input interface functions are each executed by one of a plurality of computers connected to said network such that at least one of said first software, said second software and said third software executes on a first one of said plurality of computers and a second one of said first software, said second software and said third software executes on a second one of said plurality of computers, wherein each one of said computers includes a sub-dataset of the database for storing a common virtual environment for increasing the efficiency of said network. 4. The system of claim 3, wherein, in one of said computers, a given aspect of the simulation is simulated in parallel with other aspects of the simulation that are simulated on one or more others of said computers while said network and a host computer ensure that all relevant changes in the database are shared among all of the computers, and wherein said computers are managed by the host computer for ensuring real-time or near real-time performance of said system, performed in a cyclic and rapid manner creating a continuous scenario. 5. The system of claim 4, further comprising a second network, wherein said plurality of computers and said host computer are also connected to said second network, and wherein said database is connected to said second network, such that non real-time critical network traffic is allocated to said second network and critical real-time network traffic is allocated to said first network. 6. The system of claim 4, wherein said first network is a peer-to-peer network, and wherein said computers and said host computer listen on said first network for information pertinent to their respective functionality issued by others of said computers and said host computer, and said listening computers utilize any information pertinent to their respective functionality without use of a common server. 7. The system of claim 1, further comprising a Real Time Soft Tissue Deformation Engine (RTTDE) using finite element methods for generating said realistic dynamic images and providing said interaction that is realistically projected in the image generator and wherein said RTTDE couples mechanical properties modeling to each of a plurality of image generator image components such that the image generator updates the images according to calculations of the dynamic physical and mechanical performed and behavior of the material (for example, tissue mechanical properties or surgery tool and/or implant) by said RTTDE. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein said characteristics of said one or more organs and materials includes physical properties of said organs and the dynamic physical and mechanical interaction between two or more materials. 9. The system of claim 8, wherein said physical properties allow the conversion of medical images that are static into said realistic dynamic images that can interact with said tool image by coupling a model of dynamic attributes of a specific tissue or material of said one or more organs to said patient specific imagery. 10. The system of claim 1, wherein a force that is applied by the user to simulate use of said tool image in said simulation causes a dynamic mechanical reaction on vessels and tissues of said realistic dynamic images such that said vessels and tissues are dynamically reshaped according to mechanical properties of corresponding vessels and tissues of said one or more organs in a real patient. 11. The system of claim 1, wherein interactions between said tool image providing a force and said realistic dynamic images are provided such that changes to surrounding organs are accurately reflected in said realistic dynamic images in a manner similar to a corresponding real surgery tool providing a similar force in an actual patient. 12. The system of claim 1, further comprising a debrief server for recording a progress of said surgical simulation. 13. The system of claim 12, wherein said debrief server provides an undo function to return to an earlier point in a simulation to undo recent procedures. 14. The system of claim 12, wherein said debrief server provides a capability to freeze a simulation and/or to change the perspective view of the simulation. 15. The system of claim 12, wherein said debrief server provides a capability to mark a point in time in said simulation for later return to that point in time to continue the simulation from the marked point in time. 16. The system of claim 12, wherein said debrief server provides a capability to replay said simulation. 17. The system of claim 1, wherein said Image generator comprises a filter for filtering out a particular type of tissue from said realistic dynamic images at the request of the user. 18. The system of claim 1, wherein said Image generator comprises a filter for removing a 3 dimensional corridor accordion to a desired location, orientation and dimension, of the corridor at the request of the user. 19. The system of claim 1, wherein modeling of the surgery tool includes modeling mechanical properties of the tool that support tool open/close status, spring load, and/or spring force that will applied on a vessel when the surgery tool or implant is applied. 20. The system of claim 1, wherein said tool is an implantable medical device. 21. A platform comprising a plurality of systems of claim 1 networked together for collaboratively planning and simulating a surgery, said platform supporting users from two or more distributed sites each using at least one of said systems for supporting said surgery simulation in a coordinated manner. 22. A modeling system comprising one or more computers for performing a surgical simulation of a medical procedure, said system further comprising: a database for storing patient medical images of one or more organs of a particular patient; said database also for storing standard physical properties of said one or more organs; an image generator using one or more of said computers for executing software for generating a three-dimensional dynamic image of said one or more organs by utilizing said patient medial images of said one or more organs in combination with said characteristics of said one or more organs to create realistic dynamic images of said one or more organs representing the one or more organs of said particular patient; a user tool generator using one or more of said computers for executing software for generating a three-dimensional model of a user tool for dynamically interacting with said realistic dynamic images; a user input interface for accepting inputs from a user, said inputs for dynamically manipulating said user tool image for said dynamic interacting with said realistic dynamic images for simulating a medical procedure and for providing realistic feedback to the user representing said interactions between said tool image and said realistic dynamic images in a manner similar to a corresponding medical procedure on a real patient, such that said tool model is utilized by said image generator for generating an image of said tool image dynamically interacting with said realistic dynamic images based on said physical properties and said inputs for realistically simulating said medical procedure in a manner corresponding to the medical procedure performed on the real patent; a debrief server for recording a progress of said surgical simulation for allowing said simulation to return to a previous point in time of said simulation; and a display for displaying, to a user, the simulated medical procedure in real time including showing said user tool image dynamically interacting with said realistic dynamic images of said one or more organs according to said inputs. 23. A platform comprising a plurality of systems of claim 22 networked together for collaboratively planning and simulating a surgery, said platform supporting users from two or more distributed sites each using at least one of said systems for supporting said surgery simulation in a coordinated manner. 24. A method for simulating a medical procedure, comprising the steps of: storing patient medical images of one or more organs of a particular patient in a database; storing standard physical properties of said one or more organs in a database; using a computer system for generating on a display a three-dimensional dynamic image of said one or more organs by utilizing said patient medial images of said one or more organs in combination with said characteristics of said one or more organs to create realistic dynamic images of said one or more organs representing the one or more organs of said particular patient; using said computer system for generating on said display a three-dimensional model of a user tool for dynamically interacting with said realistic dynamic images; and said computer system accepting instructions from a user via a user interface, said instructions for dynamically manipulating said user tool image for said dynamic interacting with said realistic dynamic images for simulating a medical procedure and for providing realistic feedback to the user representing said interactions between said tool image and said realistic dynamic images in a manner similar to a corresponding medical procedure on a real patient, such that an image of said tool image is shown on said display dynamically interacting with said realistic dynamic images in real time based on said physical properties and said inputs for realistically simulating said medical procedure in a manner corresponding to the medical procedure performed on the real patent. 25. A modeling system comprising a plurality of computers for performing a surgical simulation, comprising: a display; a database for storing patient medical images of one or more organs of a particular patient; said database also for storing standard characteristics of said one or more organs; an image generator using at least one of said computers executing software for generating a dynamic image of said one or more organs by utilizing said patient medical images of said one or more organs in combination with said characteristics of said one or more organs to create realistic dynamic images of said one or more organs representing the one or more organs of said particular patient for showing on said display; a user tool generator using at least one of said computers executing software for generating a tool model of a user tool for showing on said display dynamically interacting with said realistic dynamic images; a user input interface for accepting inputs from a user, said inputs for dynamically manipulating said user tool image on said display for showing said dynamic interacting with said realistic dynamic images for simulating a medical procedure on said display, such that said tool model is utilized by said image generator for showing on said display, said tool image dynamically interacting with said realistic dynamic images in real time based on said characteristics and said inputs for displaying a realistic simulation of said medical procedure as being performed on the particular patient. 26. A modeling system comprising a plurality of computers organized in a peer-to-peer manner for performing a surgical simulation, comprising: a display; a network for connecting said plurality of computers together; a database for storing patient medical images of one or more organs of a particular patient; said database also for storing standard characteristics of said one or more organs; an image generator using at least one of said computers executing first software for generating a dynamic image of said one or more organs by utilizing said patient medical images of said one or more organs in combination with said characteristics of said one or more organs to create realistic dynamic images of said one or more organs representing the one or more organs of said particular patient for showing on said display; a user tool generator using at least one of said computers executing second software for generating a tool model of a user tool for showing on said display dynamically interacting with said realistic dynamic images; and a user input interface using at least one of said computers executing third software for accepting inputs from a user, said inputs for dynamically manipulating said user tool image on said display for showing said dynamic interacting with said realistic dynamic images for simulating a medical procedure on said display, such that said tool model is utilized by said image generator for showing on said display, said tool image dynamically interacting with said realistic dynamic images in real time based on said characteristics and said inputs for displaying a realistic simulation of said medical procedure as being performed on the particular patient, wherein at least one of said first software, said second software or said third software executes on a first one of said plurality of computers, and at least another one of said first software, said second software or said third software executes on a second one of said plurality of computers, and wherein said first one of said plurality of computers includes a first sub-dataset of the database and said second one of said plurality of computers includes a second sub-dataset of the database, and further wherein said first one of said plurality of computers and said second one of said plurality of computers operate in parallel with each other utilizing said network to ensure that relevant changes in the simulation are shared among said first one of said plurality of computers and said second one of said plurality of computers for ensuring real-time performance of said simulation. 27. The system of claim 26, wherein said network is a first network, said system further comprising a second network, wherein said plurality of computers are also connected to said second network, and wherein said database is connected to said second network, such that non real-time critical network traffic is allocated to said second network and critical real-time network traffic is allocated to said first network. 