A mechanical holder that provides for a confined sampling region for extraction and removal of chemical substances contained in a dried blood spot or other spot of sample is described herein.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of extracting analytes from a sample card, the method comprising: placing a sample card that includes a dried sample in a lower portion of a device configured to house the sample card; lowering an upper portion of the device to the lower portion, the upper portion including one or more fittings with each fitting defining an opening in the upper portion and including a rigid lower edge; engaging one or more locking mechanisms to compress the sample card substantially uniformly between the rigid lower edge of the one or more fittings and the lower portion to form a substantially liquid tight seal around a portion of the sample card; introducing a solvent into a solvent delivery device; dispensing the solvent to contact a surface of the sample card; aspirating the solvent and dissolved analytes into the solvent delivery device from the surface of the sample card; interfacing the solvent delivery device to an automation device to deliver the solvent delivery device to an ion sprayer; and directing ions from the ion sprayer to a mass analyzer. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the sample card comprises a dried blood spot card. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising repeating the steps of dispensing and aspirating prior to interfacing the solvent delivery device to an automation device to deliver the solvent delivery device to the ion sprayer. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising repeating the steps of dispensing and aspirating at the same location on the sample prior to interfacing the solvent delivery device to an automation device to deliver the solvent delivery device to the ion sprayer. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein dispensing the solvent comprises dispensing microliters of solvent from the first end of the solvent delivery device to contact the sample. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein engaging one or more locking mechanisms depresses the sample card by between about 0.015 inch to about 0.030 inch to form the substantially liquid tight seal. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein engaging one or more locking mechanisms depresses the sample card by between about 0.010 in to 0.100 to form the substantially liquid tight seal. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein engaging one or more locking mechanisms depresses the sample card by between about 0.025 inch to about 0.1 inch to form the substantially liquid tight seal. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein engaging one or more locking mechanisms comprises tightening one or more screws. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein dispensing the solvent comprises forming a liquid junction between a sample surface of the sample card and the solvent delivery device. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein dispensing the solvent comprises forming a liquid contact between a sample surface of the sample card and the solvent delivery device. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein dispensing the solvent comprises wetting a surface of the sample card. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein engaging the one or more locking mechanisms comprises engaging multiple locking mechanisms to apply a substantially uniform pressure onto sample substrate surface by the upper portion. 14. A system, comprising: a lower portion configured to house a sample card that includes a dried sample; an upper portion including one or more fittings each defining an opening in the upper portion configured to receive a solvent delivery device and including a rigid lower perimeter edge; and one or more locking mechanisms configured to compress the sample card between the rigid lower perimeter edge of the one or more fittings and the lower portion to form a substantially liquid-tight seal around a portion of the sample card when the upper portion and the lower portion are in a closed position and the locking mechanisms are engaged. 15. The system of claim 14, wherein the solvent delivery device is capable of delivering an extraction solvent for extracting chemicals from the sample substrate material. 16. The system of claim 14, wherein the solvent delivery device comprises a pipette tip. 17. The system of claim 14, wherein the solvent delivery device comprises an extraction tip. 18. The system of claim 14, wherein the fitting comprises PEEK, polymer, brass or stainless steel with a rigid lower circular perimeter edge capable of making a leak-tight seal when clamped down upon the sample card without cutting a disk from the sample card. 19. The system of claim 14, wherein the upper portion includes at least four fittings in an array. 20. The system of claim 14, further comprising a robotic device configured to extract analytes from the substrate to form a solution from a surface of the sample card using a solvent delivery device which can then be withdrawn from the surface and delivered to a mass spectrometer. 21. The system of claim 14 wherein the fitting is configured such that extraction solvent introduced into the fitting is substantially confined within the walls of the fitting. 22. The system of claim 21, wherein confining the extraction solvent within the walls of the fitting precludes the need to employ hydrophobic spray chemicals to preclude said dispersion. 23. The system of claim 21, wherein the liquid tight seal is configured to confine at least 90% of the extraction solvent within the walls of the fitting. 24. The system of claim 21, wherein the liquid tight seal is configured to confine at least 95% of the extraction solvent within the walls of the fitting. 25. The system of claim 21, wherein the liquid tight seal is configured to confine at least 98% of the extraction solvent within the walls of the fitting. 