A container includes: a container body for storing substrates of semiconductor wafers; a door element detachably fitted to an open front portion of the container body; and a compressively deformable gasket for sealing between the container body and the door element. While a sealing surface for the gasket is formed on an inner periphery of an open front portion of the container body so that the difference between the maximum and minimum of a flatness is less than 0.50 mm, a fitting portion for the gasket is formed in a frame shape. The gasket is formed of a base fitted to the fitting portion; a flexible sealing part extended from the base toward the sealing surface; and a contact portion that is curvedly formed at a distal end of the sealing part and put in press-contact with the sealing surface.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A substrate storage container comprising: a container body for storing substrates; a door element fitted to an opening of the container body; and a compressively deformable gasket for sealing between the container body and the door element; wherein a gasket fitting portion is formed on one of an inner periphery of the opening of the container body or the door element while a sealing surface for the gasket is formed on an opposing one of the door element or the inner periphery of the opening of the container body such that a difference between a maximum and a minimum of a flatness of the sealing surface is less than 0.50 mm, wherein the gasket comprises: a base fitted to the fitting portion; a flexible sealing part extended from the base toward the sealing surface; and a contact portion formed in the sealing part and contacts the sealing surface, wherein the gasket is formed in a frame shape, wherein the sealing part is approximately in a shape of a rectangular cylinder; wherein the sealing part comprises: a first group of tapered projections on an outer peripheral side and a second group of tapered projections on an inner peripheral side, wherein each of the first and second groups of tapered projections includes at least two projections having a substantively same shape but a different size from one another, and wherein the sealing part is molded of thermoplastic elastomer or rubber. 2. The substrate storage container according to claim 1, wherein a compressive force necessary to compress and deform the gasket when the door element is fitted into the opening of the container body is specified to range from 35 to 100 N. 3. The substrate storage container according to claim 1, wherein the substrates are semiconductor wafers having a diameter of 300 mm or greater, the container body is constructed of a front open box for storing semiconductor wafers of 300 mm or greater in diameter, with its front side formed as the opening, and a plurality of ribs are formed near a rim of the opening. 4. The substrate storage container according to claim 3, wherein engaging ribs are formed on both sides of the rim of the opening of the container body while the door element has engaging pieces pivotally supported on both sides thereof to be engaged with the engaging ribs of the container body. 5. The substrate storage container according to claim 1, wherein a distal end of the sealing part is formed to be the contact portion, and a width W from a proximal end of the sealing part to the distal end of the contact portion is specified to range from 5 to 10 mm. 6. The substrate storage container according to claim 5, wherein a ratio (W/FL) of the width W (mm) from the proximal end of the sealing part to the distal end of the contact portion to a flexed length FL (mm) when the gasket seals between the container body and the door element is specified to range from 1.5 to 4. 7. The substrate storage container according to claim 1, wherein the sealing part in the partial section is positioned in an area where the sealing surface flatness becomes maximum or minimum, or in a center portion, or in an area on the sealing surface most distant from engaging pieces of the door element. 8. The substrate storage container according to claim 7, wherein the sealing part in the partial section is positioned in the area where the flatness of the sealing surface varies. 