A rotary actuator assembly is provided for actuation of an upper arm assembly for a dexterous humanoid robot. The upper arm assembly for the humanoid robot includes a plurality of arm support frames each defining an axis. A plurality of rotary actuator assemblies are each mounted to one of the plurality of arm support frames about the respective axes. Each rotary actuator assembly includes a motor mounted about the respective axis, a gear drive rotatably connected to the motor, and a torsion spring. The torsion spring has a spring input that is rotatably connected to an output of the gear drive and a spring output that is connected to an output for the joint.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A rotary actuator assembly comprising: a generally circular support frame defining an axis; a motor mounted about the axis within the support frame; a gear drive rotatably connected to the motor and mounted within the support frame about the axis; a torsion spring having a spring input and a spring output, wherein the spring input is rotatably connected to an output of the gear drive and the torsion spring is mounted within the support frame; a joint output connected to the spring output; a first absolute position sensor having a first stationary portion and a first rotary portion; a second absolute position sensor having a second stationary portion and a second rotary portion; wherein the first stationary portion and the second stationary portion are secured to the support frame; wherein the first rotary portion is secured to the output of the gear drive to sense the rotational position of the gear drive output relative to the support frame; wherein the second rotary portion is secured to the spring output to sense the rotational position of the joint output relative to the support frame; and wherein the difference in the position of the first rotary portion and the second rotary portion is the amount of deflection of the torsion spring. 2. The rotary actuator assembly of claim 1, further including: a brake mounted within the support frame and about the axis; wherein the motor has a generally annular shape; and wherein at least a portion of the brake is positioned within the annular opening between the motor and the axis. 3. The rotary actuator assembly of claim 1, wherein a tube is mounted within the support frame along the axis, and wherein the tube defines a wire channel centrally located within the support frame. 4. The rotary actuator assembly of claim 2, further including: a first temperature sensor located within the motor; a second temperature sensor located within the brake; and a rotational sensor; mounted to the frame support to measure a rotational position of the motor output. 5. The rotary actuator assembly of claim 1, wherein the torsion spring includes at least one hard stop feature to limit the rotational deflection of the rotary actuator assembly. 6. A rotary joint assembly for a humanoid robot comprising: a generally circular arm support frame defining an axis; a rotary actuator assembly mounted within the support frame about the axis, wherein the rotary actuator assembly includes; a motor mounted about the axis; a gear drive rotatably connected to the motor; and a torsion spring having a spring input and a spring output, wherein the spring input is rotatably connected to an output of the gear drive; a first absolute position sensor having a first stationary portion and a first rotary portion; a second absolute position sensor having a second stationary portion and a second rotary portion; wherein the first stationary portion and the second stationary portion are secured to the arm support frame; wherein the first rotary portion is secured to the output of the gear drive to sense the rotational position of the gear drive output relative to the arm support frame; wherein the second rotary portion is secured to the spring output to sense the rotational position of the joint output relative to the arm support frame; and wherein the difference in the position of the first rotary portion and the second rotary portion is the amount of deflection of the torsion spring. 7. The rotary joint assembly of claim 6, further including: a brake mounted within the support frame and about the axis; wherein the motor has a generally annular shape; and wherein at least a portion of the brake is positioned within the annular opening between the motor and the axis. 8. The rotary joint assembly of claim 6, wherein a tube is mounted within the support frame along the axis, and wherein the tube defines a wire channel centrally located within the support frame. 9. The rotary joint assembly of claim 7, further including: a first temperature sensor located within the motor; a second temperature sensor located within the brake; and a rotational sensor mounted to the frame support to measure a rotational position of the motor output. 10. The rotary joint assembly of claim 6, wherein the torsion spring includes at least one hard stop feature to limit the rotational deflection of the rotary actuator assembly. 11. A rotary actuator assembly comprising: a generally circular support frame defining an axis; a motor mounted about the axis within the support frame; a gear drive rotatably connected to the motor and mounted within the support frame about the axis; a torsion spring having a spring input and a spring output, wherein the spring input is rotatably connected to an output of the gear drive and the torsion spring is mounted within the support frame; a joint output connected to the spring output; and wherein a tube is mounted within the support frame along the axis, and wherein the tube defines a wire channel centrally located within the support frame. 12. The rotary actuator assembly of claim 11, further including: a first absolute position sensor having a first stationary portion and a first rotary portion; a second absolute position sensor having a second stationary portion and a second rotary portion; wherein the first stationary portion and the second stationary portion are secured to the support frame; wherein the first rotary portion is secured to the output of the gear drive to sense the rotational position of the gear drive output relative to the support frame; wherein the second rotary portion is secured to the spring output to sense the rotational position of the joint output relative to the support frame; and wherein the difference in the position of the first rotary portion and the second rotary portion is the amount of deflection of the torsion spring. 13. The rotary actuator assembly of claim 11, further including: a brake mounted within the support frame and about the axis; wherein the motor has a generally annular shape; and wherein at least a portion of the brake is positioned within the annular opening between the motor and the axis. 14. The rotary actuator assembly of claim 13, further including: a first temperature sensor located within the motor; a second temperature sensor located within the brake; and a rotational sensor; mounted to the frame support to measure a rotational position of the motor output. 15. The rotary actuator assembly of claim 11, wherein the torsion spring includes at least one hard stop feature to limit the rotational deflection of the rotary actuator assembly. 