A strain sensing assembly implements thermal management and/or temperature measurement techniques to adequately mitigate against and compensate for temperature changes in optical fiber strain sensors of a distal end of a catheter. In one embodiment, the distal end of the catheter includes an end effector such as an ablation head that introduces significant thermal temperature changes proximate the distal end of the catheter. In one embodiment, a plurality of temperature sensors is utilized for accurate determination of each of a plurality of optical fiber strain sensors. In other embodiments, a single temperature sensor may be utilized by implementing thermal management techniques that adequately reduce temperature differences between the single temperature sensor and the plurality of optical fiber strain sensors.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A catheter for use in a medical procedure, comprising: a flexible elongate body adapted to be introduced into a patient during said medical procedure and including an end effector, said end effector including a strain sensing assembly, said strain sensing assembly including: a deformable body; a plurality of optical fiber strain sensors operatively coupled with said deformable body; and a plurality of temperature sensors proximate said plurality of optical fiber strainsensors to determine the temperatures of said plurality of fiber strain sensors, wherein a first of said plurality of temperature sensors is positioned substantially closer to a first of said optical fiber strain sensors than to the other of said plurality of optical fiber strain sensors, and wherein a second of said plurality of temperature sensors is positioned substantially closer to a second of said optical fiber strain sensors than to the other of said plurality of optical fiber strain sensors. 2. The catheter of claim 1 wherein said plurality of temperature sensors are of an equal or greater number than said plurality of optical fiber strain sensors. 3. The catheter of claim 1 further comprising a sleeve that surrounds a portion of said deformable body, said plurality of optical fiber strain sensors and said plurality of temperature sensors being operatively coupled to said portion of said deformable body, said sleeve and said deformable body defining an annular gap therebetween. 4. The catheter of claim 3 further comprising a solid insulation material disposed in said annular gap. 5. The catheter of claim 3 wherein said sleeve includes a structural member that resists radial constriction from an external pressure increase without substantially restricting bending or axial compression of said deformable body. 6. The catheter of claim 5 wherein said structural member comprises a helical coil. 7. The catheter of claim 1, wherein said optical fiber strain sensors are fiber Bragg grating sensors. 8. The catheter of claim 1, wherein said temperature sensors are thermocouples. 9. The catheter of claim 1, wherein said deformable body comprises a liquid crystal polymer material. 10. The catheter of claim 1 further comprising: an ablation head operatively coupled to a distal extremity of said deformable body, said ablation head having a base surface, said base surface being separated from said deformable body to define an axial gap therebetween, wherein said deformable body includes an irrigation passage that terminates at said axial gap for accommodation of an irrigation flow, said irrigation flow cooling said base surface of said ablation head. 11. An end effector for a catheter, comprising: a deformable body; a plurality of optical fiber strain sensors operatively coupled to said deformable body; a temperature sensor proximate said plurality of optical fiber strain sensors for determination of the temperature of said plurality of fiber strain sensors; a sleeve that surrounds a portion of said deformable body, said plurality of optical fiber strain sensors and said temperature sensor being operatively coupled to said portion of said deformable body surrounded by said sleeve, said sleeve and said deformable body defining an annular gap therebetween, said sleeve including a structural member that resists radial constriction from an external pressure increase without substantially restricting bending or axial compression of said deformable body; and a thermal insulator comprising a solid material disposed in said annular gap. 12. The end effector of claim 11 further comprising: an ablation head operatively coupled to a distal extremity of said deformable body, said ablation head having a base surface, said base surface being separated from said deformable body to define an axial gap therebetween, wherein said deformable body includes an irrigation passage that terminates at said axial gap for accommodation of an irrigation flow, said irrigation flow cooling said base surface of said ablation head. 13. The end effector of claim 11, wherein said solid material comprises a rolled sheet material. 14. The end effector of claim 13, wherein said rolled sheet material comprises one of a polymide and a polyethylene terephthalate material. 15. The end effector of claim 11, wherein said structural member comprises a helical coil. 16. A strain sensing system, comprising: a strain sensing assembly for an end effector of a catheter, said strain sensing assembly including a plurality of optical fiber strain sensors and a plurality of temperature sensors proximate said plurality of optical fiber strain sensors; an electromagnetic source operatively coupled with said plurality of optical fiber strain sensors for transmission of electromagnetic radiation to said plurality of optical fiber strain sensors; at least one receiver operatively coupled with said plurality of optical fiber strain sensors for reception of a returned portion of said electromagnetic radiation, said returned portion being returned by said plurality of optical fiber strain sensors; at least one signal conditioner operatively coupled with said plurality of temperature sensors for measurement of temperatures proximate said plurality of optical fiber strain sensors; a microprocessor operatively coupled with said receiver and said signal conditioner; and a digital storage device operatively coupled with said microprocessor, said digital storage device containing instructions for execution by said microprocessor, said instructions including: determining a plurality of apparent strains, one for each of said plurality of optical fiber sensors, said plurality of apparent strains being inferred from said returned portion of electromagnetic radiation; determining a plurality of thermal bias components, one for each of said plurality of apparent strains, said plurality of thermal bias components being inferred from said temperatures proximate said plurality of optical fiber strain sensors; and inferring an elastic strain for each of said plurality of optical fiber sensors based on said apparent strain and said thermal bias component of each of said plurality of optical fiber sensors. 17. The strain sensing system of claim 16, wherein each of said plurality of optical fiber sensors is a fiber Bragg grating. 18. The strain sensing system of claim 16 wherein said electromagnetic source is a laser. 19. The strains sensing system of claim 16 wherein each of said plurality of temperature sensors is a thermocouple. 20. A method for determining a force exerted on a distal end of a catheter, comprising: providing a strain sensing assembly including a plurality of optical fiber strain sensors and a plurality of temperature sensors proximate said plurality of optical fiber strain sensors; obtaining a plurality of temperature measurements, one each from said plurality of temperature sensors; inferring a plurality of optical fiber strain sensor temperatures, one for each of said plurality of optical fiber strain sensors, said plurality of temperatures being inferred from said plurality of temperature measurements; obtaining a plurality of apparent strain measurements, one for each of said plurality of optical fiber strain sensors; inferring a plurality of thermal bias components, one for each of said plurality of optical fiber strain sensors, said plurality of thermal bias components being inferred from said plurality of optical fiber strain sensor temperatures; inferring a plurality of elastic strains, one for each of said plurality of optical fiber strain sensors, from said plurality of apparent strain measurements and said plurality of thermal bias components; and determining a magnitude and a direction of said force exerted on said distal end of said catheter from said plurality of elastic strains. 21. The method of claim 20 wherein said step of inferring said plurality of thermal bias components is performed implicitly. 22. The method of claim 20 wherein said optical fiber strain sensors provided in the step of providing said strain sensing assembly comprises fiber-Bragg gratings. 23. The method of claim 20 wherein said plurality of optical fiber strain sensors provided in the step of providing said strain sensing assembly comprises three optical fiber strain sensors. 24. The method of claim 23 wherein said optical fiber strain sensors provided in the step of providing said strain sensing assembly comprises fiber-Bragg gratings. 25. A method for determining a force exerted on a distal end of a catheter, comprising: providing a strain sensing assembly including a trio of optical fiber strain sensors and a plurality of temperature sensors proximate said trio of optical fiber strain sensors; obtaining a plurality temperature measurements, one each from said plurality of temperature sensors; inferring a trio of optical fiber strain sensor temperatures, one for each of said trio of optical fiber strain sensors, said plurality of temperatures being inferred from said plurality of temperature measurements; obtaining a trio of apparent strain measurements, one for each of said trio of optical fiber strain sensors; steps for determining a trio of elastic strains of said from said trio of optical fiber strain sensor temperatures and said trio of apparent strain measurements, one elastic strain for each of said trio of optical fiber strain sensors; and steps for determining a magnitude and a direction of said force exerted on said distal end of said catheter from said trio of elastic strains. 