A percussive digging tool attachment for a small robotic platform employs a percussor module for applying percussive impulses of relatively low impact at relatively high frequency to an attached digging tool to dig into or break up soil and rocks. By using low-impact, high-frequency percussive forces, it reduces the reaction loads on the small robotic platform while providing increased capability.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A percussive digging tool attachment for a small robotic platform comprising: an attachment mechanism for attaching a digging tool to an end of a robotic arm of the small robotic platform; a tool deployment mechanism coupled to the attachment mechanism for deploying the digging tool on the end of the robotic arm with a desired range of articulated motion; a percussor module coupled to the tool deployment mechanism for applying percussive impulses of relatively low impact at relatively high frequency to the attached digging tool; a sensor coupled to the robotic platform for sensing soil resistance in an area where the digging tool is to be deployed; and a digging tool control for controlling the percussor module in response to soil resistance sensed by the sensor, wherein the digging tool is coupled to a percussion output end of the percussor module, and the percussor module is controlled by said digging tool control so that the frequency or amplitude of the applied percussive impulses is varied in response to sensed soil properties detected by said sensor. 2. A percussive digging tool attachment according to claim 1, wherein said percussive module is a piston-type of an air spring design. 3. A percussive digging tool attachment according to claim 1, wherein said percussive module is of a cam-and-spring design. 4. A percussive digging tool attachment according to claim 1, wherein said percussive module is of a voicecoil design. 5. A percussive digging tool attachment according to claim 1, wherein said sensor is selected from a group consisting of: load cells; strain gauges; and motor current sensors for the robotic arm. 