A method of manufacturing or handling a substantially pure object includes shielding the substantially pure object from the environment by substantially enveloping the object in a fluid. A system for manufacturing a substantially pure object includes a mold for forming the object, and a machine adapted to remove the object from the mold. The machine includes a handling device for gripping the object and removing it from the mold. The handling device includes at least one nozzle through which fluid is delivered to substantially envelope the object during, for example, removal of the object from the mold. The object may be a medical object, such as a syringe, or a component or part thereof, such as a syringe barrel or plunger. In a preferred aspect, a molding process is conducted in a room exhibiting less than Class 100 conditions and/or in such a way that the object does not need to be subsequently cleaned or rinsed, as by air or water washing.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A device for handling a substantially pure object during manufacture of the object, comprising: a handling unit having a gripping device configured to grip and remove the object from a mold in which the object is formed; and at least one nozzle arranged proximate to the gripping device and through which one of pure air and gas which is substantially free from microbes or particles is delivered, the at least one nozzle being configured such that the pure air or gas flows over those parts of the object which are to be protected from the environmental air and to envelope the object in an envelope created by the one of the pure air or the pure gas upon opening the mold; wherein the at least one nozzle is conveyable with the object by the handling unit to maintain the envelope of the one of the pure air and the pure gas about the object during removal of the object from the mold. 2. The device of claim 1 wherein the handling unit forms a housing for substantially surrounding the object. 3. The device of claim 2 wherein the housing is substantially bell shaped. 4. The device of claim 1 wherein the at least one nozzle comprises a plurality of nozzles. 5. The device of claim 1, further comprising a source of fluid connected to the at least one nozzle. 6. The device of claim 5, further comprising a filter associated with the fluid source. 7. The device of claim 1 further comprising a robotic arm, the handling unit being positioned on the robotic arm. 8. The device of claim 1 further comprising the mold for forming the object. 9. The device of claim 8 wherein the mold comprises a movable platen and a stationary platen. 10. A device for handling a substantially pure object during manufacture of the object, comprising: a housing having an open end and a substantially closed end; a handling unit having a gripping device configured to grip and remove the object from a mold in which the object is formed connected to the housing; at least one nozzle spaced apart from the handling unit and through which one of pure air and gas which is substantially free from microbes or particles is delivered, the at least one nozzle being configured to envelope the object in an envelope created by the one of the pure air or the pure gas upon opening the mold; and an air supply device configured to provide the one of the pure air and the gas which is substantially free from microbes or particles wherein the at least one nozzle is conveyable with the object by the handling unit to maintain the envelope of the one of the pure air and the pure gas about the object during removal of the object from the mold. 11. The device of claim 10, wherein the housing is substantially bell shaped. 12. The device of claim 10, wherein the grippers are moveable with respect to the object to hold the object and are configured to move one of parallel or perpendicular to a direction of the pure air and the pure gas. 