Embodiments of the invention contemplate a method, apparatus and system that are used to support and position a substrate on a surface that is at a different temperature than the initial, or incoming, substrate temperature. Embodiments of the invention may also include a method of controlling the transfer of heat between a substrate and substrate support positioned in a processing chamber. The apparatus and methods described herein generally may also provide an inexpensive and simple way of accurately positioning a substrate on a substrate support that is positioned in a semiconductor processing chamber. Substrate processing chambers that can benefit from the various embodiments described herein include, but are not limited to RTP, CVD, PVD, ALD, plasma etching, and/or laser annealing chambers.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of processing a substrate, comprising: heating a substrate support having a first surface; delivering a flow of fluid to a plurality of ports formed in the substrate support, wherein the flow of fluid creates a cushion of fluid that is adapted to support the weight of the substrate; positioning the substrate on the cushion of fluid for a period of time sufficient to allow the substrate to reach a desired average temperature; reducing the flow of fluid to allow the substrate to contact at least a portion of the first surface after the substrate has reached the desired average temperature; and performing a process on the substrate disposed on the first surface. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the period of time is about 5 seconds to about 30 seconds. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the process performed on the substrate is annealing, chemical vapor deposition, physical vapor deposition, atomic layer deposition, or dry etching. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the substrate is at a first substrate temperature when positioned on the cushion of fluid, and wherein the desired average temperature is greater than the first substrate temperature. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the performing a process on the substrate comprises performing an annealing process. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the cushion of fluid comprises nitrogen, helium, argon, xenon, or krypton. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the cushion of fluid creates a gap between the substrate and the substrate support, and wherein the gap is between about 1 micrometer and 1000 micrometers. 8. A method of processing a substrate, comprising: heating a substrate support having a first surface; delivering a flow of fluid to a plurality of ports formed in the substrate support, wherein the flow of fluid creates a cushion of fluid that is adapted to support the weight of the substrate; positioning the substrate at a first substrate temperature on the cushion of fluid for a period of time sufficient to allow the substrate to reach a desired temperature greater than the first substrate temperature; reducing the flow of fluid to allow the substrate to contact at least a portion of the first surface; and performing a laser annealing process on the substrate disposed on the first surface. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the desired temperature is a substantially uniform temperature across the substrate. 10. The method of claim 8, wherein the ports are oriented in a direction normal to the surface of the substrate when delivering the flow of fluid. 11. The method of claim 8, wherein the delivering a flow of fluid comprises delivering the flow of fluid through the plurality of ports at a subsonic velocity. 12. The method of claim 8, wherein the flow of fluid is delivered at a flow rate of about 200 sccm to about 600 sccm. 13. The method of claim 8, wherein the substrate is not in physical contact with the first surface when the substrate is positioned on the cushion of fluid. 14. The method of claim 8, wherein the desired temperature has less than a 2 degree variation across the substrate. 15. A method of processing a substrate, comprising: heating a substrate support having a first surface; delivering a flow of fluid to a plurality of ports formed in the substrate support, wherein the flow of fluid creates a cushion of fluid that is adapted to support the weight of the substrate, and wherein the cushion of fluid creates a gap within a range of about 1 micrometer and 1000 micrometers between the substrate and the substrate support; positioning the substrate at a first substrate temperature on the cushion of fluid; maintaining the substrate on the cushion of fluid for a period of time sufficient to allow the substrate to reach a desired second substrate temperature greater than the first substrate temperature; reducing the flow of fluid to allow the substrate to contact at least a portion of the first surface; and performing an annealing process on the substrate disposed on the first surface. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the substrate support is heated to a temperature between about 450 degrees Celsius and about 800 degrees Celsius. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the annealing process is a laser annealing process. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein an optical sensor measures the size of the gap. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein a system controller adjusts the flow of fluid in response to measurements made by the optical sensor. 