A moving device is provided. A first receiving device receives an emitted light from a base station and obtains a direction from a start position, which the moving device is in to the base station according to the emitted light to serve as a target direction. A driving device drives the moving device to move in the target direction from the start position. When the moving device meets a first obstacle which is disposed along the target direction and in the target area, a second receiving device obtains a distance between the moving device and the base station according to the received emitted light to serve as a middle distance. When a determination device determines that the middle distance is not equal to a predetermined distance, the driving device drives the moving device to detour around the first obstacle and move in the target direction continuously.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A control method for a moving device comprising: receiving an emitted light from a base station; obtaining a direction from a start position, which the moving device is in, to the base station according to the emitted light to serve as a target direction; driving the moving device to move in the target direction from the start position; defining a target area, wherein when the moving device is in the target area, the moving device can obtain a distance between the moving device and the base station according to the emitted light; obtaining a distance between the moving device and the base station according to the emitted light to serve as a middle distance when the moving device meets a first obstacle which is disposed along the target direction and in the target area; determining whether the middle distance is equal to a predetermined distance; driving the moving device to detour the first obstacle and move in the target direction continuously when the middle distance is not equal to the predetermined distance; and determining that the first obstacle is the base station and driving the moving device to dock at the first obstacle when the middle distance is equal to the predetermined distance. 2. The control method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the start position is outside of the target area. 3. The control method as claimed in claim 2 further comprising: when the moving device meets a second obstacle which is disposed in the target direction and outside of the target area, driving the moving device to detour the second obstacle and move in the target direction continuously. 4. The control method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the start position is in the target area. 5. The control method as claimed in claim 1, wherein in the step of obtaining the target direction, the target direction is obtained according to an encoding signal carried on the emitted light, and the encoding signal relates to identification of the base station. 6. The control method as claimed in claim 1 further comprises: monitoring whether the moving device moves in the target direction; and when the moving device deviates from the target direction and moves in a deviated direction, driving the moving device to return to the target direction from the deviated direction and then move in the target direction. 7. The control method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the predetermined distance is defined according to a distance between the moving device and the base station when the moving device meets the base station. 8. A moving device comprising: a first receiving device for receiving an emitted light from a base station, wherein the first receiving device obtains a direction from a start position, which the moving device is in, to the base station according to the emitted light to serve as a target direction; a driving device for driving the moving device to move in the target direction from the start position; a second receiving device for receiving the emitted light, wherein when the moving device meets a first obstacle which is disposed along the target direction and in the target area, the second receiving device obtains a distance between the moving device and the base station according to the emitted light to serve as a middle distance; and a determination device for determining whether the middle distance is equal to a predetermined distance; wherein when the determination device determines that the middle distance is not equal to the predetermined distance, the driving device drives the moving device to detour around the first obstacle and move in the target direction continuously and; wherein when the determination device determines that the middle distance is equal to the predetermined distance, the driving device determines that the first obstacle is the base station and drives the moving device to dock at the first obstacle. 9. The moving device as claimed in claim 8, wherein the start position is outside of the target area. 10. The moving device as claimed in claim 9, wherein when the moving device meets a second obstacle which is disposed in the target direction and outside of the target area, the driving device drives the moving device to detour around the second obstacle and move in the target direction continuously. 11. The moving device as claimed in claim 8, wherein the start position is in the target area. 12. The moving device as claimed in claim 8, wherein the first receiving device obtains the target direction according to an encoding signal carried on the emitted light, and the encoding signal relates to identification of the base station. 13. The moving device as claimed in claim 8 further comprises: a monitoring device for monitoring whether the moving device moves in the target direction; wherein when the monitoring device determines that the moving device deviates from the target direction and moves in a deviated direction, the driving device drives the moving device to return to the target direction from the deviated direction and then move in the target direction. 14. The moving device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the predetermined distance is defined according to a distance between the moving device and the base station when the moving device meets the base station. 