Described herein are techniques related to a leveled touchsurface with planar translational responsiveness to vertical travel. Examples of a touchsurface include a key of a keyboard, touchpad of a laptop, or a touchscreen of a smartphone or tablet computer. With the techniques described herein, the touchsurface is constrained to remain in a level orientation during planar translational movement between depressed and unpressed positions along a diagonal line with respect to a vertical axis. Also, with the techniques described herein, a planar-translation-effecting mechanism imparts a planar translation to the touchsurface while it travels vertically (e.g., downward) as the user presses the touchsurface. This Abstract is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A key assembly comprising: a rigid key configured to be depressed by a user; a leveling mechanism operatively associated with the key, the leveling mechanism being configured to constrain the key to a level orientation while the key is depressed by the user; a planar-translation-effecting mechanism operatively associated with the key, the planar-translation-effecting mechanism including one or more ramps that are configured to impart a planar translation to the key while the key travels downward on the one or more ramps as the key is depressed by the user. 2. A key assembly as recited in claim 1, further comprising a ready mechanism operably associated with the key, the ready mechanism being configured to hold the key in a ready position where the key is ready to be depressed by the user. 3. A key assembly as recited in claim 1, further comprising a return mechanism operably associated with the key, the return mechanism being configured to return the key back to a ready position after the key is depressed and the user is no longer depressing the key sufficiently to maintain the key in a fully depressed state. 4. A key assembly as recited in claim 1, wherein the one or more ramps include multiple ramps arrayed along a periphery of an underside of the key, along a perimeter of the key, and/or outside the periphery of the key. 5. A key assembly as recited in claim 1, wherein the leveling mechanism includes the planar-translation-effecting mechanism. 6. A key assembly as recited in claim 1, further comprising a ready/return mechanism operably associated with the key, the ready/return mechanism being configured to hold the key in a ready position where the key is ready to be depressed by the user and to return the key back to the ready position after the key is depressed and the user is no longer depressing the key sufficiently to maintain the key in a fully depressed state. 7. A key assembly as recited in claim 6, wherein the ready/return mechanism includes at least one pair of magnets configured to be mutually magnetically attractive. 8. A key assembly as recited in claim 6, wherein the ready/return mechanism includes one or more tactile domes configured to urge the key back to its ready position. 9. A key assembly as recited in claim 1, further comprising a backlighting system configured to transmit light through and/or around the key. 10. A human-machine interaction (HMI) apparatus comprising: a touchsurface configured to be presented to a user to facilitate, at least in part, human to computer interaction therethrough by the user depressing the touchsurface; a leveling mechanism operatively associated with the touchsurface, the leveling mechanism being configured to constrain the touchsurface to a level orientation while the touchsurface travels downward as the user depresses the touchsurface; a planar-translation-effecting mechanism operatively associated with the touchsurface, the planar-translation-effecting mechanism including one or more ramps that are configured to impart a planar translation to the touchsurface while the touchsurface travels downward on the one or more ramps as the user depresses the touchsurface. 11. An HMI apparatus as recited in claim 10, wherein the leveling mechanism includes one or more supports positioned under and/or around the touchsurface so as to ameliorate and/or eliminate wobbling, shaking, rotating, and/or tilting of the touchsurface while the touchsurface travels downward as the user depresses the touchsurface. 12. An HMI apparatus as recited in claim 10, further comprising a ready mechanism operably associated with the touchsurface, the ready mechanism being configured to hold the touchsurface in a ready position where the touchsurface is ready to be depressed by the user. 13. An HMI apparatus as recited in claim 10, further comprising a return mechanism operably associated with the touchsurface, the return mechanism being configured to return the touchsurface back to a ready position after the touchsurface is depressed and the user is no longer depressing the touchsurface sufficiently to maintain the touchsurface in a fully depressed state. 14. An HMI apparatus as recited in claim 10, wherein the one or more ramps include multiple ramps arrayed along a periphery of an underside of the touchsurface, along a perimeter of the touchsurface, and/or outside the periphery of the touchsurface. 15. An HMI apparatus as recited in claim 10, wherein the planar-translation-effecting mechanism includes a set of magnets positioned in the touchsurface and positioned outside the periphery of the touchsurface so as to attract and/or repel the touchsurface while the touchsurface travels downward as the user depresses the touchsurface. 16. An HMI apparatus as recited in claim 10, wherein the level mechanism includes the planar-translation-effecting mechanism. 17. An HMI apparatus as recited in claim 10, further comprising: a ready mechanism operably associated with the touchsurface, the ready mechanism being configured to hold the touchsurface in a ready position where the touchsurface is ready to be depressed by the user; a return mechanism operably associated with the touchsurface, the return mechanism being configured to return the touchsurface back to the ready position after the touchsurface is depressed and the user is no longer depressing the touchsurface sufficiently to maintain the touchsurface in a fully depressed state. 18. An apparatus as recited in claim 17, wherein the ready mechanism includes at least one pair of magnets configured to be mutually magnetically attractive so as to hold the touchsurface in a ready position where the touchsurface is ready to be depressed by the user. 19. An HMI apparatus as recited in claim 17, wherein the return mechanism includes at least a one pair of magnets configured to be mutually magnetically attractive. 20. An HMI apparatus as recited in claim 17, wherein the return mechanism includes one or more tactile domes configured to urge the touchsurface back to its ready position. 21. An HMI apparatus as recited in claim 17, wherein the ready mechanism includes the return mechanism. 22. A computing device comprising an HMI apparatus as recited in claim 10, wherein the computing device is selected from a group consisting of a tablet computer, mobile phone, smartphone, control panel, laptop computer, netbook computer, server, and desktop computer. 23. An HMI apparatus as recited in claim 10, wherein the HMI apparatus has a form factor selected from a group consisting of a keyboard, key pad, pointing device, mouse, trackball, touchpad, touchpad button, joystick, pointing stick, game controller, gamepad, paddle, pen, stylus, touchscreen, foot mouse, steering wheel, jog dial, yoke, directional pad, and dance pad. 24. A human-machine interaction (HMI) apparatus comprising: a touchsurface configured to be presented to a user to facilitate, at least in part, human to computer interaction therethrough by the user depressing the touchsurface; a leveling mechanism operatively associated with the touchsurface, the leveling mechanism being configured to constrain the touchsurface to a level orientation while the touchsurface travels downward as the user depresses the touchsurface, wherein the leveling mechanism includes one or more ramps positioned under and/or around the touchsurface so as to ameliorate and/or eliminate wobbling, shaking, rotating, and/or tilting of the touchsurface while the touchsurface travels downward as the user depresses the touchsurface; a planar-translation-effecting mechanism operatively associated with the touchsurface, the planar-translation-effecting mechanism being configured to impart a planar translation to the touchsurface while the touchsurface travels vertically, wherein the planar-translation-effecting mechanism includes at least one inclined plane down which the touchsurface rides while the touchsurface travels downward as the user depresses the touchsurface, the at least one inclined plane being configured to impart the planar translation to the touchsurface while the touchsurface travels downward as the user depresses the touchsurface. 25. An HMI apparatus as recited in claim 24, wherein the touchsurface is rigid. 26. An HMI apparatus as recited in claim 24, further comprising a ready/return mechanism operably associated with the touchsurface, the ready/return mechanism being configured to hold the touchsurface in a ready position where the touchsurface is ready to be depressed by the user and to return the touchsurface back to the ready position after the touchsurface is depressed and the user is no longer depressing the touchsurface, wherein the ready/return mechanism includes at least a pair of magnets configured to be mutually magnetically attractive. 