A modular charge, close, trip device with a charge portion having a charging arm operated by a motor is described herein. A close trip portion can include at least one solenoid that can be mounted on a bracket that can be mounted to a charging arm. The solenoid can have a plunger for engaging buttons on equipment enabling the closing or tripping of switch gear. Magnets can be used to affix the charge portion and the close trip portion to metal surrounding equipment to be charged, closed, or tripped. The modular components can each be operated independently by a remote switch operator, enabling the operator to maintain a position outside an arc flash hazard zone.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A charge system comprising: a. a charging arm comprising a charging arm slot and a charging arm connector disposed on the charging arm; b. a motor attachment member with a first side; c. a motor connected to the motor attachment member; d. a gear box with a gear assembly attached to the motor, wherein the gear assembly engages the charging arm connector; e. a control box with a control box interface plug for engaging a remote switch operator; f. a communication mechanism for providing power between the control box and the motor; g. at least one magnet support housing with an extendable magnet secured to the motor attachment member; and h. at least one magnet control housing with a control box magnet contained therein for securing the control box to a metal surface near electrical equipment needing charging. 2. The charge system of claim 1, wherein the electrical equipment is a low voltage circuit breaker using up to 1000 volts, a medium voltage circuit breaker using from 1000 volts to 20000 volts, a switch gear, or a manually operated circuit breaker. 3. The charge system of claim 1, further comprising a trip and close device, wherein the trip and close device comprises: a. a trip and close support; b. at least one solenoid mounted to the trip and close support, wherein the at least one solenoid has a solenoid plunger for engaging an actuating button on the electrical equipment; c. a solenoid communication mechanism for providing communication to the at least one solenoid from the remote switch operator; d. a trip and close magnetically shielded magnet housing mounted to the trip and close support; and e. a trip and close extendable/retractable magnet in each trip and magnet housing. 4. The charge system of claim 3, wherein the trip and close support has a trip and close support first side that is parallel with a trip and close support second side connected to a trip and close back for supporting each of the at least one solenoid. 5. The charge system of claim 3, further comprising at least one trip and close magnet handle connected to each trip and close extendable/retractable magnet for rotatably extending and retracting each trip and close extendable/retractable magnet. 6. The charge system of claim 3, further comprising a solenoid connector at one end of the solenoid communication mechanism that engages the remote switch operator. 7. The charge system of claim 3, wherein the trip and close support is mounted to the charging arm. 8. The charge system of claim 3, wherein the solenoid communication mechanism simultaneously provides power and communication to the at least one solenoid. 9. The charge system of claim 1, further comprising a magnet handle for extending and retracting the extendable magnet in the at least one magnet support housing. 10. The charge system of claim 9, wherein the extendable magnet is rotatable within the at least one magnet housing the magnet handle. 11. The charge system of claim 1, further comprising an insulator disposed around the charging arm slot. 12. The charge system of claim 1, further comprising a magnet hole formed in the motor attachment member allowing extension and retraction of the extendable magnet through the motor attachment member. 13. The charge system of claim 1, wherein the motor attachment member further comprises an attachment hole for allowing an attaching mechanism to secure the charge system to a circuit breaker. 14. The charge system of claim 13, wherein the attaching mechanism comprises an attaching mechanism handle, an attaching mechanism body secured to the attaching mechanism handle, an attaching mechanism screw housing attached to the attaching mechanism body, and a screw disposed within the attaching mechanism screw housing for engagement with the circuit breaker. 15. The charge system of claim 1, wherein the remote switch operator comprises: a. a housing with a body and a closable lid; b. a face plate in the body; c. a first plug in the face plate for providing current and signals from the housing to the charge system; d. a DC power plug in the face plate for receiving power into the housing; e. a circuit board disposed beneath the face plate and within the housing engaging at least one relay, wherein the at least one relay engages at least one battery connected to the DC power plug for connecting to a DC power source and for charging the at least one battery; f. a receiver/transmitter adjacent the face plate and within the housing in communication with the circuit board; g. a trip momentary push button in the face plate engaging the circuit board; h. a close momentary push button in the face plate engaging the circuit board; i. a charge close momentary push button in the face plate engaging the circuit board; j. a jog momentary push button in the face plate engaging the circuit board; k. an on/off switch in the face plate for connecting or disconnecting the at least one battery with the at least one relay; l. a removable remote controller in communication with the receiver/transmitter in the housing for remotely tripping, closing, charge closing, jogging, and turning on/off the remote switch operator while located a distance from the remote switch operator; m. a circuit breaker in the face plate connected between the at least one relay and the on/off switch; n. a timer circuit board in the housing beneath the face plate in communication between the at least one relay and the circuit board; o. a first timer potentiometer in the face plate connected to the timer circuit board; p. a second timer potentiometer in the face plate connected to the timer circuit board; and q. a stroke potentiometer in the face plate connected to the timer circuit board, wherein the remote switch operator provides power and signals simultaneously to the charge system using the removable remote controller. 16. The charge system of claim 15, further comprising a charger power supply in the housing beneath the face plate for receiving AC current from an outside source, and an AC plug in the face plate for receiving the AC current from the outside source and transferring the AC current to the charger power supply. 17. The charge device of claim 15, further comprising an automatic shut off switch on the face plate connected to the circuit board for disabling the charge system when the charge system exceeds a preset amperage. 18. The charge system of claim 15, wherein the removable remote controller comprises a member of the group consisting of: an on/off button, a jog button, a trip button, a close button, a charge/close button, an automatic shut off button, and combinations thereof for remotely actuating the remote switch operator. 19. The charge system of claim 15, wherein the remote switch operator further comprises a microprocessor and a flash memory with computer instructions for comparing signals from each potentiometer to a predetermined threshold. 20. A trip and close device comprising: a. a trip and close support; b. at least one solenoid mounted to the trip and close support, wherein the at least one solenoid has a solenoid plunger for engaging an actuating button on electrical equipment; c. a solenoid communication mechanism for providing communication to the at least one solenoid from a remote switch operator; d. a solenoid power mechanism for providing power to the at least one solenoid from the remote switch operator; e. a trip and close magnet housing mounted to the trip and close support; and f. a trip and close extendable/retractable magnet in the trip and close magnet housing. 