The present invention is directed to a robotic spray coating assembly and method for spraying a coating. The assembly may include a robotic arm having a remote end region and a coating head mounted on the remote end region. The coating head emits a coating material within a defined coating delivery region via at least one first orifice located in the coating delivery region, the at least one first orifice connected to a coating supply. One or more second orifices are positioned in a pattern beyond the periphery of the coating delivery region, and a fluid supply is connected to the one or more second orifices. Fluid emitted from the one or more second orifices forms a fluid curtain that at least partially encircles the coating delivery region, thereby minimizing overspray emerging therefrom. The present invention also discloses a vehicle spray painting system and a method of spray painting a vehicle.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of reducing coating overspray emerging from a robotic spray coating assembly, comprising: providing the robotic spray coating assembly, which comprises: a robotic arm having a remote end region; a coating head, mounted on the remote end region, the coating head comprising: a housing that narrows and extends axially away from the remote end region, defining a coating delivery region; a first orifice, located in the coating delivery region; and a supply of coating material, connected to the first orifice; a ring portion, mounted in a sliding fit around an outer peripheral portion of the housing, radially outwardly from the coating head, the ring portion having one or more second orifices connected to a fluid supply, the second orifices positioned for supplying a curtain of the fluid along the periphery of the housing toward the coating delivery region; and a locking member, affixing the ring portion to the housing; directing the coating delivery region at a work piece; delivering the supply of coating material to the first orifice to form a coating spray pattern beyond the coating delivery region to apply a coating to the work piece; and delivering the fluid to the second orifices to form the fluid curtain, which encircles the coating delivery region so as to reduce overspray of the coating emerging from the coating delivery region. 2. A vehicle painting system, comprising: a paint line to carry a plurality of vehicle bodies to be painted; a robotic arm having a remote end region, the robotic arm being located adjacent the paint line; a painting head mounted on the remote end region, the painting head comprising: a housing that narrows and extends axially away from the remote end region, defining a paint delivery region; a first orifice located in the paint delivery region; and a paint supply connected to the first orifice; a ring portion, mounted in a sliding fit around the painting head, the ring portion having one or more second orifices connected to a fluid supply, the second orifices positioned for supplying a curtain of the fluid along the periphery of the housing toward the paint delivery region, the fluid curtain encircling the paint delivery region so as to reduce overspray of the coating; and a locking member, affixing the ring portion to an outer peripheral portion of the housing. 3. The assembly of claim 2, wherein the ring portion has an outer surface, the one or more second orifices located on a path along the outer surface. 4. The assembly of claim 3, wherein the ring portion includes an annular chamber, each of the second orifices in communication with the annular chamber. 5. The assembly of claim 4, wherein the ring portion has an inner surface with a first inner diameter, the outer peripheral surface has a second outer diameter, and wherein the first inner diameter is dimensioned relative to the second outer diameter to permit a sliding fit between the ring portion and the housing. 6. A robotic spray coating assembly, comprising: a robotic arm having a remote end region; a coating head, mounted on the remote end region, the coating head comprising: a housing that narrows and extends axially away from the remote end region, defining a coating delivery region; a first orifice, located in the coating delivery region; and a coating supply, connected to the first orifice; a ring portion, mounted in a sliding fit around an outer peripheral portion of the housing, radially outwardly from the coating head, the ring portion having one or more second orifices connected to a fluid supply, the second orifices positioned for supplying a curtain of the fluid along the periphery of the housing toward the coating delivery region, the fluid curtain encircling the coating delivery region so as to reduce overspray of the coating; and a locking member, affixing the ring portion to the housing. 7. The assembly of claim 6, wherein the ring portion has an outer surface, the one or more second orifices located on a path along the outer surface. 8. The assembly of claim 7, wherein the ring portion includes an annular chamber, each of the second orifices in communication with the annular chamber. 9. The assembly of claim 8, wherein the ring portion has an inner surface with a first inner diameter, the outer peripheral surface has a second outer diameter, and wherein the first inner diameter is dimensioned relative to the second outer diameter to permit a sliding fit between the ring portion and the housing. 