Manufacturing lines include inspection systems for monitoring the quality of parts produced. Manufacturing lines for making semiconductor devices generally inspect each fabricated part. The information obtained is used to fix manufacturing problems in the semiconductor fab plant. A machine-vision system for inspecting devices includes a flipper mechanism. After being inspected at a first station, a tray-transfer device moves the tray from the first inspection station to a flipper mechanism. The flipper mechanism includes two jaws, a mover, and a rotator. The flipper mechanism turns the devices over and places the devices in a second tray so that another surface of the device can be inspected. A second tray-transfer device moves the second tray from the flipper to a second inspection station. The mover of the flipper mechanism removes the tray from the first inspection surface and places a tray at the second inspection surface.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A machine vision system for inspecting a tray populated with a plurality of devices, the machine vision system comprising: a first output station having a first output elevator configured to hold a plurality of trays each of which has a plurality of devices that have passed the machine-vision inspection; and a first inspection station, wherein the first inspection station is configured to perform a machine-vision inspection of a plurality of devices in an imaged area of a first tray held at a top position of the first output elevator above a plurality of other trays each of which has a plurality of devices all of which have been inspected; wherein upon completion of the machine-vision inspection, the system operates to then lower the first tray and the plurality of other trays such that trays, each having a plurality of devices that have been inspected, are held at the first output elevator of the first output station. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the system further comprises: a second machine-vision inspection station that inspects a first side of each of the plurality of devices in the first tray, wherein the first inspection station inspects a second side of each of the plurality of devices in the first tray; and a device-inverting mechanism between the second inspection station and the first inspection station that operates to invert the plurality of devices such that a different side of the plurality of devices are inspected in the first station as were inspected in the second inspection station. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein the device-inverting mechanism operates to invert the plurality of devices from the first tray into an inverted position, and wherein the device-inverting mechanism is configured to place the plurality of devices back into the first tray in the inverted position such that the plurality of devices are in the first tray in the inverted position when they are inspected in the first output station. 4. The system of claim 2, wherein the device-inverting mechanism operates to place the first tray on top of a third tray and to invert and remove the plurality of devices from the third tray into an inverted position into the first tray such that the plurality of devices are in the first tray in the inverted position when they are inspected in the first output station. 5. The system of claim 1, further including a sorter that uses a good device that has previously passed inspection to replace a device that has not passed inspection in the first tray, and the sorter obtains the good device from a second tray that holds devices including one or more known-good devices that have each previously passed inspection. 6. The system of claim 5, further comprising: a second output station having a second output elevator configured to hold a plurality of trays each of which has a plurality of devices that have not passed the machine-vision inspection, wherein the second tray is a top tray at the second output station and is used to hold a supply of known-good devices, wherein devices that have not passed the machine-vision inspection, after removal from the first tray, are placed in the second tray, and once all the known-good devices from the second tray have been used as replacements and the second tray holds only devices that have not passed inspection, the second elevator lowers the second tray and a plurality of other trays holding devices that have not passed inspection. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the system further comprises: a second machine-vision inspection station that inspects a first side of each of the plurality of devices in the first tray, and includes a third elevator below an imaged area of the second inspection station, wherein the third elevator holds a plurality of trays each holding a plurality of devices, wherein the first inspection station inspects a second side of each of the plurality of devices in the first tray; and a device-inverting mechanism between the second inspection station and the first inspection station that operates to invert the plurality of devices such that a different side of the plurality of devices are inspected in the first station as were inspected in the second inspection station. 8. A machine-vision method for inspecting trays each populated with a plurality of devices, the machine-vision method comprising: providing a first output station having a first output elevator; holding a first tray at a top position of the first output station above a plurality of other trays, each of which has a plurality of devices that have been inspected; machine-vision inspecting a plurality of devices in the first tray held at the top position of the first output elevator; and upon completion of the machine-vision inspecting of the plurality of devices in the first tray, lowering the first tray and the plurality of other trays in the first output elevator and moving another tray having a plurality of devices to the top position above the first tray. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the machine-vision inspection comprises: performing a first-side machine-vision inspection of a first side of devices in a first tray; performing a device-inverting operation on the devices that were inspected in the first-side machine-vision inspection; and wherein the machine-vision inspecting of the plurality of devices in the first tray held at the top position of the first output elevator is of a second side of the devices in the first tray, wherein the device-inverting operation operates to invert the devices. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the device-inverting operation is configured to invert and remove the devices from the first tray and to place the devices back into the first tray such that the devices are in the first tray with their second side upward during the second machine-vision inspection. 11. The method of claim 9, wherein the device-inverting operation is configured to place the first tray to invert the plurality of devices from another tray into an inverted position, and wherein the device-inverting mechanism is configured to place the plurality of devices into the first tray in the inverted position such that the plurality of devices are in the first tray in the inverted position when they are inspected in the first output station. 12. The method of claim 8, further comprising obtaining a good device that has previously passed inspection from a second tray that holds devices including one or more known-good devices that have each previously passed inspection, and using the good device to replace the first device that has not passed inspection in the first tray. 13. The method of claim 12, further comprising: providing a second output station having a second output elevator; holding a plurality of trays each of which has a plurality of devices that have not passed the machine-vision inspection, wherein the second tray is a top tray at the second output station and is used to hold a supply of known-good devices, wherein devices that have not passed the machine-vision inspection, after removal from the first tray, are placed in the second tray, and once all the known-good devices from the second tray have been used as replacements and the second tray holds only devices that have not passed inspection, the second elevator lowers the second tray and a plurality of other trays holding devices that have not passed inspection. 14. The method of claim 8, wherein the method further comprises: providing a second machine-vision inspection station that includes a third elevator below an imaged area of the second inspection station, wherein the third elevator holds a plurality of trays each holding a plurality of devices, and wherein the machine-vision inspecting at the first output station inspects a second side of each of the plurality of devices in the first tray; and inspecting a first side of each of the plurality of devices in the first tray at a top position of the second machine-vision inspection station. 15. A machine vision system for inspecting a tray populated with a plurality of devices, the machine vision system comprising: a first output station having a first output elevator; means for holding a first tray at a top position of the first output station above a plurality of other trays, each of which has a plurality of devices that have been inspected; means for machine-vision inspecting a plurality of devices in the first tray held at the top position of the first output elevator; and means for, upon completion of the machine-vision inspecting of the plurality of devices in the first tray, lowering the first tray and the plurality of other trays in the first output elevator and moving another tray having a plurality of devices to the top position above the first tray. 16. The system of claim 15, wherein the inspection station comprises: means for performing a first-side machine-vision inspection of a first side of devices in a first tray; means for performing a device-inverting operation on the devices that were inspected in the first-side machine-vision inspection; and wherein the machine-vision inspecting of the plurality of devices in the first tray held at the top position of the first output elevator is of a second side of the devices in the first tray, wherein the means for performing the device-inverting operation operates to invert the devices. 17. The system of claim 16, wherein the means for performing the device-inverting operation is configured to invert and remove the devices from the first tray and to place the devices back into the first tray such that the devices are in the first tray with their second side upward during the machine-vision inspection at the first output elevator. 18. The system of claim 16, wherein the means for performing the device-inverting operation is configured to place the first tray to receive the plurality of devices from another tray into an inverted position, and wherein the means for performing the device-inverting operation is configured to place the plurality of devices into the first tray in the inverted position such that the plurality of devices are in the first tray in the inverted position when they are inspected in the first output station. 19. The system of claim 15, further comprising means for sorting that includes means for obtaining a good device that has previously passed inspection from a second tray that holds devices including one or more known-good devices that have each previously passed inspection, and means for using the good device to replace the first device that has not passed inspection in the first tray. 20. The system of claim 19, further comprising: a second output station having second means for holding a plurality of trays each of which has a plurality of devices that have not passed the machine-vision inspection, wherein the second tray is a top tray at the second output station and is used to hold a supply of known-good devices, wherein the means for sorting places devices that have not passed the machine-vision inspection, after removal from the first tray, into the second tray, and once all the known-good devices from the second tray have been used as replacements and the second tray holds only devices that have not passed inspection, the second means for holding the plurality of trays lowers the second tray and a plurality of other trays holding devices that have not passed inspection. 