The present invention relates to a method of processing analyte using a portable incubator apparatus. The incubator apparatus 10 has a plurality of cavities 20 each configured to receive analyte to be incubated. The method comprises: receiving analyte in each of the plurality of cavities; incubating the analyte in the plurality of cavities, the incubator apparatus being operable to control temperatures of analyte contained in the plurality of cavities independently of each other; and moving the incubator apparatus from a first location to a second location while the analyte is being incubated, the incubator apparatus being configured to maintain desired incubation conditions independently of a supply of electrical power and apparatus external to the incubator apparatus as the incubator apparatus is being moved.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An SBS footprint portable incubator apparatus comprising: a plurality of cavities, each configured to receive an analyte to be incubated; wherein the portable incubator apparatus has an SBS format footprint in accordance with ANSI/SBS 1-2004 and is configured to control temperatures of analyte contained in the plurality of cavities independently of each other; and the portable incubator apparatus is further configured to maintain desired incubation conditions, independently of a supply of electrical power and external apparatus, while the portable incubator apparatus is moved from a first location to a second location, the portable incubator apparatus comprising at least one heat sink thermally coupled to at least one of the plurality of cavities, the heat sink comprising a lower part of a casing of the portable incubator apparatus, wherein the plurality of cavities are disposed in the portable incubator apparatus in a two-dimensional array and each row of the array is associated with two Peltier heat pumps, and wherein the two Peltier heat pumps on each row are independent from the two Peltier heat pumps on adjacent rows to provide independent control of temperatures of analyte contained in cavities in each row. 2. A portable incubator apparatus as claimed in claim 1, further comprising a power supply which provides electrical power to allow independent operation of the portable incubator apparatus. 3. A portable incubator apparatus as claimed in claim 1, further comprising at least one light source configured to illuminate analyte contained in at least one of the plurality of cavities. 4. A portable incubator apparatus as claimed in claim 1, configured for use in one or more of the following processes; biological crystallisation, non-biological crystallisation, enzyme kinetics, fermentation, polymer science, stem cell storage, polymerase chain reaction, polymer science and similar DNA related processes. 5. Portable incubator apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein the portable incubator apparatus is configured to maintain a first group of cavities at a first temperature and a second group of cavities at a second temperature different from the first. 6. Portable incubator apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein the portable incubator apparatus is configured to create a first temperature gradient across a first group of cavities and a second temperature gradient across a second group of cavities, said first and second temperature gradients being independently controlled. 7. A portable incubator apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein the heat sink has a footprint in accordance with ANSI/SBS 1-2004. 8. A portable incubator apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein the portable incubator apparatus comprises a temperature controller operable to control the temperatures of analyte contained in the plurality of cavities to be less than ambient temperature. 9. A portable incubator apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein the portable incubator apparatus is configured to control temperatures of analyte contained in the plurality of cavities to be between about 4.degree. C. and about 35.degree. C. 10. An SBS footprint portable incubator apparatus comprising: a plurality of cavities, each configured to receive an analyte to be incubated; wherein the portable incubator apparatus is configured to control temperatures of analyte contained in the plurality of cavities independently of each other; and the portable incubator apparatus is further configured to maintain desired incubation conditions, independently of a supply of electrical power and external apparatus, while the portable incubator apparatus is moved from a first location to a second location, the portable incubator apparatus comprising at least one heat sink thermally coupled to at least one of the plurality of cavities, the heat sink comprising a lower part of a casing of the portable incubator apparatus and the heat sink having a footprint in accordance with ANSI/SBS 1-2004; wherein the plurality of cavities are disposed in the portable incubator apparatus in a two-dimensional array and each row of the array is associated with two Peltier heat pumps, and wherein the two Peltier heat pumps on each row are independent from the two Peltier heat pumps on adjacent rows to provide independent control of temperatures of analyte contained in cavities in each row. 11. A portable incubator apparatus as claimed in claim 10, wherein the portable incubator apparatus comprises a temperature controller operable to control the temperatures of analyte contained in the plurality of cavities to be less than ambient temperature. 12. A portable incubator apparatus as claimed in claim 10, wherein the portable incubator apparatus is configured to control temperatures of analyte contained in the plurality of cavities to be between about 4.degree. C. and about 35.degree. C. 13. A portable incubator apparatus as claimed in claim 10, further comprising a power supply which provides electrical power to allow independent operation of the portable incubator apparatus. 14. A portable incubator apparatus as claimed in claim 10, further comprising at least one light source configured to illuminate analyte contained in at least one of the plurality of cavities. 15. A portable incubator apparatus as claimed in claim 10, configured for use in one or more of the following processes; biological crystallisation, non-biological crystallisation, enzyme kinetics, fermentation, polymer science, stem cell storage, polymerase chain reaction, polymer science and similar DNA related processes. 16. Portable incubator apparatus as claimed in claim 10, wherein the portable incubator apparatus is configured to maintain a first group of cavities at a first temperature and a second group of cavities at a second temperature different from the first. 17. Portable incubator apparatus as claimed in claim 10, wherein the portable incubator apparatus is configured to create a first temperature gradient across a first group of cavities and a second temperature gradient across a second group of cavities, said first and second temperature gradients being independently controlled. 18. An SBS footprint portable incubator apparatus comprising: a plurality of cavities, each configured to receive an analyte to be incubated; wherein the portable incubator apparatus is configured to control temperatures of analyte contained in the plurality of cavities independently of each other; and the portable incubator apparatus is further configured to maintain desired incubation conditions, independently of a supply of electrical power and external apparatus, while the portable incubator apparatus is moved from a first location to a second location, the portable incubator apparatus comprising at least one heat sink thermally coupled to at least one of the plurality of cavities, the heat sink comprising a lower part of a casing of the portable incubator apparatus and the heat sink having a footprint in accordance with ANSI/SBS 1-2004, wherein the plurality of cavities are disposed in the portable incubator apparatus in a two-dimensional array and each row of the array is associated with two Peltier heat pumps, and wherein the two Peltier heat pumps on each row are independent from the two Peltier heat pumps on adjacent rows to provide independent control of temperatures of analyte contained in cavities in each row, and wherein the portable incubator apparatus comprises a temperature controller operable to control the temperatures of analyte contained in the plurality of cavities to be less than ambient temperature. 19. A portable incubator apparatus as claimed in claim 18, wherein the portable incubator apparatus is configured to control temperatures of analyte contained in the plurality of cavities to be between about 4.degree. C. and about 35.degree. C. 