A method and apparatus for a transfer robot that may be used in a vacuum environment is described. The transfer robot includes a lift assembly comprising a first platform and a second platform coupled to the first platform by a plurality of support members, the plurality of support members comprising a first pair of support members and a second pair of support members, a first drive assembly coupled to a portion of the plurality of support members, the first drive assembly providing a motive force to the plurality of support members to move the second platform in a first linear direction relative to the first platform, and an end effector disposed on the second platform and movable in a second linear direction by a second drive assembly, the second linear direction being orthogonal to the first linear direction.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A transfer robot for use in a vacuum environment, comprising: a lift assembly comprising a first platform and a second platform; a plurality of support members coupling the first platform to the second platform, the plurality of support members comprising: a first pair of support members, each having a first end rotatably coupled to the first platform and a second end coupled to the second platform by a first linear assembly; and a second pair of support members, each having a first end rotatably coupled to the second platform and a second end coupled to the first platform by a second linear assembly, the first pair and second pair of support members coupled together at a center thereof; a first drive assembly coupled to the second pair of support members, the first drive assembly providing a motive force to the plurality of support members to change the angle of the second pair of support members relative to the first pair of support members to move the second platform in a first linear direction relative to the first platform; an end effector assembly disposed on the second platform and movable in a second linear direction by a second drive assembly, the second linear direction being orthogonal to the first linear direction; and a plurality of fluid conduits movably coupled between the first platform and the second platform, at least a portion of the plurality of fluid conduits fixed relative to portions of each of the first pair and second pair of support members and coupled with rotatable vacuum seals. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: a fixed base coupled to the first platform by a rotational drive assembly. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: a hermetically sealed enclosure disposed in the second platform, the enclosure having at least a portion of the second drive assembly disposed therein. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the second drive assembly includes at least one motor housed in the hermetically sealed enclosure. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the at least one motor is disposed in a housing within the hermetically sealed enclosure and the housing comprises a plurality of cooling fluid channels disposed therein. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first linear assembly and the second linear assembly comprise linear bearings. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the end effector assembly comprises a wrist and a plurality of fingers extending from the wrist. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the end effector assembly comprises at least two stacked and independently movable end effector modules, each end effector module comprising a wrist and a plurality of fingers extending from the wrist. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the second drive assembly includes a plurality of first linear drive rails and a plurality of second linear drive rails movably coupled to the first linear drive rails. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, further comprising: a fluid channel in communication with at least a portion of the plurality of first linear drive rails. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the fluid channel is coupled to a plurality of fluid conduits movably coupled between the second base and the platform, at least a portion of the plurality of fluid conduits fixed relative to portions of each of the plurality of support members and coupled with rotatable vacuum seals. 12. A transfer robot for use in a vacuum environment, comprising: a first assembly comprising a fixed first base coupled to a second base by a first motor that rotates the second base relative to the first base; a platform; a plurality of support members coupling the second base to the platform, the plurality of support members pivotably coupled together at a center thereof; a second motor coupled to at least one of the plurality of support members, the second motor providing a motive force to one end of the at least one support member to pivot the at least one support member relative to other support members to move the platform in a first linear direction relative to the second base; and at least a first end effector assembly disposed on the platform that is movable in a second linear direction by a first linear drive that is at least partially disposed in a hermetically sealed enclosure, the second linear direction being orthogonal to the first linear direction, wherein the hermetically sealed enclosure includes a port coupled to a plurality of fluid conduits movably coupled between the second base and the platform, at least a portion of the plurality of fluid conduits fixed relative to portions of each of the plurality of support members and coupled with rotatable vacuum seals. 13. A transfer robot for use in a vacuum environment, comprising: a first assembly comprising a fixed first base coupled to a second base by a first motor that rotates the second base relative to the first base; a platform; a plurality of support members coupling the second base to the platform, the plurality of support members pivotably coupled together at a center thereof; a second motor coupled to at least one of the plurality of support members, the second motor providing a motive force to one end of the at least one support member to pivot the at least one support member relative to other support members to move the platform in a first linear direction relative to the second base; a first end effector assembly disposed on the platform that is movable in a second linear direction by a first linear drive that is at least partially disposed in a hermetically sealed enclosure, the second linear direction being orthogonal to the first linear direction; and a second end effector assembly that is independently movable in the second linear direction by a second linear drive that is at least partially disposed in the hermetically sealed enclosure, wherein the first and second linear drives comprise: a plurality of first linear drive rails and a plurality of second linear drive rails movable coupled to the first linear drive rails; a belt coupled between a motor and a respective end effector assembly; and a fluid channel in communication with at least a portion of the plurality of first drive rails. 