An instrument shoulder strap device and method for use with musical instruments, wherein the device comprises: a backless shoulder strap; the shoulder strap has an adjustable front strap; an U shaped mounting bracket, which is attached to the shoulder strap; the U shaped mounting bracket has slidable connecting means for connecting an instrument to the shoulder strap; and wherein the instrument has a pivot axle member having attachment means for attaching the member to the instrument, thereby allowing a user the ability to connect the pivot axle member to the U shaped mounting bracket for attaching and detaching the instrument to the shoulder strap.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An instrument shoulder strap comprising: a backless shoulder strap, said strap engaging only one shoulder of a user and not extending across said user's back and supporting an instrument about the middle of said user's body; said shoulder strap has an adjustable length front strap; a U shaped mounting bracket, which is attached to said front strap near the middle of said user's body; and wherein said U shaped mounting bracket has slidable connecting means for connecting said instrument having a strap button to said shoulder strap. 2. The device of claim 1, wherein said instrument strap button has a pivot axle member that has a plate that attaches to said instrument and screws for connecting said plate to said instrument, thereby allowing a user the ability to connect said pivot axle member to said U shaped mounting bracket for attaching and detaching said instrument to said shoulder strap. 3. The device of claim 1, wherein said instrument strap button has a pivot axle member having attachment means for attaching said member to said instrument, thereby allowing a user the ability to connect said pivot axle member to said U shaped mounting bracket for attaching and detaching said instrument to said shoulder strap. 4. The device of claim 1, wherein said instrument strap button has a pivot axle member for connecting to said U shaped mounting bracket for attaching and detaching said instrument to said shoulder strap. 5. The device of claim 1, wherein said shoulder strap further comprises a padded aluminum shoulder support. 6. The device of claim 4, wherein said instrument is a musical instrument and said shoulder strap is a musical instrument shoulder strap. 7. The device of claim 4, wherein said instrument is a guitar and said shoulder strap is a guitar shoulder strap. 8. The device of claim 7, wherein said guitar selected from a group consisting of classic guitar, flamenco guitar, plectrum guitar, acoustic guitar, 12-string guitar, hawaiian guitar, electric guitar, electric bass and guitar video game controller. 9. A guitar shoulder strap comprising: a backless shoulder strap, said strap engaging only one shoulder of a user and not extending across said user's back and supporting a guitar about the middle of said user's body; said shoulder strap has an adjustable length front strap; a U shaped mounting bracket, which is attached to said front strap near the middle of said user's body; and wherein said U shaped mounting bracket has slidable connecting means for connecting said guitar having a strap button to said shoulder strap. 10. The device of claim 9, wherein said shoulder strap further comprises a padded aluminum shoulder support. 11. The device of claim 9, wherein said guitar strap button has a pivot axle member that has a plate that attaches to said guitar and screws for connecting said plate to said guitar, thereby allowing said user the ability to connect said pivot axle member to said U shaped mounting bracket for attaching and detaching said guitar to said shoulder strap. 12. The device of claim 9, wherein said guitar strap button has a pivot axle member having attachment means for attaching said member to said guitar, thereby allowing said user the ability to connect said pivot axle member to said U shaped mounting bracket for attaching and detaching said guitar to said shoulder strap. 13. The device of claim 9, wherein said guitar strap button has a pivot axle member for connecting to said U33 shaped mounting bracket for attaching and detaching said guitar to said shoulder strap. 14. The device of claim 9, wherein said guitar selected from a group consisting of classic guitar, flamenco guitar, plectrum guitar, acoustic guitar, 12-string guitar, hawaiian guitar, electric guitar, electric bass and guitar video game controller. 15. A method of using a guitar shoulder strap comprising the steps of: providing a guitar having a pivot axle member having attachment means for attaching said member to said guitar, a backless shoulder strap, said strap engaging only one shoulder of a user and not extending across said user's back and supporting a guitar about the middle of said user's body, said shoulder strap has an adjustable length front strap, a U shaped mounting bracket, which is attached to said front strap near the middle of said user's body; wherein said user elects to attach said guitar having a strap button to said front strap, said user will slidable connect said pivot axle member to said U shaped mounting bracket, thereby attaching said guitar to said shoulder strap, and wherein said user elects to detaching said guitar having a strap button from said front strap, said user will slidable remove said pivot axle member from said U shaped mounting bracket, thereby detaching said guitar from said shoulder strap. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein said shoulder strap further comprises a padded aluminum shoulder support. 17. The method of claim 15, wherein said guitar selected from a group consisting of classic guitar, flamenco guitar, plectrum guitar, acoustic guitar, 12-string guitar, hawaiian guitar, electric guitar, electric bass and guitar video game controller. 18. The method of claim 15, wherein said guitar strap button having said pivot axle member has a plate that attaches to said guitar and screws for connecting said plate to said guitar, thereby allowing a user the ability to connect said pivot axle member to said U shaped mounting bracket for attaching and detaching said guitar to said shoulder strap. 19. The method of claim 15, wherein said guitar strap button has a pivot axle member for connecting to said U shaped mounting bracket for attaching and detaching said guitar to said shoulder strap. 