A drive system is presented for controlling rotation of a sphere. The system facilitates holonomic motion of a drive with respect to a sphere such that a holonomic drive or drives may be maintained at a relative position with respect to a sphere. The motion of a sphere may be controlled by controlling the position of a drive with respect to the sphere. The drive may be controlled by way of a controller. A holonomic drive may be urged against a sphere by way magnetic interaction of the holonomic drive and a second structure. Also, a support structure is facilitated that allows a sphere to pass through a support column without breaks or interruptions in the sphere.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A magnetic holonomic drive system, comprising: a substantially spherical body having a surface portion; a holonomic drive having at least one multidirectional wheel contacting said surface portion of said substantially spherical body; and a holding magnet assembly on said holonomic drive and operative to urge said at least one multidirectional wheel against said surface portion of said substantially spherical body, wherein said substantially spherical body is controlled in response to rotation of said at least one multidirectional wheel. 2. The magnetic holonomic drive system of claim 1, further comprising: a control system responsive to one or more sensors and operable to control rotation of said at least one multidirectional wheel to position said holonomic drive in a relative position with respect to said substantially spherical body to control rotation of said substantially spherical body. 3. The magnetic holonomic drive system of claim 2, further comprising: a mast operatively connected to the holonomic drive and generally extending away from said substantially spherical body; wherein said control system is operative to monitor an orientation of said mast and control said at least one multidirectional wheel in order to maintain said mast in a substantially vertical orientation. 4. The magnetic holonomic drive system of claim 3, wherein said mast supports an object. 5. The magnetic holonomic drive system of claim 4, wherein said object comprises at least one of an operator, an animatronic character, a puppet, and a prop. 6. The magnetic holonomic drive system of claim 2, wherein said control system comprises a processor in operative communication with an inertial measuring unit. 7. The magnetic holonomic drive system of claim 6, wherein said processor is operative to interpret an output of said inertial measuring unit to generate at least one control signal that is in turn communicated to a motor in engagement with said at least one multidirectional wheel. 8. The magnetic holonomic drive system of claim 1, wherein said substantially spherical body comprises a ferrous material and said holding magnet assembly magnetically interacts with said ferrous material to urge said at least one multidirectional wheel against said surface portion. 9. The magnetic holonomic drive system of claim 1, wherein said substantially spherical body comprises a nonferrous material, and the magnetic holonomic drive system further comprises: a magnetic structure interacting with said holonomic drive to maintain said holonomic drive against said surface portion of said substantially spherical body. 10. The magnetic holonomic drive system of claim 9, wherein said magnetic structure comprises a second holonomic drive having at least a second multidirectional wheel contacting a second surface portion of said substantially spherical body, said second holonomic drive having a second holding magnet assembly and operative to urge said first holonomic drive and said second holonomic drive against said surface portion and said second surface portion of said substantially spherical body, wherein said substantially spherical body is controlled in response to rotation of said first multidirectional wheel and said second multidirectional wheel. 11. The magnetic holonomic drive system of claim 9, further comprising: a counterweight attached to and extending away from said magnetic structure such that said counterweight is disposed entirely within an interior volume of said substantially spherical body. 12. The magnetic holonomic drive system of claim 1, wherein said holonomic drive covers an area less than about 10% of a total one of said surface portion. 13. A vehicle capable of holonomic motion over a surface, the vehicle comprising: a substantially spherical body defining an interior volume and having a sidewall with an interior surface and an exterior surface; a locomotive drive within said interior volume and supported on said surface and engageable with said interior surface to produce rotation of said substantially spherical body such that said substantially spherical body moves with respect to said surface; a support beam attached to said locomotive drive and extending away from said locomotive drive; an interior support operatively connected to an end portion of said support beam opposite said locomotive drive, said interior support contacting said interior surface and said interior support including a first magnetic holding portion; and an exterior support contacting said exterior surface of the substantially spherical body and on an opposite side of said sidewall as said interior support, said exterior support having a second magnetic holding portion in magnetic interaction with said first magnetic holding portion to produce an urging force relative to said interior and exterior supports. 14. The vehicle of claim 13, wherein said interior support comprises a first holonomic drive. 15. The vehicle of claim 14, wherein said exterior support comprises a second holonomic drive. 16. The vehicle of claim 13, wherein said exterior support at least partially comprises at least one of an operator platform, an animatronic character, a puppet, and a prop. 17. A method for controlling a robotic system, the method comprising: sensing a position of a holonomic drive in contact with a sphere; determining a correction command necessary to affect a desired change in position of said holonomic drive; generating a control signal comprising information about said correction command; rotating at least one multidirectional wheel in contact with said sphere to affect movement of said holonomic drive with respect to said sphere corresponding to said correction command. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein said desired change in position corresponds to a desired movement of said sphere along a surface. 19. The method of claim 18, further comprising the step of: positioning said drive with respect to said sphere to affect said desired movement of said sphere. 20. The method of claim 16, wherein said at least one multidirectional wheel is in contact with said sphere by way of magnetic interaction. 