The present invention is directed to an interactive intelligent toy that provides the appearance and experience of a toy hamster moving in, and interacting with, its environment and habitat. In an exemplary embodiment, the interactive intelligent toy comprises an intelligent motive and control component enclosed by a cover resembling a hamster, with fur coat, eyes, ears, mouth, nose, and whiskers. The motive component includes a drive mechanism and circuitry operable to control the drive mechanism, monitor and detect user and event inputs, and detect and decode embedded codes from a pathway and perform predetermined actions or generate predetermined sounds in response. The motive component moves along and through a pathway component having one or more embedded codes detectable by the motive component, the embedded codes providing information to the motive component to direct desired action of the motive component.
Claims What is claimed and desired to be secured by Letters Patent is as follows: 1. An interactive intelligent toy, comprising: a motive component comprising a drive mechanism including a motor operable to rotate first and second wheels in a first direction and a second direction, control circuitry operable to control direction of rotation of said motor to thereby move said motive component in said first and second directions, and mechanical switches operable to detect raised bumps in a surface under said motive component and to actuate to enable detection of a code associated with said raised bumps; wherein said control circuitry is programmed to randomly implement an action of said motive component in response to said detected code such that said control circuitry does not cause said motive component to perform said action in response to said detected code every time said code is detected. 2. The interactive intelligent toy of claim 1, wherein said control circuitry is operable to communicate with said drive mechanism and wherein said control circuitry commands said drive mechanism. 3. The interactive intelligent toy of claim 1, wherein said control circuitry is programmed to randomly generate a sound in response to said detected code, such that said control circuitry does not generate a sound in response to said detected code every time said code is detected. 4. The interactive intelligent toy of claim 1, wherein said action comprises at least one predetermined action. 5. The interactive intelligent toy of claim 4, wherein said predetermined action comprises a movement action, a sound action, or combinations thereof. 