There is disclosed a method of pre-treatment and staining, according to a protocol, of a biological sample disposed upon the surface of a carrier, the method comprising the step of recording at least one parameter relating to at least one protocol step in a non-volatile memory located either upon or within the carrier or a device incorporating the carrier. Also disclosed is a device comprising: a non-volatile memory; a surface of the device adapted to carry a biological sample; and communications means electrically coupled to the memory for enabling data transmission to or from an external apparatus. Also disclosed is a method of controlling processing of a biological sample disposed upon a carrier, comprising: providing, upon or within the carrier or an apparatus holding the carrier, a non-volatile memory having information relating to sample processing priority or protocol; reading the information; and scheduling the processing based upon the information.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for controlling at least one instrument in a laboratory with a computer, the method comprising: providing at least one sample arranged on a sample carrier; transmitting a radio frequency signal from the at least one instrument to a radio frequency device associated with the sample carrier; receiving data stored on the radio frequency device via a return signal from the radio frequency device to the at least one instrument; and conveying the data to a central database in the computer; determining by the computer at least one processing step to be carried out on the sample based on the data; and controlling by the computer the at least one instrument to carry out the at least one processing step on the sample. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the sample carrier includes a sample. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the data stored on the radio frequency device includes at least one of patient data, carrier priority data, access data, historical processing data for the sample, sample type data, or the position of the sample on the carrier. 4. The method of claim 2, wherein the radio frequency device includes writable memory. 5. The method of claim 4, further including writing data received from the computer to the writable memory of the radio frequency device. 6. The method of claim 3, wherein the data further includes information about at least one processing step performed on the sample. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein controlling processing performed by the at least one instrument includes communicating with the radio frequency device in order to determine a next processing step. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the sample carrier includes writable memory, and the method further comprises writing information regarding the processing to the writable memory. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the radio frequency device is embedded in the sample carrier. 10. The method of claim 1, further including transferring to a remote database data relating to the processing performed by the at least one instrument. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the radio frequency device includes an RF antenna. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the radio frequency device includes a data processing unit with a microprocessor. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the sample is a biological specimen. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one laboratory instrument is a stainer. 15. The method of claim 14, further comprising: dispensing reagents on the sample carrier with a robotic arm of the stainer according to the at least one processing step. 