A method for delivering an electronic coupon to a mobile device includes receiving via a wireless network a target image or icons extracted from the target image, comparing the target image to a plurality of learned images using a processor in communication with the wireless network, determining whether the target image matches at least one learned image, and when the target image matches at least one learned image, delivering to the mobile device over the wireless network an electronic coupon associated with the at least one learned image. The target image can represent at least a portion of a front surface of a consumer packaged good located in a retail outlet. The target image can be generated using a mobile device configured to communicate with the wireless network. The front surface of the consumer packaged good is the surface of the consumer packaged good that faces an aisle of the retail outlet carrying the consumer packaged good; accordingly, the consumer does not need to handle the consumer packaged good in search of a bar code.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for delivering an electronic coupon to a mobile device, the method comprising: extracting unique points from a target image, wherein the unique points are generated from extremum information obtained from the target image by cross-correlating at least one structure across the target image, wherein the target image represents a consumer packaged good and is generated by a mobile device configured to communicate with a wireless network; extracting an icon of the target image corresponding to each of the unique points; comparing the extracted icon to a stored icon corresponding to a learned image, wherein the stored icon is stored in a memory in electrical communication with the wireless network; determining whether the target image matches the learned image based on comparing the extracted icon to the stored icon; and delivering to the mobile device over the wireless network an electronic coupon associated with the learned image when the target image matches the learned image. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein extracting the icon is performed on a processor in the mobile device. 3. The method of claim 2, further comprising sending the extracted icon over the wireless network to a server in communication with the wireless network and the memory, wherein the extracted icon is described in a descriptor vector format. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising receiving the target image from the mobile device over the wireless network, wherein extracting the icon is performed on a server in communication with the network. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein comparing the extracted icon to a stored icon further includes comparing the extracted icon to a stored icon corresponding to a plurality of learned images. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein delivering to the mobile device over the network an electronic coupon includes delivering a plurality of electronic coupons associated with a species of images, wherein the species of images includes more than one subspecies image. 7. The method of claim 5, wherein delivering to the mobile device over the network an electronic coupon includes delivering a single electronic coupon associated with a subspecies image classified within a species of images. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein delivering to the mobile device over the network an electronic coupon includes delivering an electronic coupon associated with a producer or a distributor of the consumer packaged good when the extracted icon matches the stored icon. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein delivering to the mobile device over the network an electronic coupon includes delivering an electronic coupon associated with a competitor of a producer or a competitor of a distributor of the consumer packaged good when the extracted icon matches the stored icon. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the target image of the consumer packaged good corresponds to a front surface of the consumer packaged good, wherein the front surface faces an aisle of a retail store that sells the consumer packaged good. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the learned image corresponds to the front surface of a consumer packaged good that is to be offered for sale. 12. The method of claim 1, further comprising normalizing the extracted icon to a predetermined size to generate a normalized extracted icon. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein comparing the extracted icon to a stored icon includes comparing the normalized extracted icon with a normalized stored icon corresponding to the learned image. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein determining whether the target image matches the learned image includes using a least square correlation method to generate a perspective transform between a unique point position of the normalized stored icon and the unique point position of the normalized extracted icon. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein determining whether the target image matches the learned image includes superimposing the stored icon on the target image to determine a match score. 16. A method for delivering an electronic coupon to a mobile device, the method comprising: extracting an icon from a target image of a consumer packaged good where the target image is generated by a mobile device configured to communicate with a wireless network; comparing the extracted icon to a stored icon corresponding to a learned image, wherein the stored icon is stored in a memory in electrical communication with the wireless network; determining whether the target image matches the learned image based on comparing the extracted icon to the stored icon; and delivering to the mobile device over the wireless network an electronic coupon associated with the learned image when the target image matches the learned image, wherein extracting the icon includes cross-correlating the target image with a structure having a variety of scales across the image, wherein extracting the icon further includes computing an angle of the extracted icon from a vector between a unique point position of the extracted icon and a grayscale centroid position of the extracted icon at a scale. 