The present invention relates to eukaryotic host cells which have been modified to produce sialylated glycoproteins by the heterologous expression of a set of glycosyltransferases, including sialyltransferase and/or trans-sialidase, to become host-strains for the production of mammalian, e.g., human therapeutic glycoproteins. Novel eukaryotic host cells expressing a CMP-sialic acid biosynthetic pathway for the production of sialylated glycoproteins are also provided. The invention provides nucleic acid molecules and combinatorial libraries which can be used to successfully target and express mammalian enzymatic activities (such as those involved in sialylation) to intracellular compartments in a eukaryotic host cell. The process provides an engineered host cell which can be used to express and target any desirable gene(s) involved in glycosylation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An yeast host cell capable of producing CMP-sialic acid comprising: (a) one or more nucleic acid molecules encoding a bifunctional UDP-N-acetylglucosamine-2-epimerase/N-acetylmannosamine kinase, an N-acetylneuraminate-9-phosphate synthase, and a CMP-Sialic acid synthase, (b) a nucleic acid molecule encoding a CMP-sialic acid transporter, and (c) a nucleic acid molecule encoding a 2,6-sialyltransferase catalytic domain fused to a cellular targeting signal peptide encoded by nucleotides 1-108 of the S. cerevisiae Mnn2 wherein nucleotides 1-108 encoding the S. cerevisiae Mnn2 have the nucleotide sequence shown by nucleotides 13 to 120 of SEQ ID NO:103, wherein the yeast host cell is capable of producing the CMP-sialic acid. 2. The yeast host cell of claim 1, wherein the yeast host cell is genetically engineered to comprise one or more additional nucleic acids encoding one or more enzymes selected from the group consisting of glycosyltransferases, glycosidases, and sugar transporters. 3. The yeast host cell of claim 1, wherein the yeast host cell is a Pichia sp., Pichia pastoris, Pichia finlandica, Pichia trehalophila, Pichia koclamae, Pichia membranaefaciens, Pichia opuntiae, Pichia thermotolerans, Pichia salictaria, Pichia guercuum, Pichia pijperi, Pichia stiptis, Pichia methanolica; Saccharomyces sp., Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Hansenula polymorphs, Kluyveromyces sp., Kluyveromyces lactis, or Candida albicans. 4. The yeast host cell of claim 1, wherein the yeast host cell is a methylotrophic yeast. 5. The yeast host cell of claim 1, wherein the yeast host cell is Pichia pastoris. 6. An yeast host cell comprising a CMP-sialic acid biosynthetic pathway consisting of (a) a bifunctional UDP-N-acetylglucosamine-2-epimerase/N-acetylmannosamine kinase, an N-acetylneuraminate-9-phosphate synthase, and a CMP-Sialic acid synthase, (b) a CMP-sialic acid transporter, and (c) a 2,6-sialyltransferase catalytic domain fused to a cellular targeting signal peptide encoded by nucleotides 1-108 of the S. cerevisiae Mnn2 wherein nucleotides 1-108 encoding the S. cerevisiae Mnn2 have the nucleotide sequence shown by nucleotides 13 to 120 of SEQ ID NO:103, wherein the yeast host cell is capable of producing the CMP-sialic acid. 7. The yeast host cell of claim 6, wherein the yeast host cell is genetically engineered to comprise one or more additional nucleic acids encoding one or more enzymes selected from the group consisting of glycosyltransferases, glycosidases, and sugar transporters. 8. The yeast host cell of claim 6, wherein the yeast host cell is a Pichia sp., Pichia pastoris, Pichia finlandica, Pichia trehalophila, Pichia koclamae, Pichia membranaefaciens, Pichia opuntiae, Pichia thermotolerans, Pichia salictaria, Pichia guercuum, Pichia pijperi, Pichia stiptis, Pichia methanolica; Saccharomyces sp., Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Hansenula polymorphs, Kluyveromyces sp., Kluyveromyces lactis, or Candida albicans. 9. The yeast host cell of claim 6, wherein the yeast host cell is a methylotrophic yeast. 10. The yeast host cell of claim 6, wherein the yeast host cell is Pichia pastoris. 