A method and apparatus are provided for stamping a piece of ePaper. A grid is positioned within a selected distance to a first side of the piece of ePaper. A grounding pin conductively connects a conductive backing plate located on a second side of the piece of ePaper. The grounding pin completes a voltage path from the grid through the piece of ePaper to the conductive backing plate. A voltage is supplied to the grid and supplying the voltage to the grid changes the appearance of the piece of ePaper to form a stamped image.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for stamping a piece of electronic paper (ePaper), the method comprising: moving a grid toward the piece of ePaper, wherein the grid comprises a two-dimensional planar film of transistors arranged as a plurality of two-dimensional points, wherein each of the plurality of two-dimensional points is individually controllable, and individually controlling each of the plurality of points; fixedly positioning the grid within a selected distance to a first side of the piece of ePaper; conductively connecting a grounding pin to a conductive backing plate located on a second side of the piece of ePaper, wherein a voltage path is completed from the grid through the piece of ePaper to the conductive backing plate; supplying a voltage to the grid while the grid is fixedly positioned within the selected distance to the first side of the piece of ePaper, wherein supplying the voltage to the grid changes an appearance of the piece of ePaper to concurrently form in two dimensions a stamped two-dimensional image while the grid is fixedly positioned within the selected distance to the first side of the piece of ePaper such that the grid and the piece of ePaper are stationary with respect to one another when stamping the piece of ePaper to form the stamped two-dimensional image; determining that the grid is within the selected distance of the first side of the piece of ePaper before applying the voltage to the grid; and using a two-dimensional pattern of light and dark bead orientations as guidemarks to align the grid in two-dimensions relative to the piece of ePaper in order to aid creation of the stamped two-dimensional image. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: placing the piece of ePaper on the conductive backing plate. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining whether the stamped two-dimensional image was successfully stamped on the piece of ePaper. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising a step of stamping a plurality of two-dimensional images on the sheet of ePaper larger than the grid using the two-dimensional pattern of light and dark bead orientations as guidemarks to position the grid. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising a step of viewing the two-dimensional image through the grid using a video system, wherein the grid is substantially transparent. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the grid is coupled to a flexible support that is substantially transparent, and further comprising a step of viewing the two-dimensional image through the flexible support using a video system. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein both the grid and the flexible support are fixedly positioned with respect to the piece of ePaper when supplying the voltage to the grid. 8. The method of claim 7, further comprising a step of using the grounding pin to fixedly position both the grid and the flexible support within the selected distance to a first side of the piece of ePaper. 9. The method of claim 7, wherein moving the grid toward the piece of ePaper comprises moving an integral stamping mechanism toward to the piece of ePaper, wherein the integral stamping mechanism that is moved comprises the grounding pin, the grid and the flexible support. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the integral stamping mechanism comprises a plurality of grounding pins, and further comprising a step of conductively connecting the plurality of grounding pins to the conductive backing plate while fixedly positioning the grid. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein at least one of the plurality of grounding pins is spring loaded, and wherein the step of conductively connecting the plurality of grounding pins to the conductive backing plate comprises conductively connecting the at least one spring loaded grounding pin to the conductive backing plate. 12. The method of claim 9, wherein the integral stamping mechanism is attached to a robotic arm that positions the integral stamping mechanism. 13. The method of claim 1, further comprising: after supplying the voltage to the grid, fixedly positioning the grid within another selected distance to the first side of the piece of ePaper at a position spatially offset from a position of the grid when the voltage was supplied to the grid. 14. The method of claim 13, further comprising: responsive to fixedly positioning the grid within another selected distance to the first side of the piece of ePaper at the position spatially offset from the position of the grid, supplying another voltage to the grid to form another stamped two-dimensional image on the piece of ePaper. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the stamped image on the piece of ePaper and the another stamped two-dimensional image on the piece of ePaper partially overlap one another. 16. The method of claim 1, further comprising: concurrently forming a subsequent alignment mark on the piece of ePaper during creation of the stamped two-dimensional image; aligning the grid at a location adjacent the piece of ePaper where another stamped two-dimensional image is to be created using the subsequent alignment mark; and concurrently removing the subsequent alignment mark on the piece of ePaper during creation of the another stamped two-dimensional image. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein the grid is moved and fixedly positioned using a robotic arm. 18. A method for stamping a piece of ePaper, the method comprising: moving a grid toward the piece of ePaper and then fixedly positioning the grid within a selected distance to a first side of the piece of ePaper, wherein the grid comprises a planar film of transistors arranged as a plurality of two-dimensional points, wherein each of the plurality of two-dimensional points is individually controllable; conductively connecting a grounding pin to a conductive backing plate located on a second side of the piece of ePaper, wherein a voltage path is completed from the grid through the piece of ePaper to the conductive backing plate; and supplying a voltage to the grid while the grid is fixedly positioned within the selected distance to the first side of the piece of ePaper, wherein supplying the voltage to the grid changes an appearance of the piece of ePaper to concurrently form in two dimensions a stamped two-dimensional image while the grid is fixedly positioned within the selected distance to the first side of the piece of ePaper such that the grid and the piece of ePaper are stationary with respect to one another when stamping the piece of ePaper to form the stamped two-dimensional image, wherein the grid is fixedly positioned using a robotic arm; determining that the grid is within the selected distance of the first side of the piece of ePaper before applying the voltage to the grid; and using a two-dimensional pattern of light and dark bead orientations as guidemarks to align the grid in two-dimensions relative to the piece of ePaper in order to aid creation of the stamped two-dimensional image. 19. A method for stamping a piece of ePaper, the method comprising: moving a grid toward the piece of ePaper and then fixedly positioning the grid within a selected distance to a first side of the piece of ePaper, wherein the grid comprises a planar film of transistors; conductively connecting a grounding pin to a conductive backing plate located on a second side of the piece of ePaper, wherein a voltage path is completed from the grid through the piece of ePaper to the conductive backing plate; supplying a voltage to the grid while the grid is fixedly positioned within the selected distance to the first side of the piece of ePaper, wherein supplying the voltage to the grid changes an appearance of the piece of ePaper to concurrently form in two dimensions a stamped two-dimensional image while the grid is fixedly positioned within the selected distance to the first side of the piece of ePaper such that the grid and the piece of ePaper are stationary with respect to one another when stamping the piece of ePaper to form the stamped two-dimensional image, wherein the grid is a two-dimensional planar grid and is composed of a plurality of points and wherein each of the plurality of points is individually controllable so the appearance of the piece of ePaper changes; determining that the grid is within the selected distance of the first side of the piece of ePaper before applying the voltage to the grid; using a two-dimensional pattern of light and dark bead orientations as guidemarks to align the grid in two-dimensions relative to the piece of ePaper in order to aid creation of the stamped two-dimensional image; and after supplying the voltage to the grid, fixedly positioning the grid within another selected distance to the first side of the piece of ePaper at a position spatially offset from a position of the grid when the voltage was supplied to the grid. 