An exemplary touch sensitive robot includes a body, a touch sensor, a driver, and a controller. The body includes a control panel. The touch sensor includes a first conductive belt wrapped on the body, a second conductive belt provided around but spaced away from the first conductive belt, a power source applying a voltage to two distal ends of the first conductive voltage, and a voltage sensor interconnected between an end of the first conductive belt and an end of the second conductive belt. The second conductive belt is electrically deformable and contacts the first conductive belt when touched by a user so that a measured voltage of the voltage sensor change dependently of the location of the touch. The controller is for controlling the driver to spin the body based upon the measured voltage to orient the control panel to the user.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A touch sensitive robot comprising: a body; a touch sensor comprising: a first conductive belt provided around at least part of the body; a second conductive belt provided around but spaced apart from the first conductive belt, the second conductive belt being elastically deformable and capable of contacting the first conductive belt when pressed by a user; a power source configured to apply a voltage to two distal ends of one of the first conductive belt and the second conductive belt; and a voltage sensor interconnected between the first conductive belt and the second conductive belt and capable of measuring a voltage when the second conductive belt contacts the first conductive belt; a driver; and a controller configured for controlling the driver to turn the body based upon the voltage measurement of the voltage sensor; wherein the body further comprises a bottom board, an attachment portion extending outwards from and at least partially encircling a periphery of a main body of the bottom board, the touch sensor further comprises an isolating cover, the isolating cover covers the attachment portion and cooperates with the attachment portion to define a space between the isolating cover and the attachment portion, the first conductive belt and the second conductive belt are received in the space, the first conductive belt is attached to the attachment portion, and the second conductive belt is attached to the isolating cover and spaced from the first conductive belt; the attachment portion comprises a connecting plate extending from the periphery of the main body of the bottom board, and an engaging plate extending from the connecting plate and being oriented substantially parallel to an extremity of the periphery of the main body of the bottom board, the isolating cover comprises a cap-shaped covering section and two engaging flanges, each engaging flange extends perpendicularly inwards from a corresponding top or bottom end of the cap-shaped covering section, with the engaging flanges engaging with the engaging plate. 2. The touch sensitive robot of claim 1, wherein the body further comprises a bottom board, a dome-shaped shell, and a pair of wheels, the bottom board sealing the dome-shaped shell, the interactive section being mounted at the outer surface of the dome-shaped shell, the pair of wheels being movably fixed to the bottom board and capable of spinning the body. 3. The touch sensitive robot of claim 1, wherein the isolating cover is made of rubber. 4. The touch sensitive robot of claim 1, wherein the isolating cover is made of silica gel. 5. The touch sensitive robot of claim 1, wherein the touch sensitive robot comprises a robotic vacuum cleaner and the interactive section comprises a control panel. 6. The touch sensitive robot of claim 1, wherein the first conductive belt forms a generally C-shaped loop and the second conductive belt forms a generally C-shaped loop. 7. The touch sensitive robot of claim 1, wherein the first conductive belt is made of a conductive material of a high elasticity. 8. The touch sensitive robot of claim 1, wherein the first conductive belt is made of conductive rubber. 9. The touch sensitive robot of claim 1, wherein the second conductive belt is made of copper. 10. The touch sensitive robot of claim 1, wherein the first conductive belt and the second conductive belt have different electrical resistivities. 11. A touch sensitive robot comprising: a body comprising an interactive section configured for a user to interact with the touch sensitive robot; a touch sensor comprising: a pair of electrically conductive belts provided around at least part of the body, the belts parallel to but spaced apart from each other, an inner one of the belts adjacent to the body and an outer one of the belts separated from the body by the inner belt; a power source applying a voltage to two distal ends of one of the belts; and a voltage sensor electrically interconnecting the belts; the outer belt being capable of elastically deforming when touched by a user to contact the inner belt, and the voltage sensor configured to measure a change in the voltage caused by the contact and thereby identify a location of the touch; a driver; and a controller configured for controlling the driver to drive the body to move based upon the measured change in voltage so that the interactive section changes position to a location of the touch of the user, wherein the body further comprises a bottom board, an attachment portion extending outwards from and at least partially encircling a periphery of a main body of the bottom board, the touch sensor further comprises an isolating cover, the isolating cover covers the attachment portion and cooperates with the attachment portion to define a space between the isolating cover and the attachment portion, the first conductive belt and the second conductive belt are received in the space, the first conductive belt is attached to the attachment portion, and the second conductive belt is attached to the isolating cover and spaced from the first conductive belt; and wherein the attachment portion comprises a connecting plate extending from the periphery of the main body of the bottom board, and an engaging plate extending from the connecting plate and being oriented substantially parallel to an extremity of the periphery of the main body of the bottom board, the isolating cover comprises a cap-shaped covering section and two engaging flanges, each engaging flange extends perpendicularly inwards from a corresponding top or bottom end of the cap-shaped covering section, with the engaging flanges engaging with the engaging plate. 12. The touch sensitive robot of claim 11, further comprising an isolating cover for covering the pair of belts. 13. The touch sensitive robot of claim 12, wherein the isolating cover is made of rubber. 14. The touch sensitive robot of claim 12, wherein the isolating cover is made of silica gel. 15. The touch sensitive robot of claim 11, wherein each of the belts forms a generally C-shaped loop. 16. The touch sensitive robot of claim 11, wherein the outer belt is made of conductive rubber. 17. The touch sensitive robot of claim 11, wherein the inner conductive belt is made of copper. 18. The touch sensitive robot of claim 11, wherein the body further comprises a bottom board, a dome-shaped shell, and a pair of wheels, the bottom board seals the dome-shaped shell, the interactive section is mounted at the outer surface of the dome-shaped shell, the pair of wheels is movably fixed to the bottom board and capable of spinning the body. 19. The touch sensitive robot of claim 11, wherein the interactive section is a robotic head. 