An automotive body framing system includes a setter supported by parallel spaced tracks for movement from a work position to a standby position and to a gate change position and driven by corresponding racks and synchronized pinion drive units. Opposing gate storage belt shuttles are located at the gate change position for receiving the setter therebetween, and a gate staging cart is supported in back of the setter by parallel tracks and is also moved between opposing gate storage belt shuttles by synchronized rack and pinion drive units. Power operated registration units are positioned on the setter to register each gate received at precise horizontal and vertical positions, and the setter, staging cart and gate storage belt shuttles each have a series of resilient guide and support rollers to provide for quiet operation during rapid transfer of the gates on the setter, staging cart and belt shuttles.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automotive body framing system adapted for use on each side of a framing line where body components are transferred to be welded together at a framing station, said system comprising a setter supported for linear movement generally perpendicular to the framing line and supporting a framing gate in a work position, an elongated rack and motor driven pinion drive mechanism connected to move said setter from said work position to a retracted standby position and then further to a gate changing and storing position, a set of gate storage belt shuttles positioned in opposing relation on opposite sides of said setter at said gate changing and storing position and having releasable connections to opposite end portions of said framing gate, and a belt drive unit for operating each of said belt shuttles to move said framing gate between a retracted storage position and said work position on said setter. 2. A body framing system as defined in claim 1 wherein said setter includes a series of spaced resilient guide rollers for guiding and supporting a portion of said gate as said gate is transferred onto and from said setter. 3. A body framing system as defined in claim 1 and including a set of power operated gate registration units positioned on said setter for registering said gate in precise predetermined horizontal and vertical positions on said setter after said gate is generally received in said predetermined positions. 4. A body framing system as defined in claim 1 wherein said setter defines spaces on opposite sides of said setter in said standby position for receiving respotting welding units. 5. A body framing system as defined in claim 1 and including a gate staging cart supported for linear movement in back of said setter and in a direction parallel with said movement of said setter, and a power operated drive mechanism for moving said staging cart between a retracted position and a gate transfer position between said opposing gate storage belt shuttles. 6. A body framing system as defined in claim 5 wherein said gate staging cart is supported for linear movement by parallel spaced tracks and said power operated drive mechanism includes a set of parallel elongated racks and corresponding motor driven pinions operating in synchronism. 7. A body framing system as defined in claim 5 wherein said gate staging cart includes a series of spaced resilient guide rollers for guiding and supporting a portion of said framing gate as said gate is transferred onto and from said staging cart. 8. A body framing system as defined in claim 1 wherein each of said gate storage belt shuttles includes a series of spaced resilient guide rollers for guiding and supporting a portion of said gate as said gate is transferred onto and from each of said belt shuttles. 9. An automotive body framing system adapted for use on each side of a framing line where body components are transferred to be welded together at a framing station, said system comprising a setter supported for linear movement generally perpendicular to the framing line and supporting a framing gate in a work position, a power operated drive mechanism connected to move said setter from said work position to a gate changing and storing position, a set of gate storage belt shuttles positioned in opposing relation on opposite sides of said setter at said gate changing and storing position and having releasable connections to opposite end portions of said framing gate, a belt drive unit for operating each of said gate storage and belt shuttles to move said framing gate between a retracted storage position and said work position on said setter, a gate staging cart supported for linear movement in back of said setter and in a direction parallel with said movement of said setter, and a power operated drive mechanism connected to move said staging cart between a retracted position and a gate transfer position between said opposing gate storage belt shuttles. 10. A body framing system as defined in claim 9 wherein said setter, said staging cart and each of said storage belt shuttles includes a series of spaced resilient guide rollers for guiding and supporting a portion of said gate as said gate is transferred onto and from said setter, said staging cart and said storage belt shuttles. 11. A body framing system as defined in claim 9 and including a set of power operated gate registration units positioned on said setter for registering said gate in precise predetermined horizontal and vertical positions on said setter after said gate is generally received in said predetermined positions. 12. A body framing system as defined in claim 9 wherein said setter is movable by said drive mechanism to a standby position between said work position and said gate changing and storing position, and said setter defines spaces on opposite sides of said setter in said standby position for receiving respotting welding units. 13. A body framing system as defined in claim 9 wherein said setter and said gate staging cart are each supported for linear movement by parallel spaced tracks, and each said power operated drive mechanism includes a set of parallel elongated racks and corresponding motor driven pinions engaging said racks and operated in synchronism. 14. An automotive body framing system adapted for use on each side of a framing line where body components are transferred to be welded together at a framing station, said system comprising a setter supported for linear movement by parallel spaced tracks generally perpendicular to the framing line and supporting a framing gate in a work position, a set of parallel spaced racks and corresponding motor driven pinions engaging said racks and connected to move said setter from said work position to a gate changing and storing position, a set of gate storage belt shuttles positioned in opposing relation on opposite sides of said setter at said gate changing and storing position and having releasable connections to opposite end portions of said framing gate, and a belt drive unit for operating each of said belt shuttles to move said framing gate between a retracted storage position and said work position on said setter. 15. A body framing system as defined in claim 14 wherein said setter and each of said gate storage belt shuttles includes a series of spaced resilient guide rollers for guiding and supporting a portion of said gate as said gate is transferred onto and from said setter and onto and from each of said gate storage belt shuttles. 16. A body framing system as defined in claim 14 and including a set of power operated gate registration units positioned on said setter for registering said gate in precise predetermined horizontal and vertical positions on said setter after said gate is generally received in said predetermined positions. 17. A body framing system as defined in claim 14 wherein said setter defines spaces on opposite sides of said setter in a standby position between said work position and said gate changing and storing position for receiving respotting welding units. 18. A body framing system as defined in claim 14 and including a gate staging cart supported for linear movement by parallel spaced tracks in back of said setter and in a direction parallel with said movement of said setter, and a set of parallel elongated racks and corresponding motor driven pinions operating in synchronism for moving said staging cart between a retracted position and a gate transfer position between said opposing gate storage belt shuttles. 19. A body framing system as defined in claim 18 wherein said gate staging cart includes a series of spaced resilient guide rollers for guiding and supporting a portion of said framing gate as said gate is transferred onto and from said staging cart. 20. A body framing system as defined in claim 14 wherein each of said gate storage belt shuttles includes a series of spaced resilient guide rollers for guiding and supporting a portion of said gate as said gate is transferred onto and from each of said belt shuttles. 