A luminescence detecting apparatus and method for analyzing luminescent samples is disclosed. A detecting apparatus may be configured so that light from luminescent samples pass through a collimator, a a first lens, a filter, and a camera lens, whereupon an image is created by the optics on the charge-coupled device (CCD) camera. The detecting apparatus may further include central processing control of all operations, multiple wavelength filter wheel, and/or a robot for handling of samples and reagents.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for analyzing a plurality of luminescent samples in a luminometer, comprising the steps of: placing said plurality of luminescent samples in a respective plurality of sample wells; placing said plurality of sample wells in a luminometer containing an imaging device; positioning a dark collimator comprising a two-dimensional array of openings between said plurality of sample wells and said imaging device; registering said dark collimator to each of said plurality of sample wells; positioning a first lens between said dark collimator and said imaging device; and positioning a second lens between said first lens and said imaging device. 2. The method of claim 1, additionally comprising the step of positioning a filter between said first lens and said second lens. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein said filter includes filter elements of varying wavelength. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said dark collimator is positioned such that the only light from said luminescent samples received by said imaging device is light from said sample wells only parallel or semi-parallel light rays from said luminescent samples illuminate the imaging device. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising producing quantified luminescent values by illuminating said imaging device with light from said luminescent samples, wherein said dark collimator is configured such that the only light from said plurality of said luminescent samples received by said imaging device is light from said luminescent samples that is parallel or semi-parallel to an optical axis of said dark collimator. 6. A luminometer for analyzing a plurality of luminescent samples, comprising: an imaging device; a plurality of wells, each said well for containing one of said plurality of luminescent samples; a collimator comprising a two-dimensional array of corresponding openings positioned between said plurality of luminescent samples and said imaging device, said plurality of wells aligned to respective ones of said corresponding array of openings; a lens positioned between said collimator and said imaging device; and a camera lens positioned between said lens and said imaging device. 7. The luminometer of claim 6, further comprising a plurality of luminescent samples disposed within respective ones of said plurality of wells, wherein each of said plurality of luminescent samples is one of a bioluminescent material or a chemiluminescent material. 8. The luminometer of claim 6, further comprising a central processing unit for controlling the analysis of said plurality of luminescent samples. 9. The luminometer of claim 6, further comprising an injector for placing liquid reagents in said plurality of wells. 10. The luminometer of claim 9, wherein said injector places a reagent required for luminescence in said plurality of wells. 11. The luminometer of claim 6, further comprising a robot configured to transfer the plurality of wells. 12. The luminometer of claim 6, further comprising a chamber containing said imaging device, said plurality of sample wells, said collimator, said lens, and said camera lens, wherein said chamber is temperature controlled. 13. The luminometer of claim 6, further comprising a filter located between said lens and said imaging device. 14. The luminometer of claim 13, wherein said filter includes filter elements of varying wavelength. 15. The luminometer of claim 6, further comprising a defogger which prevents condensation on said lens. 16. The luminometer of claim 6, wherein said wells are disposed on a plate. 17. The luminometer of claim 16, further comprising a shuttle configured to support and transfer said plate. 18. The luminometer of claim 6, wherein said lens comprises a Fresnel lens. 19. The luminometer of claim 6, wherein said lens comprises an aspheric surface. 20. The luminometer of claim 6, wherein said lens comprises a molded plastic lens. 21. The luminometer of claim 6, wherein said camera lens comprises a single lens. 22. The luminometer of claim 6, wherein said camera lens is configured to focus an image of said plurality of luminescent samples on said imaging device. 23. The luminometer of claim 6, wherein said imaging device comprises a charge coupled device (CCD) chip. 24. The luminometer of claim 6, wherein said imaging device comprises charge coupled device (CCD) camera. 25. The luminometer of claim 6, wherein said collimator is in close proximity to said plurality of wells so as to enhance restriction of stray light from said wells. 26. The luminometer of claim 6, further comprising a heater disposed below said plurality of wells. 27. A luminometer for analyzing a plurality of luminescent samples, comprising: an imaging device; a sample housing comprising: a sample holder configured to receive a plurality of wells containing one or more of a plurality of luminescent samples; a collimator disposed above said sample holder, said collimator comprising a two-dimensional array of openings; a first lens disposed between said collimator and said imaging device; and a second lens disposed between said first lens and said imaging device. 28. The luminometer of claim 27, further comprising a chamber containing one or more of said sample holder, said collimator, said first lens, said second lens, or said imaging device. 29. The luminometer of claim 27, wherein said first lens comprises a lens. 30. The luminometer of claim 27, wherein said first lens comprises a Fresnel lens. 31. The luminometer of claim 27, further comprising a plurality of sample wells aligned to corresponding ones of said array of openings of said collimator. 32. The luminometer of claim 31, wherein said plurality of sample wells are disposed on a plate. 33. The luminometer of claim 27, wherein said collimator is disposed along an optical axis, said array of openings are each disposed along an axis parallel said optical axis, and the only light from said sample wells received by said imaging device is light from said sample wells that is parallel or semi-parallel to said optical axis. 34. The luminometer of claim 27, wherein each well is in registration and alignment with a corresponding opening of the array of openings. 35. The luminometer of claim 27, wherein said collimator is in close proximity to said plurality of wells so as to enhance restriction of stray light from a plurality of wells received by said sample holder. 36. The luminometer of claim 27, wherein said sample housing comprises said first lens. 37. The luminometer of claim 27, wherein said sample housing comprises a heater disposed below said sample holder. 38. The luminometer of claim 6, wherein each well is in registration and alignment with a corresponding opening of the array of openings. 