An autonomous mobile milking implement having a frame with, a sub-frame which is adjustable in height and which has at least one teat cup holder and a teat cup movable relative thereto. The teat cup holder is tiltable, via a tilting mechanism coupled to the teat cup holder and the frame between a substantially vertical position and a second partially inverted position. The milking implement protects the teat cups against contamination and is capable of storing them in a compact manner.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An autonomous mobile milking implement comprising a frame, a sub-frame, at least one teat cup holder, and a tilting mechanism for tilting the at least one teat cup holder; wherein the teat cup holder is connected to the sub-frame by the tilting mechanism which comprises an intermediate arm, the intermediate arm being connected to the sub-frame at a first joint and pivotable with respect to the sub-frame about the first joint, and the teat cup holder being connected to the intermediate arm at a second joint and pivotable with respect to the intermediate arm about the second joint; wherein the intermediate arm and first and second joints are arranged to tilt the teat cup holder between a first position in which a teat cup placed on the teat cup holder is substantially vertical and has an upward oriented aperture, and a second position, which is at an angle H to the first position, wherein the angle H is measured in a vertical direction and is at least 135.degree.; and wherein the sub-frame is connected to the frame by a mechanism arranged to adjust the height of the sub-frame and the intermediate arm being connected to the sub-frame upwards and downwards with respect to the frame. 2. The milking implement according to claim 1, wherein the intermediate arm is arranged to pivot about the first joint with respect to the sub-frame over a first angle in a vertical direction, and the teat cup holder is arranged to pivot about the second joint with respect to the intermediate arm over a second angle in a vertical direction, and wherein the first and second angles equal the angle H. 3. The milking implement according to claim 1, further comprising at least one tilting actuator arranged to tilt the at least one teat cup holder. 4. The milking implement according to claim 1, wherein the mechanism for adjusting the height of the sub-frame comprises a parallelogram construction. 5. The milking implement according to claim 1, wherein the sub-frame comprises a portion which is pivotable with respect to the frame. 6. The milking implement according to claim 5, wherein the pivotable sub-frame portion is connected to the frame by a third joint, the sub-frame being arranged to pivot about the third joint with respect to the frame. 7. The milking implement according to claim 5, further comprising a stop on the frame, wherein the third joint co-operates with the stop and wherein the sub-frame portion is tiltable about the stop when the sub-frame is moved downward. 8. The milking implement according to claim 1, further comprising a cleaning device with a sprayer arranged for spraying a liquid onto the teat cup. 9. The milking implement according to claim 1, wherein the frame comprises a mobile autonomous vehicle. 10. The milking implement according to claim 1, further comprising a replacing tether connecting the teat cup to the milking implement and being operable to return the teat cup to the teat cup holder, wherein operation of the tether causes tilting of the teat cup holder. 11. The milking implement according to claim 1, wherein, in the second position, the teat cup is oriented with its aperture facing at least partly downwards. 