A grommet and/or plug installation device and associated installation method. The device includes a head portion that is adapted to releasably retain a grommet and/or plug. The head is preferably connected to a handle that is grasped by a user during the grommet/plug installation process. The grommet or plug is retained on the head with less of a retention force than will be exhibited between the grommet or plug and an associated opening to which the grommet or plug is inserted. As such, a grommet or plug will remain in an associated opening after insertion thereto, and the device of the present invention used to install the grommet or plug may be withdrawn.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A device for installing a grommet, comprising: a handle with a first end for grasping by a user; a head attached to a second end of the handle, said head having an installation end; and a retention element on said installation end of said head and a retention element on said grommet, the retention elements cooperative to releasably retain the grommet on said installation end of said head via friction. 2. The device of claim 1, wherein the handle is of telescoping design. 3. The device of claim 2, wherein the handle further comprises a retention element that releasably fixes the length of the handle. 4. The device of claim 1, wherein an angle between the handle and the head is adjustable. 5. The device of claim 1, wherein the grommet is metallic and the head further comprises a magnet that releasably retains the grommet by magnetic force. 6. The device of claim 1, further comprising an aperture in the installation end of the head for receiving a portion of the grommet. 7. The device of claim 6, wherein the head further includes a flat spring that projects into the aperture to retain the grommet by pressing against a wall thereof. 8. The device of claim 1, further comprising one or more projections extending from said installation end of said head to releasably retain said grommet by engaging one or more corresponding cavities therein. 9. A device for installing a grommet into an opening, comprising: a handle with a first end for grasping by a user, said handle being of telescoping design; and a head pivotably connected to a second end of the handle, said head and said grommet each having a retention element that together are cooperative to releasably retain the grommet at an installation end of the head via a frictional force that is less than the frictional force between the grommet and an opening to which it is installed. 10. The device of claim 9, wherein the grommet is metallic and the head further comprises a magnet that releasably retains the grommet by magnetic attraction therebetween. 11. The device of claim 9, further comprising an aperture in the first end of the head that surrounds at least a part of the grommet. 12. The device of claim 11, further comprising a flat spring that extends into said aperture to retain the grommet in said aperture by pressing against a side of the grommet. 13. The device of claim 9, further comprising one or more projections extending from said installation end of said head to releasably retain said grommet by engaging one or more corresponding cavities therein. 14. The device of claim 9, wherein a first end of the head is releasably affixed to said handle. 15. A device for installing a grommet, comprising: a handle with a first end for grasping by a user; a head attached to a second end of the handle, an installation end of said head having an aperture for receiving a portion of the grommet; and a flat spring on said head that projects into the aperture to retain the grommet by pressing against a wall thereof. 