A shape memory polymer microfiber material coupled to a base portion and coated with a dry adhesive in which the tips of the microfibers may be modified to achieve superhydrophobicity. The resultant surface of the material may be altered between to an adhesive state from a superhydrophobic state as the shape memory polymer transforms from its permanent shape to a temporary shape. The shape memory polymer microfiber material may be reversibly coupled to one or more substrates when in the adhesive state and uncoupled when in the superhydrophobic state.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method comprising: providing a first substrate and a second substrate; forming a base portion; forming a shape memory polymer adhesive system comprising a shape memory polymer substrate material comprising a plurality of microfibers coupled to and extending from said base portion, an adhesive material coupled onto an outer surface of said shape memory polymer substrate material, and a hydrophobic material coupled to a portion of said adhesive material along a tip of each of said one or more microfibers, said shape memory polymer adhesive system transformable from a permanent shape to a temporary shape; transforming said shape memory polymer adhesive system from said permanent shape to said temporary shape; and coupling said first substrate to said second substrate with said shape memory polymer adhesive system in said temporary shape. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said base portion comprises said shape memory polymer substrate material and is integrally formed with said plurality of microfibers. 3. The method of claim 1 further comprising: uncoupling said first substrate from said second substrate. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein transforming said shape memory polymer adhesive system from said permanent shape to said temporary shape comprises: transforming said shape memory polymer adhesive system from said permanent shape to said temporary shape by heating said shape memory polymer adhesive system to a first temperature under a shear load, said first temperature being above the glass transition temperature of said shape memory polymer substrate material; and cooling said shape memory polymer adhesive system in said temporary shape below said first temperature; and removing said shear load. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the transformation of said shape memory polymer adhesive system from said permanent shape to said temporary shape causes said tip of each of said plurality of microfibers to be brought in close proximity to said base portion to expose a side portion of said plurality of microfibers. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein coupling said first substrate to said second substrate with said shape memory polymer adhesive system in said temporary shape comprises: adhering said adhesive material of said side portion of at least one of said plurality of microfibers to said first substrate; and adhering said adhesive material of said side portion of at least another one of said plurality of microfibers to said second substrate. 7. The method of claim 6 further comprising: heating said shape memory polymer adhesive system above said glass transition temperature in the absence of said shear load; uncoupling said first substrate from said shape memory polymer adhesive system; and uncoupling said second substrate from said shape memory polymer adhesive system. 8. A method for forming a self cleaning dry adhesive comprising: forming a shape memory polymer substrate material one or more microfiber portions, each of said one or more microfiber portions including a side portion and a tip portion; forming a base portion; coupling said one or more microfiber portions to said base portion; applying an adhesive material to an outer surface of said one or more microfiber portions; and applying a hydrophobic portion onto a portion of said adhesive material, said portion of said adhesive material corresponding to said tip portion of said shape memory polymer substrate material. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein said base portion is integrally formed with said one or more microfibers and comprises said shape memory polymer substrate material. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein forming a shape memory polymer substrate material comprises forming a shape memory polymer substrate material having a base portion and one or more microfiber portions extending from said base portion using a template molding method. 11. The method of claim 8 further comprising: transforming the self-cleaning dry adhesive from a superhydrophobic state to an adhesive state, wherein the transforming of the self-cleaning dry adhesive from said superhydrophobic state to said adhesive state causes said tip portion of each of said one or more microfiber portions to move in closer proximity to said base portion. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein transforming the self-cleaning dry adhesive from a superhydrophobic state to an adhesive state comprises: heating said shape memory polymer adhesive system to a first temperature under a shear load, said first temperature being above the glass transition temperature of said shape-memory polymer substrate material; cooling said shape memory polymer adhesive system below said first temperature; and removing said shear load. 13. The method of claim 12 further comprising: transforming the self-cleaning dry adhesive from said adhesive state to said superhydrophobic state by heating said shape memory polymer adhesive system to a first temperature in the absence of said shear load. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the transforming of the self-cleaning dry adhesive from said adhesive state to said superhydrophobic state causes said tip portion of each of said one or more microfiber portions to move away from said base portion. 15. A method comprising: providing a first substrate; forming a base portion; forming a shape memory polymer adhesive system comprising a shape memory polymer substrate material comprising a plurality of microfibers coupled to and extending from said base portion, an adhesive material coupled onto an outer surface of said shape memory polymer substrate material, and a hydrophobic material coupled to a portion of said adhesive material along a tip of each of said one or more microfibers, said shape memory polymer adhesive system transformable from a permanent shape to a temporary shape; transforming said shape memory polymer adhesive system from said permanent shape to said temporary shape; and coupling said first substrate to said shape memory polymer adhesive system in said temporary shape. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein transforming said shape memory polymer adhesive system from said permanent shape to said temporary shape comprises: transforming said shape memory polymer adhesive system from said permanent shape to said temporary shape by heating said shape memory polymer adhesive system to a first temperature under a shear load, said first temperature being above the glass transition temperature of said shape memory polymer substrate material; and cooling said shape memory polymer adhesive system in said temporary shape below said first temperature; and removing said shear load. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the transformation of said shape memory polymer adhesive system from said permanent shape to said temporary shape causes said tip of each of said plurality of microfibers to be brought in close proximity to said base portion to expose a side portion of said plurality of microfibers. 18. The method of claim 16 further comprising: heating said shape memory polymer adhesive system above said glass transition temperature in the absence of said shear load; and uncoupling said first substrate from said shape memory polymer adhesive system. 19. The method of claim 15, wherein coupling said first substrate to said shape memory polymer adhesive system in said temporary shape comprises adhering said adhesive material of at least one of said plurality of microfibers to said first substrate. 