An automated medical system comprises a first instrument assembly including a first ultrasound transducer having a first transducer field of view that transmits and receives ultrasound signals in imaging planes disposed circumferentially about a guide instrument, and a second instrument assembly including a second ultrasound transducer having a second transducer field of view coupled to one of a second flexible guide instrument and a working instrument. A computing system is operatively coupled to the respective first and second transducers and configured to determine a relative spatial orientation of the respective first and second transducers based at least in part on detecting a signal transmitted by one of the first and second transducers and received by the other of the first and second transducers, the received signal having an amplitude indicating the receiving one of the transducers is in the field of view of the transmitting one of the transducers.
Claims What we claim is: 1. A method for determining a roll orientation of an instrument assembly positioned within a patient, comprising: rotating a transducer on a first instrument assembly and emitting a plurality of ultrasound signals in different planes; receiving, by a computing system configured to process ultrasound signals, an indication that the plurality of ultrasound signals are being transmitted from the transducer on the first instrument assembly positioned within the patient, and are being received by a transponder on a second instrument assembly positioned within the patient; determining, by the computing system, an intensity for each of the plurality of ultrasound signals; evaluating, by the computing system, the intensity of each of the plurality of ultrasound signals received by the transponder to identify which of the received signals is a direct signal; and determining, by the computing system, a roll orientation of the first instrument assembly relative to the second instrument assembly based on the identified direct signal. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the roll orientation of the first instrument assembly comprises determining a distance between the transducer and the transponder based at least in part on the identified direct signal; receiving an indication of a transmission line and a transmission plane of the identified direct signal; and determining the roll orientation of the first instrument assembly relative to the second instrument assembly based on the distance between the transducer and the transponder, the transmission line of the identified direct signal, and the transmission plane of the identified direct signal. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein determining the distance between the transducer and the transponder comprises receiving an indication of a response signal being transmitted from the transponder on the second instrument assembly, and received by the transducer on the first instrument assembly; determining a time-of-flight from the initiation of the identified direct signal to the reception of the response signal by the transducer on the first instrument assembly; and determining the distance between the transducer and the transponder based on the determined time-of-flight. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein evaluating the relative intensities of the plurality of ultrasound signals to identify the direct signal comprises measuring an intensity of each one of the signals; and comparing the measured intensities to a threshold value. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein evaluating the relative intensities of the plurality of ultrasound signals to identify the direct signal comprises producing a graph of the plurality of signals; and using the graph to identify which of the signals is the direct signal. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the identified direct signal is a signal on a transmission line and a transmission plane that is substantially directed towards the transponder on the second instrument assembly. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the first and second instrument assemblies respectively comprise first and second robotically-controlled flexible guide catheters, and wherein the method further comprises transmitting electrical signals to the first and second robotically-controlled flexible guide catheters in order to control movement of the first and second robotically-controlled flexible guide catheters. 