A medical system and method for treating a disorder of a subject by thermal ablation, e.g., focused ultrasound thermal ablation, are provided. The method includes obtaining medical images that include at least one image of subject's chest and ribs to reconstruct a three-dimensional chest-rib distribution; and applying ultrasound waves on a target point beyond the subject's ribs by selectively activating one or more elements of an ultrasound phased array to avoid ultrasonic energy absorption or reflection by an intervening rib based on a calculation of a relationship between the three-dimensional chest-rib distribution and an acoustic emission direction.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of treating a disorder of a subject by thermal ablation, said method comprising: obtaining medical images that include at least one image of the subject's chest and ribs to reconstruct a three-dimensional chest-rib distribution; receiving information representative of results of repeated and real-time calculation of a relationship between the three-dimensional chest-rib distribution and an acoustic emission direction; and applying ultrasound waves on a target point beyond the subject's ribs by selectively activating one or more elements of an ultrasound phased array to avoid ultrasonic energy absorption or reflection by an intervening rib based on said repeated and real-time calculation of a relationship between the three-dimensional chest-rib distribution and an acoustic emission direction while there exists relative motion between the ultrasound phased array and the chest-rib distribution; wherein obtaining medical images includes detecting at least one of a rib boundary and an ultrasound phased array boundary based on an edge detection algorithm, and an auto-segmentation algorithm, wherein said acoustic emission direction is calculated by a ray-tracing algorithm to determine an activation status for each element of said ultrasound phased array, and wherein selectively activating includes marking one or more elements of said ultrasound phased array according to their positions with respect to said three-dimensional chest-rib distribution. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising moving the ultrasound phased array proximal to the subject's chest before said applying step. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said selectively activating is controlled by an activation control unit. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said applying ultrasound waves includes driving the one or more elements of said ultrasound phased array by a multiple-channel ultrasound driving system. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said selectively activating further comprises controlling each of the one or more elements with respective amplitude and relative phase shift independently to focus said ultrasound waves. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein said obtaining medical images include at least one of: obtaining said medical images manually by an operator, and obtaining said medical images automatically by a treatment planning unit. 7. A system for conducting focused ultrasound thermal ablation to treat a trans-rib abdominal disease of a subject, said system comprising: an image processing unit configured to obtain medical images that include at least one image of the subject's chest and ribs, and to reconstruct a three-dimensional chest-rib distribution based on said medical images, said image processing unit being configured to detect at least one of: a rib boundary, and an ultrasound phased array boundary based on an edge detection algorithm, and auto-segmentation; an ultrasound phased array having a plurality of elements for producing ultrasound waves; means for moving said ultrasound phased array proximal to the subject based on a calculation that is repeated while there exists relative motion between the ultrasound phased array and the chest-rib distribution; an activator configured to activate or deactivate each of the plurality of elements of said ultrasound phased array based on a calculation of an acoustic emission direction by a ray-tracing algorithm to determine an activation status for each of the plurality of elements; and a controller configured to control a relative position of said ultrasound phased array and said image processing unit, and configured to control said activator to determine an activation status of each of the plurality of elements of said ultrasound phased array to avoid ultrasonic energy absorption or reflection by an intervening rib based on a calculation of a relationship between said three-dimensional chest-rib distribution and an acoustic emission direction; wherein said image processing unit, said ultrasound phased array, said means for moving, said activator, and said controller are electrically connected. 8. The system of claim 7, wherein said image processing unit comprises an image scanner to obtain medical images and an image processor to reconstruct a three-dimensional chest-rib distribution. 9. The system of claim 7, wherein said medical images comprise a medical image obtained from an imaging modality selected from the group consisting of: CT, MRI, PET, SPECT, and ultrasonography. 10. The system of claim 7, wherein each of the plurality of elements of said phased array are driven by a multiple-channel ultrasound driving system. 11. The system of claim 10, wherein said multiple-channel ultrasound driving system is electrically connected between said activator and said controller and is controlled by said controller. 12. The system of claim 10, wherein said multiple-channel ultrasound driving system is configured to control each of the plurality of elements with respective amplitude and relative phase shift independently to focus the acoustic emission. 13. The system of claim 7 wherein said controller comprises a monitoring unit to control the position of said phased array and an image scanner and a treatment planning unit to plan a treatment strategy and operation procedure. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein relative motion arises while the phased array is moving. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein said medical images comprise an MRI image. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein said medical images comprise a PET image. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein said medical images comprise a SPECT image. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein said medical images comprise an ultrasonographic image. 19. The method of claim 1, wherein said medical images comprise a CT image. 20. The method of claim 1, wherein applying ultrasound waves on a target point comprises applying ultrasound waves to a tumor in an organ that is partially blocked by at least one rib. 21. The method of claim 20, wherein the organ comprises a liver. 