Systems and methods are described for configuring and using displays, speakers, or other output devices positioned by an article of clothing or other such structure wearable by a healthcare recipient, for example, in a clinic or residential care facility.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A process comprising: receiving a wireless signal via a first structure; transmitting, via a second structure, at least some health-related information responsive to the wireless signal and to a status update relating to a healthcare recipient; and configuring a wearable article to position the first structure and the second structure in relation to the healthcare recipient. 2. The process of claim 1, further comprising: including at least some real-time data in the health-related information. 3. The process of claim 1, further comprising: signaling at least a clot-reducing agent in response to an apparent circulatory degradation. 4. The process of claim 1, further comprising: transmitting data indicating one or more concentrations of a nutrient or medication. 5. The process of claim 1, further comprising: supporting an accelerometer with the wearable article. 6. The process of claim 1, further comprising: supporting, with the wearable article, one or more sensors adjacent a body part of the healthcare recipient. 7. The process of claim 1, further comprising: supporting a sensor by the wearable article; and receiving data from the sensor. 8. The process of claim 7, further comprising: detecting one or more indications of normalcy in the data from the sensor. 9. The process of claim 7, further comprising: indicating one or more conditional notifications responsive to the data from the sensor. 10. The process of claim 7, further comprising: performing a comparison using an updated normalcy threshold applied against a component of the data from the sensor. 11. The process of claim 7, further comprising: configuring circuitry to recognize a pattern in the data from the sensor; and mechanically supporting, with the wearable article, at least a portion of the circuitry. 12. The process of claim 7, further comprising: obtaining a turbulence-indicative auditory value as a flow-change-indicative measurement as the pattern in the data from the sensor. 13. The process of claim 1, further comprising: configuring the wearable article to surround a portion of the healthcare recipient. 14. The process of claim 1, further comprising: configuring the first structure to receive radio frequency energy as the wireless signal. 15. The process of claim 1, in which the transmitting at least some health-related information responsive to the wireless signal and to a status update relating to a healthcare recipient comprises: presenting, via the second structure, one or more of a verification or a resource status indication. 16. The process of claim 1, in which the transmitting at least some health-related information responsive to the wireless signal and to a status update relating to a healthcare recipient comprises: presenting, via the second structure, the health-related information with one or more computations of cost. 17. The process of claim 1, in which the transmitting at least some health-related information responsive to the wireless signal and to a status update relating to a healthcare recipient comprises: presenting, via the second structure, one or more limb pain indications. 18. The process of claim 1, further comprising: including at least some medical history data in the health-related information. 19. The process of claim 1, further comprising: configuring a keypad to receive input from the healthcare recipient. 20. The process of claim 1, in which the transmitting at least some health-related information responsive to the wireless signal and to a status update relating to a healthcare recipient comprises: presenting, via the second structure, likelihood-indicative data as a component of the health-related information. 21. The process of claim 20 in which the obtaining information indicating a current thermal condition in a peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient comprises: obtaining an optical image of the peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient of the information indicating the current thermal condition in the peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient. 22. The process of claim 1, further comprising: obtaining information indicating a current thermal condition in a peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient. 23. The process of claim 22, further comprising: signaling a decision whether to transmit a notification at least partly in response to one or more comparisons between the information indicating the current thermal condition in the peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient and information indicating a prior thermal condition in the peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient. 24. The process of claim 23 in which the signaling a decision whether to transmit a notification at least partly in response to one or more comparisons between the information indicating the current thermal condition in the peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient and information indicating a prior thermal condition in the peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient comprises: deciding whether to transmit the notification responsive to whether any of the one or more comparisons indicate an abnormal temperature change in the peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient. 25. The process of claim 23 in which the signaling a decision whether to transmit a notification at least partly in response to one or more comparisons between the information indicating the current thermal condition in the peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient and information indicating a prior thermal condition in the peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient comprises: ranking a higher-priority destination and a lower-priority destination for the notification. 26. The process of claim 23 in which the signaling a decision whether to transmit a notification at least partly in response to one or more comparisons between the information indicating the current thermal condition in the peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient and information indicating a prior thermal condition in the peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient comprises: signaling the decision whether to transmit the notification partly in response to auditory information from the healthcare recipient. 27. The process of claim 23 in which the signaling a decision whether to transmit a notification at least partly in response to one or more comparisons between the information indicating the current thermal condition in the peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient and information indicating a prior thermal condition in the peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient comprises: including auditory data with the notification. 28. The process of claim 23 in which the signaling a decision whether to transmit a notification at least partly in response to one or more comparisons between the information indicating the current thermal condition in the peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient and information indicating a prior thermal condition in the peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient comprises: selecting one or more destinations for the notification. 29. The process of claim 23 in which the signaling a decision whether to transmit a notification at least partly in response to one or more comparisons between the information indicating the current thermal condition in the peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient and information indicating a prior thermal condition in the peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient comprises: including thermal-decrease-size-indicative information with the notification. 30. The process of claim 23 in which the signaling a decision whether to transmit a notification at least partly in response to one or more comparisons between the information indicating the current thermal condition in the peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient and information indicating a prior thermal condition in the peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient comprises: including spatial-size-indicative information with the notification. 31. The process of claim 23 in which the signaling a decision whether to transmit a notification at least partly in response to one or more comparisons between the information indicating the current thermal condition in the peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient and information indicating a prior thermal condition in the peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient comprises: signaling the decision by transmitting the notification to a portable interface. 32. The process of claim 22 in which the obtaining information indicating a current thermal condition in a peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient comprises: detecting that the information indicates normalcy as the current thermal condition in the peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient. 33. A system comprising: a positioning structure configured to be worn by a healthcare recipient; a receiver supported by the positioning structure and configured to receive a wireless signal; and a first output device supported by the positioning structure and configured to present at least some health-related information responsive to the wireless signal and to a status update relating to the healthcare recipient. 34. The system of claim 33, further comprising: a stationary module operable for transmitting the wireless signal to the receiver. 35. The system of claim 33, further comprising: circuitry for invoking at least one of the first output device or a second output device selected in response to a configuration parameter and to the wireless signal. 36. The system of claim 33, in which the positioning structure comprises: clothing. 37. The system of claim 33, in which the positioning structure comprises: a wristband. 38. The system of claim 33, in which the positioning structure comprises: one or more of eyewear, an earpiece, or a headpiece. 39. The system of claim 33, further comprising: a user interface operable to receive input from the healthcare recipient. 40. The system of claim 39, in which the user interface comprises: a sonic sensor. 41. The system of claim 39, in which the user interface comprises: a keypad. 42. The system of claim 39, in which the user interface comprises: circuitry for presenting content provided by a healthcare facility in the healthcare facility. 43. The system of claim 33, in which the first output device comprises: circuitry for presenting other information to one or more other recipients. 44. The system of claim 33, further comprising: circuitry for obtaining information indicating a current thermal condition in a peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient. 45. The system of claim 44 in which the circuitry for obtaining information indicating a current thermal condition in a peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient comprises: circuitry for determining that the information apparently manifests the current thermal condition in the peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient. 46. The system of claim 44 in which the circuitry for obtaining information indicating a current thermal condition in a peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient comprises: circuitry for extracting a portion of detected information as the information indicating the current thermal condition in the peripheral body part of the healthcare recipient. 