An apparatus is configured with one or more sensors arranged to detect a first shape-related parameter, one or more control elements arranged to provide a force, and circuitry operably connected to the one or more sensors and the one or more control elements to determine the force provided to the one or more control elements.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method comprising: receiving a first signal corresponding to a first region of fabric; determining an initial shape of the first region of fabric based on the received first signal; producing a first set of fabric shape changing data corresponding to a difference between the initial shape of the first region of fabric and a target shape of the first region of fabric; producing a second signal based on the first set of fabric shape changing data; and transmitting the second signal corresponding to a second region of fabric to produce the target shape. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the first region of fabric at least partially overlaps the second region of fabric. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the first region of fabric is substantially the same as the second region of fabric. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the first region of fabric corresponds to at least a first portion of a garment. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein processing the first signal to produce a first set of fabric shape changing data includes: determining a shape of a body part proximate to the first region of fabric; and determining the target shape of the first region of fabric based on a difference between the body part shape and the initial shape of the first region of fabric. 6. The method of claim 1 further comprising: receiving a third signal; and processing the third signal to produce the first set of fabric shape changing data. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein the third signal includes physiological data. 8. The method of claim 6 wherein the third signal includes information selected by a user. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein the first signal includes information regarding at least one of a force, a stress, a pressure, a strain, a bend, a twist, a deformation, a geometry, a surface topology, an orientation, a reflection, or a position of one or more portions of the first region of fabric. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein producing a first set of shape changing data includes: using a computational model to produce the first set of fabric shape changing data. 11. The method of claim 1 wherein the determined initial shape of the first region of fabric corresponds to a first time and the target shape of the first region of fabric corresponds to a second time different from the first time, and wherein the first set of fabric shape changing data is selected to produce the target shape of the first region of fabric at the second time. 12. In an apparatus comprising a fabric coupled to electronic circuitry, a method comprising: producing a first set of initial condition data corresponding to a predicted first shape of a first region of the fabric; processing the produced first set of initial condition data to produce a first set of fabric shape changing data for a second region of the fabric; and applying force to the second region of the fabric according to the first set of fabric shape changing data. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein the first region of the fabric forms corresponds to at least a first portion of a garment. 14. The method of claim 12 wherein producing a first set of initial condition data corresponding to a predicted first shape of a first region of the fabric includes: predicting the first shape of the first region of the fabric according to one or more stored measurements. 15. An apparatus comprising: circuitry configured to receive a first signal corresponding to a first region of fabric; circuitry configured to determine an initial shape of the first region of fabric based on the received first signal; circuitry configured produce a first set of fabric shape changing data corresponding to a difference between the initial shape of the first region of fabric and a target shape of the first region of fabric; circuitry configured to produce a second signal based on the first set of fabric shape changing data; and circuitry configured to transmit the second signal corresponding to a second region of fabric to produce the target shape. 16. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein the second region of fabric is configured to exert a force on the second region of fabric to produce the target shape. 17. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein the circuitry configured to produce a first set of fabric shape changing data is further configured to determine a shape of a body part proximate to the first region of fabric and to determine the target shape of the first region of fabric based on a difference between the body part shape and the initial shape of the first region of fabric. 18. The apparatus of claim 15 further comprising: circuitry configured to receive a third signal different from the first and second signals; and circuitry configured to process the third signal to produce the first set of fabric shape changing data. 19. The apparatus of claim 18 wherein the third signal includes physiological data. 20. The apparatus of claim 18 wherein the third signal includes information selected by a user. 21. The apparatus of claim 18 wherein the first signal corresponds to a first time interval and the third signal corresponds to a second time interval different from the first time interval. 22. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein the circuitry configured to produce a first set of fabric shape changing data is further configured to use a computational model to produce the first set of fabric shape changing data. 23. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein the determined initial shape of the first region of fabric corresponds to a first time and the target shape of the first region of fabric corresponds to a second time different from the first time, and wherein the first set of fabric shape changing data is selected to produce the target shape of the first region of fabric at the second time. 24. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein the circuitry configured to process the first signal to produce a first set of fabric shape changing data is further configured to process the first signal according to a fabric property, wherein the fabric property includes at least one of fiber type, fiber dynamics, weave, mass, thickness, density, or a reflective property of the fabric. 25. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein the second signal comprises information associated with the activation of one or more control elements. 26. The apparatus of claim 25 wherein the activation of the one or more control elements is associated with the application of at least one force or moment to the second region of fabric. 27. The apparatus of claim 25 wherein the circuitry configured to produce a second signal based on the first set of fabric changing data is further configured to produce the second signal based on a predicted effect of the second signal on the one or more control elements, and further comprising: circuitry configured to transmit the second signal corresponding to the second region of fabric to the one or more control elements. 