An apparatus for milking an animal provides a milking parlor (1) with a robotic manipulation device (25) and a milking stall (5) provided on a platform (3) moveable relative to the robotic manipulation device (25). An electric control system is adapted to vary the movement of the platform in response to the performance of the robotic manipulation device (25) in servicing the milking stall (5).
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A milking parlour, comprising: a robotic manipulation device; a milking stall provided on a platform moveable relative to the robotic manipulation device; and an electronic control system i) adapted to monitor a rate at which the robotic manipulation device attaches teat cups to teats of an animal positioned in the milking stall, and ii) adapted to vary a speed of rotation of the platform in dependence upon the monitored rate at which the robotic manipulation device attaches the teat cups to the teats of the animal, wherein, the stall comprises four teat cups, and the electronic control system: i) determines, based on a current speed of the platform, that the monitored rate at which the robotic manipulation device has attached some of the four teat cups is insufficient to attach all four of the teat cups to the animal before the animal moves out of reach of the robotic manipulation device, and ii) in response to the determination, and based on the monitored rate at which the robotic manipulation device has attached some of the four teat cups, the electronic control system reduces the speed of rotation of the platform to a non-zero value to provide sufficient time for the robotic manipulation device to attach all four of the teat cups to the animal before the animal moves out of reach of the robotic manipulation device. 2. A milking parlour, comprising: a robotic manipulation device; a milking stall provided on a platform moveable relative to the robotic manipulation device; and an electronic control system i) adapted to monitor a rate at which the robotic manipulation device attaches teat cups to teats of an animal positioned in the milking stall, and ii) adapted to vary a speed of rotation of the platform in response to the monitored rate at which the robotic manipulation device attaches teat cups to teats of an animal positioned in the milking stall, wherein, the stall comprises four teat cups, and the electronic control system i) determines that, based on a current speed of the platform, the monitored rate at which the robotic manipulation device has attached some of the four teat cups is insufficient for all four of the teat cups to be attached to the animal before the animal moves out of reach of the robotic manipulation device, and ii) in response to the determination, the electronic control system reduces the speed of rotation of the platform. 3. A milking parlour according to claim 2, wherein the electronic control system is adapted to reduce the speed at which the platform moves in response to a determination that, in use, the milking stall has moved to a predetermined position relative to the robotic manipulation device without a predetermined teat cup having been attached to a teat of a cow standing in the milking stall. 4. A milking parlour according to claim 2, wherein the electronic control system is adapted to reduce the speed at which the platform moves in response to a determination that, in use, a teat of a cow standing in the milking stall will be beyond the reach of the robotic manipulation device before a teat cup has been attached to said teat by said device. 5. A milking parlour according to claim 2, wherein, said milking stall is one of a plurality of milking stalls, the plurality of milking stalls being provided on the moveable platform so as to move, in use, one after another past the robotic manipulation device, and the electronic control system is adapted to set the speed of movement of the platform so that, for an average rate of servicing a milking stall by the robotic manipulation device, said device completes servicing a stall when the next milking stall on the platform moves within reach of said device. 6. A milking parlour according to claim 2, wherein, the electronic control system is adapted to: i) continually determine a current rate at which the robotic manipulation device attaches the teat cups to teats of an animal positioned in the milking stall, and ii) in response to the determined current rate, to continually determine a required movement of the platform and control the platform to move in the manner determined to be the requirement movement. 7. A milking parlour, comprising: a robotic manipulation device; a milking stall provided on a platform moveable relative to the robotic manipulation device; and an electronic control system i) adapted to monitor a rate at which the robotic manipulation device attaches teat cups to teats of an animal positioned in the milking stall, and ii) adapted to vary movement of rotation of the platform in response to the monitored rate at which the robotic manipulation device attaches teat cups to teats of an animal positioned in the milking stall, wherein, the electronic control system comprises a sensor past which the platform moves in use, and the sensor is adapted for detecting a repetition of pattern in a repeating pattern provided on the platform so as to allow a determination of the speed of movement of the platform. 8. A milking parlour according to claim 7, wherein the repeating pattern comprises an irregularity which interrupts the repetition of the repeating pattern such that the irregularity is detectable by the detector means so as to allow the movement monitoring system to determine the position of the platform. 9. A milking parlour according to claim 7, wherein the detector means is adapted to detect the repetition in the repeating pattern at two separate locations within the repeating pattern, wherein said locations are spaced from one another by a distance not wholly divisible by the length of a single pattern, or by a whole multiple of said length, so as to allow the movement monitoring system to determine the direction of movement of the platform. 10. A milking parlour according to claim 7, wherein the repeating pattern comprises first and second repeating patterns offset relative to one another so as to allow the movement monitoring system to determine the direction of movement of the platform by comparing the repetition of each of the first and second repeating patterns as detected by the detector. 11. A method of operating a milking parlour having a robotic manipulation device and a stall provided on a platform moveable relative to the robotic manipulation device, the method comprising the steps of: monitoring a partial performance of the robotic manipulation device in completing servicing the milking stall; and varying the movement of the platform, during use thereof, in response to the monitored partial performance. 12. A method according to claim 11, wherein the movement varied is the speed at which the platform passes the robotic manipulation device. 13. A method according to claim 12, wherein the speed at which the platform moves is reduced in response to a determination that the milking stall has moved to a predetermined position relative to the robotic manipulation device without a predetermined teat cup having been attached to a teat of a cow standing in the milking stall. 14. A method according to claim 13, wherein the speed at which the platform moves is reduced in response to a determination that a teat of a cow standing in the milking stall will be beyond reach of the robotic manipulation device before a teat cup has been attached to said teat by said device. 15. A method according to claim 11, wherein, the milking stall is one of a plurality of milking stalls, the plurality of milking stalls being provided on the moveable platform so as to move, in use, one after another past the robotic manipulation device; and wherein the method further comprises the step of: setting the speed of movement of the platform so that, for an average rate of servicing a milking stall by the robotic manipulation device, the device completes servicing a stall when the next milking stall on the platform moves within reach of said device, wherein servicing the stall includes attaching all required teat cups to an animal being serviced in the stall, and the platform rotation speed is determined by the monitored robotic manipulation device's rate in attaching the teat cups to the animal being serviced in the stall. 16. A method according to claim 11, wherein the performance of the robotic manipulation device is the rate at which teat cups are attached to a cow standing in the milking stall. 17. A method according to claim 11, wherein the current performance of the robotic manipulation device is continually determined and, in response to the determined performance of said device, a required movement of the platform is continually determined and the platform controlled to move in the manner determined to be the required movement. 