A substrate processing tool including a frame forming at least one isolatable chamber configured to hold a controlled atmosphere, at least two substrate supports located within each of the at least one isolatable chamber, each of the at least two substrate supports being stacked one above the other and configured to hold a respective substrate and a cooling unit communicably coupled to the at least two substrate supports such that the at least two substrate supports and cooling unit effect simultaneous conductive cooling of each of the respective substrates located on the at least two substrate supports.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A substrate processing tool comprising: a frame forming at least one isolatable chamber configured to hold a controlled atmosphere; at least two substrate supports located within each of the at least one isolatable chamber, each of the at least two substrate supports being stacked one above the other and configured to hold a respective substrate; and a cooling unit communicably coupled to the at least two substrate supports such that the at least two substrate supports and cooling unit effect simultaneous conductive cooling of each of the respective substrates located on the at least two substrate supports; wherein the at least two substrate supports are adjustable relative to the frame so that a pitch of the at least two substrate supports is adjustable depending on a predetermined distance between the at least two substrate supports. 2. The substrate processing tool of claim 1, wherein the at least one isolatable chamber includes at least two isolatable chambers each being configured to hold a controlled atmosphere, the at least two isolatable chambers being stacked one above the other. 3. The substrate processing tool of claim 2, wherein a first one of the at least two isolatable chambers is configured for transporting substrates in a first direction and a second one of the at least two isolatable chambers is configured for transporting substrates in a second direction, where the first and second directions are different from each other. 4. The substrate processing tool of claim 2, wherein each of the at least two isolatable chambers is configured for bi-directional substrate transport. 5. The substrate processing tool of claim 1, wherein the at least one isolatable chamber includes a vent port and a vacuum port, the substrate processing tool further comprising an atmosphere control module configured for coupling to the vent port and the vacuum port to vent and/or pump the controlled atmosphere within the at least one isolatable chamber. 6. The substrate processing tool of claim 1, wherein the at least one isolatable chamber includes a vent port, the substrate processing tool further comprising a plurality of interchangeable vent modules each being configured for coupling to the vent port where each of the plurality of interchangeable vent modules has a venting profile different from other ones of the plurality of interchangeable vent modules. 7. The substrate processing tool of claim 1, wherein the at least two substrate supports are stationary relative to the frame. 8. An apparatus comprising: a first chamber having a first cooling surface within the first chamber; a first substrate support fixedly located within the first chamber and being configured to hold a first substrate; and a first chuck located at least partially within the first chamber, the first chuck having a second cooling surface located substantially opposite the first cooling surface and a second substrate support depending from the first chuck, the second substrate support being configured to hold a second substrate; wherein the first chuck is moveable between a loading position and a cooling position where when in the cooling position the second cooling surface is in substantial contact with a surface of the first substrate and the first cooling surface is in substantial contact with a surface of the second substrate. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, further comprising a second chamber, the second chamber including: a third cooling surface within the second chamber; a third substrate support fixedly located within the second chamber and being configured to hold a third substrate; and a second chuck located at least partially within the second chamber, the second chuck having a fourth cooling surface located substantially opposite the third cooling surface, the second chuck having a fourth substrate support depending therefrom, the fourth substrate support being configured to hold a fourth substrate; wherein the second chuck is moveable between a loading position and a cooling position where when in the cooling position the fourth cooling surface is in substantial contact with a surface of the third substrate and the third cooling surface is in substantial contact with a surface of the fourth substrate. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the first and second chamber are configured such that the first and second chucks substantially oppose one another. 11. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the first and second chuck are independently moveable. 12. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the first and second chambers are isolatable from each other. 13. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the first substrate support is located between the second cooling surface and the second substrate support. 14. The apparatus of claim 8, further comprising a cooling interface located within the first chamber configured to engage the first chuck and transfer heat from the first substrate. 15. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the first chuck and first cooling surface comprise fluid passages configured for the passage of cooling fluid through a respective one of the first chuck and first cooling surface, the cooling fluid being configured to transfer heat from a respective one of the first and second substrate. 16. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the first and second cooling surfaces are configured to conductively cool a respective one of the first and second substrate. 17. The apparatus of claim 8, further comprising fluid passages located substantially between the first substrate support and second substrate support, the fluid passages being configured to cause fluid flow between the first and second substrate, the fluid flow being configured to cause a thermal barrier for convectional heat transfer between the first and second substrate. 18. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the fluid passages are formed in the first substrate support. 