A method for identifying the location, orientation and shape of an object that a robot hand touches that includes using a particle filter. The method includes defining an appropriate motion model and a measurement model. The motion model characterizes the motion of the robot hand as it moves relative to the object. The measurement model estimates the likelihood of an observation of contact position, velocity and tactile sensor information given hand-object states. The measurement model is approximated analytically based on a geometric model or based on a corpus of training data. In either case, the measurement model distribution is encoded as a Gaussian or using radial basis functions.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for estimating a contact state between a robot hand and an object using a particle filtering technique, said method comprising: providing a measurement model that describes the relationship between measurements and the contact state where the measurements include contact position, velocity and force and the contact state includes hand-object position, hand-object orientation or an object shape; and using the measurement model to estimate the contact state. 2. The method according to claim 1 wherein the measurement model is defined using a geometric model to estimate the probability of a contact position and velocity given a hand-object contact state. 3. The method according to claim 2 wherein the measurement model is calculated by summing over all possible contact positions, velocities and forces. 4. The method according to claim 3 wherein the summation is approximated by a maximum likelihood. 5. The method according to claim 1 wherein the measurement model is formulated based on a corpus of training data. 6. The method according to claim 5 wherein the training data is modeled by a Gaussian probability distribution with mean and co-variance parameters defined as a function of the corpus of training data. 7. The method according to claim 6 wherein the mean and co-variance parameters are defined using k-nearest neighbors in the hand-object state space. 8. The method according to claim 7 wherein the co-variance between different modalities is set to zero. 9. The method according to claim 5 wherein the training data is modeled using radial basis functions. 10. The method according to claim 9 wherein the radial basis functions are defined using K-nearest neighbors in the contact state space. 11. The method according to claim 1 wherein the object is a plastic sheet including an indent. 12. The method according to claim 11 wherein the robot estimates the position of the indent by sliding its fingers over the surface of the plastic sheet. 13. The method according to claim 1 wherein the object is a cylinder and the method determines the position, orientation and radius of the cylinder. 14. The method according to claim 13 wherein contact force information is measured using phalange load cells mounted on links of the robot fingers. 15. The method according to claim 14 wherein contact positions are determined by identifying which phalange load cell registers a non-zero force. 16. A method for estimating a contact state between a robot hand that includes robot fingers and a robot thumb and an object using a particle filtering technique, said method comprising: providing a measurement model that describes a relationship between measurements and the contact state where the measurements include contact position, velocity and force and the contact state includes hand-object position, hand-object orientation or an object shape, wherein the measurement model is formulated based on a corpus of training data acquired off-line; and using the measurement model to estimate the contact state. 17. The method according to claim 16 wherein the training data is modeled using radial basis functions. 18. A method for estimating a contact state between a robot hand and an object using a particle filtering technique, said method comprising: providing a measurement model that describes a relationship between measurements and the contact state where the measurements include contact position, velocity and force and the contact state includes hand-object position, hand-object orientation or an object shape; and using the measurement model to estimate the contact state; wherein the object is a plastic sheet including an indent. 19. The method according to claim 18 wherein the robot estimates the position of the indent by sliding its fingers over the surface of the plastic sheet. 20. The method according to claim 18 wherein the robot hand includes robot fingers and a robot thumb. 