A scanning sensor system, methods of use and kits for detecting a biologically active analyte are provided. The scanning sensor system includes a light source, a detector, a substrate comprising a plurality of waveguides and a plurality of optical sensing sites in optical communication with one or more waveguide of the substrate, and at least one adapter configured to couple with the substrate and provide optical communication between the light source, the waveguides of the substrate, and the detector.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A scanning sensor system for detecting a biologically active analyte comprising: a light source; a detector; a substrate comprising a plurality of waveguides and a plurality of optical sensing sites in optical communication with one or more of the waveguides, wherein the optical sensing sites comprise wells, further wherein the waveguides are multi-mode; and at least one adapter configured to couple with the substrate and provide optical communication between the light source, the waveguides of the substrate, and the detector. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the substrate and the at least one adapter are substantially planar and comprise a planar lightwave circuit. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one adapter is further configured to removably couple with the substrate. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one adapter is further coupled to at least one of the light source and the detector. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one adapter is a single adapter further coupled to the light source and the detector. 6. The system of claim 4, wherein the coupling is by fiber optic. 7. The system of claim 5, wherein the adapter comprises a plurality of edges and wherein coupling to the light source and the detector comprises coupling to a first edge of the adapter and coupling to the substrate comprises coupling at a second edge of the adapter. 8. The system of claim 5, wherein the adapter comprises a plurality of optical elements comprising at least one lens and at least one filter, wherein the plurality of optical elements are configured to manipulate and couple light from the light source to the substrate and further configured to manipulate and couple light from the substrate to the detector. 9. The system of claim 5, wherein the plurality of waveguides comprise in-coupling waveguides and out-coupling waveguides. 10. The system of claim 9, wherein the in-coupling waveguides are coupled to the out-coupling waveguides through a combiner. 11. The system of claim 10, wherein the substrate further comprises at least one combiner. 12. The system of claim 10, wherein the adapter further comprises at least one combiner. 13. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one adapter is a single adapter, the plurality of waveguides comprise in-coupling waveguides and out-coupling waveguides, wherein the in-coupling waveguides are coupled to the out-coupling waveguides through a combiner, wherein the light source comprises a light generator element coupled to at least one in-coupling waveguide, and wherein the detector comprises a detector element coupled to at least one out-coupling waveguide. 14. The system of claim 1, wherein the optical sensing site further comprises a sensor configured to transduce a first light wave generated by the light source in a waveguide, resulting in a second light wave in the same waveguide, the second light wave being detectable by the detector. 15. The system of claim 14, wherein the plurality of waveguides comprise in-coupling waveguides coupled to out-coupling waveguides by way of combiners, and wherein the first light wave is carried by an in-coupling waveguide and the second light wave is carried by an out-coupling waveguide. 16. The system of claim 15, wherein both the adapter and substrate comprise inter-coupling optically communicating in-coupling waveguides and out-coupling waveguides and wherein the substrate further comprises the combiners. 17. The system of claim 14, wherein the sensor comprises a biologically active analyte in a sample, and wherein a measurable change in the first light wave results when the sensor discriminates or interacts with the biologically active analyte. 18. The system of claim 1, wherein the wells of the optical sensing sites support an immunoassay. 19. The system of claim 18, wherein the immunoassay supported is an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). 20. The system of claim 18, wherein the immunoassay supported is a fluorescent immunoassay. 21. The system of claim 1, wherein the sensor is selected from the group consisting of a fluorescence well, an absorption cell, an interferometric sensor, a diffractive sensor and surface plasmon resonance sensor. 22. The system of claim 1, wherein the biologically active analyte is selected from the group consisting of a nucleic acid, a protein, an antigen, an antibody, a lipid, a polysaccharide, a cell, a tissue, a microorganism, a gas, a chemical agent and a pollutant. 23. The system of claim 22, wherein the nucleic acid is produced via an amplification reaction. 24. The system of claim 1, wherein the waveguides are single-mode. 25. The system of claim 1, wherein the waveguides are single-mode in the vertical dimension and multi-mode in the lateral dimension. 26. The system of claim 1, wherein the number of optical sensing sites is greater than 10. 27. The system of claim 1, wherein the number of optical sensing sites is greater than 200. 28. The system of claim 1, wherein the number of optical sensing sites is greater than 5,000. 29. The system of claim 1, wherein the light source comprises a chip containing an array of light generators coupled to an array of waveguides. 30. The system of claim 1, wherein the light source comprises a passive light source. 31. The system of claim 30, wherein the light source is a passive 1.times.N splitter with N being between 1 and 1000. 32. The system of claim 1, wherein the light source comprises a switchable light source. 33. The system of claim 32, wherein the switchable light source comprises a dynamic light source. 34. The system of claim 32, wherein the switchable light source is an optical switch comprising a light generator coupled to one or more input of the optical switch. 35. The system of claim 34, wherein the optical switch further comprises a branched architecture. 36. The system of claim 35, wherein the optical switch further comprises one or more inputs and multiple outputs. 37. The system of claim 36, wherein the optical switch comprises greater than about 10 outputs. 38. The system of claim 36, wherein the optical switch comprises greater than about 100 outputs. 39. The system of claim 36, wherein the optical switch comprises greater than about 1,000 outputs. 40. The system of claim 36, wherein the optical switch comprises substantially between 20 and 200 outputs. 41. The system of claim 34, wherein the light generator provides variable wavelengths of light. 42. The system of claim 34, wherein the light generator is selected from the group consisting of a broad-band source, a source with one or more discrete spectral lines and a tunable source. 43. The system of claim 1, wherein the light source is butt-coupled to one or more of the at least one adapter. 44. The system of claim 1, wherein the light source comprises one or more waveguide and is evanescently coupled to the at least one adapter through a proximate arrangement of the one or more light source waveguide and one or more waveguide of the at least one adapter. 45. The system of claim 1, wherein the detector is a photodetector array. 46. The system of claim 1, wherein the detector is a plurality of detectors. 47. The system of claim 46, wherein two or more detectors are coupled to and in optical communication with one or more waveguide of the at least one adapter at one or more edges of the at least one adapter. 48. The system of claim 1, wherein the system further comprises a thermal transfer element in thermal communication with the substrate. 49. The system of claim 48, wherein the thermal transfer element is a thermoelectric cooler. 50. The system of claim 1, wherein each optical sensing site comprises a thermal transfer element in thermal communication with the optical sensing site. 51. The system of claim 50, wherein the thermal transfer element comprises a thin-film heater. 52. The system of claim 50, wherein each optical sensing site further comprises a thermistor in thermal communication with the optical sensing site. 53. The system of claim 1, wherein the substrate further comprises one or more microchannel and one or more reservoirs in fluid communication with one or more optical sensing site. 54. The system of claim 1, wherein the system further comprises a fluidics layer coupled to the substrate and comprising one or more microchannel and one or more reservoirs in fluid communication with one or more optical sensing site. 55. A kit for assaying a sample for a biologically active analyte comprising: a scanning sensor system comprising a light source, a detector, a substrate comprising a plurality of waveguides and a plurality of optical sensing sites in optical communication with one or more waveguide of the substrate, wherein the optical sensing sites comprise wells, further wherein the waveguides are single-mode in the vertical dimension and multi-mode in the lateral dimension, and at least one adapter configured to couple with the substrate and provide optical communication between the light source, the waveguides of the substrate, and the detector; packaging; and instructions for use of the system. 56. The kit of claim 55, wherein the adapter and substrate comprises a planar lightwave circuit. 57. The kit of claim 55, wherein the optical sensing sites comprise a sensor for an immunoassay, and wherein the kit further comprises one or more immunoassay reagents. 58. A scanning sensor system for detecting a biologically active analyte comprising: a light source; a detector; a substrate comprising a plurality of waveguides and a plurality of optical sensing sites in optical communication with one or more of the waveguides, wherein the optical sensing sites comprise wells, further wherein the optical sensing site further comprises a sensor configured to transduce a first light wave generated by the light source in a waveguide, resulting in a second light wave in the same waveguide, the second light wave being detectable by the detector; and at least one adapter configured to couple with the substrate and provide optical communication between the light source, the waveguides of the substrate, and the detector, wherein the plurality of waveguides comprise in-coupling waveguides coupled to out-coupling waveguides by way of combiners, and wherein the first light wave is carried by an in-coupling waveguide and the second light wave is carried by an out-coupling waveguide. 59. A scanning sensor system for detecting a biologically active analyte comprising: a light source; a detector; a substrate comprising a plurality of waveguides and a plurality of optical sensing sites in optical communication with one or more of the waveguides, wherein the optical sensing sites comprise wells, further wherein the waveguides are single-mode in the vertical dimension and multi-mode in the lateral dimension; and at least one adapter configured to couple with the substrate and provide optical communication between the light source, the waveguides of the substrate, and the detector. 60. A scanning sensor system for detecting a biologically active analyte comprising: a light source; a detector; a substrate comprising a plurality of waveguides and a plurality of optical sensing sites in optical communication with one or more of the waveguides, wherein the optical sensing sites comprise wells; and at least one adapter configured to couple with the substrate and provide optical communication between the light source, the waveguides of the substrate, and the detector, wherein the light source is butt-coupled to one or more of the at least one adapter. 61. The system of claim 1, wherein the waveguides are single-mode in at least one dimension. 