A graph structure is generated to describe an area with a free area and an occupied area. In this case a topological graph structure for the free area is determined. A point of the topological graph structure is selected and for this a nearest adjacent occupied area point is determined. For this nearest adjacent occupied area point location information is determined. The graph structure is formed from at least the selected point of the topological graph structure and from the associated location information of the nearest adjacent occupied area point.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method implemented in a computer for forming a graph to describe a location having a free area and an occupied area, comprising: determining a topological graph structure for only the free area; selecting a point in the topological graph structure; for the selected point of the topological graph structure, determining an adjacent occupied area; selecting an occupied point for the adjacent occupied area, the occupied point being at a shortest physical distance to the selected point of the topological graph structure; determining associated location information for the occupied point; and forming, by the computer, the graph from the selected point of the topological graph structure and from the associated location information for the occupied point. 2. The method in accordance with claim 1, wherein the location has a plurality of sub-areas, and the graph is formed by combining graphs for the plurality of sub-areas. 3. A system to form a graph a location having a free area and an occupied area, comprising: a structure determination unit to determine a topological graph structure for only the free area; a selection unit to select a point in the topological graph structure; an obstacle identification unit to identify an obstacle and to select an occupied point for the obstacle, the occupied point being at a shortest physical distance to the selected point of the topological graph structure; a location determination unit to determine associated location information for the occupied point; and a graph generation unit, to form the graph from the selected point of the topological graph structure and from the associated location information for the occupied point. 4. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing program to control a computer to perform a method for forming a graph structure to describe a location having a free area and an occupied area, the method comprising: determining a topological graph structure for only the free area; selecting a point in the topological graph structure; for the selected point of the topological graph structure, determining an adjacent occupied area; selecting an occupied point for the adjacent occupied area, the occupied point being at a shortest physical distance to the selected point of the topological graph structure; determining associated location information for the occupied point; and forming the graph from the selected point of the topological graph structure and from the associated location information for the occupied point. 