In a first exemplary embodiment of the present invention, an automated, computerized method is provided for processing an image. According to a feature of the present invention, the method comprises the steps of providing an image file depicting an image, in a computer memory, determining intrinsic component information as a function of spatio-spectral information for the image, and calculating analytical information, as a function of the intrinsic component information.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A computer system which comprises: a CPU; and a memory storing an image file containing an image; the CPU arranged and configured to execute a routine to determine multi-band intrinsic component information as a function of spatio-spectral information for intrinsic material and illumination for surfaces depicted in the image, expressed in a spatial extent of spectral characteristics, and calculate analytical information, as a function of the multi-band intrinsic component information, wherein the analytical information includes an illumination intensity histogram, a shadow depth and relative fill light color information. 2. A computer program product, disposed on a non-transitory computer readable media, the product including computer executable process steps operable to control a computer to: provide an image file depicting an image, in a computer memory, determine multi-band intrinsic component information as a function of spatio-spectral information for intrinsic material and illumination for surfaces depicted in the image, expressed in a spatial extent of spectral characteristics, and calculate analytical information, as a function of the multi-band intrinsic component information, wherein the analytical information includes an illumination intensity histogram, a shadow depth and relative fill light color information. 3. The computer program product of claim 2 including the further process step of displaying the calculated analytical information. 4. The computer program product of claim 2 wherein the multiband intrinsic component information comprises a multi-band illumination image. 5. The computer program product of claim 4 wherein the process step to calculate analytical information, as a function of the multi-band intrinsic component information, is carried out by calculating an illumination intensity histogram of the multi-band illumination image. 6. The computer program product of claim 5 including the additional process step of calculating a shadow depth indication as a function of the illumination intensity histogram. 7. The computer program product of claim 2 wherein the spatio-spectral information comprises a characteristic spectral ratio. 8. The computer program product of claim 7 wherein the process step to calculate analytical information, as a function of the multi-band intrinsic component information, is carried out by using multi-band intrinsic component information inherent in the characteristic spectral ratio to represent relative fill light color. 9. The computer program product of claim 2 wherein the process step to determine multi-band intrinsic component information as a function of spatiospectral information for the image is carried out by determining multi-band intrinsic component information relative to a face depicted in the image. 10. A device comprising: a CPU; a memory storing an image file containing an image; the CPU arranged and configured to execute a routine to determine multi-band intrinsic component information as a function of spatio-spectral information for intrinsic material and illumination for surfaces depicted in the image, expressed in a spatial extent of spectral characteristics, and calculate analytical information, as a function of the multi-band intrinsic component information, wherein the analytical information includes an illumination intensity histogram, a shadow depth and relative fill light color information; and a display, coupled to the CPU, for display of the analytical information. 11. The device of claim 10 wherein the CPU 12 executes the step to determine multi-band intrinsic component information as a function of spatio-spectral information for the image by determining multi-band intrinsic component information relative to a face depicted in the image. 