A spray-gun line-connecting device is provided for the connection of a plurality of lines between a robotic arm and a spray device. The spray-gun line-connecting device may provide a plurality of cylindrical connection joints at an interface between mating surfaces. For example, the lines may include enlarged cylindrical heads, which fit within cylindrical receptacles in a first mating surface. A second mating surface may extend over the first mating surface, and include passages aligned with the lines.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A spray-gun line-connecting device for the connection of a multiplicity of flexible tubes to the end of a tubular robot arm, through which the tubes extend, with bores in an intermediate element, wherein the intermediate element is arranged in a mechanical connection between the robot arm and at least one automatic spray gun, wherein a robot flange is coupled to the end of the robot arm and comprises a multiplicity of flange holes, wherein each flange hole receives a tube connecting socket connected to the end of one of the tubes, each tube connecting socket has a radially protruding socket collar disposed against a front flange face, wherein a perforated plate is arranged between the robot flange and the intermediate element, wherein the perforated plate extends transversely over the tube connecting sockets and has a multiplicity of through-holes arranged in line with at least some of the flange holes, wherein each through-hole has an annular seal disposed in a depression at each end of the respective through-hole to surround the respective through-hole, wherein each annular seal on a rear plate side is configured to seal against an end face of one of the tube connecting sockets, wherein each annular seal on a front flange side is configured to seal against a rear end wall of the intermediate element around one of a multiplicity of intermediate element bores formed in the intermediate element, wherein the intermediate element bores are arranged in line with at least some of the through-holes of the perforated plate. 2. The spray-gun line-connecting device of claim 1, wherein the perforated plate is configured to removably couple to the robot flange. 3. The spray-gun line-connecting device of claim 1, wherein each of the socket collars has a circular outer circumference. 4. A system, comprising: a spray-gun line connecting device, comprising: a first mating surface comprising a plurality of recesses leading to a plurality of first passages, wherein each recess is cylindrical and has a recess diameter, each first passage has a first passage diameter, the first passage diameter is smaller than the recess diameter; and a second mating surface configured to mate with the first mating surface to connect a plurality of lines between a robotic arm and a spray gun, wherein the second mating surface comprises a plurality of second passages and a plurality of first annular recesses, wherein each first annular recess is coaxial with one of the second passages, each first annular recess comprises a first annular seal, and each second passage has a second passage diameter smaller than the first passage diameter; wherein the plurality of first passages are configured to receive the plurality of lines, each recess is configured to receive a cylindrical head of each line, each second passage is configured to align with a third passage inside each line, and the second mating surface is configured to secure each cylindrical head in the respective recess. 5. The system of claim 4, wherein the spray-gun line connecting device is configured to connect at least five lines between the robotic arm and the spray gun. 6. The system of claim 4, wherein the first mating surface is disposed on a perforated plate having the plurality of recesses and the plurality of first passages. 7. The system of claim 4, comprising the spray gun, wherein the first mating surface is disposed directly on the spray gun. 8. The system of claim 4, comprising the robotic arm, wherein the second mating surface is disposed directly on the robotic arm. 9. The system of claim 4, wherein the first mating surface is a cylindrical recess below an outer surface, and the second mating surface is disposed on a cylindrical structure that fits into the cylindrical recess. 10. The system of claim 9, wherein the cylindrical structure comprises a cylindrical pate having a thickness substantially equal to a depth of the cylindrical recess. 11. The system of claim 4, comprising a plate having the second mating surface and an opposite third mating surface, wherein the plurality of second passages extend through the plate from the second mating surface to the third mating surface, the third mating surface comprises a plurality of second annular recesses, each second annular recess is coaxial with one of the second passages, each second annular recess comprises a second annular seal. 12. The system of claim 4, comprising the plurality of lines. 13. A method, comprising: connecting a plurality of lines between a spray gun and a robotic arm via a spray-gun line connecting device, wherein the spray-gun line connecting device comprises: a first mating surface comprising a plurality of recesses leading to a plurality of first passages, wherein each recess is cylindrical and has a recess diameter, each first passage has a first passage diameter, the first passage diameter is smaller than the recess diameter; and a second mating surface configured to mate with the first mating surface to connect a plurality of lines between the robotic arm and the spray gun, wherein the second mating surface comprises a plurality of second passages and a plurality of first annular recesses, wherein each first annular recess is coaxial with one of the second passages, each first annular recess comprises a first annular seal, and each second passage has a second passage diameter smaller than the first passage diameter; wherein the plurality of first passages are configured to receive the plurality of lines, each recess is configured to receive a cylindrical head of each line, each second passage is configured to align with a third passage inside each line, and the second mating surface is configured to secure each cylindrical head in the respective recess. 14. The method of claim 13, comprising connecting at least five lines between the robotic arm and the spray gun via the spray-gun line connecting device. 15. The method of claim 13, wherein the first mating surface is disposed on a perforated plate having the plurality of recesses and the plurality of first passages. 16. The method of claim 13, wherein the first mating surface is disposed directly on the spray gun. 17. The method of claim 13, wherein the second mating surface is disposed directly on the robotic arm. 18. The method of claim 13, wherein the first mating surface is a cylindrical recess below an outer surface, and the second mating surface is disposed on a cylindrical structure that fits into the cylindrical recess. 19. The method of claim 13, wherein the spray-gun line connecting device comprises a plate having the second mating surface and an opposite third mating surface, wherein the plurality of second passages extend through the plate from the second mating surface to the third mating surface, the third mating surface comprises a plurality of second annular recesses, each second annular recess is coaxial with one of the second passages, each second annular recess comprises a second annular seal. 