The joint mechanism includes a first link, a second link, a third link, a shaft supported on the second link to be rotatable about an axis thereof, and movable in an axis direction thereof, a first worm and a second worm mounted on the shaft, a first worm wheel in mesh with the first worm to pivotally move the first link with respect to the second link, and a second worm wheel in mesh with the second worm to pivotally move the third link with respect to the second link. The first link and the third link are pivotally moved in opposite directions to each other by rotating the shaft, and pivotally moved in identical directions to each other by moving the shaft in the axis direction.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A joint mechanism, comprising: a first link; a second link pivotally linked to the first link; a third link pivotally linked to the second link; a connecting member supported on the second link, the connecting member being constituted of an integrally formed shaft; a first worm and a second worm coupled to each other by the connecting member, each of the first worm and the second worm having a respective axis, each of the first worm and the second worm being rotatable about its respective axis, and each of the first worm and the second worm being movable in a direction along its respective axis; a first worm wheel in mesh with the first worm to pivotally move the first link with respect to the second link; a second worm wheel in mesh with the second worm to pivotally move the third link with respect to the second link; and at least one of a first mechanism for preventing the first link from rotating with respect to the second link, and a second mechanism for preventing the first link from rotating with respect to the second link, wherein the joint mechanism satisfies a relation: dA.times.dB.gtoreq.0 by rotation of the first worm and the second worm, and the joint mechanism satisfies a relation: dA.times.dB.ltoreq.0 by movement of the first worm and the second worm in the axis direction, where A is an angle defined by the first link and the second link, B is an angle defined by the second link and the third link, dA is a change amount of the angle A, and dB is a change amount of the angle B. 2. The joint mechanism according to claim 1, wherein the first mechanism is comprised of a braking mechanism for preventing a change in angle of the first link with respect to the second link, and the second mechanism is comprised of a braking mechanism for preventing a change in angle of the third link with respect to the second link. 3. The joint mechanism according to claim 2, further comprising an angle sensor for detecting a relative angle between the links, one of which has the braking mechanism, wherein the braking mechanism is operated based on an output of the angle sensor. 4. The joint mechanism according to claim 1, wherein the first mechanism is comprised of a clutching mechanism for switching between a connected state and a disconnected state of the first worm wheel with respect to the first link, and the first mechanism is comprised of a clutching mechanism for switching between a connected state and a disconnected state of the second worm wheel with respect to the third link. 5. The joint mechanism according to claim 1, further comprising a motor, fixed to the second link, for rotating the connecting member, and a clutching mechanism for selectively transmitting a driving force on at least one of a driving force transmission path from the motor to the first link, and a driving force transmission path from the motor to the third link. 6. The joint mechanism according to claim 4, further comprising an angle sensor for detecting a relative angle between the first link or the third link having the clutching mechanism, and the second link, wherein the clutching mechanism is operated based on an output of the angle sensor. 