Described herein is a method and system for performing calibrations on robotic components. In one embodiment, a method for performing robotic calibrations includes manually calibrating a center of a robot blade aligned with respect to a target. The method further includes recording a first positional value of the center of the robot blade aligned with respect to a camera. The method further includes automatically determining a second positional value of the center of the robot blade aligned with respect to the camera. The method further includes automatically recalibrating the robot blade based on an offset between the second positional value and the first positional value exceeding a tolerance offset from the first positional value.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method to recalibrate a robot, comprising: manually calibrating a center of a robot blade aligned with respect to a target, which is located in a process chamber; recording a first positional value of the center of the robot blade aligned with respect to a camera station based on the camera station capturing an image of the center of the robot blade in alignment with a center of the camera station during the calibration of the robot, wherein the camera station is remotely located from the robot blade while capturing the image; automatically determining a second positional value of the center of the robot blade aligned with respect to the camera station during a recalibration of the robot; and automatically recalibrating the robot blade based on an offset between the second positional value and the first positional value exceeding a tolerance offset from the first positional value, wherein the recalibration of the robot occurs automatically without opening the process chamber. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: automatically determining a third positional value of the center of the robot blade aligned with respect to the camera station; and automatically recalibrating the robot blade based on an offset between the third positional value and the first positional value exceeding a tolerance offset from the first positional value. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the target is a substrate support. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein a lid of the process chamber is closed during recalibration of the robot blade. 5. The method of claim 2, wherein a lid of a process chamber is closed during recalibration of the robot blade. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein automatically determining the second positional value of the center of the robot blade further comprises: training the robot to align the center of the robot blade with the camera station. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein automatically determining the second positional value of the center of the robot blade further comprises: capturing an image of the center of the robot blade aligned with respect to the camera station; and sending the image to a processing unit to automatically determining the second positional value of the center of the robot blade. 8. A machine-accessible medium including data that, when accessed by a machine, cause the machine to perform a method comprising: manually calibrating a center of a robot blade aligned with respect to a target, which is located in a process chamber; recording a first positional value of the center of the robot blade aligned with respect to a camera station based on the camera station capturing an image of the center of the robot blade in alignment with a center of the camera station during the calibration of the robot, wherein the camera station is remotely located from the robot blade while capturing the image; automatically determining a second positional value of the center of the robot blade aligned with respect to the camera station during a recalibration of the robot; and automatically recalibrating the robot blade based on an offset between the second positional value and the first positional value exceeding a tolerance offset from the first positional value, wherein the recalibration of the robot occurs automatically without opening the process chamber. 9. The machine-accessible medium of claim 8, the method further comprising: automatically recording a third positional value of the center of the robot blade aligned with respect to the camera station; and automatically recalibrating the robot blade based on an offset between the third positional value and the first positional value exceeding a tolerance offset from the first positional value. 10. The machine-accessible medium of claim 8, wherein the target is a substrate support. 11. The machine-accessible medium of claim 8, wherein automatically determining the second positional value of the center of the robot blade further comprises: training the robot to align the center of the robot blade with the camera station. 12. The machine-accessible medium of claim 11, wherein automatically determining the second positional value of the center of the robot blade further comprises: capturing an image of the center of the robot blade aligned with respect to the camera station; and sending the image to a processing unit to automatically determining the second positional value of the center of the robot blade. 13. A manufacturing machine, comprising: a plurality of process chambers; a transfer chamber having a robot to transfer devices between the transfer chamber and the processing chambers; a load station coupled to the transfer chamber with the robot capable of transferring the devices between the load station and transfer chamber; a chamber port between the transfer chamber and a processing chamber; a camera station attached to the transfer chamber, the load station, or the chamber port while capturing images; and a processing unit to control operations of the robot, wherein the robot is manually calibrated with respect to a processing chamber having a lid in an open position and then subsequently the robot is automatically recalibrated with respect to the processing chamber having the lid in a closed position based on images captured by the camera station. 14. The machine of claim 13, wherein the processing unit records a first positional value of the center of the robot blade aligned with respect to a center of the camera station. 15. The machine of claim 14, wherein the processing unit automatically recalibrates the robot by automatically determining a second positional value of the center of the robot blade aligned with respect to the camera station based on an offset between the second positional value and the first positional value exceeding a tolerance offset from the first positional value. 16. The machine of claim 15, wherein the processing unit subsequently automatically recalibrates the robot by recording a third positional value of the center of the robot blade aligned with respect to the camera station based on an offset between the third positional value and the first positional value exceeding a tolerance offset from the first positional value. 17. The machine of claim 13, wherein the robot is manually calibrated with respect to a target located in the processing chamber. 18. The machine of claim 16, wherein the camera station is attached to the outside of the transfer chamber with a view inside of the transfer chamber for recording the first, second, and third positional values of the robot in the transfer chamber. 19. The machine of claim 16, wherein the camera station is attached to the outside of the load station with a view inside of the load station for recording the first, second, and third positional values of the robot in the load station. 20. The machine of claim 16, wherein the camera station is attached to the outside of the chamber port with a view inside of the chamber port for recording the first, second, and third positional values of the robot in the chamber port. 