Methods are disclosed for assessing the condition of a cartilage in a joint, particularly a human knee. The methods include converting an image such as an MRI to a three dimensional map of the cartilage. The cartilage map can be correlated to a movement pattern of the joint to assess the affect of movement on cartilage wear. Changes in the thickness of cartilage over time can be determined so that therapies can be provided. Information on thickness of cartilage and curvature of cartilage or subchondral bone can be used to plan therapy. Information on movement pattern can be used to plan therapy.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of generating a kinematic model of a patient's joint using a computer system, the method comprising: obtaining from a first source electronic image data of the patient's joint that includes both normal and diseased tissue, the data comprising at least one of volume, area, thickness, shape, curvature, geometry, biochemical contents, signal intensity and relaxation time of said normal and/or diseased tissue; obtaining from a second source electronic biomechanical data derived from the patient, wherein the biomechanical data comprises data concerning relative motion of the joint; and generating from the image data and biomechanical data an electronic kinematic model of the patient's joint. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the biomechanical data further includes static loading alignment. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the biomechanical data further includes contact area or alignment during joint motion. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the biomechanical data further includes contact area or alignment during gait. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining at least one axis associated with a femoral or a tibial coordinate system including one of a medial-lateral axis, an inferior-superior axis, and an anterior-posterior axis. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising displaying the kinematic model. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising providing a therapy based on said kinematic model. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the relative motion is derived from a database. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the database includes a collection of movement patterns for human joints. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the movement patterns are organized or can be accessed by reference to characteristic including at least one of type of joint, gender, age, height, weight, bone size, type of movement and distance of movement. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the relative motion is derived using gait analysis. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the gait analysis is used to derive patient specific movement patterns. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the biomechanical data further includes axis alignment. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein the biomechanical data further includes moments and forces between bones. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein the biomechanical data further includes moments and forces between cartilages. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein the biomechanical data further includes the rotation and translation of a femur with respect to a tibia. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein the biomechanical data further includes loading conditions assessed based on anatomical features of each individual patient. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein at least some of the biomechanical data is obtained using an optimization calculation. 19. A method of generating a kinematic model of a patient's joint using a computer system, the method comprising: obtaining from a first source electronic image data of a joint that includes information comprising at least one of volume, area, thickness, shape, curvature, geometry, biochemical contents, signal intensity and relaxation time of normal and/or diseased tissue; obtaining from a second source biomechanical data associated with the joint; and creating an electronic kinematic model of the joint based on the image data and on the biomechanical data, wherein the model includes a contact area between two components of the joint. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein the biomechanical data includes static loading alignment. 21. The method of claim 19, wherein the biomechanical data includes contact area or alignment during joint motion. 22. The method of claim 19, wherein the biomechanical data includes contact area or alignment during gait. 23. The method of claim 19, wherein obtaining biomechanical data includes determining at least one axis associated with the joint. 24. The method of claim 19, further comprising determining at least one axis associated with a femoral or tibial condyle coordinate system including one of a medial-lateral axis, an inferior-superior axis, and an anterior-posterior axis. 25. The method of claim 19, further comprising displaying said kinematic model. 26. The method of claim 19, further comprising providing a therapy based on the kinematic model. 27. The method of claim 19, wherein the biomechanical data includes at least one axis associated with the joint. 28. The method of claim 19, wherein obtaining biomechanical data includes determining at least one axis associated with a femoral or tibial condyle coordinate system including one of a medial-lateral axis, an inferior-superior axis, and an anterior-posterior axis. 29. The method of claim 19, further comprising simultaneous displaying said information and biomechanical data. 30. The method of claim 19, further comprising providing a therapy based on said information or biomechanical data. 31. The method of claim 19, wherein the biomechanical data comprises data concerning dynamic motion of the joint and the dynamic motion is derived from a database. 32. The method of claim 31, wherein the database includes a collection of movement patterns for human joints. 33. The method of claim 32, wherein the movement patterns are organized or can be accessed by reference to characteristic including at least one of type of joint, gender, age, height, weight, bone size, type of movement and distance of movement. 34. The method of claim 19, wherein the biomechanical data comprises data concerning dynamic motion of the joint and the dynamic motion is derived using gait analysis. 35. The method of claim 34, wherein the gait analysis is used to derive patient specific movement patterns. 36. The method of claim 19, wherein obtaining biomechanical data includes determining axis alignment. 37. The method of claim 19, wherein obtaining biomechanical data includes determining moments and forces between bones. 38. The method of claim 19, wherein obtaining biomechanical data includes determining moments and forces between cartilages. 39. The method of claim 19, wherein obtaining biomechanical data includes determining the rotation and translation of the femur with respect to the tibia. 40. The method of claim 19, wherein the biomechanical data includes loading conditions assessed based on anatomical features of each individual patient. 41. The method of claim 19, wherein at least some of the biomechanical data is obtained using an optimization calculation. 