A method, a computer-readable medium, a software application, and a computer-based apparatus for initially establishing communication with a device on a local area network (LAN) in a substantially automated manner. A broadcast discovery request is transmitted over the network and the network is monitored for responses from devices connected to the network. A responding device is selected and a determination is made as to if a primary IP address of the selected device is within a predetermined subnet. Otherwise, a determination is made as to if a current alternate IP address of the selected device is within the predetermined subnet. Otherwise, a new alternate IP address is generated and may be conditionally assigned to the selected device. One of the primary IP address, the current alternate IP address, or the new alternate IP address is used to connect to the selected device for the purpose of communicating with the selected device.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of initially establishing communication with a welding device on a local area network (LAN) in a substantially automated manner, said method comprising: transmitting a broadcast discovery request over said network; monitoring said network for responses to said broadcast discovery request from devices connected to said network; selecting a welding device from a list of said devices that respond to said broadcast discovery request, and transmitting a broadcast message causing an indicator on said selected welding device to activate; using a computer to determine if a primary IP address of said selected welding device is within a predetermined subnet; using a computer to determine if a current alternate IP address of said selected welding device is within said predetermined subnet if said current alternate IP address exists and if said primary IP address is determined not to be within said predetermined subnet; generating a new alternate IP address if said primary IP address and said current alternate IP address, if existing, of said selected welding device are determined not to be within said predetermined subnet; checking that said new alternate IP address does not already exist on the network if said new alternate IP address is generated; and assigning said new alternate IP address to said selected welding device if said new alternate IP address is generated and said new alternate IP address does not already exist on the network. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising attempting to connect to said primary IP address of said selected welding device if said primary IP address of said selected welding device is determined to be within said predetermined subnet. 3. The method of claim 1 further comprising attempting to connect to said current alternate IP address of said selected welding device if said primary IP address of said selected welding device is determined not to be within said predetermined subnet and said current alternate IP address of said selected welding device is determined to be within said predetermined subnet. 4. The method of claim 1 further comprising attempting to connect to said new alternate IP address of said selected welding device if said primary IP address and said current alternate IP address, if existing, of said selected welding device are determined not to be within said predetermined subnet and said new alternate IP address is generated and assigned to said selected welding device. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein said broadcast discovery request originates at a host computer operatively connected to said network. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein said monitoring step is automatically performed by a host computer operatively connected to said network. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein said selecting step is manually performed by a user of a host computer operatively connected to said network. 8. The method of claim 1 further comprising automatically presenting said list of said devices to a user in a displayed application window of a host computer. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein said determining steps are automatically performed by a host computer operatively connected to said network. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein said predetermined subnet is a subnet of a host computer operatively connected to said network. 11. The method of claim 1 wherein said generating step is automatically performed by a host computer operatively connected to said network using a subnet mask and a subnet of said host computer and a random number generated by said host computer. 12. The method of claim 1 wherein said checking step is automatically performed via an address resolution protocol (ARP) which is part of an operating system of a host computer that is operatively connected to said network. 13. The method of claim 1 wherein said assigning step is automatically performed by a host computer operatively connected to said network by sending a broadcast message over said network wherein said broadcast message includes a media access control (MAC) address of said selected welding device and said new alternate IP address. 14. The method of claim 2 wherein said attempting step is automatically performed by a host computer operatively connected to said network. 15. The method of claim 3 wherein said attempting step is automatically performed by a host computer operatively connected to said network. 16. The method of claim 4 wherein said attempting step is automatically performed by a host computer operatively connected to said network. 17. The method of claim 1 wherein said step of determining if a primary IP address of said selected welding device is within a predetermined subnet is performed by a host computer operatively connected to said network using a subnet mask of said host computer operating on said primary IP address. 18. The method of claim 1 wherein said step of determining if a current alternate IP address of said selected welding device is within a predetermined subnet is performed by a host computer operatively connected to said network using subnet mask of said host computer operating on said current alternate IP address. 19. The method of claim 1 wherein said selected welding device includes one of a welding power source, a welding wire feeder, a welding user interface, and a welding robot. 20. A non-transitory computer readable medium having encoded thereon computer executable instructions for performing a method of initially establishing communication with a welding device on a local area network (LAN) in a substantially automated manner, wherein said method comprises: transmitting a broadcast discovery request over said network; monitoring said network for responses to said broadcast discovery request from devices connected to said network; selecting a welding device from a list of said devices that respond to said broadcast discovery request, and transmitting a broadcast message causing an indicator on said selected welding device to activate; determining if a primary IP address of said selected welding device is within a predetermined subnet; determining if a current alternate IP address of said selected welding device is within said predetermined subnet if said current alternate IP address exists and if said primary IP address is determined not to be within said predetermined subnet; generating a new alternate IP address if said primary IP address and said current alternate IP address, if existing, of said selected welding device are determined not to be within said predetermined subnet; checking that said new alternate IP address does not already exist on the network if said new alternate IP address is generated; and assigning said new alternate IP address to said selected welding device if said new alternate IP address is generated and said new alternate IP address does not already exist on the network. 21. The computer readable medium of claim 20 wherein said method further comprises attempting to connect to said primary IP address of said selected welding device if said primary IP address of said selected welding device is determined to be within said predetermined subnet. 22. The computer readable medium of claim 20 wherein said method further comprises attempting to connect to said current alternate IP address of said selected welding device if said primary IP address of said selected welding device is determined not to be within said predetermined subnet and said current alternate IP address of said selected welding device is determined to be within said predetermined subnet. 23. The computer readable medium of claim 20 wherein said method further comprises attempting to connect to said new alternate IP address of said selected welding device if said primary IP address and said current alternate IP address of said selected welding device, if existing, are determined not to be within said predetermined subnet and said new alternate IP address is generated and assigned to said selected welding device. 24. A computer-based apparatus for initially establishing communication with a welding device on a local area network (LAN) in a substantially automated manner, said computer-based apparatus comprising: means for transmitting a broadcast discovery request over said network; means for monitoring said network for responses to said broadcast discovery request from devices connected to said network; means for selecting a welding device from a list of said devices that respond to said broadcast discovery request, and transmitting a broadcast message causing an indicator on said selected welding device to activate; means for determining if a primary IP address of said selected welding device is within a subnet of said computer-based apparatus; means for determining if a current alternate IP address of said selected welding device is within said subnet of said computer-based apparatus if said primary IP address is determined not to be within said subnet of said computer-based apparatus; means for generating a new alternate IP address if said primary IP address and said current alternate IP address, if existing, of said selected welding device are determined not to be within said subnet of said computer-based apparatus; means for checking that said new alternate IP address does not already exist on the network if said new alternate IP address is generated; and means for assigning said new alternate IP address to said selected welding device if said new alternate IP address is generated and said new alternate IP address does not already exist on the network. 25. The computer-based apparatus of claim 24 further comprising means for attempting to connect to said primary IP address of said selected welding device if said primary IP address of said selected welding device is determined to be within said subnet of said computer-based apparatus. 26. The computer-based apparatus of claim 24 further comprising means for attempting to connect to said current alternate IP address of said selected welding device if said primary IP address of said selected welding device is determined not to be within said subnet of said computer-based apparatus and said current alternate IP address of said selected welding device is determined to be within said subnet of said computer-based apparatus. 27. The computer-based apparatus of claim 24 further comprising means for attempting to connect to said new alternate IP address of said selected welding device if said primary IP address and said current alternate IP address, if existing, of said selected welding device are determined not to be within said subnet of said computer-based apparatus and said new alternate IP address is generated and assigned to said selected welding device. 28. The computer-based apparatus of claim 24 further comprising means for displaying said list of said devices. 29. The computer-based apparatus of claim 24 wherein said means for generating generates a random number and operates on said random number and a subnet mask and a subnet of said computer-based apparatus in order to generate said new alternate IP address. 30. The computer-based apparatus of claim 24 wherein said means for assigning sends a broadcast message over said network wherein said broadcast message includes a media access control (MAC) address of said selected welding device and said new alternate IP address. 31. The computer-based apparatus of claim 24 wherein said means for determining if a primary IP address of said selected welding device is within a subnet of said computer-based apparatus uses a subnet mask of said computer-based apparatus operating on said primary IP address. 32. The computer-based apparatus of claim 24 wherein said means for determining if a current alternate IP address of said selected welding device is within a subnet of said computer-based apparatus uses a subnet mask of said computer-based apparatus operating on said current alternate IP address. 33. A computer-based apparatus, said computer-based apparatus comprising a software application for initially establishing communication with a welding device on a local area network (LAN) in a substantially automated manner by: launching a broadcast discovery request over said network; monitoring said network for responses to said broadcast discovery request from devices connected to said network; allowing selection of a welding device from a list of said devices that respond to said broadcast discovery request, and transmitting a broadcast message causing an indicator on said selected welding device to activate; determining if a primary IP address of said selected welding device is within a subnet of said computer-based apparatus; determining if a current alternate IP address of said selected welding device is within said subnet of said computer-based apparatus if said current alternate IP address exists and if said primary IP address is determined not to be within said subnet of said computer-based apparatus; generating a new alternate IP address if said primary IP address and said current alternate IP address, if existing, of said selected welding device are determined not to be within said subnet of said computer-based apparatus; checking that said new alternate IP address does not already exist on the network if said new alternate IP address is generated; and assigning said new alternate IP address to said selected welding device if said new alternate IP address is generated and said new alternate IP address does not already exist on the network. 34. The computer-based apparatus of claim 33 wherein said software application further attempts to connect to said primary IP address of said selected welding device if said primary IP address of said selected welding device is determined to be within said subnet of said computer-based apparatus. 35. The computer-based apparatus of claim 33 wherein said software application further attempts to connect to said current alternate IP address of said selected welding device if said primary IP address of said selected welding device is determined not to be within said subnet of said computer-based apparatus and said current alternate IP address of said selected welding device is determined to be within said subnet of said computer-based apparatus. 36. The computer-based apparatus of claim 33 wherein said software application further attempts to connect to said new alternate IP address of said selected welding device if said primary IP address and said current alternate IP address, if existing, of said selected welding device are determined not to be within said subnet of said computer-based apparatus and said new alternate IP address is generated and assigned to said selected welding device. 37. The computer-based apparatus of claim 33 wherein said software application further provides for displaying of said list of said devices in an application window. 38. The computer-based apparatus of claim 33 wherein said software application generates said new alternate IP address by generating a random number and operating on said random number and a subnet mask and a subnet of said computer-based apparatus. 39. The computer-based apparatus of claim 33 wherein said software application assigns said new alternate IP address by launching a broadcast message over said network wherein said broadcast message includes a media access control (MAC) address of said selected welding device and said new alternate IP address. 40. The computer-based apparatus of claim 33 wherein said software application determines if said primary IP address of said selected welding device is within said subnet of said computer-based apparatus by applying a subnet mask of said computer-based apparatus to said primary IP address. 41. The computer-based apparatus of claim 33 wherein said software application determines if said current alternate IP address of said selected welding device is within said subnet of said computer-based apparatus by applying a subnet mask of said computer-based apparatus to said current alternate IP address. 42. The method of claim 1 wherein said indicator is a light-emitting diode. 43. The computer readable medium of claim 20 wherein said indicator is a light-emitting diode. 44. The computer-based apparatus of claim 33 wherein said indicator is a light-emitting diode. 