A laser blanking device for high speed cutting of a rapidly fed strip of coil stock is disclosed and includes a support frame extending along a first longitudinal axis and a conveyor supported by the support frame. A strip of coil stock material is fed onto the conveyor at a pinch roll located near a first end of the frame. Transverse, moveable gantries above the conveyor suspend lasers. A pinch roll located near a second end of the frame assists movement of the material. Multiple laser cutting operations are simultaneously performed on the material as it moves along the device, and a laser head suspended from a gantry situated after the second pinch roll completes a cut that separates a blank from the remainder of the stock material.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A laser blanking device for cutting rapidly fed coil stock material, the device comprising: a support frame extending from a first end to a second end along a first longitudinal axis; a conveyor supported by the support frame moving in a forward direction from the first end to the second end, the conveyor supporting a strip of coil stock material; a first pinch roll assembly located adjacent to the first end, the first pinch roll assembly feeding a strip of coil stock material in the forward direction from an associated coil onto the conveyor; at least two gantries supported above the conveyor, each gantry having a second longitudinal axis that is generally transverse to the first longitudinal axis; at least one laser head suspended from each gantry, each laser head moveable along the second longitudinal axis; a second pinch roll assembly located adjacent to the second end, the second pinch roll assembly assisting the movement of the strip of coil stock material in the forward direction; wherein the device performs multiple laser cutting operations simultaneously on the strip of coil stock material as the strip of coil stock material moves along the longitudinal axis of the device; and wherein a first gantry of the at least two gantries is located between the first pinch roll assembly and the second pinch roll assembly, and a second gantry of the at least two gantries is located between the second pinch roll assembly and the second end, the laser head suspended from the second gantry completing a cut through the strip of coil stock material that separates a portion of the strip of coil stock material from the remainder of the strip of coil stock material. 2. The laser blanking device of claim 1 wherein the portion of the strip of coil stock material comprises one of a blank and a piece of scrap. 3. The laser blanking device of claim 1, wherein the first and second pinch roll assemblies move the strip of coil stock material in the forward direction at a velocity substantially the same as a velocity of the conveyor. 4. The laser blanking device of claim 3, wherein the first and second pinch roll assemblies apply tension to the strip of coil stock material in a direction of the first longitudinal axis. 5. The laser blanking device of claim 4, wherein each of the first and second pinch rollers has a length that extends at least a width of the strip of coil stock material. 6. The laser blanking device of claim 1 wherein each gantry is moveable along the first longitudinal axis. 7. The laser blanking device of claim 1, wherein each laser head comprises a laser that cuts a perimeter portion of a blank from the strip of coil stock material as the strip of coil stock material moves past the laser head; and wherein the laser cuts the strip of coil stock material without ceasing movement of the conveyor. 8. The laser blanking device of claim 1, wherein the conveyor comprises a plurality of arms having pins thereon for supporting the strip of coil stock material. 9. The laser blanking device of claim 1 further comprising an in-line inspection system for measuring a distance between a centerline of the conveyor and a registration mark on the strip of coil stock material, the in-line inspection system comprising a controller for calculating adjustments to the movements of the at least two gantries and the at least one moveable laser head based on a measured camber in the strip of coil stock material. 10. The laser blanking device of claim 1 further comprising a coil mapping system, the coil mapping system tracking defects in the coil based on defect coordinates of the strip of coil stock material, the coil mapping system comprising a controller for causing a stacker to reject portions of the strip of coil stock material that are associated with the defect coordinates. 11. The laser blanking device of claim 1, further comprising: a second conveyor support frame extending from a third end to a fourth end along a third longitudinal axis, the second conveyor support frame located adjacent to the conveyor support frame and aligned such that the first longitudinal axis and the third longitudinal axis form an angle greater than or equal to 0 degrees and less than or equal to 90 degrees; and a second conveyor supported by the second conveyor support frame and moving in a recurring loop in a direction from the third end to the fourth end, the second conveyor transporting a portion of the strip of coil stock material that has been separated from the remainder of the strip of coil stock material. 12. The laser blanking device of claim 11 wherein the second conveyor is supported below the conveyor. 13. A progressive laser blanking device for high-speed cutting of coil stock material, the device comprising: a first support frame extending from a first end to a second end along a first longitudinal axis; a first conveyor supported by the first support frame and moving in a recurring loop in a forward direction between the first end and the second end, the first conveyor supporting a strip of coil stock material; a first pinch roll assembly located adjacent to the first end, the first pinch roll assembly feeding a strip of coil stock material in the forward direction from an associated coil onto the first conveyor; at least one first gantry supported above the first conveyor, each first gantry located between the first end and the second end, each first gantry having a second longitudinal axis that is transverse to the first longitudinal axis; at least one first laser head suspended from each first gantry, each first laser head moveable along the second longitudinal axis; a second support frame extending from a third end to a fourth end along a third longitudinal axis, the second support frame located adjacent to the second end of first support frame and aligned with the first support frame such that the first longitudinal axis and the third longitudinal axis are substantially collinear; a second conveyor supported by the second support frame and moving in a recurring loop in a forward direction between the third end and the fourth end, the second conveyor supporting the strip of coil stock material; a second pinch roll assembly located adjacent to the third end, the second pinch roll assembly assisting the movement of the strip of coil stock material in the forward direction from the first conveyor to the second conveyor; a second gantry supported above the second conveyor, the second gantry located on a forward side of the second pinch roll assembly, the second gantry having a fourth longitudinal axis that is transverse to the third longitudinal axis; a second laser head suspended from the second gantry moveable along the fourth longitudinal axis, the second laser head completing a cut separating a portion of the strip of coil stock material from the remainder of the strip of coil stock material. 14. The progressive laser blanking device of claim 13, further comprising: a third conveyor support frame extending from a fifth end to a sixth end along a fifth longitudinal axis, the third conveyor support frame located adjacent to one of the first conveyor support frame and second conveyor support frame and aligned such that the first longitudinal axis and the fifth longitudinal axis form an angle greater than or equal to 0 degrees and less than or equal to 90 degrees; a third conveyor supported by the third conveyor support frame and moving in a recurring loop in a direction from the fifth end to the sixth end, the third conveyor transporting a portion of the strip of coil stock material that has been separated from the remainder of the strip of coil stock material. 15. The progressive laser blanking device of claim 14 wherein the third conveyor is supported below one of the first conveyor and the second conveyor. 16. The progressive laser blanking device of claim 13 wherein each first gantry is moveable along the first longitudinal axis. 17. The progressive laser blanking device of claim 16 wherein each second gantry is moveable along the third longitudinal axis. 18. A laser blanking device for cutting rapidly fed coil stock material, the device comprising: a conveyor extending along a first longitudinal axis from a first end to a second end, the conveyor supporting a strip of coil stock material while the strip of coil stock material moves along the first longitudinal axis in a forward direction from the first end to the second end; a first pinch roll assembly located adjacent to the first end, the first pinch roll assembly feeding a strip of coil stock material in the forward direction from an associated coil onto the conveyor; at least two gantries supported above the conveyor, each gantry having a second longitudinal axis that forms an angle greater than 0 degrees and less than or equal to 90 degrees with the first longitudinal axis; at least one laser head suspended from each gantry, each laser head moveable along the second longitudinal axis; a second pinch roll assembly located toward the second end, the second pinch roll assembly assisting the movement of the strip of coil stock material in the forward direction; wherein the first and second pinch roll assemblies apply tension to the strip of coil stock material in a direction of the first longitudinal axis; wherein the device performs multiple laser cutting operations simultaneously on the strip of coil stock material as the strip of coil stock material moves along the longitudinal axis of the device; and wherein a first gantry of the at least two gantries is located intermediate the first pinch roll assembly and the second pinch roll assembly, and a second gantry of the at least two gantries is located between the second pinch roll assembly and the second end, the laser head suspended from the second gantry completing a cut through the strip of coil stock material that separates a portion of the strip of coil stock material from the remainder of the strip of coil stock material. 19. The laser blanking device of claim 18, wherein at least one gantry is moveable along the first longitudinal axis. 