One embodiment of the invention includes an application of multilayer thermo-reversible dry adhesives in climbing devices.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of climbing comprising: providing a device having at least a first movable limb, a second movable limb, a third movable limb, a fourth movable limb, and a thermo-reversible dry adhesive attached to each of the movable limbs, wherein the thermo-reversible dry adhesive comprises a shape memory polymer layer and a dry adhesive layer underlying the shape memory polymer layer; moving each limb in alternating fashion comprising: heating the thermo-reversible dry adhesive on the movable limb and pressing the adhesive against a surface to make contact; cooling down the adhesive so that a strong adhesive bond is formed; and releasing the movable limb from the surface comprising heating the dry adhesive again and using a force not greater than 2 N/cm.sup.2 to detach the limb from the surface. 2. A method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the adhesive bond has a pull-off force greater than 10 N/cm.sup.2. 3. A method as set forth in claim 1 comprising using a force not greater than 0.3 N/cm.sup.2 to detach the limb from the surface. 4. A method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the heating the thermo-reversible dry adhesive comprises heating to the glass transition temperature of the shape memory polymer layer. 5. A method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the cooling comprises at least one of natural cooling, a cooling wire, or a Peltier device. 6. A method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the device is one of a robot or a toy. 7. A method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the dry adhesive layer comprises: at least one of a rigid epoxy or a flexible epoxy; and at least one of a crosslinking agent or a catalytic curing agent; wherein the rigid epoxy is an aromatic epoxy having at least two epoxide groups, the flexible epoxy is an aliphatic epoxy having at least two epoxide groups, and the crosslinking agent is one of a multi-amine, an organic multi-carboxylic acid, or an anhydride. 8. A method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the shape memory polymer layer comprises: at least one of a rigid epoxy or a flexible epoxy; and at least one of a crosslinking agent or a catalytic curing agent; wherein the rigid epoxy is an aromatic epoxy having at least two epoxide groups, the flexible epoxy is an aliphatic epoxy having at least two epoxide groups, and the crosslinking agent is one of a multi-amine, an organic multi-carboxylic acid, or an anhydride. 9. A product comprising a climbing device comprising: at least two movable limbs; and a thermo-reversible dry adhesive secured to each of the movable limbs, wherein the thermo-reversible dry adhesive comprises a shape memory polymer layer and a dry adhesive layer underlying the shape memory polymer layer, wherein the dry adhesive layer comprises: at least one of a rigid epoxy or a flexible epoxy; and at least one of a crosslinking agent or a catalytic curing agent; wherein the rigid epoxy is an aromatic epoxy having at least two epoxide groups, the flexible epoxy is an aliphatic epoxy having at least two epoxide groups, and the crosslinking agent is one of a multi-amine, an organic multi-carboxylic acid, or an anhydride. 10. A product comprising a climbing device comprising: at least two movable limbs; and a thermo-reversible dry adhesive secured to each of the movable limbs, wherein the thermo-reversible dry adhesive comprises a shape memory polymer layer and a dry adhesive layer underlying the shape memory polymer layer, wherein the shape memory polymer layer comprises: at least one of a rigid epoxy or a flexible epoxy; and at least one of a crosslinking agent or a catalytic curing agent; wherein the rigid epoxy is an aromatic epoxy having at least two epoxide groups, the flexible epoxy is an aliphatic epoxy having at least two epoxide groups, and the crosslinking agent is one of a multi-amine, an organic multi-carboxylic acid, or an anhydride. 11. A product comprising a climbing device comprising: at least two movable limbs; and a thermo-reversible dry adhesive secured to each of the movable limbs, wherein the thermo-reversible dry adhesive comprises a shape memory polymer layer comprising a shape memory polymer and a dry adhesive layer underlying the shape memory polymer layer, and a means for heating the thermo-reversible dry adhesive to the glass transition temperature of the shape memory polymer. 12. A product as set forth in claim 11 wherein said means comprises a heating wire, a cooling wire, or a Peltier device. 