Method, system, and computer program product embodiments for recording data on a contactless integrated circuit (IC) memory associated with a data storage cartridge are provided. In one exemplary embodiment, an index of a plurality of files to be recorded on a storage media of the data storage cartridge is parsed with a table of contents (TOC) profile file to build a table of contents (TOC) specific to an owning application of the plurality of files. The TOC is written to the contactless IC memory.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for recording data on a contactless integrated circuit (IC) memory associated with a data storage cartridge, comprising: parsing an index of a plurality of files to be recorded on a storage media of the data storage cartridge with a table of contents (TOC) profile file to build a table of contents (TOC) specific to an owning application of the plurality of files; writing the TOC to the contactless IC memory; and subsequent to an insertion of the data storage cartridge: building an additional TOC by reading the index and the TOC profile file from the storage media, comparing the additional TOC with at least one of the TOC written to the contactless IC memory and the index to verify additional consistency, and verifying consistency between the TOC written to the contactless IC memory and the index, wherein if the TOC and the index are inconsistent, refreshing the TOC profile file with data from the index. 2. The method of claim 1, further including storing the index on the storage media of the data storage cartridge. 3. The method of claim 1, further including storing the TOC profile file on the storage media of the data storage cartridge. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein writing the TOC to the contactless IC memory includes sending the TOC to a radio frequency (RF) communication unit for transmission to the contactless IC memory. 5. A system for recording data file information describing contents of storage media of a data storage cartridge in an automated storage and retrieval library, comprising: a processor device operational in the automated storage and retrieval library, the processing device adapted for building a table of contents (TOC) specific to an owning application of a plurality of files to be recorded on the storage media by parsing an index of the plurality of files with a table of contents (TOC) profile file; and a contactless integrated circuit (IC) memory in communication with the processor device and embedded in the data storage cartridge, the contactless IC memory adapted for storing the table of contents (TOC); wherein the processor device is further adapted for, subsequent to an insertion of the data storage cartridge: building an additional TOC by reading the index and the TOC profile file from the storage media, comparing the additional TOC with at least one of the TOC written to the contactless IC memory and the index to verify additional consistency, and verifying consistency between the TOC written to the contactless IC memory and the index, wherein if the TOC and the index are inconsistent, refreshing the TOC profile file with data from the index. 6. The system of claim 5, wherein the processor device is further adapted for storing the index on the storage media of the data storage cartridge. 7. The system of claim 5, wherein the processor device is further adapted for storing the TOC profile file on the storage media of the data storage cartridge. 8. The system of claim 5, wherein the processor device is further adapted for, pursuant to writing the TOC to the contactless IC memory, sending the TOC to a radio frequency (RF) communication unit for transmission to the contactless IC memory. 9. The system of claim 5, wherein the storage media is compatible with a Linear Tape Open-5 (LTO-5) data storage format. 10. The system of claim 5, wherein the automated data storage and retrieval system includes an automated tape library, and the data storage cartridge includes a tape cartridge device for insertion in to the automated tape library. 11. A computer program product for recording data on a contactless integrated circuit (IC) memory associated with a data storage cartridge, the computer program product comprising a computer-readable storage medium having computer-readable program code portions stored therein, the computer-readable program code portions comprising: a first executable portion for parsing an index of a plurality of files to be recorded on a storage media of the data storage cartridge with a table of contents (TOC) profile file to build a table of contents (TOC) specific to an owning application of the plurality of files; a second executable portion for writing the TOC to the contactless IC memory; and a third executable portion for subsequent to an insertion of the data storage cartridge: building an additional TOC by reading the index and the TOC profile file from the storage media, comparing the additional TOC with at least one of the TOC written to the contactless IC memory and the index to verify additional consistency, and verifying consistency between the TOC written to the contactless IC memory and the index, wherein if the TOC and the index are inconsistent, refreshing the TOC profile file with data from the index. 12. The computer program product of claim 11, further including a third executable portion for storing the index on the storage media of the data storage cartridge. 13. The computer program product of claim 11, further including a third executable portion for storing the TOC profile file on the storage media of the data storage cartridge. 14. The computer program product of claim 11, further including a third executable portion for, pursuant to writing the TOC to the contactless IC memory, sending the TOC to a radio frequency (RF) communication unit for transmission to the contactless IC memory. 