A semi-liquid metal processing and sensing device comprising a crucible that is at least partially encircled by at least one induction coil. The one or more induction coils can be water cooled. The one or more induction coils can be designed to generate a variable power and/or variable frequency magnetic field which can be modulated to control the cooling of a molten metal charge in the crucible from the liquidus temperature to a selected heat content, resistivity and/or viscosity. The magnetic field can be designed to induce toroidal agitation of the metal charge in the crucible. The semi-liquid condition is sensed and can be actively controlled by the induction power supply via real time or non-real time analysis of electrical feedback signals that are obtained from the induction coil.
Claims I claim: 1. A method of monitoring, determining, controlling, or combinations thereof at least one property at least one property of a molten or semi-molten material in a material container that is subjected to a magnetic field formed by at least one induction coil to control a cooling rate of said material in said material container, said method including: inserting said molten or semi-molten material in a cavity of said material container, said cavity at least partially encircled by at least one induction coil; applying power to said at least one induction coil, said at least one induction coil functions as a heating device, a cooling device, or combinations thereof of said material; directly sensing, indirectly sensing, or combinations thereof at least one electrical parameter as said power is applied to said at least one induction coil, said sensing of said at least one electrical parameter is obtained from i) feedback from said at least one induction coil, ii) information from a solenoid coil in proximity to said at least one induction, or combinations thereof; and, determining at least one selected from the group consisting of a load resistance inside a region at least partially encircled by said induction coil, a resistivity of said material, a temperature of said material, a solid fraction of said material, a liquid fraction of said material, and combinations thereof based at least partially on said sensed at least one electrical parameter to control a cooling rate of said material in said material container. 2. The method as defined in claim 1, including the step of using said sensed electrical parameter to at least partially control said material temperature, solid fraction of said material, said liquid fraction said material, or combinations thereof in said material container. 3. The method as defined in claim 2, wherein said material is inserted in said material container at a temperature above a solidus temperature of said material. 4. The method as defined in claim 3, wherein said material is pure aluminum or an aluminum alloy, said aluminum alloy including at least 77.55 weight percent aluminum and at least two metals selected from the group consisting of copper, iron, magnesium, manganese, nickel, silicon, tin, titanium and zinc. 5. The method as defined in claim 1, wherein said material is at least partially stirred in said material container by a magnetic field generated by said at least one induction coil. 6. The method as defined in claim 1, including the step of using said sensed at least one electrical parameter to at least partially control a power level to said at least one induction coil. 7. The method as defined in claim 6, wherein said step of controlling said power level is used to control a reduction of said temperature of said material to a temperature greater than a solidus temperature of said material so that said material has a certain solid fraction and liquid fraction just prior to a time said material is poured from or otherwise ejected from said material container. 8. The method as defined in claim 1, including the step of continuously or periodically monitoring said sensed at least one electrical parameter while said material is in said material container to track a temperature trend of said material in said material container. 9. The method as defined in claim 1, including the step of determining a derivative of said sensed at least one electrical parameter as a function of time and using said derivative to at least partially determine a temperature trend over time of said material in said material container. 10. The method as defined in claim 1, including the step of setting a target electrical parameter and controlling said power level to said at least one induction coil so that said temperature of said material in said material container obtains a certain temperature to cause said sensed at least one electrical parameter to equal said target electrical parameter. 11. The method as defined in claim 1, including the step of setting a target cycle time and controlling said power level to said at least one induction coil so that said temperature of said material in said material container obtains a certain temperature in a time period that is equal to said target cycle time, said target cycle time can be a set or adjustable value. 12. The method as defined in claim 1, including the step of depositing said material in a forming or casting machine alter said material in said material container has reached one selected from the group consisting of a desired temperature, solids fraction, and combinations thereof. 13. A method of monitoring, determining, controlling, or combinations thereof at least one property of a molten or semi-molten material that is subjected to a magnetic field formed by at least one induction coil, said method including: inserting said material in a cavity of a material container, said cavity at least partially encircled by at least one induction coil, said material is inserted in said material container at a temperature above a solidus temperature of said material; applying power to said at least one induction coil, said at least one induction coil functions as a heating device, a cooling device, or combinations thereof of said material; directly sensing, indirectly sensing, or combinations thereof at least one electrical parameter as said power is applied to said at least one induction coil, said sensing of said at least one electrical parameter is obtained from at least one selected from the group consisting of i) feedback from said at least one induction coil, ii) information from a solenoid coil in proximity to said at least one induction coil, and combinations thereof:, and, determining at least one selected from the group consisting of load resistance inside a region at least partially encircled by said induction coil, a resistivity of said material, a temperature of said material, a solid fraction of said material, a liquid fraction of said material, and combinations thereof based at least partially on said sensed at least one electrical parameter. 14. The method as defined in claim 13, wherein said material is at least partially stirred in said material container by a magnetic field generated by said at least one induction coil. 15. The method as defined in claim 14, including the step of using said sensed at least one electrical parameter to at least partially control a power level to said at least one induction coil. 16. The method as defined in claim 15, wherein said step of controlling said power level is used to control a reduction of said temperature of said material to a temperature greater than a solidus temperature of said material so that said material has a certain solid fraction and liquid fraction just prior to a time said material is poured from or otherwise ejected from said material container. 17. The method as defined in claim 16, including the step of continuously or periodically monitoring said sensed at least one electrical parameter while said material is in said material container to track a temperature trend of said material in said material container. 18. The method as defined in claim 17, including the step of determining a derivative of said sensed at least one electrical parameter as a function of time and using said derivative to at least partially determine a temperature trend over time of said material in said material container. 19. The method as defined in claim 18, including the step of setting a target electrical parameter and controlling said power level to said at least one induction coil so that said temperature of said material in said material container obtains a certain temperature to cause said sensed at least one electrical parameter to equal said target electrical parameter. 20. The method as defined in claim 19, including the step of setting a target cycle time and controlling said power level to said at least one induction coil so that said temperature of said material in said material container obtains a certain temperature in a time period that is equal to said target cycle time, said target cycle time can be a set or adjustable value. 21. The method as defined in claim 20, including the step of depositing said material in a forming or casting machine alter said material in said material container has reached one selected from the group consisting of a desired temperature, solids fraction, and combinations thereof. 22. A method of monitoring, determining, controlling, or combinations thereof at least one property of a molten or semi-molten material that is subjected to a magnetic field formed by at least one induction coil, said method including: inserting said material in a cavity of a material container, said cavity at least partially encircled by at least one induction coil, said material is pure aluminum or all aluminum alloy, said aluminum alloy including at least 77.55 weight percent aluminum and at least two metals selected from the group consisting of copper, iron, magnesium, manganese, nickel, silicon, tin, titanium and zinc; applying power to said at least one induction coil, said at least one induction coil functions as a heating device, a cooling device, or combinations thereof of said material; directly sensing, indirectly sensing, or combinations thereof at least one electrical parameter as said power is applied to said at least one induction coil, said sensing of said at least one electrical parameter is obtained from i) feedback from said at least one induction coil, ii) information from a solenoid coil in proximity to said at least one induction coil, or combinations thereof, and, determining at least one selected from the group consisting of a load resistance inside a region at least partially encircled by said induction coil, a resistivity of said material, a temperature of said material, a solid fraction of said material, a liquid fraction of said material, and combinations thereof based at least partially on said sensed at least one electrical parameter. 23. The method as defined in claim 22, wherein said material is at least partially stirred in said material container by a magnetic field generated by said at least one induction coil. 24. The method as defined in claim 23, including the step of using said sensed at least one electrical parameter to at least partially control a power level to said at least one induction coil. 25. The method as defined in claim 24, wherein said step of controlling said power level is used to control a reduction of said temperature of said material to a temperature greater than a solidus temperature of said material so that said material has a certain solid fraction and liquid fraction just prior to a time said material is poured from or otherwise ejected from said material container. 26. The method as defined in claim 25, including the step of continuously or periodically monitoring said sensed at least one electrical parameter while said material is in said material container to track a temperature trend of said material in said material container. 27. The method as defined in claim 26, including the step of determining a derivative of said sensed at least one electrical parameter as a function of time and using said derivative to at least partially determine a temperature trend over time of said material in said material container. 28. The method as defined in claim 27, including the step of setting a target electrical parameter and controlling said power level to said at least one induction coil so that said temperature of said material in said material container obtains a certain temperature to cause said sensed at least one electrical parameter to equal said target electrical parameter. 29. The method as defined in claim 28, including the step of setting a target cycle time and controlling said power level to said at least one induction coil so that said temperature of said material in said material container obtains a certain temperature in a time period that is equal to said target cycle time, said target cycle time can be a set or adjustable value. 30. The method as defined in claim 29, including the step of depositing said material in a forming or casting machine after said material in said material container has reached at least one selected from the group consisting of desired temperature, solids fraction, and combinations thereof. 31. A method of monitoring, determining, controlling, and combinations thereof of at least one property of a molten or semi-molten material that is subjected to a magnetic field formed by at least one induction coil to control a cooling rate of said molten or semi-molten material in a material container, said method including: inserting said molten or semi-molten material in a cavity of said material container, said cavity at least partially encircled by at least one induction coil; applying power to said at least one induction coil, said at least one induction coil functions as a heating device, a cooling device, or combinations thereof of said material; and, using said at least one induction coil to at least partially maintain a constant temperature of said material in said material container for a period of time, to at least partially increase a temperature of said material in said material container of a period of time, to at least partially decrease a temperature of said material in said material container for a period of time, and to at least partially cause said material in said material container to be stirred for a period of time to control a cooling rate of said material in said material container. 32. The method as defined in claim 31, further including the steps of: directly sensing, indirectly sensing, or combinations thereof of at least one electrical parameter as said power is applied to said at least one induction coil, said sensing of said at least one electrical parameter is obtained from one selected from the group consisting of i) feed from said at least one induction coil, ii) information from a solenoid coil in proximity to said at least one induction coil, and combinations thereof; and, determining at least one selected from the group consisting of a load resistance inside a region at least partially encircled by said induction coil, a resistivity of said material, a temperature of said material, a solid fraction of said material, a liquid fraction of said material, and combinations thereof based at least partially on said sensed at least one electrical parameter. 33. A method of processing a metal alloy comprising: a. providing a material container that includes a cavity, said cavity designed to receive a molten or semi-molten metal alloy; b. providing an induction coil, said induction coil at least partially encircling said cavity of said material container; c. inserting said molten or semi-molten metal alloy in said cavity; d. one selected from the group consisting of increasing a temperature of said molten or semi-molten metal alloy in said cavity of said material container, decreasing a temperature said molten or semi-molten metal alloy in said cavity of said material container, and maintaining a temperature of said molten or semi-molten metal alloy in said cavity of said material container by controlling an amount of power applied to said induction coil; e. stirring said molten or semi-molten metal alloy in said cavity of said material container by use of a magnetic field; f. controllably cooling said molten or semi-molten metal alloy in said cavity of said material container by changing and controlling a power frequency to said induction coil; g. directly sensing, indirectly sensing, or combinations thereof of at least one electrical parameter as said power is applied to said at least one induction coil, said sensing of said at least one electrical parameter is obtained from i) feedback from said at least one induction coil, ii) information from a solenoid coil in proximity to said at least one induction coil, or combinations thereof; h. determining at least one selected from the group consisting of a load resistance inside a region at least partially encircled by said induction coil, a resistivity of said material, a temperature of said molten or semi-molten metal alloy, a solid fraction of said molten or semi-molten metal alloy, a liquid fraction of said molten or semi-molten metal alloy, and combinations thereof based at least partially on said sensed at least one electrical parameter; and; i. depositing stirred and cooled metal alloy from said molten or semi-molten metal alloy in said cavity of said material container into a shot sleeve. 34. The method as defined in claim 33, including the step of maintaining a temperature of said molten or semi-molten metal alloy in said cavity of said material container after said molten or semi-molten metal alloy has reached a desired temperature, said desired temperature less than a temperature of said molten or semi-molten metal alloy when initially placed in said cavity of said material container. 