A cochlear implant device includes a deformable and stretchable flexible strip composed of a biological compatible material and positioned about a longitudinal axis so as to form a spiral. The implant device has a plurality of conductive strips with electrode windows formed so as to expose a segment of each conductive strip. A density of the electrode windows is sufficient to monitor a distance of the flexible strip from a non-conductive tissue of a patient in a 360 degree field of view about the longitudinal axis. A method of inserting a cochlear implant includes providing a multi-joint robot comprised of a series of actuator units, guiding the multi-joint robot into an inner ear of a patient, monitoring the position of the multi-joint robot relative to a non-conductive portion of the patient; and applying current to the multi-joint robot so as to adjust the position of the actuator units.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of inserting a cochlear implant, wherein the cochlear implant includes a deformable flexible strip including a biological compatible material and having a plurality of conductive strips arranged in a predetermined pattern disposed therein and positioned about a longitudinal axis so as to form a spiral, the method comprising the following steps: providing a multi-joint robot comprised of a series of actuator units; placing the deformable and stretchable flexible strip about an outer surface of the multi-joint robot; guiding the multi-joint robot into an inner ear of a patient; monitoring a position of the multi-joint robot relative to a non-conductive portion of the patient; and applying current to the multi-joint robot so as to adjust one of the yaw and pitch position of one or more of the actuator units. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the monitoring step includes using scanning electrochemical microscopy. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein using the scanning electrochemical microscopy includes using scanning electrochemical microscopy in negative mode. 4. The method of claim 2, wherein the cochlear implant includes exposed electrode windows sized to be detected by the scanning electrochemical microscopy so as to indicate a positional separation from the non-conductive portion. 5. A multi joint robotic cochlear implant for implantation into a cochlear duct of a patient, the multi joint robot comprising: a plurality of multi-joint actuator units interconnected mechanically and controllable electronically; each of the plurality of multi-joint actuator units including at least two central discs, an inner column disposed between the central discs, and at least three wires in communication with the central discs; and each of the plurality of multi-joint actuator units being capable of independent remote activation by electronic communication. 6. The multi-joint robot of claim 5, wherein the plurality of multi-joint actuator units includes at least ten independent multi-joint actuator units. 7. The multi-joint robot of claim 5, wherein the connecting wires are distributed at equiangular points along the periphery of the central discs. 8. The multi-joint robot of claim 5, wherein the multi-joint actuator units are independently activated by selective application of a current to at least one of the connecting wires, wherein the current causes a tilt in the selected multi-joint actuator unit. 9. The multi-joint robot of claim 5, wherein the connecting wires include nitinol. 10. The multi-joint robot of claim 5, wherein the outer surface of the multi-joint robot is configured and arranged to receive a deformable stretchable flexible strip. 11. A non-transitory computer-readable medium having computer-executable instructions for performing a method comprising the following steps: controlling a linear micromanipulator to advance a robotic cochlear implant into a cochlear duct of a patient, the robotic cochlear implant including a plurality of actuator units; recording the longitudinal distance of the robotic cochlear implant in the cochlear duct; receiving signals from a distance sensor included in the robotic cochlear implant to monitor the position of the robotic cochlear implant relative to a non-conductive portion of the patient; applying current to a wire associated with a first actuator unit in the robotic cochlear implant so as to contract the wire to adjust one of a yaw and a pitch position of the first actuator unit; and monitoring the impedance of the wire to thereby determine a contraction length of the wire. 