An object detecting device for detecting the existence and general placement of an object residing upon a surface. A preferred embodiment of the invention uses at least one laser measuring scanner operated positioned by a servo motor to allow the laser measuring scanner to generate signals related to the placement of an object on a surface. Those placement signals are then processed by a computer to make a two or three dimensional determination of the object in coordinates that show the object's location in relation to another device such as a robotic depalletizer that can then be moved into position near the object to allow removal of the object by the robotic depalletizer.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An object detection device comprising: a laser measuring scanner movably disposed on a linear actuator wherein the laser measuring scanner is capable of emitting and detecting a laser beam within an angular sweep that includes an angle of between about 45 degrees and about 90 degrees, wherein the laser measuring scanner is capable of taking a plurality of linear distance measurements taken at increment intervals of between about 0.25 degrees and about 2 degrees within the angular sweep, and wherein the laser measuring scanner is also capable of communicating at least one signal containing data associated with the laser beam; and a layer sensing controller capable of accepting the at least one signal communicated from the laser measuring scanner wherein the layer sensing controller uses the at least one signal to determine a set of coordinates of an object being detected that is within a range and scope of the laser beam, wherein the linear actuator is vertically mounted and wherein the linear actuator is repositioned by an actuator mechanism that comprises at least one of either a belt actuator or a screw type actuator, wherein the linear actuator includes a servo motor driven to within +/-1 mm linear accuracy, and wherein the linear actuator has mounting points which accommodate a mounting bracket and a sensor for the laser measuring scanner that allow the sensor to be positioned and repositioned in relation to the object being detected. 2. The object detecting device of claim 1 wherein the linear actuator is driven by the actuator mechanism to reposition the laser measuring scanner until the laser measuring scanner detects the object to be detected. 3. The object detecting device of claim 2 wherein the object to be detected is a load that includes a pallet of generally rectangular-shaped objects and the laser measuring scanner is mounted such that it is capable of viewing the load at an angle of about 45 degrees in relation to at least one straight edge of the generally rectangular-shaped objects. 4. The object detecting device of claim 3 wherein the layer sensing controller receives and decodes at least one set of data from the laser measuring scanner and uses that set of data to determine a set of coordinate points related to related to the location of a top layer of the load and wherein the set of coordinate points are communicated to a depalletizer. 5. The object detecting device of claim 4 wherein the set of coordinate points are compared to an ideal center point of the top layer and that comparison is used to determine the amount of any adjustments needed to allow the depalletizer to properly center a depalletizer tool of the depalletizer in relation to the top layer to be picked from the load. 6. The object detecting device of claim 5 wherein the set of coordinate points is reviewed to verify that the set of coordinate points does not fall outside the physical operational limits of the depalletizer. 7. The object detecting device of claim 6 further comprising a review of the set of coordinate points to verify that the depalletizer does not collide with any part of the top layer during a picking action of the depalletizer and wherein a fault condition is communicated to an operator of the depalletizer if the review of the set of coordinate points suggests a potential for a collision between a portion of the depalletizer and the top layer. 8. The object detecting device of claim 7 wherein the layer sensing controller communicates to the palletizer a set of spatial adjustments and an angle of rotation of the top layer to the depalletizer. 9. The object detecting device of claim 8 wherein after the laser measuring scanner detects the top layer of the load, the laser measuring scanner is repositioned on the linear actuator to a predetermined distance and causes a laser beam to be emitted in a generally arc-shaped scan along a horizontal plane to detect a set of distances between the laser measuring scanner and the object to be detected. 10. The object detecting device of claim 9 further comprising a detection method that determines the location of at least three corners of the top layer, as well as at least one of either a length, a width, a height, and a center of the top layer, and wherein the length, the width, the height, and the center, and a top of the top layer elevation are transmitted to the depalletizer. 11. The object detecting device of claim 10 further comprising a second laser measuring scanner and a second linear actuator driven by a second actuator mechanism to position the second laser measuring scanner from a set first position until the second laser measuring scanner detects a second top layer of a second load that has been placed at a second location, wherein after the second laser measuring scanner detects the second top layer of the second load, the second laser measuring scanner is repositioned a predetermined distance, wherein after traveling the predetermined distance, the second laser measuring scanner causes a second laser beam to be emitted in a generally arc-shaped scan along a horizontal plane to detect a set of distances between the second laser measuring scanner and an object to be detected at the second location, wherein a detection method determines the location of at least three corners of the second top layer to thereby locate at least one of either a second length, a second width, a second height, and a second center of the second top layer of the object to be detected at the second location, and wherein the second length, the second width, the second height, and the second center, and a second top elevation of the top layer of the second top layer at the second location are transmitted to the depalletizer. 12. The object detecting device of claim 10 wherein the second laser measuring scanner is also the first laser measuring scanner, the second linear actuator is also the first linear actuator, and the second actuator mechanism is also the first actuator mechanism. 13. The object detecting device of claim 10 wherein the depalletizer removes the top layer from the load at the first location after which the second laser measuring scanner causes the laser beam to be emitted in a generally arc-shaped scan to verify that no object remains on the load and that the top layer has been completely removed from the load, and wherein an error message is sent to an operator of the object detecting device if the top layer has not been completely removed from the load after the depalletizer has attempted to remove the top layer from the load. 14. The object detecting device of claim 13 wherein after the depalletizer has attempted to remove the top layer from the load and the object detecting device has verified that no object from the top layer remains on the load, the laser measuring scanner is then repositioned until the laser measuring scanner senses a next top layer that is at a next level on the top of the load. 15. The object detecting device of claim 14 wherein if the top layer of the load is a partial top layer, the object detecting device will detect and generally identify any location data points related to the partial top layer that generally correspond to any locations of the partial top layer that are outside a set of allowable limits that generally define a predetermined set of location data points corresponding to an expected location of the top layer, and wherein if any location data points of the partial top layer that are outside the set of allowable limits that generally define the preset set of location data points corresponding to the expected location of the top layer, an elevation of the partial top layer is noted and the laser measuring scanner is lowered to allow it to sense the next top layer in order to determine the center of second top layer. 16. The object detecting device of claim 15 wherein after the top layer is picked from the load, the object detection device verifies that no objects from the top layer were left behind on the load and that if no objects from the top layer were left behind on the load, the depalletizer is permitted to place the top layer at a second location, and wherein a fault condition is communicated to the operator if an object from the top layer was left behind on the load after the depalletizer has attempted to remove the top layer from the load. 17. The object detecting device of claim 16 wherein the laser measuring device is capable of emitting a raster-like laser beam that can be used to detect a set of three dimensional coordinates related to the position of the object to be detected. 18. The object detecting device of claim 1 wherein the layer sensing controller is one of either a programmable logistical controller or a personal computer that interfaces with the laser measuring scanner via an RS232/RS422/Ethernet connection. 