Certain embodiments provide a method for crystallizing a GPCR. The method may employ a fusion protein comprising: a) a first portion of a G-protein coupled receptor (GPCR), where the first portion comprises the TM1, TM2, TM3, TM4 and TM5 regions of the GPCR; b) a stable, folded protein insertion; and c) a second portion of the GPCR, where the second portion comprises the TM6 and TM7 regions of the GPCR.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for analyzing the three dimensional structure of a GPCR on a computer system, comprising: a) accessing a file containing atomic coordinates of a GPCR using a computer system that comprises a modeling program, wherein said atomic coordinates are produced by subjecting crystals of a GPCR fusion protein to X-ray diffraction analysis, wherein said GPCR fusion protein comprises, from N-terminus to C-terminus: i. a first portion of a G-protein coupled receptor (GPCR), wherein said first portion comprises TM1, TM2, TM3, TM4 and TM5 regions of said GPCR; ii. a domain comprising the amino acid sequence of a lysozyme; and iii. a second portion of said GPCR, wherein said second portion comprises TM6 and TM7 regions of said GPCR; b) modeling said atomic coordinates on said computer system using said modeling program to produce a model of the three dimensional structure of at least a portion of the GPCR; and c) displaying the model of said three dimensional structure on the computer system. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising identifying a potential modulator of said GPCR. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said analyzing comprises identifying a binding site for a modulator of said GPCR. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said analyzing comprises identifying a binding site for a ligand of said GPCR. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said crystals are made using a bicelle crystallization method or a lipidic cubic phase crystallization method. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein said domain comprises an amino acid sequence having at least 80% identity to the amino acid sequence of a wild-type lysozyme. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein said domain comprises an amino acid sequence having at least 95% identity to the amino acid sequence of a wild-type lysozyme. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein said domain comprises an amino acid sequence that is at least 95% identical to the amino acid sequence of T4 lysozyme. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein said first and second portions of said GPCR comprise the amino acid sequence of a naturally occurring GPCR. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein said first and second portions of said GPCR comprise the amino acid sequence of a non-naturally occurring GPCR. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the amino acid sequences of said first and second portions of said GPCR are least 80% identical to amino acid sequences of a naturally occurring GPCR. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the GPCR is selected from the group consisting of: a receptor for a biogenic amine, a dopamine receptor, a seratonin receptor, an adrenergic receptor, a .beta.2-adrenergic receptor and chemokine receptor. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein said crystals comprise a ligand for said GPCR, and the method further comprises identifying the binding site for said ligand in said GPCR using said model. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the analyzing comprises identifying amino acids that form polar contacts with said ligand in said binding site, using said model. 15. The method of claim 13, further comprising determining whether a test compound docks with said binding site using said model. 16. The method of claim 15, further comprising analyzing the packing of the test compound and amino acids in said binding site, using said model. 17. A method for selecting a modulator of a GPCR, comprising: a) accessing a file containing atomic coordinates of a GPCR using a computer system that comprises a modeling program, wherein said atomic coordinates are produced by subjecting crystals of a GPCR fusion protein to X-ray diffraction analysis, wherein said GPCR fusion protein comprises, from N-terminus to C-terminus: i. a first portion of a G-protein coupled receptor (GPCR), wherein said first portion comprises TM1, TM2, TM3, TM4 and TM5 regions of said GPCR; ii. a domain comprising the amino acid sequence of a lysozyme; and iii. a second portion of said GPCR, wherein said second portion comprises TM6 and TM7 regions of said GPCR; b) modeling said atomic coordinates on said computer system using said modeling program to produce a model of the three dimensional structure of at least the ligand binding site of the GPCR; c) determining, using said computer system, whether a test compound docks with said binding site, wherein a test compound that docks with said binding site is a GPCR modulator; and d) displaying on the computer system a model of said ligand binding site and said GPCR modulator, docked with said ligand binding site. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein said domain comprises an amino acid sequence having at least 80% identity to the amino acid sequence of a wild-type lysozyme. 19. The method of claim 17, wherein said domain comprises an amino acid sequence having at least 95% identity to the amino acid sequence of a wild-type lysozyme. 20. The method of claim 17, wherein said domain comprises an amino acid sequence that is at least 95% identical to the amino acid sequence of T4 lysozyme. 21. The method of claim 17, wherein said first and second portions of said GPCR comprise the amino acid sequence of a naturally occuring GPCR. 22. The method of claim 17, wherein said first and second portions of said GPCR comprise the amino acid sequence of a non-naturally occurring GPCR. 23. The method of claim 17, wherein the amino acid sequences of said first and second portions of said GPCR are at least 80% identical to the amino acid sequence of a naturally occurring GPCR. 24. The method of claim 17, wherein said method further comprises making said modulator. 25. A method for analyzing the three dimensional structure of a GPCR on a computer system, comprising: a) accessing a file containing atomic coordinates of a GPCR using a computer system that comprises a modeling program, wherein said atomic coordinates are produced by subjecting crystals of a polypeptide to X-ray diffraction analysis, wherein said polypeptide comprises, from N-terminus to C-terminus: i. a first portion of a G-protein coupled receptor (GPCR), wherein said first portion comprises the amino acid sequence that is N-terminal to the IC3 loop of said GPCR; ii. a domain comprising the amino acid sequence of a lysozyme; iii. a second portion of said GPCR, wherein said second portion comprises the amino acid sequence that is C-terminal to the IC3 loop of said GPCR; and b) modeling said atomic coordinates on said computer system using said modeling program to produce a model of the three dimensional structure of at least a portion of the GPCR; and c) displaying the model of said three dimensional structure on the computer system. 26. A method for analyzing the three dimensional structure of a GPCR on a computer system, comprising: a) accessing a file containing atomic coordinates of a GPCR using a computer system that comprises a modeling program, wherein said atomic coordinates are produced by subjecting crystals of a GPCR to X-ray diffraction analysis, wherein said GPCR comprises an IC3 loop containing a substitution that comprises the amino acid sequence of a lysozyme; and b) modeling said atomic coordinates on said computer system using said modeling program to produce a model of the three dimensional structure of at least a portion of the GPCR; and c) displaying the model of said three dimensional structure on the computer. 