An exemplary holding structure used for holding an object that defines a latching hole, includes a main body, a pressing member received in the main body, and two latching members. The main body includes a lodging portion for being lodged into the latching hole of object and two receiving holes are defined in the lodging portion. The latching members are received in the receiving holes. The pressing member is configured to press the latching members to partially extend out of the at least two receiving holes for holding the object. The pressing member is capable of disengaging from the at least two latching members for releasing the object from the lodging portion.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A holding structure comprising: a main body comprising a lodging portion formed adjacent to a first end of the main body, and a conical portion extending from the lodging portion, the lodging portion defining at least two transverse receiving holes, the main body defining a stepped through hole extending from the conical portion of the main body to a second end of the main body opposite the first end and communicating with the at least two receiving holes, wherein a portion of the stepped through hole adjacent the conical portion has a first diameter smaller than the diameter of other portions of the stepped through hole; a pressing member received in the stepped through hole of the main body adjacent the first end, the pressing member comprising a conical frustum-shaped pressing portion at an end thereof facing the conical portion; at least two latching members received in the at least two receiving holes and disposed between the pressing portion of the pressing member and the conical portion of the main body; a shaft partially received in the main body and fixed to the pressing member on a side thereof opposite the pressing portion; a resilient member sleeved on the shaft and received in the main body abutting the pressing member; a fastening member fixed to the second end of the main body and abutting the resilient member; and a fixing member partially inserted into the through hole of the main body through the conical portion and fixed to the pressing member adjacent the pressing portion, the fixing member comprising a head portion with a diameter larger than the first diameter positioned outside of the through hole; wherein said holding structure is movable between a first configuration, in which the resilient member biases the pressing portion of the pressing member into the at least two latching members to partially extend the latch members out of the at least two receiving holes, and wherein the head portion of the fixing member is spaced from the conical portion, and a second configuration in which the pressing portion is disengaged from the latching members, and wherein the head portion contacts the conical portion, thereby preventing the pressing member being from locked within the main body. 2. The holding structure of claim 1, further comprising a cylinder body, wherein the shaft is a cylinder shaft and comprises a piston and a shaft portion, the piston is formed on a first end of the shaft portion, and the piston is received in the cylinder body to partition the cylinder body into two chambers. 3. The holding structure of claim 2, wherein the cylinder shaft further comprises a threaded portion formed at a second end of the shaft portion away from the first end, the pressing member defines a threaded hole, and the threaded portion is screwed in the threaded hole. 4. The holding structure of claim 1, wherein the resilient member is a compression spring. 5. The holding structure of claim 3, wherein the cylinder body is substantially a cylindrical barrel, and comprises a closed end and an opened end opposite to the closed end; the cylinder body defines a first gas valve adjacent to the closed end and a second gas valve adjacent to the opened end; the holding structure further comprises a seal lid sealed to the opened end of the cylinder body. 6. The holding structure of claim 5, wherein the pressing member, the resilient member, and the fastening member are consecutively received in the through hole. 7. The holding structure of claim 6, wherein the receiving holes are circular holes communicating with the through hole, the latching members are rotatable spheres, and a diameter of each of the latching members is greater than a diameter of each receiving hole. 8. A holding structure comprising: a main body comprising a lodging portion formed at a first end thereof and a conical portion extending from the lodging portion, a stepped through hole extending from the conical portion of the main body to a second end of the main body opposite the first end, wherein the lodging portion defines three transverse receiving holes communicating with the through hole, wherein a portion of the stepped through hole adjacent the conical portion has a first diameter smaller than the diameter of other portions of the stepped through hole; a pressing member received in the stepped through hole of the main body adjacent the first end, the pressing member comprising a conical frustum-shaped pressing portion at an end thereof facing the conical portion; three latching members received in the receiving holes and disposed between the pressing portion of the pressing member and the conical portion of the main body; a cylinder shaft partially received in the main body and fixed to the pressing member on a side thereof opposite the pressing portion; a resilient member sleeved on the cylinder shaft and received in the main body abutting the pressing member; a fastening member fixed to the second end of the main body and abutting the resilient member; and a fixing member partially inserted into received in the through hole of the main body through the conical portion and fixed to the pressing member adjacent the pressing portion, the fixing member comprising a head portion with a diameter larger than the first diameter positioned outside of the through hole; wherein said holding structure is movable between a first configuration, in which the resilient member biases the pressing portion of the pressing member into the at least two latching members to partially extend the latch members out of the at least two receiving holes, and wherein the head portion of the fixing member is spaced from the conical portion, and a second configuration in which the pressing portion is disengaged from the latching members, and wherein the head portion contacts the conical portion, thereby preventing the pressing member from being locked within the main body. 9. The holding structure of claim 8, further comprising a cylinder body, wherein the cylinder shaft comprises a piston and a shaft portion, the piston is formed on an end of the shaft portion, and the piston is received in the cylinder body to partition the cylinder body into two chambers. 10. The holding structure of claim 9, wherein the cylinder body is substantially a cylindrical barrel, and comprises a closed end and an opened end opposite to the closed end; the cylinder body defines a first gas valve adjacent to the closed end and a second gas valve adjacent to the opened end; the holding structure further comprises a seal lid sealed to the opened end of the cylinder body. 11. The holding structure of claim 8, wherein the receiving holes are circular holes, the latching members are rotatable spheres, and a diameter of each of the latching members is greater than a diameter of each receiving hole. 