A component coupling apparatus for mounting a component to an internal contact surface of a hollow workpiece which includes a positioning unit and at least one component holding unit. The component positioning unit includes a processor having memory which pre-stores data representative of a workpiece target feature and an access opening therein. The component positioning unit includes a 3D laser scanner/digitizer which is movable to scan the exterior surface of the workpiece and identify the axial centers of the access opening and target feature, and calculate the distance and/or directional vector therebetween. The component holder unit includes component holder supported on a support arm. The component holder releasably secures the component to be joined to the workpiece, and is sized for insertion at through the access opening to move the component into alignment with the contact surface. The processor controls movement of the carrying arm in directional movement in relation to the scanned distance between the access opening and the target feature, by providing control signals to a robot used to selectively activate position the component holder in response to identified and triangulated relative distances between the access opening and target features.
Claims We claim: 1. A component coupling system for connecting a component to a contact surface of a hollow workpiece, the workpiece including a sidewall having an interior-facing surface, an exterior-facing surface and an access opening formed therethrough, said contact surface being provided along a portion of said interior-facing surface spaced a distance from said access opening and wherein said exterior-facing surface defining a three dimensional target feature disposed in a predetermined relationship relative to said contact surface, the system including a controller, a component positioning unit and a component holding unit, the component holding unit including a component carriage for releasably supporting said component in movement from a supply position to an operating position wherein said component is moved into substantially juxtaposed contact with said contact surface, and a carriage support arm operable to move said component carriage between said supply and operating positions, the positioning unit including an optical scanner operable to scan a contour profile of at least part of the exterior-facing surface and to output signals to the controller representative of at least one of a direction and a distance of at least part of the target feature relative to the access opening, and wherein controller is operable to control movement of the carriage support arm in the movement of the component carriage to the operating position in response to the output signals. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein the target feature is substantially directly aligned with the contact surface. 3. The system of claim 2 wherein the signals output by the optical scanner are representative of the both the direction and the distance of the target feature from a substantially center portion of the access opening. 4. The system as claimed in claim 1 further including: a robot having a movable robot arm and carriage plate secured to the robot arm, the carriage support arm having a hooked profile and being mounted to the carriage plate for movement therewith, and the carriage support arm sized for at least partial insertion through said access opening. 5. The system as claimed in claim 2 wherein the controller is operable to control movement of the carriage support arm in substantially real time as the optical scanner scans the contour profile. 6. The system as claimed in claim 5 wherein the positioning unit includes a scanner support arm mounted to the carriage plate for movement therewith, the scanner support arm extending in a predetermined relation to the carriage support arm. 7. The system as claimed in claim 2 wherein the optical scanner is coupled to the component holding unit for movement therewith. 8. The system as claimed in claim 2 wherein the contact surface comprises a ribbed recess formed in said interior surface, and said target feature comprising a raised projection having a generally complimentary profile to said recess. 9. The system as claimed in claim 1 wherein said target profile comprises a raised ring integrally molded into said exterior-facing surface, and wherein the output signals are representative of the direction and distance of a central portion of the raised ring from a substantially central portion of the access opening. 10. The welding system as claimed in claim 1 wherein the workpiece comprises a hollow blow molded gas tank preform having an interior cavity delineated by a multilayer sidewall, the sidewall including an EVOH layer and an innermost HDPE layer, the contact surface disposed at said innermost HDPE layer, and said part of the component comprises an HDPE part. 11. The system of claim 10 said target feature comprises a raised member having a preselected geometric profile. 12. A hot plate welding system for melt connecting a component to a contact surface disposed along an interior of a hollow workpiece, the workpiece including a sidewall having an interior-facing surface, an exterior-facing surface and an access opening formed therethrough, said contact surface being provided along a portion of said interior-facing surface spaced a distance from said access opening and wherein said exterior-facing surface defining a three dimensional target feature generally aligned with said contact surface, the hot plate welding system including a workpiece melting unit having a hot plate support arm and an associated hot plate sized for at least partial insertion through said access opening, a component holding unit having a component carriage and carriage support arm sized for at least partial insertion through said access opening, and a positioning assembly for positioning at least one of said hot plate and said component carriage in substantially juxtaposed alignment with said contact surface, the hot plate being movable with said hot plate support arm between a retracted position moved from the workpiece interior, and a melt position wherein said hot plate is moved into juxtaposed contact with said contact surface the component carriage operable to releasably support said component and being movable with said carriage support arm between a supply position where the carriage is moved from the workpiece interior and an operating position wherein said carriage is moved to position said component when supported thereby in substantially juxtaposed alignment with said contact surface, the positioning assembly including a controller and an optical scanner, the optical scanner operable to scan a contour profile of at least part of the exterior-facing surface and provide output signals to the controller representative of at least one of a direction and distance of the target feature from a portion of the access opening, the controller being operable to control movement of at least one of the hot plate support arm and the carriage support arm to position the associated one of the hot plate and the component carriage in their respective melt position and the operating position in response to the output signals. 13. The welding system of claim 12 wherein the workpiece has a substantially integral sidewall and is selected from a blow molded fuel tank and a blow molded fluid reservoir, said component comprising a plastic component selected from the group consisting of a bracket, a mount, a seal plug, a vent nipple, a filler neck and a vent valve or other valve component. 14. The welding system of claim 12 wherein the target feature is substantially aligned with the contact surface, said target feature having a preselected geometric profile. 15. The welding system of claim 12 wherein the controller is operable to control movement of both the hot plate support arm and the carriage support arm in response to the output signals. 16. The welding system of claim 15 further including a robot having a robot arm and a robot drive for selectively moving the robot arm, each of the hot plate support arm and carriage support arm being coupled to the robot arm for movement therewith, and wherein the controller is operable to selectively actuate said robot drive in response to the output signals. 17. The welding system as claimed in claim 12 wherein the optical scanner comprises a 3D laser scanner. 18. The welding system as claimed in claim 12 further including: a robot having a movable robot arm and carriage member secured to the robot arm, the component support arm having a hooked profile and being mounted to the carriage member for movement therewith, and wherein the component carriage and component the support arm is sized for at least partial insertion through said access opening. 19. The welding system as claimed in claim 18 wherein the controller is operable to control movement of the carriage support arm in substantially real time as the scanner scans the contour profile. 20. The welding system as claimed in claim 19 wherein the positioning unit includes a scanner support arm mounted to the carriage member for movement therewith, the scanner support arm extending in a generally coplanar relation to the component support arm. 21. The welding system as claimed in claim 12 wherein the workpiece comprises a hollow blow molded gas tank having an interior cavity delineated by a multilayer sidewall, the sidewall including an EVOH layer and an innermost HDPE layer, the contact surface disposed at said innermost HDPE layer, and said part of the component comprises an HDPE part. 