A method for introducing at least one substance into a sealed enclosure holding at least one product. The sealed enclosure having at least one conduit through which one of gas or fluid may flow into or out of the sealed enclosure. Air is evacuated from the sealed enclosure through the at least one conduit to create a predetermined pressure within the sealed enclosure and a predetermined quantity of the at least one substance is injected into the sealed enclosure through the at least one conduit.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for providing a desired atmosphere and introducing at least one substance within a sealed enclosure, comprising: positioning at least one product within the sealed enclosure, the sealed enclosure having at least one conduit through which one of gas or fluid may flow into or out of the sealed enclosure; programming a controller with target parameters, set-points and/or operating instructions to provide a desired atmosphere within the sealed enclosure; evacuating air from the sealed enclosure through the at least one conduit to create a first predetermined pressure within the sealed enclosure, wherein the evacuating is controlled by the controller in accordance with the target parameters, set-points and/or operating instructions; injecting a predetermined quantity of the at least one substance into the sealed enclosure through the at least one conduit, wherein the injecting of the substance is controlled by the controller in accordance with the target parameters, set-points and/or operating instructions, wherein the at least one substance is applied to, coats, is absorbed into, or infuses into the at least one product, and wherein the evacuating and injecting steps facilitate the application to, coating of, absorption into, or infusion into the at least one product by the at least one substance, and wherein the at least one substance comprises at least one of a sanitizing substance, a flavoring substance, a preservative substance, a food additive substance, a coating substance, a coloring substance, a nutritional substance, or a sealing substance; injecting a gas into the sealed enclosure through the at least one conduit, wherein the injecting of the gas is controlled by the controller in accordance with the target parameters, set-points and/or operating instructions; monitoring the atmosphere inside the sealed enclosure by sampling the atmosphere and comparing at least one sampled parameter to the target parameters, set-points and/or operating instructions; and maintaining and/or adjusting the atmosphere inside the sealed enclosure based on the monitoring, wherein the maintaining and/or adjusting of the atmosphere is controlled by the controller in accordance with target parameters, set-points and/or operating instructions. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: maintaining the first predetermined pressure within the sealed enclosure for a first predetermined period of time, wherein the injecting of the gas into the sealed enclosure creates a second predetermined pressure within the sealed enclosure; injecting a second predetermined quantity of the at least one substance into the sealed enclosure through the at least one conduit; and maintaining the second predetermined pressure within the sealed enclosure for a second predetermined period of time. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one substance is at least one of a gas, a fluid, or a vaporized fluid. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the sanitizing substance includes at least one of ozone, chlorine, hydrogen peroxide, nitrous oxide, peracetic acid, nitrite, nitrate compound, iodine, benzoate, propionate, nisin, sulfate, and sorbate. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the food additive substance includes at least one of a food grade acid, a mineral salt, or a mineral salt solution. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the sealed enclosure comprises: a pallet with the at least one product stacked on the pallet to define a pallet of goods; a bottom sheet located between the pallet and the at least one product, with overhanging edges of the bottom sheet being attached to a side of the pallet of goods; a top sheet located on top of the at least one product on the pallet; and wrapping wrapped around and enclosing the pallet of goods. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the sealed enclosure further comprises: a first wand coupled to the enclosed pallet of goods, the wand being operable for providing a first conduit through which one of a gas or a liquid may flow in and out of the enclosed pallet of goods; and a second wand coupled to the enclosed pallet of goods, the wand being operable for providing a second conduit through which one of a gas or a liquid may flow in and out of the enclosed pallet of goods. 8. The method of claim 6, wherein the pallet of goods is enclosed with a bag. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the pallet is lined with an additional bag. 10. The method of claim 6, wherein the pallet of goods is wrapped with double wrappings. 11. The method of claim 1, further comprising: coupling the at least one conduit to the controller, wherein the controller is operable to control movement of one of a gas or a liquid into and out of the sealed enclosure through the at least one conduit. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the sealed enclosure includes a cooling tube apparatus. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the sealed enclosure includes a rigid chamber. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein the product is a perishable food product. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein the monitoring comprises measuring a pressure within the sealed enclosure during the evacuating and injecting steps. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein the maintaining and/or adjusting comprises controlling a pressure in the sealed enclosure during the evacuating step. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein the evacuating step lowers a temperature of the at least one product for tube cooling application. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one substance includes ozone in combination with a carrier gas. 19. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one substance includes a sanitizing substance and a preservative substance. 20. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one substance controls ripening of the at least one product within the sealed enclosure. 21. The method of claim 1, wherein the sealed enclosure is a bin. 22. The method of claim 1, wherein the sealed enclosure comprises a bag. 23. The method of claim 1, wherein the sealed enclosure is a shipping unit. 24. The method of claim 1, wherein the sealed enclosure is a bin lined with a bag. 25. The method of claim 1, wherein the sealed enclosure comprises a bin inside a vacuum chamber, wherein the at least one product is positioned within the bin, and wherein vacuum cooling of the vacuum chamber cools the at least one product. 26. The method of claim 1, wherein the sealed enclosure comprises a chamber in which the at least one product is positioned. 27. The method of claim 1, further comprising injecting a predetermined quantity of a different substance into the sealed enclosure through the at least one conduit. 28. The method of claim 1, wherein the injection of the predetermined quantity of the at least one substance prevents ripening of the at least one product, the method further comprising injecting a predetermined quantity of a different substance into the sealed enclosure through the at least one conduit as the at least one product nears its final market, and wherein the different substance encourages the at least one product to ripen. 29. The method of claim 28, wherein the substance injecting steps are performed under vacuum. 30. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one product comprises a perishable product. 31. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one substance initiates or encourages ripening. 32. The method of claim 31, wherein the at least one substance includes a fumigation substance. 33. The method of claim 1, wherein the sealed enclosure includes a base cap, a top cap, and wrappings. 34. The method of claim 33, wherein materials of at least one of the base cap, the top cap, and the wrappings includes a coating substance to assist in providing the atmosphere. 35. The method of claim 34, wherein the coating substance includes at least one of absorbing substances, free moisture absorbing substances, and anti-microbial substances. 36. The method of claim 33, wherein materials of at least one of the base cap, the top cap, and the wrappings includes integral substances to assist in providing the atmosphere. 37. The method of claim 36, wherein the integral substances include at least one of absorbing substances, free moisture absorbing substances, or anti-microbial substances. 38. The method of claim 1, wherein the first predetermined pressure is a negative pressure. 39. The method of claim 1, wherein the gas comprises at least one of carbon dioxide and nitrogen. 40. The method of claim 1, wherein the injecting of the gas into the sealed enclosure creates a second predetermined pressure within the sealed enclosure. 41. The method of claim 40, further comprising: maintaining the second predetermined pressure within the sealed enclosure for a predetermined period of time. 42. The method of claim 40, further comprising: evacuating air from the sealed enclosure through the at least one conduit to create a third predetermined pressure within the sealed enclosure, wherein the evacuating air is controlled by the controller in accordance with the target parameters, set-points and/or operating instructions. 43. The method of claim 1, wherein the flavoring substance includes at least one of a sweetener or a flavor enhancer. 44. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one substance includes 1-methylcyclopropene (1-MCP). 45. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one product comprises a pre-packaged product. 46. The method of claim 1, wherein the target parameters, set-points and/or operating instructions are based on the at least one product. 47. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one conduit comprises a controllable valve coupled to the controller to control the flow of a gas or fluid into or out of the sealed enclosure in accordance with the target parameters, set-points and/or operating instructions. 48. The method of claim 1, wherein the monitoring of the atmosphere inside the sealed enclosure includes receiving samples of the atmosphere at a sensor, measuring a parameter with the sensor, and comparing the measured parameter to the target parameters, set-points and/or operating instructions. 49. The method of claim 48, wherein the at least one conduit comprises a controllable valve coupled to the controller to control the flow of a gas or fluid into or out of the sealed enclosure, and wherein the maintaining and/or adjusting the atmosphere inside the sealed enclosure includes controlling the valve in response to the comparison of the measured parameter to the target parameters, set-points and/or operating instructions. 50. A method for providing a desired atmosphere and introducing at least one substance within a sealed enclosure, comprising: positioning at least one product within the sealed enclosure, the sealed enclosure having at least one conduit through which one of gas or fluid may flow into or out of the sealed enclosure; programming a controller with target parameters, set-points and/or operating instructions to provide a desired atmosphere within the sealed enclosure; evacuating air from the sealed enclosure through the at least one conduit until a first value of pressure is created within the sealed enclosure, wherein the evacuating is controlled by the controller in accordance with the target parameters, set-points and/or operating instructions; maintaining the first value of pressure within the sealed enclosure for a first predetermined period of time; introducing air into the sealed enclosure through the at least one conduit until a second value of pressure is created within the sealed enclosure, the air containing a predetermined quantity of the at least one substance, wherein the introducing is controlled by the controller in accordance with the target parameters, set-points and/or operating instructions; maintaining the second value of pressure within the sealed enclosure for a second predetermined period of time; evacuating the air from the sealed enclosure through the at least one conduit until a third value of pressure is created within the sealed enclosure, wherein the evacuating is controlled by the controller in accordance with the target parameters, set-points and/or operating instructions; maintaining the third value of pressure within the sealed enclosure for a third predetermined period of time; and monitoring the atmosphere inside the sealed enclosure by sampling the atmosphere and comparing at least one sampled parameter to the target parameters, set-points and/or operating instructions; and maintaining and/or adjusting the atmosphere inside the sealed enclosure based on the monitoring, wherein the maintaining and/or adjusting of the atmosphere is controlled by the controller in accordance with target parameters, set-points and/or operating instructions. 