An optical assembly includes a light path and at least one optic to be positioned in the path. A support arrangement supports the optic having a foot arrangement including at least one foot that receives a direct manipulation with the foot slidingly engaged against a support surface to move the optic relative to the light path. Movement of the foot may move the optic along a predetermined path. The foot defines a footprint for engaging the support surface and receives the direct manipulation in a way which changes the footprint on the support surface to move the optic responsive to changes in the footprint. A movement arrangement may selectively bias the foot against the support surface during a movement mode, intended to permit movement of the foot against the support surface, and in a locked mode, intended to lock the foot against the support surface.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An adjustable positioning member to position an operational element with respect to a support surface comprising; a positioning section; a first section with a first spring constant to coarsely adjust the position of the positioning section; and a second section connected to the first section with a smaller second spring constant to finely adjust the position of the positioning section; and first and second receptacles that are spaced apart and each sized to receive an adjustment tool, the first receptacle positioned in proximity to the first section and the second receptacle positioned in proximity to the second section. 2. The positioning member of claim 1, wherein the first and second sections are coplanar. 3. The positioning member of claim 1, wherein the first and second sections are connected at a hinge. 4. The positioning member of claim 1, wherein the positioning section is hingedly connected to the first and second sections and includes a platform to receive the operational element. 5. The positioning member of claim 4, wherein the platform is a planar member. 6. The positioning member of claim 1, further comprising a third section connected to the positioning section at a point away from the first and second sections. 7. A method of positioning an operational element with respect to a support surface comprising: supporting the operational element with a flexible positioning member; moving a first section of the flexible positioning member and coarsely adjusting the position of the operational element, said first section having a first spring constant; fixedly connecting the first section to the support surface; determining an amount of misalignment of the operational element; moving a second section of the flexible positioning member, said second section having a second spring constant different than the first spring constant, wherein moving said second section finely adjusts the position of the operational element by deforming the first and second sections by an amount dependent on the first and second spring constants; and fixedly connecting the second section to the support surface. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein coarsely adjusting the position of the operational element relative to the support surface aligns the operational element within 5 microns of a desired alignment. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein finely adjusting the position of the operational element relative to the support surface aligns the operational element within 0.5 microns of the desired alignment. 10. The method of claim 7, further comprising moving the first and second sections of the flexible positioning member and adjusting a platform of the flexible positioning member relative to the support surface with the platform supporting the operational element. 11. The method of claim 10, further comprising moving the first and second sections along the support surface and moving the platform above the support surface. 12. The method of claim 7, wherein moving the first section a first amount adjusts the position of the operational element a greater amount than moving the second section the same first amount. 13. A method of positioning an operational element with respect to a support surface comprising: supporting an operational element with a positioning member; moving a first section of the positioning member and coarsely adjusting the position of the operational element; moving a second section of the positioning member and finely adjusting the position of the operational element; the first and second sections having different spring constants with equal amounts of movement of each of the sections along the support surface causing different ratios of displacement of the operational element. 14. The method of claim 13, further comprising connecting the first section to the support surface prior to moving the second section of the positioning member. 15. The method of claim 14, further comprising determining an amount of misalignment of the operational element prior to moving the second section of the positioning member. 16. The method of claim 13, further comprising moving the first section of the positioning member and aligning the operational element within 5 microns of a desired alignment. 17. The method of claim 16, further comprising moving the second section of the positioning member and aligning the operational element within 0.5 microns of the desired alignment. 18. The positioning member of claim 1 wherein the first section comprises a first mounting section and a pair of first flexible elements having the first spring constant and extending from opposing sides of the first mounting section, and wherein the second section comprises a second mounting section and a pair of second flexible elements having the second spring constant and extending from opposing sides of the second mounting section, each of said second flexible elements connecting to one of said first flexible elements such that moving the second section finely adjusts the position of the positioning section an amount based on the first and second spring constants. 19. The method of claim 7 wherein the first section comprises a first mounting section and a pair of first flexible elements having the first spring constant and extending from opposing sides of the first mounting section, wherein the second section comprises a second mounting section and a pair of second flexible elements having the second spring constant and extending from opposing sides of the second mounting section, each of said second flexible elements connecting to one of said first flexible elements, and wherein moving the second section deforms the first and second flexible elements about the first mounting section by an amount dependent on the first and second spring constant. 20. An adjustable positioning member to position an optical device with respect to a support surface comprising; a positioning section comprising a platform for supporting the optical device on the platform; a first section with a first spring constant to coarsely adjust a position of the positioning section, wherein the first section has a first planar lower surface; and a second section connected to the first section with a smaller second spring constant to finely adjust the position of the positioning section, wherein the second section has a second planar lower surface, and wherein the first section and second section are coplanar. 21. An adjustable positioning member to position an operational element with respect to a support surface comprising; a positioning section; a first section with a first spring constant to coarsely adjust the position of the positioning section, wherein the first section can slidingly engage a support surface; and a second section connected to the first section with a smaller second spring constant to finely adjust the position of the positioning section, wherein the second section can slidingly engage a support surface. 22. An adjustable positioning member to position an operational element with respect to a support surface comprising: a positioning section; a first section with a first spring constant to coarsely adjust the position of the positioning section, wherein the first section comprises a first mounting section that can help attach the first section to the support surface; and a second section connected to the first section with a smaller second spring constant to finely adjust the position of the positioning section, wherein the second section comprises a second mounting section that can help attach the second section to the support surface. 23. The adjustable positioning member of claim 20, wherein the first and second sections include coplanar springs each having the first and second spring constants, respectively. 24. The adjustable positioning member of claim 20, wherein the first and second planar lower surfaces each include an attachment position for attaching to the support surface. 25. The adjustable positioning member of claim 20, further comprising: a hinging position located at a junction between the first and second sections, wherein the positioning section couples to the hinging position. 