An apparatus and method for bending or shaping orthodontic archwires or other medical devices into a complex, patient individual shape is described. The apparatus comprises of two moveable, compact, manipulators with, in total, at least three revolute joints defining three rotation axes and at least three prismatic joints defining at least three translation axes. Gripping tools are provided on the manipulators. The two manipulators are arranged to allow a relative movement in six degrees of freedom. A reduced complexity embodiment is also described having only one or two revolute joints.
Claims We claim: 1. A machine for precisely bending an elongate, bendable medical device from an initial shape into a desired new shape, comprising: a compact, stiff bending apparatus; wherein the bending apparatus comprises a compact, movable first manipulator and a compact, movable second manipulator separate from the first manipulator; wherein the bending apparatus further comprises a first gripping tool affixed to the first manipulator and a second gripping tool affixed to the second manipulator, each of the gripping tools having a gripping structure for releasably holding the medical device; wherein the bending apparatus further comprises at least three revolute joints, each defining a controlled rotation axis; wherein the rotation axes collectively are arranged relatively to each other in such a way that they are not parallel to each other and do not lie in one plane; wherein the bending apparatus further comprises at least three prismatic joints, each defining a controlled translation axis; wherein the translation axes collectively are arranged relatively to each other in such a way that they are not parallel to each other and do not lie in one plane; wherein the at least three revolute joints and the at least three prismatic joints are divided between the first and the second manipulators; wherein the first and the second manipulators are arranged in such a way that the first and the second gripping tools are able to move relative to each other in at least six degrees of freedom; wherein the bending apparatus further comprises a control unit generating commands for moving the revolute and the prismatic joints the desired amount thereby forming a bend and/or twist in the medical device; for opening and closing the gripping tools thereby gripping and releasing the medical device; and for advancing the medical device to a new position for forming a successive bend and/or twist in the medical device; and a handling robot, separate from the first gripping tool and the second gripping tool, inserting the medical device into either the first gripping tool or the second gripping tool at the beginning of a bending process and removing the medical device from either the first gripping tool or the second gripping tool at the end of the bending process. 2. The machine of claim 1, wherein the initial shape of the medical device is straight. 3. The machine of claim 1, wherein the initial shape of medical device is curved in one plane. 4. The machine of claim 1, wherein the medical device comprises an orthodontic archwire. 5. The machine of claim 1, further comprising a vision system monitoring the movements of the manipulators and the shape of the medical device before and after bending. 6. The machine of claim 5, wherein the medical device comprises a longitudinal axis and first and second cross-sectional axes, and wherein the vision system comprises a camera oriented so as to view the medical device along one of the cross-sectional axes. 7. The machine of claim 6, wherein the medical device comprises an orthodontic archwire having a longitudinal axis X, a rectangular cross-section having axes Y and Z, and wherein the visional system comprises a camera oriented so as to view the archwire along the Y axis. 8. The machine of claim 6, wherein the medical device comprises an orthodontic archwire; wherein the archwire is made from a shape memory alloy, and wherein the control unit is (1) operable of the first and second manipulators and first and second gripping tools to grip the archwire and move it to an approximate straight condition, and (2) operable of the vision system to scan the shape of the archwire after it has been released from one of the first or second manipulators to resume a shape previously formed in the archwire by the bending apparatus. 9. The machine of claim 6, wherein the vision system comprises a camera operable to obtain an infrared image of the medical device while being held by the bending apparatus. 10. The machine of claim 1, wherein the medical device comprises a medical device selected from the group consisting of a prosthesis, an orthopedic device, an implant, a stent, a fixation plate, a spectacle frame, and a surgical tool. 11. The machine of claim 1, wherein the first manipulator comprises three prismatic joints arranged in an X, Y, Z orthogonal coordinate system and a single revolute joint; and wherein the second manipulator comprises two revolute joints. 12. The machine of claim 11, wherein the medical device defines a longitudinal axis, and wherein the first manipulator is rotatable about the longitudinal axis of the medical device while gripping the medical device. 13. The machine of claim 11, wherein the two revolute joints of the second manipulator coincide with cross-sectional axes of the medical device. 14. The machine of claim 1, wherein the first gripping tool affixed to the first manipulator comprises a collet and wherein the second gripping tool affixed to the second manipulator comprises a pair of opposed gripping fingers. 15. The machine of claim 1, further comprising a means for heating the gripping tools above ambient temperature. 16. The machine of claim 1, further comprising a force measurement system coupled to the first and second gripping tools for measuring forces imparted by the medical device to the bending machine. 17. The machine of claim 1, wherein one of the gripping tools comprises gripping fingers and wherein the gripping fingers are incorporated into a gripping plate. 18. The machine of claim 1, wherein one of the gripping tools comprises gripping fingers and wherein the gripping tool is equipped with an actuator which supports a controllable opening movement, including a partial opening of the gripping fingers. 19. The machine of claim 18, wherein the partial opening permits the medical device to slip through the gripping fingers without losing contact between the medical device and the gripping fingers during such slipping. 20. The machine of 1, wherein one of the gripping tools comprises gripping fingers and wherein the gripping fingers comprise an edge defining a bending contour. 21. The machine of claim 20, wherein the bending contour comprises a groove having a curved surface. 22. The machine of claim 1, further comprising a heating system for heating the medical device while it is being bent by the bending machine. 23. The machine of claim 22, wherein the heating system comprises a power supply providing an electrical current to the medical device through the first and second gripping tools. 24. A method of bending a medical device, comprising the steps of: 1. providing a compact, stiff bending apparatus; wherein the bending apparatus comprises a compact, movable first manipulator and a compact, movable second manipulator separate from the first manipulator; wherein the bending apparatus further comprises a first gripping tool affixed to the first manipulator and a second gripping tool affixed to the second manipulator, each of the gripping tools having a gripping structure for releasably holding said medical device; wherein the bending apparatus further comprises at least three revolute joints, each defining a controlled rotation axis; wherein the rotation axes collectively are arranged relatively to each other in such a way that they are not parallel to each other and do not lie in one plane; wherein the bending apparatus further comprises at least three prismatic joints, each defining a controlled translation axis; wherein the translation axes collectively are arranged relatively to each other in such a way that they are not parallel to each other and do not lie in one plane; wherein the at least three revolute joints and the at least three prismatic joints are divided between the first and the second manipulators; wherein the first and the second manipulators are constructed and arranged in such a way that the first and the second gripping tools are able to move relative to each other in six degrees of freedom; wherein the bending apparatus further comprises a control unit generating commands for moving the revolute and the prismatic joints the desired amount thereby forming a bend and/or twist in the medical device; for opening and closing the gripping tools thereby gripping and releasing the medical device; and for advancing the medical device to a new position for forming a successive bend and/or twist in the medical device; 2. inserting the medical device into the first gripping tool such that a portion of the medical device extends from the front of the first gripping tool in the direction to the second gripping tool and another portion of the medical device projects in the opposite direction or the back of the first gripping tool; and then gripping the medical device by the first gripping tool; 3. moving the first and/or the second gripping tools for positioning the medical device so that it can be gripped by the second gripping tool at the portion of the medical device extending from the front of the first gripping tool; 4. gripping the portion of the medical device extending from the front of the first gripping tool with the second gripping tool; 5. moving the first gripping tool and/or the second gripping tool relatively to each other to deform the medical device into the desired shape; 6. releasing the first gripping tool; 7. moving the first gripping tool and/or the second gripping tool for positioning the medical device so that it can be re-gripped by the first gripping tool at a new location along the medical device; 8. releasing the second gripping tool; 9. repeating Steps 3-8 to produce a series of bends and/or twists in the medical device according to the medical device prescription thereby producing the medical device of the desired configuration; and 10. removing the medical device from the bending apparatus. 25. The method of claim 24, further comprising the step of heating the first and second gripping tools above ambient conditions while forming the bend and/or twist in the medical device. 26. The method of claim 24, further comprising the step of heating the medical device above ambient conditions while forming the bend and/or twist in the medical device. 27. The method of claim 26, further comprising the step of generating an infrared image of the medical device while forming the bend and/or twist in the medical device. 28. The method of claim 26, wherein the medical device comprises an orthodontic archwire. 29. The method of claim 28, wherein the archwire is made from a shape memory alloy. 30. The method of claim 28, further comprising the steps of: forming a multitude of bends and/or twists in the archwire so as to form a completed archwire, substantially straightening the wire, allowing the wire to come to a relaxed condition, and then measuring the shape of the wire with a vision system. 31. The method of claim 24, further comprising the step of measuring the shape of the wire with a vision system. 32. The method of claim 24, wherein the medical device comprises an orthodontic archwire having a longitudinal axis X, a rectangular cross-section having axes Y and Z, and wherein the visional system comprises a camera oriented so as to view the archwire along the Y axis. 33. The method of claim 24, wherein the first gripping tool comprises a collet, and in Step 7. the medical device is advanced through the collet in order to position the medical device so that it can be re-gripped by the first gripping tool at a new location along the medical device. 34. A machine for precisely bending an elongate, bendable medical device from an initial shape into a desired new shape, comprising: a compact, stiff bending apparatus; wherein the bending apparatus comprises a compact, movable first manipulator and a compact, movable second manipulator separate from the first manipulator; wherein the bending apparatus further comprises a first gripping tool affixed to the first manipulator and a second gripping tool affixed to the second manipulator, each of the gripping tools having a gripping structure for releasably holding the medical device; wherein the bending apparatus further comprises a revolute joint defining a controlled rotation axis; wherein the bending apparatus further comprises at least three prismatic joints, each defining a controlled translation axis; wherein the translation axes collectively are arranged relatively to each other in such a way that they are not parallel to each other and do not lie in one plane; wherein the revolute joint and the at least three prismatic joints are divided between the first and the second manipulators; wherein the first and the second manipulators are arranged in such a way that the first and the second gripping tools are able to move relative to each other in at least four degrees of freedom; wherein the bending apparatus further comprises a control unit generating commands for moving the revolute and the prismatic joints the desired amount thereby forming a bend and/or twist in the medical device; for opening and closing the gripping tools thereby gripping and releasing the medical device; and for advancing the medical device to a new position for forming a successive bend and/or twist in the medical device; and a handling robot, separate from the first gripping tool and the second gripping tool, inserting the medical device into either the first gripping tool or the second gripping tool at the beginning of a bending process; and removing the medical device from either the first gripping tool or the second gripping tool at the end of the bending process. 35. The machine of claim 34, further comprising a second revolute joint, the second revolute joint incorporated into either the first or second manipulator. 36. The machine of claim 34, wherein the first manipulator includes the three prismatic joints and wherein the second manipulator includes the revolute joint. 