Various embodiments provide keyboards that utilize electrically-deformable material as an actuating mechanism to provide haptic feedback to a user of the keyboard. In at least some embodiments, the electrically-deformable material is utilized to impart, to a depressed key or keyboard element, a multi-vectored movement that produces a perceived acceleration of the key or keyboard element thus providing a user with haptic feedback which simulates a snapover movement. In at least some embodiments, a key or keyboard element can be associated with comparatively little or no actuation force and/or travel distance. As a result, the amount of work necessary to actuate the key or keyboard element can be significantly decreased or eliminated.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A keyboard comprising: a plurality of keys or keyboard elements grouped into plural logical groupings, wherein each logical grouping can be separately driven in a multi-vectored movement to provide a haptic feedback; a keyboard housing, wherein the keyboard housing supports the plurality of keys or keyboard elements; a switch associated with a key or keyboard element; and an actuating mechanism operably associated with the switch and the key or keyboard element for providing the haptic feedback to each of the logical groupings, wherein the actuating mechanism is configured to actuate the key or keyboard element in an event of a switch closure. 2. The keyboard of claim 1, wherein each logical grouping includes a plate. 3. The keyboard of claim 2, wherein the plate is moved under the influence of an electrically-deformable material. 4. The keyboard of claim 1, wherein a single key or keyboard element is moved under the influence of the electrically-deformable material. 5. The keyboard of claim 1, wherein the keyboard housing does not move when the single key or keyboard element is moved under the influence of the electrically-deformable material. 6. The keyboard of claim 1, wherein the logical grouping of keys or keyboard elements is moved under the influence of the electrically-deformable material. 7. The keyboard of claim 1, wherein the keyboard housing does not move when the logical grouping of keys or keyboard elements is moved under the influence of the electrically-deformable material. 8. The keyboard of claim 1, wherein the multi-vectored movement is caused by the electrically-deformable material. 