A method of educating includes providing a collectible trading card game with a plurality of trading cards. Each card may contain educational information including a consonant, vowel, number or mathematical operator and the cards are used to form a properly spelled word or to form a mathematically correct equation. In some forms, the method includes providing a game with a playing field and a set of game components with game component types having a predetermined power for affecting play of the game by affecting a power, effect, or value of the game component. The level of skill necessary to play the game may be varied by selectively implementing or disregarding the predetermined power of the game components. An educational game includes first and second game components with different expressions, powers, point values, and identifiers for distinguishing game components and facilitating game play.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An educational game, comprising: a first game component having either a first letter or a first number; a first point value and a first type indicator which indicates the first game component type; a second game component having either a second letter, a second number, or a mathematical operator; a second point value and a second type indicator which indicates the second game component type, wherein the second game component type is different than the first; a playing field having first, second, and third game component fields, wherein the first game component field has a predetermined area for a game component of a first game component type, the second game component field has a predetermined area for a game component of a second game component type, and the third game component field has an area for game components of either the first or second game component type, wherein the first letter or first number of the first game component and the second letter, second number, or mathematical operator of the second game component are combinable to form an expression having a point value based on at least the first and second point values. 2. The educational game of claim 1, wherein the first game component type is a consonant and the second game component type includes a vowel, such that a word may be formed by a user in the third game component field using first and second game components. 3. The educational game of claim 1, wherein the first game component type is a number, and the second game component type is a number or an operator, such that a mathematical expression may be formed by a user in the third game component field using first and second game components. 4. The educational game of claim 1, wherein the first or second game components include an effect, wherein the effect may affect the efficacy or point value of other game components. 5. A method of playing an educational game, comprising: providing a plurality of game components with first and second game component types each having a predetermined point value, wherein a first game component type is one of a letter and a number and the second game component type is at least one of a letter, a number, and a mathematical operator, wherein at least one of the first and second game components includes an effect which augments the efficacy or value of at least one game component; selecting at least one first game component and at least one second game component; placing at least the first and second game components in a playing field; and forming an expression with the first and second game components. 6. The method of claim 5, further comprising initiating an effect on at least one of the game components by placing at least the first and second game components in a playing field and augmenting the efficacy or point value of the at least one game component. 7. The method of claim 5, further comprising creating a set of first and second game components from a predetermined number of the first and second game components; selecting first and second game components from the set to form an expression in the playing field. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the set is comprised of two separate fields including a first field for containing a predetermined number of first game components and a second field for containing a predetermined number of second game components. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the predetermined number of first game components is five and the predetermined number of second game components is three. 10. The method of claim 8, further comprising a third field for containing a predetermined number of second game components for use in forming expressions or initiating effects on the at least one game component; and selecting the at least one second game component; and placing the at least one second game component in the third field. 11. The method of claim 5, wherein the first game component type is a consonant, the second game component type is a vowel, and forming an expression with the first and second game components includes forming a word. 12. The method of claim 5, wherein the first game component type is a number, and the second game component type is a number or an operator, and forming an expression with the first and second game components includes forming a mathematical expression. 13. The method of claim 12, further comprising providing a one of an equality symbol, a greater than symbol, and a lesser than symbol; and forming a mathematical expression by selecting one of the equality, greater than, or lesser than symbols in combination with the first and second game components, wherein at least one of the second game components is an operator. 14. An educational game, comprising: a first game component having a first symbol designating a first expression portion for the first game component; a first power field indicating the power or effect of the first game component over the first game component or other game components; a first point value; a first game component type identifier to distinguish the type of game component between the first game component and a second game component having a different type than the first game component; a second game component having a symbol designating a second expression portion for the second game component, a second power field indicating the power or effect of the second game component over the second game component or other game components; a second point value; a second game component type identifier to distinguish the type of game component between the first game component and the second game component having a different type than the first game component; wherein the first and second game components may be combined during game play to form an expression comprised of the first and second symbols, the expression having a point value based upon the sum of the first and second point values. 15. The educational game of claim 14, wherein the first and second expression portions are letters, and the expression is a word. 16. The educational game of claim 14, wherein the first and second expression portions are one of a number and an operator, and the expression is a mathematical equation or inequality. 17. The educational game of claim 15, wherein the first expression portion is a consonant, and the second expression portion is a vowel. 18. The educational game of claim 16, wherein the first expression portion is a number and the second expression portion is a number or an operator. 19. The educational game of claim 18, wherein the first expression portion comprises one of a number between 2 and 9, inclusive, and the second expression portion comprises one of the numbers 0 and 1 or a mathematical operator. 20. The educational game of claim 14, further comprising a playing field having separate first and second portions for holding the first and second game components prior to being played to form the expression. 21. The educational game of claim 15, wherein the first portion holds five first game components and the second portion holds three second game components, and the playing field further comprises an expression field for containing the first and second game components selected by a user to form the expression. 