The present disclosure relates to calibration assemblies and methods for use with an imaging system, such as an endoscopic imaging system. A calibration assembly includes: an interface for constraining engagement with an endoscopic imaging system; a target coupled with the interface so as to be within the field of view of the imaging system, the target including multiple of markers having calibration features that include identification features; and a processor configured to identify from first and second images obtained at first and second relative spatial arrangements between the imaging system and the target, respectively, at least some of the markers from the identification features, and using the identified markers and calibration feature positions within the images to generate calibration data.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An endoscope calibration system, the system comprising: a calibration target; an interface assembly having first and second portions, wherein the first portion is adapted to receive an endoscope, wherein the second portion is adapted to receive the calibration target, wherein the first and second portions are rotatably coupled to each other, wherein the endoscope is positioned to capture an image of the calibration target when the endoscope is received by the first portion and the calibration target is received by the second portion, and wherein the image of the calibration target rotates in an image plane of the endoscope as one of the first and second portions rotates relative to the other one; and a processor configured to cause one of the first and second portions to rotate relative to the other so that images of the calibration target captured by the endoscope when the endoscope is received by the first portion and the calibration target is received by the second portion are captured at different rotation angles, process the images of the calibration target to generate calibration data, and use the calibration data to calibrate the endoscope. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the field of view of the endoscope is angled away from a longitudinal axis of the endoscope, and wherein the longitudinal axis of the endoscope is at an acute angle relative to a plane of rotation between the first and second portions when the endoscope is received by the first portion. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the field of view of the endoscope is aligned with a longitudinal axis of the endoscope, and wherein the longitudinal axis of the endoscope is normal to a plane of rotation between the first and second portions when the endoscope is received by the first portion. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the first portion has first and second receptacles, wherein a longitudinal axis of the first receptacle is at an acute angle relative to a plane of rotation between the first and second portions, and wherein a longitudinal axis of the second receptacle is normal to the plane of rotation. 5. The system of claim 1, further comprising: means for changing an orientation of a surface of the calibration target relative to a viewing direction of the endoscope by pivoting the calibration target about a pivot point on the calibration target when the calibration target is received by the second portion. 6. The system of claim 5, wherein the pivoting of the calibration target about the pivot point is performed in coordination with the rotation of the one of the first and second portions relative to the other one. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the calibration target includes a plurality of markers, wherein each of the plurality of markers includes a plurality of localizer features arranged on a surface of the calibration target in a pattern that indicates an orientation of the calibration target in the image of the calibration target captured by the endoscope, and wherein each of the plurality of markers includes a plurality of identification features for uniquely identifying the marker. 8. The system of claim 7, wherein the plurality of identification features comprises a plurality of potential dot locations, and wherein an identity of each marker is indicated by a presence or absence of a dot in each of the plurality of potential dot locations. 9. The system of claim 7, wherein the processor is configured to generate the calibration data using the plurality of markers in the image of the calibration target captured by the endoscope. 10. The system of claim 9, wherein the calibration target includes an edge feature separating dark and bright regions, and the processor is configured to generate modulation transfer function values by processing an image region of interest that includes the edge feature. 11. The system of claim 9, wherein the processor is configured to generate a color balance adjustment for the imaging system by processing a region of interest of an image of the calibration target. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein the color balance adjustment comprises a white balance adjustment. 13. The system of claim 12, wherein the calibration target comprises a white background and non-white calibration features. 14. The system of claim 1, wherein the endoscope comprises a stereoscopic endoscope. 15. An endoscope calibration system comprising: a calibration target; an interface assembly configured to receive an endoscope to be calibrated, receive the calibration target, adjustably tilt the calibration target, and cause an image of the calibration target that is captured by the endoscope to adjustably rotate within an image plane of the endoscope; and a processor configured to cause the interface assembly to adjustably tilt the calibration target and cause successive images of the calibration target to be captured by the endoscope at different rotation angles within the image plane of the endoscope when the endoscope and the calibration target are received by the interface assembly, process the images of the calibration target to generate calibration data by at least determining at least one of whether a predetermined Focus Function focal position difference is exceeded and whether a predetermined Focus Function peak value difference is exceeded, and use the calibration data to calibrate the endoscope. 16. A method for calibrating an endoscopic imaging system using a calibration target, the method comprising: imaging the calibration target with the imaging system from a first spatial arrangement established between the calibration target and the imaging system by using a calibration fixture; imaging the calibration target with the imaging system from a second spatial arrangement established between the calibration target and the imaging system by using the calibration fixture to cause an image of the calibration target that is captured by the imaging system to rotate to a second rotation angle that is different from a first rotation angle of the first spatial arrangement; processing the imaging of the calibration target to generate data; and calibrating the endoscopic imaging system by using the generated data. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the generation of data comprises: processing one of the first and second images to generate relative modulation transfer function values. 18. The method of claim 16, wherein the generation of data comprises: processing a region-of interest of one of the first and second images to generate modulation transfer function values from an edge feature that separates dark and bright regions. 19. The method of claim 16, wherein the generation of data comprises: processing a region of interest of one of the first and second images to generate one or more color balance parameters for the imaging system. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein the one or more color balance parameters comprises one or more white balance parameters. 21. The method of claim 16, wherein the imaging system comprises a stereoscopic endoscope. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein the generation of data comprises: determining one or more metrics for the imaging system, wherein the one or more metrics indicate whether a predetermined Focus Function focal position difference is exceeded, whether a predetermined Focus Function peak value difference is exceeded, whether a predetermined alignment shift value is exceeded, or whether an illumination level falls below a predetermined illumination level. 23. The method of claim 16, wherein the calibration features include a plurality of localizer features that are used to determine an orientation for each marker. 24. A method for calibrating an endoscopic imaging system using a calibration target having a plurality of markers, each marker including a plurality of localizer features and a plurality of identification features, imaging the calibration target with the imaging system from a plurality of spatial arrangements established between the calibration target and the imaging system by using a calibration fixture; processing said images of the calibration target by identifying one or more markers in the images by using the plurality of identification features in the images, localizing the identified markers in the images by using the plurality of localizer features in the images, and generating calibration data from the calibration target in the images by using information of the localized markers in the images; and using the calibration data to calibrate the endoscopic imaging system. 