A robotic is provided which comprises a hub (203); (b) a first lower arm (209) comprising first (213) and second (215) lower arm segments and having a first set of upper arms (229, 231) attached thereto; and (c) a first adjusting means (241) for adjusting the height of the first lower arm segment with respect to the second lower arm segment.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot, comprising: a hub; a first lower arm comprising first and second lower arm segments, said first lower arm having a first set of upper arms attached thereto; a second lower arm; and a first adjusting means for adjusting the height of the second lower arm segment with respect to the first lower arm segment; wherein a first radius is disposed between said first lower arm segment and said hub, wherein said first lower arm segment is attached to said first radius by a first fastener, wherein said first lower arm segment is rotatable with respect to said first radius when said first fastener is in a loosened state, wherein said first lower arm segment is not rotatable with respect to said first radius when said first fastener is in a tightened state, wherein said first lower arm is equipped with a hole, and wherein said first fastener loosely engages said hole when it is in said loosened state. 2. The robot of claim 1, wherein said second lower arm comprises third and fourth lower arm segments and has a second set of upper arms attached thereto. 3. The robot of claim 1, further comprising: a second adjusting means for adjusting the height of the fourth lower arm segment with respect to the third lower arm segment. 4. The robot of claim 1, wherein said first set of upper arms comprises a plurality of upper arms. 5. The robot of claim 2, wherein said second set of upper arms also comprises a plurality of upper arms. 6. The robot of claim 1, wherein said first lower arm is rotatingly attached to said hub. 7. The robot of claim 1, wherein said first lower arm segment is rotatable with respect to said first radius by an angle .phi. when said first fastener is in a loosened state, and wherein |.phi.| is within the range of about .+-.15.degree.. 8. The robot of claim 1, wherein said first lower arm segment is rotatable with respect to said first radius by an angle .phi. when said first fastener is in a loosened state, and wherein |.phi.| is within the range of about 5.degree. to about 15.degree.. 9. The robot of claim 1, wherein said first lower arm segment is rotatable with respect to said first radius by an angle .phi. when said first fastener is in a loosened state, and wherein |.phi.| is within the range of about 5.degree. to about 10.degree.. 10. The robot of claim 2, wherein one member of the first set of upper arms and one member of the second set of upper arms are joined together via a first wrist assembly. 11. The robot of claim 10, further comprising a first wafer blade, and wherein said first wafer blade is mounted to said first wrist assembly. 12. The robot of claim 10, wherein one member of the first set of upper arms and one member of the second set of upper arms are joined together via a second wrist assembly. 13. A robot, comprising: a hub; a first lower arm comprising first and second lower arm segments and having first and second upper arms attached thereto; a first fastener adapted to adjust the height of the second lower arm segment with respect to the first lower arm segment; a second lower arm comprising third and fourth lower arm segments and having third and fourth upper arms attached thereto; a second fastener adapted to adjust the height of the fourth lower arm segment with respect to the third lower arm segment; a first wrist assembly attached to said first and third upper arms; and a second wrist assembly attached to said second and fourth upper arms; wherein a first radius is disposed between said first lower arm segment and said hub, wherein said first lower arm segment is attached to said radius by a third fastener, wherein said first lower arm segment is rotatable with respect to said first radius when said third fastener is in a loosened state, wherein said first lower arm segment is not rotatable with respect to said first radius when said third fastener is in a tightened state, wherein said first lower arm is equipped with a hole, and wherein said first fastener loosely engages said hole when it is in a loosened state. 14. The robot of claim 13, further comprising first and second wafer blades attached, respectively, to said first and second wrist assemblies. 15. The robot of claim 13, wherein said first and third upper arms form a first robotic arm assembly having a frog-leg configuration. 16. The robot of claim 13, wherein said first and second robotic arms are rotatable about said hub. 17. The robot of claim 13, wherein said first lower arm segment is rotatable with respect to said first radius by an angle .phi..sub.1 when said third fastener is in said loosened state, and wherein .phi..sub.1 is within the range of about .+-.15.degree.. 18. The robot of claim 17, wherein |.phi..sub.1| is within the range of about 5.degree. to about 10.degree.. 19. The robot of claim 13, wherein a second radius is disposed between said third lower arm segment and said hub, wherein said third lower arm segment is attached to said second radius by a fourth fastener, wherein said third lower arm segment is rotatable with respect to said second radius when said fourth fastener is in a loosened state, and wherein said third lower arm segment is not rotatable with respect to said second radius when said fourth fastener is in a tightened state. 20. The robot of claim 19, wherein said third lower arm segment is rotatable with respect to said second radius by an angle .phi..sub.2 when said fourth fastener is in said loosened state, and wherein .phi..sub.2 is within the range of about .+-.15.degree.. 21. The robot of claim 20, wherein |.phi..sub.2| is within the range of about 5.degree. to about 15.degree.. 22. A robot, comprising: a hub having a first rotatable ring disposed thereon; a first radius attached to said first ring with a fastener; and a first arm repositionably attached to said first radius, wherein said first arm is equipped with a hole, wherein said fastener is adjustable from a loosened state to a tightened state, and wherein said fastener loosely engages said hole when it is in said loosened state. 23. The robot of claim 22, wherein said first arm is repositionably attached to said first radius by way of a first fastener which is adapted to be loosened to permit an adjustment of the first arm from a first position to a second position with respect to said first radius. 24. The robot of claim 1, wherein said first lower arm segment has a first longitudinal axis, wherein said second lower arm segment has a second longitudinal axis, and wherein said adjusting means adjusts the angle between said first and second longitudinal axes. 25. The robot of claim 24, wherein said adjusting means is a threaded fastener. 