A high capacity anode preparation apparatus is provided which allows for the processing of raw anodes at production rates of up to, or exceeding, 600 anodes per hour. The processed anodes are suitable for use in the electrorefining of various metal materials, but in particular, in the electrorefining of copper. The apparatus is preferably part of a system which utilizes high speed industrial robots to supply, and remove, anodes to or from the apparatus, and provides the anodes in a horizontal orientation. The apparatus is equipped with a variety of treatment stations which are adapted to treat the raw anode while it is held in a horizontal orientation. The horizontal orientation allows the center of gravity for the apparatus to be kept close to the center of gravity for the apparatus, and thus allows the apparatus to rotate more rapidly than prior art device. Faster processing of the raw anodes is provided.
Claims I claim: 1. An electrorefining anode preparation apparatus comprising: a base; a moveable rotating platform and means for rotating the platform relative to said base, in a controlled fashion; an anode receiving means on said platform which is adapted to receive and hold a raw anode in an essentially horizontal orientation, and supply said anode to an anode treatment station in a horizontal orientation; one or a plurality of anode treatment stations located around said rotary platform, whereby said anode can be progressively moved, in series, from said anode receiving means to any or all of said anode treatment stations, in an essentially horizontal orientation, in order to prepare a processed anode; an anode discharge means on said platform which is adapted to receive said processed anode from anode treatment stations, and discharge said processed anode from said anode preparation apparatus in an essentially horizontal orientation. 2. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said means for rotating the platform is a high speed servo-electric motor. 3. An apparatus as claimed in claim 2 wherein said apparatus can rotate from one station to the next in 1.2 seconds. 4. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein the centre of gravity of each anode is equally spaced around the center of said rotating platform. 5. An apparatus as claimed in claim 4 wherein said anode centre of gravity is within 2 meters of the centre of said rotating platform. 6. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein the number of anode treatment stations is between 4 and 10. 7. An apparatus as claimed in claim 6 wherein the number of anode treatment stations is between 6 and 8. 8. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said anodes are horizontally orientated with said lugs being located radially away from the centre of said platform. 9. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said anode treatment stations comprise an anode body press, a lug press, or a lug mill. 10. An apparatus as claimed in claim 9 wherein said anode body press comprises a series of hydraulic rams that press onto the body of said raw anode. 11. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said anode body press components are located above and below the anode. 12. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said raw anode is held in place on support arms using hydraulically operated anode clamps. 13. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said apparatus has six sets of support arms which are equally spaced radially around said apparatus so as to be 60.degree. from each other. 14. An apparatus as claimed in claim 9 wherein said lug press straightens or bends lugs on said raw anode using hydraulic rams. 15. An apparatus as claimed in claim 9 wherein said lug mill cuts said lugs using a lug cutter means. 16. An anode processing system comprising an anode receiver, an anode preparation apparatus, as claimed in claim 1, and an anode receiver and an anode discharger. 17. An anode processing system as claimed in claim 16 additionally comprising a receiving conveyor wherein the raw anodes are hung by their lugs in an essentially vertical orientation, and a discharge conveyor wherein the processed anodes are hung by their lugs in an essentially vertical orientation. 18. An anode processing system as claimed in claim 17 wherein said anode receiver for receiving a raw anode in an essentially vertical orientation from said receiving conveyor comprises means for grasping and holding a raw anode on said receiving conveyor system; means for rotating said held raw anode from said essentially vertical orientation to an essentially horizontal orientation; and means for transferring the horizontally orientated raw anode to said anode receiving means on said anode preparation apparatus. 19. An anode processing system as claimed in claim 17 wherein said anode discharger for discharging a processed anode in an essentially vertical orientation from said anode preparation apparatus comprises means for grasping and holding an essentially horizontal, processed anode from said anode discharge means on said anode preparation apparatus; means for rotating said held processed anode from an essentially horizontal orientation to an essentially vertical orientation; and means for transferring the vertically orientated process anode said discharge conveyor. 20. An anode processing system as claimed in claim 17 wherein said anode receiver and anode discharger are both automated robotic devices, each of which comprises grasping and holding arms capable of grasping and holding a raw or processed anode, means for rotation of said raw or processed anodes from an essentially vertical orientation to an essentially horizontal orientation, or vice versa, and means to move said raw or processed anode between said anode preparation apparatus and said receiving or discharge conveyors. 21. An anode processing system as claimed in claim 20 wherein said anode receiver and anode discharger are programmable industrial robots having hydraulically operated arms. 22. An anode processing system as claimed in claim 20 wherein said anode receiver and anode discharger have a rotatable joint for movement of an anode from a horizontal to vertical orientation, or from a vertical to horizontal orientation, and a telescopic arm for movement of said anode. 23. An electrorefining anode preparation process comprising: presenting an essentially vertically orientated raw anode from a receiving conveyor to an anode receiver; grasping and holding said raw anode with said anode receiver; rotating said raw anode to an essentially horizontal orientation and presenting said horizontally orientated raw anode to an anode preparation station; receiving said raw anode on a platform on said anode preparation station using an anode receiving means; rotating said platform to move said raw anode, in series, from said anode receiving means to one or a plurality of anode treatment stations; treating said raw anode in said anode treatment stations, while said raw anode is in an essentially horizontal orientation, in order to produce a processed anode; rotating said platform to move said processed anode to an anode discharge means; releasing said processed anode from said anode discharge means, and grasping and holding said processed anode from said anode discharge means using an anode discharger; rotating said processed anode to an essentially vertical orientation and preparation station; discharging said processed anode, in an essentially vertical orientation, from said anode discharger to a second conveyor means. 24. A process as claimed in claim 23 wherein the longest processing time for any treatment station is equal to, or less than 4.8 seconds. 25. A process as claimed in claim 23 wherein said apparatus is rotated from one treatment station to an adjacent treatment station in 1.2 seconds, or less. 26. A process as claimed in claim 23 which discharges a processed anode every 6.0 seconds, or less. 27. A process as claimed in claim 23 which produces greater than 400 anodes per hour. 28. A process as claimed in claim 23 which produces greater than 550 anodes per hour. 29. A process as claimed in claim 23 which produces anodes at a rate of at least 600 anodes per hour. 30. A process as claimed in claim 23 wherein said raw anode is made of copper, silver, gold, tin, nickel, cobalt, lead or zinc. 31. A process as claimed in claim 30 wherein said raw anode is made of copper. 