A multi-fingered underactuated mechanical grasping system driven by a single actuator, yet can grasp objects spanning a wide range of size, shape, and mass. A member for moving a link relative to a base acts in parallel to a direction of compliance of a joint between the link and the base. The joint has a plurality of degrees of freedom. The number of members for moving links in the grasping system is less than the number of degrees of freedom in the grasping system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A compliant underactuated grasper comprising: a base; and a plurality of fingers, wherein at least one of said plurality of fingers comprises: a link; a joint connecting said link to said base, said joint being compliant in first and second directions, wherein said joint comprises a joint flexure and a compliance of said joint flexure in said second direction is stiffer than a compliance of said joint flexure in said first direction; and a member for moving said link; wherein said member acts in parallel to said first direction of compliance of said joint such that actuation of said member substantially changes said compliance of said joint in said first direction, and wherein said grasper has fewer actuators than degrees of freedom. 2. The compliant underactuated grasper according to claim 1, wherein said member comprises a tendon cable. 3. The compliant underactuated grasper according to claim 2, further comprising an actuator for actuating a tendon cable, wherein said actuator actuates a plurality of tendon cables and wherein each of said tendon cables changes a compliance in a joint in a different one of said plurality of fingers. 4. The compliant underactuated grasper according to claim 3, wherein said actuator comprises a DC motor. 5. The compliant underactuated grasper according to claim 1, wherein said joint has a viscoelastic response to provide damping. 6. The compliant underactuated grasper according to claim 1, further comprising a sensor for sensing a position of said joint. 7. The compliant underactuated grasper according to claim 1, wherein said link comprises a distal link of said finger. 8. The compliant underactuated grasper according to claim 1, wherein a plurality of sensors are mounted on or under the surface of the fingers to sense contact. 9. The compliant underactuated grasper according to claim 1, wherein said at least one finger further comprises: a second link; and a second joint connecting said second link to said link, said second joint being compliant in said first direction; wherein movement of said member substantially changes said compliance of said second joint in said first direction. 10. The compliant underactuated grasper according to claim 9, wherein said second link comprises a proximal link of said finger. 11. The compliant underactuated grasper according to claim 1, wherein said base comprises a second link. 12. A compliant underactuated grasper comprising: a base; and a plurality of fingers, wherein as least one of said plurality of fingers comprises: a first link; a second link; a first joint connecting said first link to said second link, said joint being compliant in a first direction; a second joint connecting said second link to said base, said second joint being compliant in a second direction; and a tendon cable for moving said first and second links; wherein said tendon cable is in parallel to said first direction of compliance such that movement of said tendon cable substantially changes said compliance of said first joint in said first direction, and wherein said grasper has fewer actuators than degrees of freedom. 13. The compliant underactuated grasper according to claim 12, wherein said grasper comprises an artificial hand. 14. A compliant underactuated grasper comprising: a base; and a plurality of fingers, wherein at least one of said plurality of fingers comprises: a link; a joint connecting said link to said base, said joint being compliant in first and second directions, wherein said joint comprises a joint flexure and a compliance of said joint flexure in said second direction is stiffer than a compliance of said joint flexure in said first direction; and a member for moving said link; and wherein said member acts in parallel to said first directions of compliance of said joint such that actuation of said member substantially changes said compliance of said joint in said first direction, and wherein said grasper has fewer actuators than degrees of freedom. 15. The compliant underactuated grasper according to claim 14, wherein said two directions of compliance comprise a first direction of compliance in a plane of movement of said one of said plurality of said fingers and a second direction of compliance normal to said plane of movement of said one of said plurality of said fingers. 16. The compliant underactuated grasper according to claim 15, further comprising a plurality of sensors. 17. The compliant underactuated grasper according to claim 14, further comprising: an adaptive transmission that allows some links to keep moving after others have made contact with an object; and wherein said grasper has fewer actuators than degrees of freedom. 18. The compliant underactuated grasper according to claim 17, further comprising a plurality of viscoelastic joints. 