A radiosurgery system is described that is configured to deliver a therapeutic dose of radiation to a target structure in a patient. In some embodiments, inflammatory ocular disorders are treated, specifically macular degeneration. In some embodiments, other disorders or tissues of a body are treated with the dose of radiation. In some embodiments, the target tissues are placed in a global coordinate system based on ocular imaging. In some embodiments, the target tissues inside the global coordinate system lead to direction of an automated positioning system that is directed based on the target tissues within the coordinate system. In some embodiments, a treatment plan is utilized in which beam energy and direction and duration of time for treatment is determined for a specific disease to be treated and/or structures to be avoided. In some embodiments, a fiducial marker is used to identify the location of the target tissues. In some embodiments, radiodynamic therapy is described in which radiosurgery is used in combination with other treatments and can be delivered concomitant with, prior to, or following other treatments.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A method, of treating an eye of a patient, comprising: providing a geometric representation of the eye, based, at least in part, on anatomic data obtained by an imaging apparatus; emitting a first x-ray beam such that the first beam passes through a first region of the eye to a target within the eye; emitting a second x-ray beam such that the second beam passes through a second region of the eye to substantially the target within the eye, wherein the first region and second region of the eye through which the first beam and second beam pass are selected based on the geometric representation of the eye; determining whether a position of the eye has changed beyond a movement threshold during at least one of the emitting the first x-ray beam, emitting the second x-ray beam, and a period of time between emitting the first x-ray beam and emitting the second x-ray beam to the target; and when the position of the eye is determined to have changed beyond the movement threshold, moving the eye to a pre-determined position. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising altering the emitting at least one of the first and second x-ray beams if the position of the eye has changed beyond the movement threshold. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the altering comprises ceasing or reducing emitting at least one of the first and second x-ray beams if the position of the eye has changed beyond the movement threshold. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising emitting the second x-ray beam based on eye movement within the movement threshold. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the determining is based on data from the imaging apparatus. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the imaging apparatus comprises a camera. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the first and second x-ray beams are emitted from an x-ray source. 8. The method of claim 7, further comprising moving the x-ray source between emitting the first x-ray beam and the second x-ray beam. 9. The method of claim 7, further comprising moving the x-ray source relative to the eye if the position of the eye has changed beyond the movement threshold. 10. The method of claim 7, further comprising changing a trajectory of at least one of the first and second x-ray beams if the position of the eye has changed beyond the movement threshold. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the first and second regions of the eye comprises a sclera of the eye. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the first and second regions of the eye comprises a pars plana of the eye. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the target comprises a retina of the eye. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein the target comprises a macula of the eye. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein the target comprises an inflammation region of the eye. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein the target comprises a region of neovascularization in the eye. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein the target comprises a drusen of the eye. 18. A method, of treating an eye of a patient, comprising: providing a geometric representation of the eye, based, at least in part, on anatomic data obtained by an imaging apparatus; producing a first x-ray beam and a second x-ray beam, each beam having a width of less than about 6 mm; directing the first x-ray beam such that the first beam passes through a first region of a sclera of the eye to a target of a retina; directing the second x-ray beam such that the second beam passes through a second region of the sclera to substantially the same target of the retina as the first beam, wherein the first region and second region of the sclera are selected based on the geometric representation of the eye; and when the eye is determined to be positioned beyond a threshold distance, moving the eye to a pre-determined position. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein the target comprises a region of inflammation of the eye. 20. The method of claim 18, wherein the target comprises a macula of the eye. 