A radiosurgery system is described that is configured to deliver a therapeutic dose of radiation to a target structure in a patient. In some embodiments, inflammatory ocular disorders are treated, specifically macular degeneration. In some embodiments, other disorders or tissues of a body are treated with the dose of radiation. In some embodiments, the target tissues are placed in a global coordinate system based on ocular imaging. In some embodiments, the target tissues inside the global coordinate system lead to direction of an automated positioning system that is directed based on the target tissues within the coordinate system. In some embodiments, a treatment plan is utilised in which beam energy and direction and duration of time for treatment is determined for a specific disease to be treated and/or structures to be avoided. In some embodiments, a fiducial marker is used to identify the location of the target tissues. In some embodiments, radiodynamic therapy is described in which radiosurgery is used in combination with other treatments and can be delivered concomitant with, prior to, or following other treatments.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A system, for treating a target tissue with radiation, comprising: a radiation source that emits x-ray radiation during a treatment session and a collimator that collimates the emitted x-ray radiation into an x-ray beam having a cross-sectional dimension, as the beam exits the collimator, of less than about 6 mm; a mapping module that repeatedly maps, during the treatment session, a location of the target tissue to a coordinate system; and a movement module that directs the x-ray beam, during the treatment session, along a trajectory that is based, at least in part, on at least one mapped location of the coordinate system. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the radiation source is configured such that a maximum x-ray beam energy emitted during the treatment session is between 1 and 500 KeV. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein the mapping module is configured to detect a fiducial marker indicative of a position of the target tissue. 4. The system of claim 3, wherein the fiducial marker is implanted within an eye. 5. The system of claim 3, wherein the fiducial marker comprises an eye contact member. 6. The system of claim 5, wherein the mapping module receives data from the eye contact member. 7. The system of claim 6, wherein the eye contact member contains a fiducial marker imageable with visible light. 8. The system of claim 1, further comprising a sensing module that senses a position of the target tissue relative to the radiation source. 9. The system of claim 8, wherein the mapping module repeatedly maps the location of the target tissue based, at least in part, on data from the sensing module. 10. The system of claim 1, wherein the mapping module compares an actual degree of movement of the target tissue to a threshold degree of movement. 11. The system of claim 10, wherein the radiation source ceases emission of radiation when the actual degree of movement exceeds the threshold degree of movement. 12. The system of claim 1, wherein the mapping module maps the location of the target tissue based, at least in part, on a monte carlo simulation. 13. The system of claim 12, wherein the mapping module determines, based on the monte carlo simulation, whether actual movement of the target tissue is beyond a threshold movement. 14. The system of claim 12, wherein said monte carlo simulation is used by the system to minimize dose to the optic disk and the lens of the eye. 15. The system of claim 1, wherein the trajectory is a path from the radiation source to the target tissue that passes through the pars plana of the eye. 16. The system of claim 1, wherein the radiation source is configured to be placed within 50 cm of the target tissue. 