The following invention is an apparatus and method for quickly determining the type of bracket implanted on patient's tooth. A radio frequency identification (RFID) microchip is coupled to or in an orthodontic bracket. The bracket or series of brackets are then implanted on the patient's teeth as required. With the RFID in or on the bracket, the orthodontist or staff uses a scanner to read the brackets. The information read by the scanner allows the staff to select the correct corresponding bracket needed for replacement from an inventory. Confirmation of the correct selection is obtained by another scan from another scanner located in the bracket holding device. Not only does this process ensure that the correct replacement bracket is received by the patient, but also provides the orthodontist and staff with a real-time tracking of inventory supply.
Claims I claim: 1. A method of using radio frequency identification (RFID) microchips in an orthodontic bracket comprising: providing at least one orthodontic bracket with at least one RFID chip coupled to, in or on the at least one orthodontic bracket, where the at least one RFID chip has recorded thereon bracket information concerning a set of features of the at least one orthodontic bracket; scanning the recorded bracket information from the at least one RFID chip coupled to the at least one orthodontic bracket; and employing the at least one orthodontic bracket according to the recorded information scanned from the corresponding at least one RFID chip, wherein employing the at least one orthodontic bracket according to the recorded information scanned from the corresponding at least one RFID chip comprises using the at least one RFID chip during x-ray and optical dental scans to give scanned information to a software program which uses the scanned recorded information to bend custom wires or plan treatment with specialized orthodontic programs. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein employing the at least one orthodontic bracket according to the recorded information scanned out of the corresponding at least one RFID chip comprises using the recorded bracket information for determining an inventory of the at least one bracket. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein employing the at least one orthodontic bracket according to the recorded information read out of the corresponding at least one RFID chip comprises identifying a type of the at least one orthodontic bracket to a user. 4. The method of claim 3 where the at least one orthodontic bracket includes at least one tip machined into a bracket slot and where identifying the type of at least one orthodontic bracket to the user comprises identifying a prescription of the corresponding at least one bracket including but not limited to at least one torque applied to the at least one orthodontic bracket and/or tip machined into the bracket slot for each corresponding tooth. 5. The method of claim 1 where employing the at least one orthodontic bracket according to the recorded information scanned out of the corresponding at least one RFID chip comprises identifying a particular targeted bracket in order to produce a patient tooth chart of a location, prescription, including wire slot size, tip structure, torque applied to the bracket, and/or material of manufacture of the at least one orthodontic bracket. 6. The method of claim 1 further comprising replacing the at least one orthodontic bracket when a change in prescription is needed comprising: scanning the at least one orthodontic bracket being replaced prior to removal; replacing a current set of patient information with an updated set of scanned information; and documenting in a patient tooth chart correlated to the updated set of scanned information a reason the at least one orthodontic bracket is being replaced. 7. The method of claim 6 further comprising scanning a replacement bracket to insure that the replacement bracket has a proper prescription. 8. The method of claim 1 where the steps of scanning the recorded bracket information from the at least one RFID chip coupled to the at least one bracket and employing the at least one bracket according to the recorded bracket information scanned out of the corresponding at least one RFID chip further comprises: sending a set of user-entered conditions to a robotic system; the robotic system selecting a bracket based on the set of user-entered conditions; the robotic system scanning the selected bracket; the robotic system confirming that the selected bracket has the set of user-entered conditions; and the robotic system recording that the selected bracket has been confirmed with having the set of user-entered conditions. 9. The method of claim 8 further comprising the robotic system performing bracket placement into an indirect or direct bonding tray. 10. The method of claim 1 where scanning the recorded bracket information from the at least one RFID chip coupled to the at least one bracket comprises: scanning the at least one bracket with an RFID scanner disposed within a bracket holding device to scan the recorded bracket information from the at least one RFID chip while the bracket is being held within the at least one bracket holding device; and displaying the recorded bracket information on a display coupled to the bracket holding device. 11. A method of using radio frequency identification (RFID) microchips in an orthodontic bracket comprising: providing a plurality of RFID chips coupled to, on or in a plurality of orthodontic brackets, where the plurality of RFID chips have recorded therein information concerning a set of features of the corresponding plurality of orthodontic brackets; scanning the recorded information from the plurality of RFID chips coupled to the plurality of orthodontic brackets; and employing the plurality of orthodontic brackets according to the recorded information scanned out of the corresponding plurality of RFID chips, wherein employing the plurality of orthodontic brackets according to the recorded information scanned from the corresponding plurality of RFID chips comprises using the plurality of RFID chips during x-ray and optical dental scans to give scanned information to a software program which uses the scanned recorded information to bend custom wires or plan treatment with specialized orthodontic programs. 12. The method of claim 11 wherein employing the plurality of orthodontic brackets according to the recorded information scanned from the corresponding plurality of RFID chips comprises using the information for determining an inventory of the plurality of orthodontic brackets. 13. The method of claim 11 wherein employing the plurality of orthodontic brackets according to the recorded information scanned from the corresponding plurality of RFID chips comprises identifying a type for each of the plurality of orthodontic brackets to a user. 14. The method of claim 13 where identifying the types for each of the plurality of orthodontic brackets to the user comprises identifying a prescription of the corresponding plurality of orthodontic brackets including but not limited to at least one torque applied to the plurality of orthodontic brackets or at least one tip machined into a bracket slot for each corresponding tooth. 15. The method of claim 11 where employing the plurality of orthodontic brackets according to the recorded information scanned from the corresponding plurality of RFID chip comprises: identifying the plurality of orthodontic brackets in an area of the mouth; or identifying the plurality of orthodontic brackets in the entire mouth in order to produce a patient tooth chart of a location, prescription, including wire slot size, tip structure, torque applied to the bracket, and/or material of manufacture of each of the plurality of orthodontic brackets. 16. The method of claim 11 further comprising replacing a plurality of orthodontic brackets when a change in prescription is needed comprising: scanning the plurality of orthodontic brackets being replaced prior to removal; replacing a set of current patient information with an updated set of scanned information; and documenting a reason the plurality of orthodontic brackets are being replaced in a patient tooth chart correlated to the scanned recorded identification. 17. The method of claim 16 further comprising scanning a plurality of replacement brackets to insure that the plurality of replacement brackets have a proper corresponding prescription. 18. The method of claim 15 where identifying the plurality of orthodontic brackets in an area of the mouth or identifying the plurality of orthodontic brackets in the entire mouth further comprises integrating the identification of the plurality of orthodontic brackets with a practice management program and attaching the practice management program to a patient tooth chart. 19. An apparatus comprising: a radio frequency identification (RFID) microchip; an orthodontic bracket; the RFID microchip coupled to, in or on the said orthodontic bracket, where the RFID microchip has recorded thereon information concerning a set of features of the orthodontic bracket; a scanner for scanning the recorded information from the RFID microchip coupled to the orthodontic bracket; and means for employing the orthodontic bracket according to the recorded information scanned from the corresponding RFID microchip, wherein the means for employing the orthodontic bracket according to the recorded information scanned from the corresponding RFID chip comprises using the RFID microchip during x-ray and optical dental scans to give scanned information to a software program which uses the scanned recorded information to bend custom wires or plan treatment with specialized orthodontic programs. 