A sample collection device suitable for low-volume extraction includes a substantially tubular collection vessel having a closed end, an open end, and one or more sidewalls defining a vessel chamber having a vessel volume. The device further includes a swab for sample collection. The swab formed with a substantially closed-celled polymer foam head and the swab is configured for insertion into the collection vessel.
Claims I claim: 1. A sample collection device suitable for low-volume extraction, the device comprising: a) a collection vessel having a closed end, an open end, and one or more sidewalls defining a vessel chamber having a vessel volume; b) a swab for sample collection, the swab comprising a substantially closed-cell polymer foam head, wherein the substantially closed-cell polymer foam head is a heat-shrinkable polymer foam head having a pre-heating to post-heating volume ratio of less than 1.5:1; wherein the swab is configured for insertion into the vessel volume. 2. The device of claim 1, wherein the substantially closed-cell polymer foam head comprises polyehylene. 3. The device of claim 1, wherein the substantially closed-cell polymer foam head is an expanded, cross-linked foam. 4. The device of claim 1, further comprising a non-heat shrinkable seal positioned between the open end and the swab, the seal configured to reduce evaporation of a liquid sample during heating. 5. The device of claim 1, wherein the swab comprises one or more outer surfaces that are hydrophobic. 6. The device of claim 1, wherein the substantially closed-cell polymer foam head has a water absorption capacity of less than 0.5 grams of water per gram of foam. 7. The device of claim 1, wherein at least 90% of the swab, by weight, is comprised of the substantially closed-cell polymer foam head. 8. The device of claim 1, wherein less than 10% of the cells of the substantially closed-cell polymer foam head are open cells. 9. The device of claim 1, wherein the substantially closed-cell polymer foam head has a density of 0.5 to 2.0 grams per cm.sup.3. 10. The device of claim 1, wherein the vessel volume is less than 5 .mu.L. 11. The device of claim 1 further comprising a separator structure, wherein the vessel chamber is divided into a first volume and a second volume by the separator and wherein the first volume and second volume are in liquid communication. 12. The device of claim 11, wherein the separator is selected from the group consisting of a perforated membrane, a filter, and a ring structure extending from the one or more sidewalls into the vessel chamber. 13. The device of claim 11, wherein the second chamber has a volume that is less than 1/3 of a volume of the first volume. 14. The device of claim 11, wherein the swab resides in the first volume and is prevented from substantially extending into the second volume by the separator. 15. The device of claim 1, further comprising a lid configured to fit the open end of the collection vessel, wherein the swab is integrated into the lid. 16. The device of claim 1, wherein the polymer foam head is uncompressed when inserted into the collection vessel. 17. The device of claim 1, wherein the polymer foam head has a volume less than the volume that is defined by the length of the foam head and the wall of the vessel. 18. The device of claim 17, wherein the volume of the polymer foam head is less than 90% of the volume of the portion of the collection vessel occupied by the foam head. 