A method and system for handling a swing metal panel using a robot's drive axis servo motor feedback to eliminate the need for the sensors and breakaway devices is provided. Using the servo motor feedback for this function reduces cost and improves reliability. The method also applies the servo motor feedback to hold a panel in position and exchange the panel between robots during the painting or coating process.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for handling a swing metal panel of a vehicle during an automatic coating process on a conveyor system, the method comprising the steps of: providing a robot with at least one robot drive axis servo motor and a robot controller, the robot having an arm with a handling tool; monitoring an electrical feedback from the at least one robot drive axis servo motor, the electrical feedback indicative of a torque on the drive axis servo motor; moving the robot to engage the swing metal panel; adapting the movement of at least one of the robot and the handling tool in response to the electrical feedback from the at least one robot drive axis servo motor; and moving the swing metal panel to facilitate the automatic coating process. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the robot engages the swing metal panel by at least one of grasping, opening, holding, and closing the swing metal panel. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the torque is indicative of a variation in placement of the swing metal panel. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the swing metal panel has a fixture that is engaged by the handling tool. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of adapting the movement of the robot includes halting the movement of the robot if the level of the electrical feedback exceeds a predetermined safety threshold so that at least one of the robot and the vehicle are not damaged. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of: wherein the step of adapting the movement of the handling tool includes sequencing a release mechanism of the handling tool based on the level of the electrical feedback. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of: adjusting the servo drive axis motor power to a level such that the tool becomes compliant and adjusts to a surge in the moving line conveyor system. 8. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of: intersecting the vehicle with the handling tool to determine the position of the vehicle. 9. The method of claim 8, further comprising the step of: starting the automatic coating process when the position of the vehicle is determined. 10. The method of claim 8, further comprising the step of: wherein the step of adapting the movement of the robot includes adjusting a pre-programmed process for moving the robot based on the position of the vehicle determined. 11. The method of claim 1, further comprising the steps of: monitoring an engagement axis of the handling tool and the swing metal panel; and passing information on the engagement axis to another robot for coordinating automatic coating process of the vehicle. 12. A method for handling a swing metal panel of a vehicle during an automatic coating process on a conveyor system, the method comprising the steps of: providing a handling robot with at least one robot drive axis servo motor and a robot controller, the handling robot having an arm with a handling tool; and monitoring an electrical feedback of the at least one robot drive axis servo motor during one of grasping, opening, holding, and closing of the swing metal panel to ensure that the swing metal panel is continuously in the grasp of the handling robot. 13. The method of claim 12, further comprising the step of: reporting by the robot controller to at least one of another handling robot and a painting robot that the swing metal panel is in a desired position so that other painting operations can occur in a pre-programmed sequence. 14. A system for handling a swing metal panel of a vehicle during an automatic coating process on a conveyor system, comprising; a handling robot having at least one robot drive axis servo motor and an arm with a handling tool configured to engage the swing metal panel; a robot controller in electrical communication with the drive axis servo motor and configured to receive electrical feedback from the drive axis servo motor indicative of a torque on the servo motor, the robot controller configured to adapting the movement of the handling robot in response to the electrical feedback. 15. The system of claim 14, wherein the handling tool has a desired compliance. 16. The system of claim 15, wherein the servo motor has a drive power adjusted to a level to cause the handling tool to have the desire compliance. 17. The system of claim 15, wherein the handling tool includes a spring configured to provide the desired compliance. 18. The system of claim 14, wherein the handling tool is a pin tool configured for insertion into a slot formed in the swing metal panel of the vehicle. 19. The system of claim 18, wherein the slot is a window slot and the swing metal panel is a door panel of the vehicle. 20. The system of claim 14, wherein the handling tool is a hook configured to engage one of a hood and a hatch of the vehicle. 