A method and a system are provided for recommending a media item (e.g., movie and/or television program). In one example, the system receives a seed media item (e.g., seed movie and/or seed television program). A seed media item is an audio-visual recording that is identified as being of interest to a user. The system recognizes one or more recognized audio tracks (e.g., audio tracks and/or songs) from the seed media item. A recognized audio track is an audio recording that is contained in the seed media item. The system retrieves audio track metadata associated with at least one of the recognized audio tracks from the seed media item. Audio track metadata are data that describes an audio recording. The system recommends one or more recommended media items based on the audio track metadata. A recommended media item is an audio-visual recording (e.g., movie and/or television program).
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for recommending a media item, wherein the method is configured for being carried out by at least one computer, the method comprising: receiving a seed media item that is an audio-visual recording identified as being of interest to a user, the seed media item containing audio content and video content; recognizing one or more audio tracks from the audio content contained in the seed media item; retrieving audio track metadata associated with at least one of the audio tracks recognized from the audio content contained in the seed media item, wherein the retrieved audio track metadata describes an audio recording; and recommending one or more media items that are audio-visual recordings, based on the retrieved audio track metadata, wherein each recommended media item is an audio-visual recording that is different than the seed media item. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein recognizing one or more audio tracks comprises at least one of: using a rolling recognition technique; automatically identifying songs from audio content of the seed media item; and storing one or more audio track identifiers into a metadata database, wherein each audio track identifier is associated with metadata that is associated with an audio track. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the audio track metadata are originally obtained from one or more metadata sources, wherein a metadata source is at least one of: a user device; an administrator device; and a robotic device. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the audio track metadata comprises one or more prominent metadata elements, wherein a prominent metadata element includes at least one of: genre; theme; instruments; mood; and era. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein a strength of a recommendation of a recommended media item is based on media metadata relevance to at least one of: the audio track metadata; and seed media item metadata, wherein the seed media item metadata are metadata that are directly associated with the seed media item. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein recommending one or more media items comprises ranking the recommended media items according to levels of media metadata relevance to the retrieved audio track metadata. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein a media item is at least one of: a movie; and a television program. 8. A system for recommending a media item, wherein the system is configured for performing steps comprising: receiving a seed media item that is an audio-visual recording identified as being of interest to a user, the seed media item containing audio content and video content; recognizing one or more audio tracks from the audio content contained in the seed media item; retrieving audio track metadata associated with at least one of the audio tracks recognized from the audio content contained in the seed media item, wherein the retrieved audio track metadata describes an audio recording; and recommending one or more media items that are audio-visual recordings, based on the retrieved audio track metadata, wherein each recommended media item is an audio-visual recording that is different than the seed media item. 9. The system of claim 8, wherein recognizing one or more audio tracks comprises at least one of: using a rolling recognition technique; automatically identifying songs from audio content of the seed media item; and storing one or more audio track identifiers into a metadata database, wherein each audio track identifier is associated with metadata that is associated with an audio track. 10. The system of claim 8, wherein the audio track metadata are originally obtained from one or more metadata sources, wherein a metadata source is at least one of: a user device; an administrator device; and a robotic device. 11. The system of claim 8, wherein the audio track metadata comprises one or more prominent metadata elements, wherein a prominent metadata element includes at least one of: genre; theme; instruments; mood; and era. 12. The system of claim 8, wherein a strength of a recommendation of a recommended media item is based on media metadata relevance to at least one of: the audio track metadata; and seed media item metadata, wherein the seed media item metadata are metadata that are directly associated with the seed media item. 13. The system of claim 12, wherein recommending one or more media items comprises ranking the recommended media items according to levels of media metadata relevance to the retrieved audio track metadata. 14. The system of claim 8, wherein a media item is at least one of: a movie; and a television program. 15. A computer readable medium comprising one or more instructions for recommending a media item, wherein the one or more instructions are configured for causing one or more processors to perform the steps of: receiving a seed media item that is an audio-visual recording identified as being of interest to a user, the seed media item containing audio content and video content; recognizing one or more audio tracks from the audio content contained in the seed media item; retrieving audio track metadata associated with at least one of the audio tracks recognized from the audio content contained in the seed media item, wherein the retrieved audio track metadata describes an audio recording; and recommending one or more media items that are audio-visual recordings, based on the retrieved audio track metadata, wherein each recommended media item is an audio-visual recording that is different than the seed media item. 16. A method for recommending a media item, wherein the method is configured for being carried out by at least one computer, the method comprising: receiving a seed media item that is an audio-visual recording identified as being of interest to a user, the seed media item containing audio content and video content; recognizing one or more audio tracks from the audio content contained in the seed media item; retrieving audio track metadata associated with at least one of the audio tracks recognized from the audio content contained in the seed media item, wherein the retrieved audio track metadata describes an audio recording; and recommending one or more audio tracks based on the retrieved audio track metadata, wherein the recommending is based on the audio track metadata associated with at least one of the audio tracks recognized from the audio content contained in the seed media item. 17. The method of claim 16, further comprising identifying one or more media items, wherein each identified media item contains at least one of: one or more audio tracks recognized from the audio content contained in the seed media item; and one or more recommended audio tracks. 18. The method of claim 16, further comprising recommending one or more media items, wherein each recommended media item contains at least one of: one or more audio tracks recognized from the audio content contained in the seed media item; and one or more recommended audio tracks. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein recommending one or more media items comprises ranking the one or more recommended media items according to levels of relevance to at least one of: one or more audio tracks recognized from the audio content contained in the seed media item; and one or more recommended audio tracks. 20. The method of claim 18, wherein recommending one or more media items comprises at least one of: ranking one or more recommended media items according to a number of higher ranked recommended audio tracks within each recommended media item; ranking a recommended media item higher for containing relatively more recommended audio tracks that are higher ranked; and ranking a recommended media item lower for containing relatively fewer recommended audio tracks that are higher ranked. 21. The method of claim 16, wherein recommending one or more audio tracks comprises ranking the recommended audio tracks according to relevance to the audio track metadata associated with at least one of the audio tracks recognized from the audio content contained in the seed media item. 22. A system for recommending a media item, wherein the system is configured for performing steps comprising: receiving a seed media item that is an audio-visual recording identified as being of interest to a user, the seed media item containing audio content and video content; recognizing one or more audio tracks from the audio content contained in the seed media item; retrieving audio track metadata associated with at least one of the audio tracks recognized from the audio content contained in the seed media item, wherein the retrieved audio track metadata describes an audio recording; and recommending one or more audio tracks based on the retrieved audio track metadata, wherein the recommending is based on the audio track metadata associated with at least one of the audio tracks recognized from the audio content contained in the seed media item. 23. The system of claim 22, the steps further comprising identifying one or more media items, wherein each identified media item contains at least one of: one or more audio tracks recognized from the audio content contained in the seed media item; and one or more recommended audio tracks. 24. The system of claim 22, the steps further comprising recommending one or more media items, wherein each recommended media item contains at least one of: one or more audio tracks recognized from the audio content contained in the seed media item; and one or more recommended audio tracks. 25. The system of claim 24, wherein recommending one or more media items comprises ranking the one or more recommended media items according to levels of relevance to at least one of: one or more audio tracks recognized from the audio content contained in the seed media item; and one or more recommended audio tracks. 26. The system of claim 24, wherein recommending one or more media items comprises at least one of: ranking one or more recommended media items according to a number of higher ranked recommended audio tracks within each recommended media item; ranking higher a recommended media item for containing relatively more recommended audio tracks that are highly ranked; and ranking lower a recommended media item for containing relatively fewer recommended audio tracks that are highly ranked. 27. The system of claim 22, wherein recommending one or more audio tracks further comprises ranking the recommended audio tracks according to relevance to the audio track metadata associated with at least one of the audio tracks recognized from the audio content contained in the seed media item. 28. A computer readable medium comprising one or more instructions for recommending a media item, wherein the one or more instructions are configured for causing one or more processors to perform the steps of: receiving a seed media item that is an audio-visual recording identified as being of interest to a user, the seed media item containing audio content and video content; recognizing one or more audio tracks from the audio content contained in the seed media item; retrieving audio track metadata associated with at least one of the audio tracks recognized from the audio content contained in the seed media item, wherein the retrieved audio track metadata describes an audio recording; and recommending one or more audio tracks based on the audio track metadata, wherein the recommending is based on the audio track metadata associated with at least one of the audio tracks recognized from the audio content contained in the seed media item. 