Methods, devices, and materials that include, in certain embodiments, a mobile device, movable across a surface by a user, that provides ultraviolet light for a process of sanitizing or sterilizing the surface that comprises an ultraviolet light source for illuminating the surface with the ultraviolet light to thereby sanitize or sterilize the surface. The device may include a movement sensor operatively coupled to a microprocessor that receives movement data from the movement sensor, and an indicator that is operatively coupled to the microprocessor, with the microprocessor comprising programming to perform a comparison of the calculated dosage to a predetermined dosage, wherein the microprocessor, based on the comparison, controls the indicator to provide instructions to the user.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A mobile device, movable across a surface by a user, that provides ultraviolet light for a process of sanitizing or sterilizing the surface that comprises an ultraviolet light source for illuminating the surface with the ultraviolet light to thereby sanitize or sterilize the surface, a movement sensor operatively coupled to a microprocessor that receives movement data from the movement sensor, and an indicator that is operatively coupled to the microprocessor, with the microprocessor comprising programming to perform calculations comprising the movement data and an intensity of the light at the surface to calculate a calculated dosage of the light at the surface and to perform a comparison of the calculated dosage to a predetermined dosage, wherein the microprocessor, based on the comparison, controls the indicator to provide instructions to the user. 2. The device of claim 1 wherein the indicator is controlled to indicate levels of completion. 3. The device of claim 2 wherein the levels of completion are indicated as a percentage of the predetermined dosage. 4. The device of claim 1 wherein the instructions are provided in a display that comprises light emitting diodes. 5. The device of claim 1 wherein the instructions are provided in a display that provides a graphical indication of what portions of a target area of the surface have been treated. 6. The device of claim 1 wherein the predetermined dosage is within the range from 10,000 to 50,000 .mu.Ws/cm.sup.2. 7. The device of claim 1 further comprising a control adjustable by the user to choose the predetermined dosage. 8. The device of claim 7 wherein the control comprises a an option chosen from the list consisting of mold, Mold A, Mold B, typhoid, influenza, hepatitis, and anthrax. 9. The device of claim 1 wherein the indicator comprises an audio signal that provides the instructions. 10. The device of claim 1 wherein the ultraviolet light source is an ultraviolet light C (UVC) light source. 11. The device of claim 1 wherein the movement sensor comprises an accelerometer. 12. The device of claim 1 comprising a plurality of wheels that contact the surface as the surface is sanitized or sterilized, with the light source mounted on the device at a fixed distance from the surface. 13. The device of claim 1 further comprising a vacuum cleaner. 14. A method of making a mobile device movable across a surface by a user for sanitizing or sterilizing the surface comprising mounting an ultraviolet light source on the mobile device in a position on the device for illuminating the surface with the ultraviolet light to thereby sanitize or sterilize the surface, mounting a movement sensor on the device, wherein the sensor is operatively coupled to a microprocessor that receives movement data from the movement sensor when the device is moved, and providing an indicator that is operatively coupled to the microprocessor, with the microprocessor comprising programming to perform calculations comprising the movement data and an intensity of the light at the surface to calculate a calculated dosage of the light at the surface and to perform a comparison of the calculated dosage to a predetermined dosage, wherein the microprocessor, based on the comparison, controls the indicator to provide instructions to the user. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein the indicator indicates levels of completion, with the levels comprising partially complete and complete. 16. The method of claim 14 wherein the predetermined dosage is within the range from 10,000 to 50,000 .mu.Ws/cm.sup.2. 17. The method of claim 14 further comprising providing a control adjustable by the user to choose the predetermined dosage. 18. The method of claim 14 wherein the ultraviolet light source comprises an ultraviolet light C (UVC) light source. 19. The method of claim 14 comprising mounting the device with a plurality of wheels that contact the surface as the surface is sanitized or sterilized. 20. A method of sanitizing or sterilizing a surface with ultraviolet light using a mobile device comprising, moving the device across a surface and illuminating the surface with the ultraviolet light to provide a dosage of light that sterilized or sanitizes the surface, adjusting a rate of movement of the device in response to instructions provided by an indicator indicating a level of completion of the sanitizing or sterilizing process for the surface, with the level of completion based on a comparison of a light dosage applied to the surface as compared to a predetermined dosage of the light. 21. The method of claim 20 wherein the indicator comprises a light or an audio signal. 22. The method of claim 21 wherein the indicated level of completion is partial. 23. The method of claim 22 wherein the indicated level of completion is expressed as a percentage. 