The present invention provides novel methods for controlling/manipulating materials flowing in a fluidic device. In particular, the methods of the invention create and utilize differences between dispersion rates and/or average velocity of materials in order to manipulate the materials.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of enhancing a dispersion of at least one of at least two materials in a fluidic device, the method comprising flowing a first material having a first dispersion rate and a second material having a second dispersion rate through a channel of a fluidic device, wherein a cross-sectional geometry of at least a first region of the channel is shaped and dimensioned so as to cause the first dispersion rate to be at least 1.25 times or more greater than the second dispersion rate, and wherein flowing does not comprise electrokinetic flow. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the first region has a cross-sectional geometry that comprises a center segment and first and second side segments, each of the side segments having a first maximum depth, the center segment having a second maximum depth-greater than the first maximum depth, and wherein a wall of the first region has a substantially perpendicular transition where the first side segment abuts the center segment. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the first dispersion rate is enhanced relative to the second dispersion rate such that the first and second materials have substantially the same average velocity. 4. The method of claim 2, wherein the first dispersion rate is governed by convection and molecular diffusion, and wherein the second dispersion rate is governed by convection alone. 5. The method of claim 2, wherein the fluidic device comprises a first substrate bonded to a second substrate, and wherein the channel region is formed into a surface of at least one of the two substrates, the first substrate and the second substrate being joined such that the channel region is defined by the interface of the two substrates. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein a first portion of the channel region is formed into a surface of the first substrate and a second portion of the channel region is formed into a surface of the second substrate. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the first portion is narrower in width than the second portion, and wherein the substrates are bonded such that the first portion is substantially centered laterally over the second portion. 8. The method of claim 6, wherein the width of the first portion is substantially the same as the width of the second portion, and wherein the substrates are bonded such that the first portion is offset laterally from the second portion, the first portion partially overlapping the second portion, the overlap of the two portions forming the center segment of the channel region cross-sectional geometry. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the first region has a cross-sectional geometry that comprises a center segment and first and second side segments, each of the side segments having a first maximum depth, the center segment having a second maximum depth-less than the first maximum depth, and wherein a wall of the first region has a substantially perpendicular transition where the first side segment abuts the center segment. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the first dispersion rate is enhanced relative to the second dispersion rate such that a difference in velocity between the first and second materials is enhanced. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the first dispersion rate is governed by convection alone, and wherein the second dispersion rate is governed by convection and molecular diffusion. 12. The method of claim 9, wherein the fluidic device comprises a first substrate bonded to a second substrate, the first substrate and the second substrate being joined such that the channel region is defined by the interface of the two substrates, wherein the microchannel region is formed into a surface of at least one of the two substrates. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein a first portion of the microchannel region is formed into a surface of the first substrate and a second portion of the microchannel region is formed into a surface of the second substrate, and wherein the cross-sectional geometry of the first portion is substantially the same as the cross-sectional geometry of the second portion, each portion comprising a center section and two side sections, the center section of each portion having a maximum depth less than that of the side sections. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein the channel does not comprise a separation matrix. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein the cross-sectional geometry of the first region of the at least one channel is shaped and dimensioned to cause the first dispersion rate to be at least 5 times or more greater than the second dispersion rate. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein the cross-sectional geometry of the first region of the at least one channel is shaped and dimensioned to cause the first dispersion rate to be at least 10 times or more greater than the second dispersion rate. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein flowing comprises one or more of positive pressure flow, negative pressure flow, hydrostatic pressure flow, or wicking forces flow. 