The illustrative embodiments provide a method and apparatus for controlling movement of a vehicle. Movement of an operator located at a side of the vehicle is identified with a plurality of sensors located in the vehicle and the vehicle is moved in a path that maintains the operator at the side of the vehicle while the operator is moving.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for controlling movement of a vehicle, the method comprising: identifying movement of an operator of the vehicle located at a side of the vehicle rather than in front of the vehicle with a plurality of sensors located at the side of the vehicle; moving the vehicle in a path that maintains the operator of the vehicle at the side of the vehicle rather than in the front of the vehicle while the operator of the vehicle is moving forward, wherein the moving step further comprises: identifying a first path for the operator of the vehicle; generating a second path for the vehicle, wherein the second path maintains the operator of the vehicle at the side of the vehicle; moving the vehicle along the second path; responsive to detecting an obstacle in the second path, generating an alert to the operator of the vehicle, and responsive to receiving a user input from the operator of the vehicle based on the alert, performing at least one of stopping the vehicle and moving the vehicle around the obstacle based on the user input from the operator of the vehicle; wherein the obstacle is detected in the second path if it is determined that the vehicle will encounter the object if the vehicle continues to move along the second path. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the moving step comprises: moving the vehicle in the path that maintains the operator of the vehicle at the side of the vehicle while the operator is moving forward. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the identifying step further comprises: projecting the first path based on direction of movement by the operator of the vehicle. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the generating step further comprises: identifying a boundary to the second path to form an identified boundary, wherein the second path is a ground surface appropriate for movement of the vehicle; and creating the second path to maintain a fixed distance between the vehicle and the identified boundary. 5. The method of claim 4, further comprising: maintaining the fixed distance between the vehicle and the identified boundary while moving the vehicle. 6. The method of claim 4, wherein the boundary is one of a curb and vegetation. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the moving step further comprises: responsive to the obstacle in the second path being detected, generating an alert to the operator of the vehicle. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the generating step further comprises: displaying the alert to the operator of the vehicle, wherein the alert is displayed through a user interface. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the user interface is a display mounted to a side of the vehicle and viewable by the operator of the vehicle. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the moving step further comprises: responsive to detecting an obstacle in the second path, executing a maneuver by the vehicle to avoid the obstacle while maintaining the operator of the vehicle at the side of the vehicle. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the obstacle is one of a person, a vehicle, debris in the second path, and debris on a road. 12. The method of claim 1 further comprising: distinguishing the operator of the vehicle from other objects in an environment around the vehicle. 13. The method of claim 1 further comprising: collecting data regarding an environment around the vehicle. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the data comprises a location for at least one of a pothole for repair, a tree requiring trimming, an improperly parked vehicle, and a stolen vehicle. 15. The method of claim 1 further comprising: stopping movement of the vehicle in response to a user input from the operator of the vehicle. 16. The method of claim 15 further comprising: starting movement of the vehicle in response to a user input from the operator of the vehicle. 17. The method of claim 1 further comprising: the vehicle identifying objects in an environment around the vehicle. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein the identifying step comprises: the vehicle identifying the objects in the environment around the vehicle using a knowledge base. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein the knowledge base comprises an a priori knowledge base that contains static information about the operating environment of a vehicle, an online knowledge base that dynamically provides information to a machine control process of the vehicle which enables adjustment to sensor data processing and site-specific sensor accuracy calculations, and a learned knowledge base that contains knowledge learned as the vehicle spends time in a specific work area. 20. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of sensor comprises at least one of a global positioning system, structured light sensor, two dimensional/three dimensional lidar, dead reckoning, infrared camera, visible light camera, radar, ultrasonic sonar, and radio frequency identification reader. 21. The method of claim 1, wherein a vehicle mode for operating the vehicle transitions from an automated moving state of operating the vehicle to a manual machine operation state of operating the vehicle responsive to user input from the operator to disengage autonomy of the vehicle. 22. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of stopping the vehicle is autonomously performed by the vehicle. 