An improved, lower cost method of processing substrates, such as to create solar cells is disclosed. In addition, a modified substrate carrier is disclosed. The carriers typically used to carry the substrates are modified so as to serve as shadow masks for a patterned implant. In some embodiments, various patterns can be created using the carriers such that different process steps can be performed on the substrate by changing the carrier or the position with the carrier. In addition, since the alignment of the substrate to the carrier is critical, the carrier may contain alignment features to insure that the substrate is positioned properly on the carrier. In some embodiments, gravity is used to hold the substrate on the carrier, and therefore, the ions are directed so that the ion beam travels upward toward the bottom side of the carrier.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for ion implantation comprising: a carrier defining a surface on which a plurality of substrates rest using gravity, said carrier fabricated of a material selected from the group consisting of graphite, silicon carbide, and silicon, said carrier defining one or more apertures that extend through said carrier and comprise a pattern for ion implantation when said carrier is positioned parallel to the ground, and wherein said carrier is configured as a number of rows and a number of columns. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said carrier comprises a plurality of different patterns for ion implantation. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein each of said columns comprises at least one of each of said plurality of different patterns. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said carrier comprises alignment features configured to align said substrates with said pattern. 5. A method of implanting ions into a substrate, comprising: positioning a carrier having a surface defining a plurality of apertures that extend through said carrier, wherein said apertures comprise a plurality of different patterns for ion implantation; placing said substrate on said carrier after said positioning such that said substrate is placed over at least one of said apertures; aligning said substrate with respect to at least one of said apertures; and implanting said substrate through at least one of said apertures with an ion beam that is projected in a direction opposite of gravity. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein said surface of said carrier comprises a plurality of locations where said substrate is placed and each of said locations comprise one of a plurality of different patterns for ion implantation. 7. The method of claim 6, further comprising shifting said substrate from a first location on said carrier having a first pattern to a second location on said carrier having a different pattern from said first pattern after said implant step; and performing a second implant such that said substrate is implanted using said first pattern and said different pattern. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein said carrier is tilted so that said substrate shifts from said first location to said second location. 9. The method of claim 7 wherein said first pattern comprises a patterned implant and said different pattern comprises a blanket implant. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein said patterned implant is used to form n-doped contact regions of a solar cell. 11. The method of claim 9, wherein said blanket implant is used to dope an emitter of a solar cell. 12. The method of claim 7, wherein said first pattern and said different pattern are implanted with different species. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein said different species comprise an n-type dopant and a p-type dopant. 14. The method of claim 5, wherein said ion beam is projected at an angle normal to said surface of said carrier. 15. A method of performing multiple ion implants using different patterns into a plurality of substrates, comprising: providing a carrier having a plurality of locations where said substrates can be placed, wherein said plurality of locations is arranged as a plurality of rows and one or more columns, wherein a bottom surface of said carrier below each of said locations comprises one or more apertures configured to form one of a plurality of different implant patterns, and wherein each column comprises at least one of each of said different implant patterns; placing said substrates in at least one row of said carrier; implanting said substrates through said bottom surface of said carrier using a first implant pattern; shifting said substrates from their current location to an adjacent row; and implanting said substrates through said bottom surface of said carrier using a second implant pattern. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein said shifting and said implanting steps are repeated until each of said substrates has been implanted with each of said plurality of different implant patterns. 17. The method of claim 15, wherein at least one of said rows is unpopulated so as to allow said substrates to be able to shift to said unpopulated row. 18. The method of claim 15, wherein a number of rows that are not populated by said substrates is equal to or greater than one less than a number of said different implant patterns. 19. The method of claim 15, wherein said implanting using said first implant pattern and said second implant pattern comprises using different species. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein said different species comprise an n-type dopant and a p-type dopant. 