A self propelled scanning device is disclosed. The device includes a self propelled chassis that is locomotive across a surface to be scanned, a translator attached to the chassis, and a carriage attached to the translator and adapted to receive a scanner. The translator selectively moves the carriage in at least one dimension across the surface to be scanned.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A self propelled scanning device comprising: a self propelled chassis being locomotive across a surface to be scanned; a translator attached to the chassis; and a carriage attached to the translator and adapted to receive a scanner; wherein the translator selectively moves the carriage in at least one dimension across the surface to be scanned; wherein the carriage is attached to the translator by a self leveling suspension; wherein a shock dampening suspension comprises a coil-over-shock suspension; and wherein the carriage has at least one rolling caster interposing the surface to be scanned and the carriage. 2. The device of claim 1, wherein the self propelled chassis provides a pair of slip resistant tracks in contact with the surface to be scanned, for providing locomotion across the surface. 3. The device of claim 1, wherein the self propelled chassis provides a platform for a portable control computer. 4. The device of claim 1, further comprising a portable control computer secured to the chassis and configured to selectively control the movement of the chassis on the surface to be scanned. 5. The device of claim 4, wherein the portable control computer controls the translation of the carriage on the translator. 6. The device of claim 1, wherein the carriage is configured to pivot about an axis orthogonal to a direction of translation. 7. The device of claim 1, further comprising: a control computer; and a vision system mounted to the chassis and having at least one camera directed to the surface; wherein the vision system detects displacement errors in the path of the chassis that are corrected by the control computer. 8. A device for automated scanning of a surface comprising: a self propelled and steerable chassis; an ultrasonic scanning mechanism attached to the chassis; a control computer that controls the chassis to move along a predetermined route on the surface; and; wherein the ultrasonic scanning mechanism comprises an ultrasonic scanner on a translation table, the translation table accepting input from the control computer to raster the ultrasonic scanner laterally to a direction of travel of the chassis. 9. The device of claim 8, further comprising a suspension interposing the scanner and the translation table. 10. The device of claim 9, wherein the suspension systems provides for at least one axis of rotation of the scanner. 11. The of claim 9, wherein the suspension system is provided with ball casters to prevent damage to the surface when contact with the surface is made by the suspension system. 12. The device of claim 8, wherein the ultrasonic scanning mechanism comprises a plurality of ultrasonic scanners secured to the chassis to scan multiple areas of the surface. 13. The device of claim 8, wherein the self propelled chassis further comprises a tracked chassis. 14. The device of claim 8, further comprising a vision system attached to the chassis and having at least one camera directed to the surface, the vision system interfacing with the computer and the computer controlling the chassis to correct deviations in a predetermined path traveled by the chassis over the surface. 15. An automated wing scanning device for operation upon an upper surface of an aircraft wing having a surface skin with a plurality of fasteners thereon connecting the skin to an airframe, the device comprising: a track propelled chassis having two tracks, the tracks having rubber treads and a sufficient base area to allow the chassis to operate on a slope of up to at least fifteen degrees when the surface skin is wet; a translation table connected to the chassis and providing a suspended carriage that is selectively rastered across the surface skin; an ultrasonic scanner secured within the suspended carriage for selectively scanning the wing surface; and a control system that controls the chassis to follow a predetermined scan path across the wing surface, controls the translation table to translate the carriage and scanner across the wings surface, and accepts readings from the ultrasonic scanner. 16. The device of claim 15, further comprising a camera mounted to the chassis with a view of the wing surface and interfaced to the control system to allow the control system to correct deviations from the predetermined path on the wing surface. 