A method and apparatus for assembling a complex product in a parallel process system wherein a collection of components are provided for assembling the complex product. The present invention involves transferring the collection of the components to one of a plurality of similar computerized assembly cells through the use of a transport system. The collection of components is automatically assembled into the complex product through the use of the computerized assembly cells. The complex product is then transferred from one of the assembly cells to a computerized test cell, where the complex product is tested to ensure for the proper dimensioning and functioning of the complex product. The complex product is then transferred from the test cell via the transport system to either a part reject area or conveyor, if the complex product is defective, or to an automatic dunnage load or part return system, if the complex product is not defective.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for assembling a complex product in a parallel process system, the steps comprising: providing a collection of sub-components and at least one base component to a loading station for assembling said complex product; automatically transporting said collection of sub-components and said at least one base component to one of at least one similar computerized assembly cells through the use of a transport system; automatically assembling said collection of sub-components and said base component into said complex product through the use of said at least one computerized assembly cell; automatically transporting said complex product to a delivery station through the use of said transport system; automatically transporting said complex product from said at least one assembly cell to one of at least one similar computerized test cells through the use of said transport system; and automatically testing said complex product in said at least one computerized test cell to ensure for the proper assembly functionality of said complex product. 2. The method as stated in claim 1, wherein said step of providing a collection of sub-components and at least one base component further comprise the steps of: manually loading said sub-components and said at least one base component into said transport system. 3. The method as stated in claim 1, wherein said step of providing a collection of sub-components and at least one base component further comprise the steps of: providing a part delivery system for supplying said at least one base component to said transport system; and providing a kit delivery system for supplying said sub-components in a kit container to said transport system. 4. The method as stated in claim 3, wherein said step of providing a part delivery system further comprises the steps of: providing a conveyor for delivering said at least one base component to said transport system. 5. The method as stated in claim 4, wherein said step of providing a kit delivery system for supplying said sub-components in a kit container further comprises the steps of: automatically assembling said sub-components into said kit container through the use of at least one kit assembly cell; and providing a conveyor for delivering said kit container to said transport system. 6. The method as stated in claim 3, wherein said step of providing a part delivery system further comprises the steps of: providing a conveyor for delivering said kit container with said sub-components assembled therein to said transport system. 7. The method as stated in claim 3, wherein said step of transporting said collection of said sub-components and said at least one base component further comprise the steps of: providing an overhead gantry system for transporting said kit container, said at least one base component, and said complex product to and from said loading station, said plurality of assembly cells, said at least one test cell, and said delivery station. 8. The method as stated in claim 3, wherein said step of transferring said collection of said sub-components and said at least one base component further comprises the steps of: providing a computerized robotic arm for automatically transporting said kit container, said at least one base component, and said complex product to and from said loading station, said plurality of assembly cells, said at least one test cell, and said delivery station. 9. The method stated in claim 3, further comprising the steps of: securing said at least one base component in a rollover fixture in one of said plurality of computerized assembly cells for rotating said at least one base component in a desired orientation; and placing said kit container within one of said plurality of computerized assembly cells. 10. The method stated in claim 1, further comprising the steps of: providing a computerized tool changer in each of said computerized assembly cells for automatically providing an appropriate tool for assembling said sub-components to said at least one base component for forming said complex product; and providing three axes of linear movement between said at least one base component and said appropriate tool. 11. The method stated in claim 1, further comprising the steps of: securing said complex product in a rollover fixture in said at least one computerized test cell for rotating said complex product an a desired orientation; providing a computerized test tool changer in each of said at least one test cell for automatically providing an appropriate test tool for testing said complex product; and providing three axes of linear movement between said complex product and said appropriate test tool. 12. An apparatus for assembling a complex product in a parallel process system comprising: a loading station for providing a collection of sub-components and at least one base component required for assembling said complex product; a plurality of computerized assembly cells for automatically assembling said sub-components to said base components to form said complex product; a delivery station for receiving said complex product after said complex product is assembled; a transport system for transporting said sub-components, said at least one base component, and said complex products to and from said loading station, said plurality of assembly cells, and said delivery station; and at least one computerized test cell for automatically testing said complex product to test for the proper assembly functionality of said complex product. 13. The apparatus stated in claim 12, wherein said loading station further comprise: manually loading said sub-components and said base component into said transport systems. 14. The apparatus as stated in claim 12, wherein said loading station further comprises: a part delivery system for delivering said at least base component to said transport system; and a kit delivery system for delivering a kit container having said sub-components contained therein to said transport system. 15. The apparatus as stated in claim 12, wherein said part delivery system further comprises: a conveyor for delivering said at least one base component to said transport system. 16. The apparatus as stated in claim 12, wherein said kit delivery system further comprises: a conveyor for delivering said kit container to said transport system. 17. The apparatus as stated in claim 12, wherein said kit delivery system further comprises: an automatic kit assembly cell for receiving and assembling said sub-components into said kit container; and a conveyor for delivering said kit container to said transport system. 18. The apparatus as stated in claim 12, wherein said transport system further comprises: a computerized overhead gantry system for automatically picking and placing said kit container, said at least one base component, and said complex product to and from said loading station, said computerized assembly cells, said at least one computerized test cell, and said delivery station. 19. The apparatus as stated in claim 18, further comprising: a carriage having said rollover fixture and kit container fixture connected thereto; and a pair of rails for slidably receiving said carriage, and said rails extending to and from said assembly cell wherein said carriage moves between an unloaded position, wherein said carriage is outside said assembly cell, and a loaded position, wherein said carriage is within said assembly cell. 20. The apparatus as stated in claim 12, wherein said transport system further comprises: a computerized robotic arm for automatically picking and placing said kit container, said at least one base component, and said complex product to and from said loading station, said automatic assembly cell, said at least once automatic test cell, and said delivery station. 21. The apparatus as stated in claim 12, wherein each of said computerized assembly cells further comprise: a roll-over fixture mounted within each of said assembly cells for securing and rotating said at least one base component in a desired orientation for assembling said sub-components thereto; a kit container fixture within each of said computerized assembly cells for receiving said kit container; a computerized tool changer within each of said assembly cells for automatically providing an appropriate tool for assembling said sub-components in said kit container to said at least one base component; and said roll-over fixture and said computerized tool changer moveable with respect to one another in three axes of linear motion. 22. The apparatus as stated in claim 12, wherein each of said at least one computerized test cell further comprises: a roll-over fixture mounted within each of said at least one automatic test cell for securing and rotating said complex product in a desired orientation for testing said complex product; a computerized tool changer within said at least one test cell for automatically providing an appropriate test tool for testing said complex product; and said roll-over fixture and said appropriate test tool moveable with respect to one another in three axes of linear movement. 23. The apparatus as stated in claim 12, wherein said delivery station further comprises: a first area within said delivery station for receiving said complex products that are defective; and a second area within said delivery station for receiving said complex products that are non-defective. 