An automated analyzer for performing multiple diagnostic assays includes multiple modules in which aspects of the assay are performed on fluid samples contained in reaction receptacles. The analyzer includes stations for automatically preparing a sample, pre-heating the sample, incubating the sample, performing an analyte isolation procedure, and ascertaining the presence of a target analyte. A receptacle transporting system moves reaction receptacles from one station to the next. A method for performing an assay includes an automated process for isolating and amplifying a target analyte. The process is performed by moving each of a plurality of reaction receptacles containing a solid support material and a fluid sample between stations for pre-heating and incubating the contents of the reaction receptacle and for separating the target analyte bound to the solid support from the fluid sample. An amplification reagent is added to the analyte after the separation step and before incubation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for performing an amplification procedure at an incubation temperature within a prescribed temperature range, the system comprising: (A) an incubator comprising: (1) an incubator housing defining an incubation chamber; and (2) an incubator thermal element adapted to cause the temperature within said incubation chamber to be about the incubation temperature; (B) a fluid dispensing system configured to automatically dispense reagents for performing a nucleic acid amplification procedure into the reaction receptacle; (C) a temperature ramping station adapted to adjust the temperature of the contents of a reaction receptacle to approximate the incubation temperature, said temperature ramping station comprising: (1) a ramping station housing adapted to receive and hold a reaction receptacle; and (2) a ramping station thermal element adapted to cause the temperature within said ramping station housing to approximate the incubation temperature; (D) a receptacle transport mechanism constructed and arranged to automatically move said reaction receptacle between said temperature ramping station and said incubator; and (E) a system controller operatively coupled to said incubator, said temperature ramping station, said fluid dispensing system, and said receptacle transport mechanism and configured to: (1) cause said fluid dispensing system to dispense a reagent for performing a nucleic acid amplification procedure to a reaction receptacle that is provided to said temperature ramping station; (2) after retaining the reaction receptacle within said temperature ramping station for a predetermined length of time while subjecting the reaction receptacle and its contents to thermal energy to adjust the temperature of the contents of the reaction receptacle to approximate the incubation temperature, cause said receptacle transport mechanism to move the reaction receptacle from said temperature ramping station into said incubator; (3) control the temperature of the incubator to maintain the contents of the reaction receptacle at the incubation temperature; and (4) retain the reaction receptacle within said incubator for a predetermined period of time while maintaining the incubator at the incubation temperature to thereby subject the target nucleic acid to an amplification procedure that results in the formation of amplification products, each of the amplification products formed from the target nucleic acid having a nucleic acid sequence that is the same as or complementary to a target sequence contained within the target nucleic acid. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein said temperature ramping station includes at least one temperature sensor. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein said ramping station thermal element comprises a thermoelectric module. 4. The system of claim 3, further comprising a heat sink thermally coupled with said thermoelectric module. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein said ramping station thermal element comprises an electrically resistive foil. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein said receptacle transport mechanism is constructed and arranged to move said reaction receptacle along a portion of a circular path between said temperature ramping station and said incubator. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein said incubator further comprises a receptacle access opening formed in said incubator housing and a closure mechanism constructed and arranged to be movable between a closed position preventing access to said incubation chamber through said receptacle access opening and an open position permitting access to said incubation chamber through said receptacle access opening. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein said incubator further comprises a receptacle carrier disposed within said incubation chamber and including a plurality of receptacle stations, each of said receptacle stations being constructed and arranged to carry a reaction receptacle, said receptacle carrier being constructed and arranged to present any of said plurality of receptacle stations in a receptacle transfer position with respect to said receptacle access opening. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein said ramping station housing is adapted to accept a single reaction receptacle and hold said reaction receptacle stationary within said ramping station housing. 10. The system of claim 1, wherein said reaction receptacle is one of a plurality of integrally formed reaction receptacles. 11. The system of claim 1, wherein said incubator further comprises a heat sensor constructed and arranged to measure the temperature within said incubation chamber. 12. The system of claim 1, wherein said computer controller is further configured to cause said receptacle transport mechanism to provide the reaction receptacle to said temperature ramping station after said fluid dispensing system dispenses the reagent for performing a nucleic acid amplification procedure to the reaction receptacle. 