This invention provides compositions and methods for HCV typing, e.g., genotyping and/or subtyping. The compositions and methods of the invention can be used to assign an HCV isolate to one of at least five HCV genotypes (for example, selected from genotypes 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 or 6), or assign an HCV isolate to one of at least six subtypes (for example, selected from subtypes 1a/b/c, 2a/c, 2b, 3a, 4a, 5a or 6a), where the methods of the invention use only a single typing probe to make the HCV type assignment.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A composition comprising a single probe comprising a nucleotide sequence at least partially complementary to a nucleotide sequence within a hepatitis C virus (HCV) genome, wherein said probe is characterized by being blocked at the 3' terminus and by having a sequence that shows sequence heterogeneity among at least five HCV genotypes or at least six HCV subtypes such that hybridization complexes resulting from the hybridization of the probe with each of the HCV genotypes or subtypes have a distinguishing melting temperature (Tm) that differentiates each of the genotypes or subtypes, and wherein said probe consisting of a nucleic acid sequence selected from SEQ ID NOS: 8, 13-20, and 22-27. 2. The composition of claim 1 comprising a reverse transcriptase and a primer suitable for the initiation of reverse transcription of an HCV genome. 3. The composition of claim 1 comprising a nucleic acid that is either: a) an HCV amplicon comprising a nucleotide sequence at least partially complementary to the nucleotide sequence in the probe; b) an amplification primer capable of generating the HCV amplicon; or c) an amplification primer pair capable of generating the HCV amplicon; wherein the primer and the primer pair are admixed with a thermostable DNA-dependent DNA polymerase, free deoxyribonucleotide triphosphates and a suitable DNA polymerase reaction buffer. 4. A composition comprising: a) a single probe labeled with a FRET donor moiety at least partially complementary to a nucleotide sequence within a hepatitis C virus (HCV) genome, wherein said probe is characterized by being blocked at the 3' terminus and by having a sequence that shows sequence heterogeneity among at least five HCV genotypes or at least six HCV subtypes such that hybridization complexes comprising the probe and a plurality of the HCV genotypes or subtypes have a distinguishing melting temperature (Tm) that differentiates at least two HCV genotypes or at least two HCV subtypes, and wherein said probe consisting of a nucleic acid sequence selected from SEO ID NOS: 8, 13-20, and 22-27; and, b) a soluble FRET quencher comprising a thiazine dye, wherein the FRET quencher is capable of quenching the FRET donor moiety. 5. A diagnostic kit for determining the type of a hepatitis C virus (HCV) in a sample, comprising: a) single typing probe that is at least partially complementary to a nucleotide sequence within an HCV genome, wherein said typing probe is characterized by being blocked at the 3' terminus and by having a sequence that shows sequence heterogeneity among at least five HCV genotypes or at least six HCV subtypes such that hybridization complexes comprising the typing probe and each of the HCV genotypes or subtypes have different distinguishing melting temperature (Tm), and wherein said typing probe consisting of a nucleic acid sequence selected from SEQ ID NOS: 8, 13-20, and 22-27; and b) instructions for measuring the distinguishing melting temperature (Tm) of a hybridization complex comprising the typing probe. 6. The diagnostic kit of claim 5, further wherein the kit is for determining a viral load of the HCV in the sample, the kit comprising, c) an amplification primer pair capable of generating an HCV amplicon, wherein the amplicon comprises nucleotide sequence that is at least partially complementary to nucleotide sequence in the target probe; and, d) an amplicon quantitation probe for real-time detection of amplicon accumulation, wherein the amplicon quantitation probe forms a quantitation hybridization complex with the amplicon under conditions wherein base-pairing occurs. 7. The diagnostic kit of claim 6, wherein the amplification primer pair comprises the primers of SEQ ID NOS: 39 and 40. 8. The diagnostic kit of claim 6, wherein the amplicon quantitation probe comprises the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 41. 9. The diagnostic kit of claim 5, wherein one or more components of the kit is packaged in one or more containers. 10. The diagnostic kit of claim 5, wherein the target probe comprises a FRET label moiety, and wherein the kit comprises a soluble FRET quencher comprising a thiazine dye that is capable of quenching the FRET label moiety. 11. The diagnostic kit of claim 5, comprising one or more additional components selected from a reverse transcriptase, at least one primer suitable for reverse transcriptase initiation from a hepatitis C virus genome, a thermostable DNA-dependent DNA polymerase, free deoxyribonucleotide triphosphates, standardization samples, positive control samples, negative control samples, buffers suitable for enzymatic reactions, sample collection tubes, amplification reaction tubes and multi-well plates. 