A hybrid mobile robot includes a base link and a second link. The base link has a drive system and is adapted to function as a traction device and a turret. The second link is attached to the base link at a first joint. The second link has a drive system and is adapted to function as a traction device and to be deployed for manipulation. In another embodiment an invertible robot includes at least one base link and a second link. In another embodiment a mobile robot includes a chassis and a track drive pulley system including a tension and suspension mechanism. In another embodiment a mobile robot includes a wireless communication system.
Claims What is claimed as the invention is: 1. A hybrid mobile robot having a plurality of links comprising: a first link, the first link being adapted to function as at least one of a locomotion device, a manipulation device and an interconnecting link; at least a second link attached to the first link via at least one joint and being adapted to function as at least one of a locomotion device, a manipulation device and an interconnecting link; and at least one of the said links being adapted to function as a manipulation device for external objects in addition to being adapted to function as a locomotion device or interconnecting link; wherein the links are capable of being stowed or positioned relative to the other links in a configuration enabling at least one of locomotion and manipulation. 2. A hybrid mobile robot as claimed in claim 1 further comprising a at least one links attached via at least one joint to each other wherein the links are capable of being stowed or positioned relative to the other links in a configuration enabling at least one of locomotion, manipulation and interconnection and attached to at least one of the first link and the second link via at least one joint. 3. A hybrid mobile robot as claimed in claim 2 wherein at least one of the plurality of links is adapted to function as an end effector attached to one of the plurality of links via at least one joint wherein the end effector is capable of being stowed or positioned relative to the other links in a configuration enabling at least one of locomotion and manipulation. 4. A hybrid mobile robot as claimed in claim 3 wherein the links can attach and detach to arrive at a configuration according to the desired application. 5. A hybrid mobile robot as claimed in claim 2 wherein at least one of the said joints is adapted to function as at least one of locomotion and manipulation. 6. A hybrid mobile robot as claimed in claim 2 wherein at least one of the plurality of links exchanges at least one of sensor data and control data wirelessly inter-link and/or intra link to enable at least one of manipulation and locomotion. 7. A hybrid mobile robot as claimed in claim 6 further comprising a plurality of external operator control units. 8. A hybrid mobile robot as claimed in claim 2 wherein the links can attach and detach to arrive at a configuration according to the desired application. 9. A hybrid mobile robot as claimed in claim 1 wherein the links can attach and detach to arrive at a configuration according to the desired application. 10. A method of operating a hybrid mobile robot which comprises: a) Locomoting the position of the hybrid mobile robot using at least one of base link, second link, end link, end effector, and a combination of links for traction while the other links are positioned for maneuverability or for support; b) Manipulating an external object using at least one of base link, second link, end link, end effector, and a combination of links while the other links are used to maintain stability, wherein at least one of said base link, second link, end link or end effector are capable of locomotion in addition to manipulating an external object; c) Combining the locomotion and manipulation of steps a and b concurrently or in succession in various combinations to achieve at least one of locomotion of position, manipulation, and both locomotion and manipulation. 11. A method of operating the hybrid mobile robot as claimed in claim 10 wherein the locomoting of position is augmented by using at least one of passive wheels, and active wheels, to provide stability and support for links when used for locomotion. 12. A method of operating the hybrid mobile robot as claimed in claim 10 wherein the manipulating of the external object is augmented by using at least one of passive wheels, and active wheels, to provide stability and support for links when used for manipulation. 