A method and system for performing invasive procedures includes a surgical robot which is controlled by a guidance system that uses time of flight calculations from RF transmitters embedded in the robot, surgical instrument, and patient anatomy. Sensors around the room detect RF transmissions emitted by the RF transmitters and drive the robot according to a preprogrammed trajectory entered into the guidance system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system performing an invasive medical procedure using an instrument, comprising: a robot having an effectuator element, the effectuator element forming or being configured to securely hold the instrument that is to be positioned at a desired position within a patient's body; a plurality of RF transmitters including two or more RF transmitters affixed to the effectuator element at desired locations thereof and at least one RF transmitter adapted to be affixed to or inserted into the patient's body; a plurality of RF receivers that receive a signal from the plurality of RF transmitters; a motor assembly that is mounted on the robot, and that is configured to move the effectuator element in each one of the x, y and z directions independently of movement in the others of the x, y and z directions, the x, y and z directions being perpendicular to each other; a control unit that receives a desired point of insertion and trajectory of the instrument into the patient to an anatomical target, the control unit operatively coupled to the motor assembly, the control unit supplying signals to the motor assembly to cause it to selectively move the effectuator element along the x, y and z directions, the control unit configured (i) to calculate the position of the plurality of RF transmitters by analysis of radio frequency signals emitted by at least one RF transmitter of the two or more RF transmitters affixed to the effectuator element and by the at least one RF transmitter affixed to or inserted into the patient's body, (ii) to show an actual position and actual trajectory of the instrument and the desired trajectory superimposed over an anatomical image of the patient on a display, (iii) to control actuation of the motor assembly to move along the desired trajectory from the desired point of insertion to the anatomical target based on the analyzed radio frequency signals, and (iv) to selectively energize the two or more RF transmitters affixed to the effectuator element to cause at least a portion of the effectuator element to move in the desired trajectory, wherein the at least one RF transmitter affixed to or inserted into the patient's body is used to initially locate the anatomical target and to detect movement of the patient and correct the movement of the effectuator element in response thereto. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the effectuator element comprises a tube having a pitch axis, a roll axis and a tube axis defining an axis of rotation of the tube. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the effectuator element comprises a needle. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the effectuator element includes a beveled leading edge, wherein at least one of the RF transmitters of the two or more RF transmitters affixed to the effectuator element is positioned on a distal end of the effectuator element, RF energy emitted therefrom produces a force that balances the mechanical displacement force created by the beveled edge of the effectuator element. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the effectuator element includes a non-beveled leading edge that can ablate a pathway through tissue to reach the target position. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of RF receivers further comprises three or more RF receivers. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the control unit is configured to receive information from the plurality of RF receivers in an iterative fashion. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein the control unit is configured to receive information from the plurality of RF receivers in a dynamic fashion. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein the control unit is configured to allow a user to pick a desired location within a human body and to dynamically provide information that allows the motor assembly to move the effectuator element to the desired location. 10. The system of claim 1, wherein the control unit comprises a computer. 11. The system of claim 1, wherein a leading edge of the effectuator element is configured to have an RF transmitter affixed thereto. 12. The system of claim 1, wherein the control unit is configured to cause the RF transmitter to emit RF signals at desired times. 13. The system of claim 12, wherein the control unit is configured to cause the RF transmitter to emit RF signals at desired frequencies. 14. The system of claim 1, wherein the two or more RF transmitters attached to the effectuator element are capable of generating an ablation field to steer the effectuator element. 15. The system of claim 1, wherein the two or more RF transmitters attached to the effectuator element comprises at least three RF transmitters that are affixed to the effectuator element at desired locations thereof, wherein the control unit is configured to selectively energize the at least three RF transmitters affixed to the effectuator element to cause at least a portion of the effectuator element to move in the desired trajectory. 16. The system of claim 15, wherein the at least three RF transmitters attached to the effectuator element are capable of generating an ablation field to steer the effectuator element. 17. The system of claim 16, wherein the at least three RF transmitters attached to the effectuator element are evenly radially distributed around the effectuator element. 18. The system of claim 17, wherein the at least three RF transmitters attached to the effectuator element are affixed to a distal end of the effectuator element. 19. The system of claim 18, wherein at least one of the at least three RF transmitters attached to the effectuator element is located on a leading edge of the effectuator element. 