A fine positioner module is used to perform fine positioning of a device that is pressing against a work surface. In some embodiments, the fine positioner module includes a contact member for making contact with a work surface, a position adjustor for using the contact member to move the device along the work surface, and an actuator for relieving pressure of the device against the work surface while the contact member is used to move the device along the work surface.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. Apparatus for positioning a device that is pressing against a work surface, comprising: a contact member for making contact with the work surface; a position adjustor for using the contact member to move the device along the work surface; and an actuator for relieving pressure of the device against the work surface while the contact member is used to move the device along the work surface. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the actuator causes the contact member to exert a force on the work surface to relieve the pressure while the position adjustor uses the contact member to move the device along the work surface. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the actuator causes contact between the device and the work surface to be broken momentarily, the position adjustor moving the apparatus about the contact member while the contact is momentarily broken. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the position adjustor and contact member convert an input rotary motion to achieve a net linear motion of the device along a chord of a circle. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the position adjustor includes first and second actuators, each of the actuators for moving the contact member along an axis of motion. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the position adjustor further includes first and second lead screws, the first and second actuators causing their respective first and second lead screws to move the contact member along first and second axes. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a control for commanding the position adjustor and the actuator to move the device along the work surface. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the movement along the work surface is along two axes of motion; and wherein the control also commands the actuator to position the contact element in a third axis of motion. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a controller for controlling the position adjustor to move the contact member to a starting position, the actuator to set down and press the contact member against the work surface to momentarily break contact between the device and the work surface, and the position adjustor to command the contact member to a new position while the contact is broken. 10. A system comprising: a device; and at least one apparatus of claim 1 for positioning the device along a work surface. 11. The system of claim 10, wherein the device includes an end effector; and wherein the system further comprises a robotic arm for coarsely positioning the end effector against a work surface. 12. Apparatus for positioning a device that is pressing against a work surface, comprising: a contact member for making contact with the work surface; a position adjustor for using the contact member to move the device along the work surface; and an actuator for relieving pressure of the device against the work surface while the contact member is used to move the device along the work surface, wherein the actuator applies vibratory motion to the contact member to break the contact. 13. Apparatus for positioning a device that is pressing against a work surface, comprising: a contact member for making contact with the work surface; a position adjustor for using the contact member to move the device along the work surface; and an actuator for relieving pressure of the device against the work surface while the contact member is used to move the device along the work surface; wherein the contact member provides a pivot, and the remainder of the apparatus is driven in an orbital motion about the contact member to move the device along the work surface. 14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the position adjustor includes a single actuator for moving the contact member along two axes. 15. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the actuator forces the contact between the device and the work surface to be broken momentarily, while the position actuator moves relative to the contact member. 16. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the position actuator and the contact member convert an input rotary motion to achieve a net linear motion along a chord of a circle. 17. The apparatus of claim 13, further comprising a control for commanding the position adjustor and the actuator to move the device along the work surface. 18. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the movement along the work surface is along two axes of motion; and wherein the control also commands the actuator to position the contact element in a third axis of motion. 19. The apparatus of claim 13, further comprising a controller for controlling the position adjustor to move the contact member to a starting position, the actuator to set down and press the contact member against the work surface to momentarily break contact between the device and the work surface, and the position adjustor to command the contact member to a new position while the contact is broken. 20. A system comprising the device and at least one apparatus of claim 13 for positioning the device along a work surface. 