An investment casting system includes a computer controlled mold transfer device movable between at least three stations, including a mold receiving station. A mold transfer station includes a mold suspended from a first horizontally extending arm of the mold transfer device engaging an intermediate transfer device to transfer the mold to the intermediate transfer device. A storage station has a storage rack receiving the mold following a material coating phase. A robot in communication with the intermediate transfer device is programmed to position the mold in any of multiple material coating stations during the material coating phase. The mold is accessible for removal from the system at any stage of completion by direction of a computer control system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An investment casting system, comprising: a computer controlled mold transfer device operating to move a mold, the mold transfer device movable between at least three stations including: a mold receiving station; a mold transfer station having a mold suspended from a first horizontally extending arm of the mold transfer device engaging an intermediate transfer device to transfer the mold to the intermediate transfer device; a storage station having a storage rack receiving the mold following a material coating phase; and a robot in communication with the intermediate transfer device, the robot programmed to position the mold in any of multiple material coating stations during the material coating phase; and a computer control system operating to automatically identify a location of the mold and to control movement of the mold transfer device, the mold being accessible for removal from the system at any time during creation of the mold by operation of the computer control system. 2. The investment casting system of claim 1, wherein the horizontally extending arm of the mold transfer device includes a hooked end movably positioned below a hanger plate supporting the mold to lift the mold. 3. The investment casting system of claim 1, wherein the storage rack includes a hanger member from which the mold is suspended during temporary storage in the storage station. 4. The investment casting system of claim 1, wherein the material coating phase includes at least a rinse operation, a dip operation, and a sand coating operation. 5. The investment casting system of claim 4, wherein the robot operates to transfer the mold to the intermediate transfer device for subsequent transfer to the mold transfer device and the storage rack after any one or all of the rinse, dip or sand coating operations. 6. The investment casting system of claim 1, wherein the mold temporarily stored in the storage rack is accessed by the mold transfer device at any mold position, and the mold positioned at any of the mold receiving, mold transfer, mold material coating or mold storage stations is accessible at any time. 7. An investment casting system for creating a plurality of investment casting molds, comprising: a computer controlled mold transfer device including a first horizontally extending arm operating to releasably couple any one of the molds for transfer; an intermediate transfer device having a second horizontally extending arm, the second horizontally extending arm operating to horizontally transfer any one of the molds to and from a material application section; a storage section having a plurality of space envelopes individually sized to temporarily store at least one of the molds following any one of a plurality of material coating phases in the material application section, any one of the molds temporarily stored in the storage section being selectively retrievable; and a computer control system to automatically identify a location of any one of the molds in the system and to control movement of the mold transfer device and the intermediate transfer device, any one of the molds being accessible for removal from the system at any stage of completion by direction of the computer control system. 8. The investment casting system of claim 7, wherein individual ones of the space envelopes are uniquely identified in the computer control system for further identifying a period of mold storage in the storage section. 9. The investment casting system of claim 7, further comprising a robot in communication with the intermediate transfer device, the robot programmed to position the mold in any of a plurality of material coating sections during any one of the plurality of material coating phases. 10. The investment casting system of claim 7, further comprising: a mold receiving section; and a mold transfer section having the mold suspended from the first horizontally extending arm of the mold transfer device engaging the second horizontally extending arm of the intermediate transfer device to transfer the mold to the intermediate transfer device. 11. The investment casting system of claim 7, wherein the storage section further comprises at least first and second humidity controlled ventilation sections, the mold being positioned in one of the plurality of space envelopes of one of the first or second humidity controlled ventilation sections each providing a selectively different drying rate for the mold, a total drying time of the mold predetermined and stored in the computer control system and periodically compared to a drying time at the drying rate. 