There is described a wafer processing system for thinned wafers that are easily broken during handling. The system protects against breakage during handling and provides for temperature controls during processing.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A system for processing thin wafers, comprising: a front end for housing at least one wafer cassette; a loadlock chamber; a robot arm for transferring wafers from the cassette to the loadlock chamber; and, at least one processing chamber coupled to the loadlock; wherein the loadlock comprises: a non-contact chuck receiving wafers from or delivering wafers to the robot arm; and, a lifting mechanism to engage and lift a pedestal to receive wafers from or deliver wafer to the non-contact chuck. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the processing chamber comprises: an upper processing chamber; a lifting mechanism to engage and lift the pedestal towards the upper processing chamber, and lower the pedestal for wafer transport. 3. The system of claim 2, further comprising a carrier for transporting the pedestal from the loadlock chamber to the processing chamber, the carrier having an opening for accepting the lifting mechanism. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the loadlock chamber further comprises centering mechanism operable to maintain the wafer centered while held by the non-contact chuck. 5. The system of claim 1, further comprising a carrier for transporting the pedestal from the loadlock chamber to the processing chamber. 6. The system of claim 1, further comprising an electrostatic chuck mounted on the pedestal. 7. The system of claim 6, wherein said pedestal and said electrostatic chuck further comprise gas and vacuum feed through. 8. The system of claim 6, wherein the loadlock further comprises means for striking plasma so as to chuck the wafer onto the electrostatic chuck. 9. A wafer processing system comprising a cassette of wafers, a robotic structure, a load lock, said robotic structure positioned and adapted to feed wafers from said cassette into said load lock, a first chuck in said load lock to lift and hold a wafer adjacent but not in contact with said first chuck, a second chuck in said load lock positioned below said first chuck and adapted to attract the wafer from said first chuck to a position of near contact with said second chuck, a vacuum pump attached to said load lock to draw a vacuum in said load lock, electrical connections in said load lock to draw a plasma in said load lock to attach the wafer electrostatically to said second chuck for processing of its upper surface, a carrier within said load lock, processing stations within said processing system, said second chuck bearing said wafer being positioned into said carrier, and transport means to move said carrier along a predefined path including said processing stations. 10. The wafer processing system of claim 9 including a predefined path that returns said carrier to said load lock following passage through said processing stations. 11. The wafer processing system in accordance with claim 10 in which the wafer upon being returned to said load lock is separated from said second chuck and moved out by said robotic structure while avoiding physical contact with its processed upper surface. 12. The wafer processing system in accordance with claim 11 in which said wafer when separated from said second chuck is caused to move to a position adjacent to said first chuck by mechanism applying a combination of negative and positive pressure gases and is then moved to a robotic arm of said robotic structure to be moved out of said load lock. 13. A wafer processing system in accordance with claim 9 including openings in said second chuck to convey temperature controlling gases to a facing surface of said wafer while on said second chuck. 14. A wafer processing system in accordance with claim 13 including temperature control systems to apply temperature controls to said wafer during semiconductor processing of said wafer in said processing stations. 15. A wafer processing system in accordance with claim 13 including a pedestal to hold said second chuck and to position said second chuck in said carrier including a path to flow cooling water into said pedestal to reduce the temperature of the wafer in contact with said second chuck which in turn is in contact with said pedestal. 