A magnetically driven tool includes a shaft having a bottom application end including a contacting surface, at least one support around a portion of the shaft for supporting components positioned outside the shaft that float with respect to the shaft. A first magnet is affixed to the shaft. An electromagnet secured to the support is positioned outside the shaft and floats with respect to the shaft above the first magnet. At least one bearing is provided for sliding the shaft in an axial direction and optionally rotating the shaft. For pushing operations, the direction of current through the electromagnet is applied so that like poles relative to the first magnet face one another to provide a repulsive force, while for pulling operations unlike poles face one another. The magnitude of the current sets a force applied by the contacting surface to a workpiece.
Claims I claim: 1. A magnetically driven tool, comprising: a shaft having a bottom application end including a contacting surface; at least one support around a portion of said shaft for supporting components positioned outside said shaft and floating with respect to said shaft; a first magnet within said support affixed to said shaft; an electromagnet positioned outside said shaft and floating with respect to said shaft above said first magnet; at least one bearing contacting said shaft for sliding said shaft in an axial direction; wherein a direction of current through said electromagnet is applied so that like poles relative to said first magnet face one another during pushing operations and unlike poles face one another during pulling operations, and wherein a magnitude of said current sets a force applied by said contacting surface to a workpiece, and a force sensor outside said shaft on either side of said electromagnet without a fixed attachment to said shaft, wherein a force resulting from a magnetic field generated by said first magnet sensed by said force sensor provides a force measurement of said force applied by said contacting surface to said workpiece. 2. The tool of claim 1, wherein said at least one bearing comprises upper bearings attached to said support above said electromagnet and lower bearings attached to said support below said first magnet, wherein said support comprises a housing that encloses at least said upper bearings and said lower bearings, and wherein both a top end and bottom end of said shaft are physically unconnected, and wherein said upper bearings and lower bearings enable said shaft to rotate in an x-y plane. 3. The tool of claim 1, wherein said first magnet comprises a first permanent magnet. 4. The tool of claim 1, wherein said first magnet comprises an electromagnet. 5. The tool of claim 2, further comprising a second magnet between said first magnet and said lower bearings outside said shaft and floating with respect to said shaft, wherein said first magnet and said second magnet are positioned so that like poles face one another. 6. The tool of claim 5, wherein said first magnet comprises a permanent magnet and said second magnet comprises a permanent magnet. 7. The tool of claim 1, further comprising a position sensor coupled to said shaft. 8. The tool of claim 2, wherein said contacting surface comprises an attachment comprising a knife attached to said bottom application end. 9. The tool of claim 1, further comprising a control device coupled to said support for rotating said shaft. 10. The tool of claim 9, wherein said control device comprises a computer controlled robot. 11. The tool of claim 2, further comprising a control device coupled to said housing, wherein said control device comprises a computer controlled robot that includes a processor programmed to provide said current for a predetermined maximum cut force, and stored data including a pressure versus depth curve for at least one material in said workpiece. 12. A magnetically driven tool, comprising: a shaft having a bottom application end including a contacting surface; at least one housing around a portion of said shaft for supporting components positioned outside said shaft and floating with respect to said shaft; a first permanent magnet within said housing affixed to said shaft; an electromagnet secured to said housing positioned outside said shaft and floating with respect to said shaft above said first permanent magnet; a second permanent magnet between said first permanent magnet and said lower bearings outside said shaft and floating with respect to said shaft, wherein said first permanent magnet and said second permanent magnet are positioned so that like poles face one another; upper bearings attached to said support above said electromagnet and lower bearings attached to said support below said first permanent magnet, said upper and lower bearings for sliding said shaft in an axial direction; wherein for pushing operations a direction of current through said electromagnet is applied so that like poles relative to said first permanent magnet face one another and unlike poles face one another during pulling operations, and a magnitude of said current sets a force applied by said contacting surface to a workpiece; a position sensor coupled to said shaft, and a force sensor outside said shaft on either side of said electromagnet without a fixed attachment to said shaft, wherein a force resulting from a magnetic field generated by said first magnet sensed by said force sensor provides a force measurement of said force applied by said contacting surface to said workpiece. 13. A method of controlling an axial position of a contacting surface of a tool including a shaft while performing a process on a workpiece, comprising: providing said shaft having a bottom application end including said contacting surface, a first magnet affixed to said shaft, an electromagnet floating on said shaft on a first side of said first permanent magnet, a force sensor outside said shaft on either side of said electromagnet without a fixed attachment to said shaft, wherein a force resulting from a magnetic field generated by said first magnet sensed by said force sensor provides a force measurement of said force applied by said contacting surface to said workpiece; supplying current to said electromagnet so that like poles relative to said first magnet face one another during pushing operations and unlike poles face one another during pulling operations, wherein a magnitude of said current during said pushing operations sets a magnitude of said force applied by said contacting surface to perform said process to said workpiece, and based on said force measurement, using electronic control to regulate said force applied by said contacting surface to said workpiece. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein said providing further includes providing a second magnet between said first magnet and a side opposite said first side that floats on said shaft, wherein said first magnet and said second magnet are positioned so that like poles face one another. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein said first magnet comprises a permanent magnet and said second magnet comprises a permanent magnet. 16. The method of claim 13, further comprising sensing an axial position of said shaft, and controlling said axial position of said shaft based on said sensing said axial position and said force applied by said contacting surface to said workpiece. 17. The method of claim 13, further comprising rotating said shaft using a computer controlled device that is coupled to said shaft. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein said computer controlled device comprises a computer controlled robot. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein said computer controlled robot includes a processor programmed to provide said current for a predetermined maximum cut force, and stored data including a pressure versus depth curve for at least one material in said workpiece. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein said workpiece comprises a coating over an edge of an optical window, wherein said contacting surface comprises an attachment comprising a knife attached to said bottom application end, and wherein said process comprises cutting said coating. 