A system and method related to dispensing and disposing medical items is provided. The dispensing portion is generally configured to dispense medical items stored within compartments based on dispensing instructions. The disposal portion is generally configured to sort waste items into a plurality of containers according to applicable rules and regulations governing the handling and/or disposal of such items. In some embodiments, a system comprises sorting stations each of which houses a number of disposable containers. Each station can identify an item of waste, determine the most appropriate container for the item, and facilitate disposal of the item in the appropriate container.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of dispensing and disposing medical items, the method comprising: receiving a dispensing instruction associated with a first medical item to be dispensed; dispensing said first medical item based on said dispensing instruction; receiving an identifier associated with a second medical item to be disposed using a scanner; wherein said second medical item comprises the first medical item after it has been at least partially used or emptied; retrieving, based on the identifier, information from a database, wherein the information is derived from applicable rules regarding disposal; assigning the second medical item to a disposal category based on the information retrieved from the database; wherein the disposal category is associated with at least one of a plurality of waste containers of a waste sorting station; wherein a control system associated with the database is configured to allow access to one of the waste containers based, at least in part, on the waste category, while preventing access to other waste containers of a waste sorting station to ensure proper disposal; tracking the date on which the first medical item was dispensed; and tracking the date on which the second medical item was disposed. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of receiving a dispensing instruction comprises receiving information from a barcode scanner. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of receiving a dispensing instruction comprises receiving information via a handheld device. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of receiving a dispensing instruction comprises receiving information that is entered by a user. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of receiving a dispensing instruction comprises activating a button or lever. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of receiving an identifier comprises receiving information that identifies the second medical item from a barcode scanner. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of receiving an identifier comprises receiving information that identifies the second medical item via a handheld device. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of receiving an identifier comprises receiving information inputted by a user that identifies the second medical item. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of receiving an identifier comprises receiving information regarding the trade name, generic name, or chemical name of the second medical item. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of receiving an identifier comprises receiving information regarding the National Drug Code (NDC) of the second medical item. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of receiving an identifier comprises receiving information regarding the abbreviated name or mnemonic of the second medical item. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of receiving a dispensing instruction comprises receiving information from a database, wherein said database correlates the second medical item to a waste category. 13. The method of claim 1, further comprising tracking information regarding a user that requested the first medical item. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the user is a patient or a practitioner. 15. The method of claim 1, further comprising tracking information regarding a user that disposed the second medical item. 16. The method of claim 1, further comprising tracking information regarding a patient that used the second medical item. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of receiving an identifier comprises receiving information that identifies the second medical item from a RFID tag. 18. A method of dispensing and disposing medical items in a combined system, comprising: providing a plurality of dispensing compartments, each of said dispensing compartments configured to hold at least one medical item; receiving a dispensing instruction; processing said dispensing instruction to select a medical item based on said dispensing instruction, and allowing access to said selected medical item; and providing a plurality of waste containers, wherein each of said waste containers is associated with at least one of a plurality of waste categories, and wherein each of said waste containers is configured to receive at least one of said selected medical items that is dispensed after said selected medical item is at least partially used or expired; receiving identification data for a waste item by positioning a barcode of a waste item near an identification device, wherein said waste item comprises said selected medical item after said selected medical item is at least partially used or expired; classifying said waste item into a waste category based at least in part on said identification data; allowing access to one of the waste containers based on the waste category, while preventing access to other waste containers to ensure proper disposal. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein the step of allowing access to at least one of the waste containers comprises automatically open a lid on said waste container. 20. The method of claim 18, further comprising automatically locking a lid of a waste container in a closed position after said waste item is deposited into said waste container. 21. The method of claim 18, wherein the step of receiving a dispensing instruction comprises receiving information from a barcode scanner. 22. The method of claim 18, wherein the step of receiving a dispensing instruction comprises receiving information via a handheld device. 23. The method of claim 18, wherein the step of receiving a dispensing instruction additionally comprises receiving information that is manually entered by a user. 24. The method of claim 18, wherein the step of receiving the identification data comprises receiving information that identifies the waste item from a barcode scanner. 25. The method of claim 18, wherein the step of receiving the identification data comprises receiving information that identifies the waste item via a handheld device. 26. The method of claim 18, wherein the step of receiving the identification data additionally comprises receiving information that identifies the waste item from information manually entered by a user. 27. The method of claim 18, wherein the step of receiving identification data comprises receiving information regarding the trade name, generic name, or chemical name of the waste item. 28. The method of claim 18, wherein the step of classifying said waste item into a waste category comprises comparing the identification data with regulations governing pharmaceutical waste disposal contained in a database. 29. The method of claim 18, further comprising a single barcode scanner that both receives the dispensing instruction and the identification data. 30. The method of claim 18, wherein the step of receiving the identification data comprises receiving information that identifies the waste item from a RFID scanner. 