Various implementations of an interface device, along with associated methods and systems, are described in which the interface device has a housing with a transformable form factor, and a transformation assembly that can change the form factor of the housing. At least one of the form factors of the housing has a shape that corresponds to data associated with the interface device.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An interface device for allowing a user to interact with a computer application, wherein the interface device comprises: a) a housing having a transformable form factor; b) a transformation assembly coupled to the housing for transforming the form factor of the housing between more than one form factor, wherein at least one form factor of the housing has a shape corresponding to data associated with the interface device; c) at least one sensor coupled to the housing for providing movement data associated with the movement of the device; and d) at least one actuation member coupled to the transformation assembly for initiating the transformation of the form factor of the housing when actuated by a user; wherein the housing comprises first and second housing portions, and the transformation assembly is adapted to move the first and second housing, portions with respect to one another to transform the form factor of the housing; and wherein the first housing portion has a truncated sphere shape and the second housing portion has a bowl shape, and wherein the transformation assembly is adapted to move the second housing portion within the first housing portion to provide a truncated spherical form factor. 2. The interface device of claim 1, wherein the data associated with the interface device includes the movement data. 3. The interface device of claim 2, wherein the at least one form factor of the housing has a shape according to the type of movement data provided in an input mode. 4. The interface device of claim 3, wherein the at least one form factor of the housing includes a flat surface when the user moves the interface device along a flat surface to provide translational movement data. 5. The interface device of claim 3, wherein the at least one form factor of the housing includes a spherical surface when the user rotates the interface device to provide rotational movement data. 6. The interface device of claim 1, wherein the interface device further comprises a feedback module including at least two feedback elements, the at least two feedback elements being adapted to providing different feedback modality output signals to the user based on feedback data received by the interface device, wherein the data associated with the interface device includes the feedback data. 7. The interface device of claim 6, wherein the feedback module includes a light source for emitting light when the interface device is operating in a particular input mode. 8. The interface device of claim 6, wherein the feedback module includes a light source adapted to emit light when the interface device transitions between different input modes. 9. The interface mode device of claim 6, wherein the feedback module includes a light source adapted to provide the user with visual feedback to simulate interaction with a virtual object provided by the computer application. 10. The interface device of claim 6, wherein the feedback module includes a force-feedback element adapted to provide the user with tactile feedback to simulate interaction with a virtual object provided by the computer application. 11. The interface device of claim 6, wherein the feedback module includes a sound emitting device to provide the user with auditory feedback to emphasize an event occurring in the computer application. 12. The interface device of claim 1, wherein the interface device operates in first and second input modes, and wherein the housing has a corresponding first form factor when the interface device operates in the first input mode, and the housing has a corresponding second form factor when the interface device operates in the second input mode. 13. The interface device of claim 12, wherein the interface device provides a first type of movement data when operating in the first input mode and a second different type of movement data when operating in the second input mode. 14. The interface device of claim 12, wherein the interface device provides translational movement data in the first input mode and rotational movement data in the second input mode. 15. The interface device of claim 14, wherein the at least one sensor includes a three-dimensional tracker to track the rotation of the interface device to provide the rotational movement data. 16. The interface device of claim 15, wherein the interface device further comprises a two-dimensional tracker to track the translation of the interface device in relation to a flat surface to provide the translational movement data. 17. The interface device of claim 14, wherein the interface device is useable in combination with an additional input device to provide the translational movement data, the interface device further comprising a two-dimensional marker and the additional input device tracks the movement of the two dimensional marker to generate the translational movement data. 18. The interface device of claim 12, wherein the interface device is further adapted to automatically enable the at least one sensor that provides movement data associated with the corresponding input mode. 19. The interface device of claim 1, wherein when the user transforms the form factor of the housing, the interface device is adapted to automatically switch to a corresponding input mode. 20. The interface device of claim 1, wherein the interface device further provide additional types of data in addition to movement data. 21. The interface device of claim 1, wherein the at least one actuation member provides an output signal that can be used to provide additional functionality in the computer application. 22. The interface device of claim 1, wherein the at least one actuation member includes second and third actuation members located along the surface of the housing, and when either is actuated initiates a transformation to provide a truncated spherical form factor. 23. The interface device of claim 22, wherein the second and third actuation members are curved rectangular buttons having a concave outer surface. 24. The interface device of claim 1, wherein the first housing portion has a truncated sphere shape and the second housing portion has a bowl shape, and wherein the transformation assembly is adapted to move the second housing portion downwards with respect to the first housing portion to provide a spherical form factor. 25. The interface device of claim 24, wherein the at least one actuation member includes a first actuation member located at an upper portion of the housing having a rod-like shape, and when actuated initiates a transformation to the spherical form factor. 26. The interface device of claim 1, wherein the interface device further comprises: a) at least one switch associated with the at least one actuation member to generate at least one actuation signal when the at least one actuation member is actuated; and, b) a wireless unit connected to the at least one switch and the at least one sensor to receive the at least one actuation signal and the movement data, respectively, the wireless unit being adapted to wirelessly transmit wireless data based on the movement data and the at least one actuation signal. 27. The interface device of claim 1, wherein the interface device further comprises: a) at least one switch associated with the at least one actuation member to generate at least one actuation signal when the at least one actuation member is actuated; and, b) a connector port connected to the at least one switch and the at least one sensor to receive the at least one actuation signal and movement data, respectively, the connector port being adapted to connect to a corresponding port on a computing device to provide the movement data and the least one actuation signal. 