A method and apparatus for managing the delivery of component parts and tooling to a robotic welding assembly positioned on a motor vehicle body assembly line. Automatic guided vehicles deliver component parts from a source of parts to a parts staging area on the robotic welding assembly including a substage awaiting area, a substage in-use area and a substage empty area, and further automatic guided vehicles deliver tooling from a tooling management area to the robotic welding assembly whereafter the tooling, upon model changeover, is moved to a tooling use area proximate the assembly line whereafter, upon further model changeover, the tooling is removed from the tooling use area and loaded onto an automatic guided vehicle for return to the tooling management area.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A modular assembly station apparatus for use in assembling motor vehicle components comprising: a longitudinally extending scaffold structure having an independent and modular first and a second robot platform scaffold structures positioned on opposing sides of an assembly line, the first and second scaffold structures each including a top wall and support columns extending downwardly from the top wall structure to define an open working space (WS) below the top wall structure and a work area (WA) between the first and second scaffold structures laterally across the assembly line; at least one inverted robot connected to the top wall of at least one of the first and second robot platform scaffolds and extending downwardly from the top wall structure into the working space below the top wall structure laterally distant from the assembly line and working area; a modular flanking shelf positioned laterally outward from at least one of the first and second robot support scaffolds and in communication with the work space, the flanking shelf including support pillars extending upward from a ground support surface to elevate the flanking shelf above the ground surface defining a transverse path of travel below the flanking shelf through the work space and in communication with the work area, the flanking shelf adapted to vertically support at least one vehicle component rack accessible by the at least one inverted robot; a conveyor positioned along the transverse path of travel for selectively transferring a plurality of different tooling linearly along the transverse path of travel to and from the work area; and a robot control device carried on the scaffold structure and operatively connected to the respective inverted robot, wherein on positioning of vehicle components in the working area along the assembly line, the inverted robot selectively articulates laterally into and out of the working area to conduct predetermined work on the vehicle components without using floor space in the working space. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a modular central tower structure positioned laterally between and connected to the first and the second robot platform structures and laterally spanning the assembly line, the central tower having a top wall partially defining the work area. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: a lower conveyor positioned along the assembly line; and a carrier connected to the lower conveyor for supporting the vehicle components, the carrier and lower conveyor adapted to selectively and successively move the components through the work area. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein each of the at least one robot on at least one of the first and the second robot platform support structures further comprises three robots each connected to the respective top wall and positioned longitudinally apart along the respective scaffolding substantially parallel to the assembly line, each robot adapted to be independently movable with respect to the adjacent robots. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the work area (WA) is a weld area for welding of motor vehicle components together. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a plurality of modular first and second robot platform scaffold structures sequentially positioned and connected end-to-end along the assembly line for assembling motor vehicle components, each modular scaffold structure adapted for assembling a different motor vehicle component at the respective work area. 7. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the central tower further comprises: an upper wall positioned vertically above the central tower top wall and work area; and upper support columns extending downward from the upper wall and connected to the lower support columns, the upper wall and upper columns defining an upper path of travel in communication with the assembly line for transport of the carrier above the work area and parallel to the assembly line. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein the central tower further comprises an upper conveyor in communication with the assembly line and the lower conveyor for selected movement of the carrier from the lower conveyor to the upper conveyor for movement of the carrier along the upper path of travel. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the flanking shelf further comprises a plurality of vehicle component rack stage areas sequentially and longitudinally positioned parallel to the assembly line, wherein the individual vehicle component racks are selectively moved by the at least one inverted robot in the adjacent robot platform scaffold between the stage areas. 10. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein an elevated flanking shelf is positioned adjacent both of the first and the second robot platform scaffolds, each flanking shelf partially defining a portion of the transverse path of travel below the respective flanking shelf, each transverse path portion having a conveyor for selected transfer of tooling along the respective transverse path of travel through each respected work space of the first and second robot platform scaffolds and in communication with the work area. 11. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising at least one robot positioned below and in substantial lateral alignment with the inverted robot in the work space below the top wall of at least one of the first and second robot support scaffolds and connected to a ground support surface. 