The invention relates to methods and compositions for identifying soybean plants that are tolerant, have improved tolerance or are susceptible to Charcoal Rot Drought Complex. The methods use molecular genetic markers to identify, select and/or construct tolerant plants or identify and counter-select susceptible plants. Soybean plants that display tolerance or improved tolerance to Charcoal Rot Drought Complex that are generated by the methods of the invention are also a feature of the invention.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of identifying a first soybean plant or germplasm that displays tolerance or improved tolerance to Charcoal Rot Drought Complex (CRDC), the method comprising detecting in the first soybean plant or germplasm at least one allele of a quantitative trait locus that is associated with the tolerance, improved tolerance or susceptibility, wherein said quantitative trait locus is localized to a chromosomal interval flanked by and including markers Satt612 and Sat.sub.--064 on linkage group G. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said quantitative trait locus is localized to a chromosomal interval flanked by and including Satt472 and Sct.sub.--187 on linkage group G. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said quantitative trait locus is Sat.sub.--117. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one allele of the quantitative trait locus comprises Sat.sub.--117:allele-2. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said quantitative trait locus is localized to a chromosomal interval flanked by and including Satt472 and Bng069.sub.--1 on linkage group G. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein said quantitative trait locus is localized to a chromosomal interval flanked by and including Satt472 and A690.sub.--2 on linkage group G. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein said quantitative trait locus is S01954-1-A. 8. The method of claim 1, further comprising a) selecting said first soybean plant or germplasm, or selecting a progeny of said first soybean plant or germplasm, and b) crossing said selected first soybean plant or germplasm with a second soybean plant or germplasm to introgress said quantitative trait locus into progeny soybean germplasm. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the second soybean plant or germplasm displays less tolerance to CRDC as compared to the first soybean plant or germplasm, and wherein the introgressed soybean plant or germplasm displays an increased tolerance to CRDC as compared to the second plant or germplasm. 10. The method of claim 8, further comprising a) analyzing progeny soybean germplasm to determine the presence of tolerance to CRDC; and b) selecting progeny soybean germplasm that tests positive for the presence of tolerance to CRDC as being soybean germplasm into which germplasm having said quantitative trait locus has been introgressed. 