A method and system for multi-tracking among independent individuals without a monitoring center, where an individual is a person, a vehicle, or any other property, enables the individuals to be networked in a group and each individual to search and track other individuals of interest. The portable multi-tracking system is also capable of tracking personnel inside a building, where a self-contained positioning device provides continuous carrier's position information. In the open area a GPS (Global Positioning System) unit is activated to provide precision absolute position data which can be blended with the self-contained data to improve the accuracy and robustness of the positioning services. Thus the present invention provides excellent position tracking outside a building.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A portable multi-tracking system, comprising: a system processor; a positioning unit, which is connected to said system processor, providing current host position data of said portable multi-tracking system, wherein said position data contains GPS signal and IMU position information allowing to compensate said GPS signal in areas where GPS signal is not available and includes position, velocity, and heading of said portable multi-tracking system; a storage device, which is connected to said system processor, storing an electronic map database and other interim data including said host position data and a host identification, wherein map data is capable of being retrieved by said system processor from said electronic map database of said storage device; a wireless communication module, which is connected with said system processor, for receiving client position data and client identifications of other client portable multi-tracking systems which are linked with said portable multi-tracking system through a public wireless internet, and sending said host position data and said host identification through said public wireless internet to said other client portable multi-tracking systems, so as to provide said portable multi-tracking system with client position data of said other client portable multi-tracking system, and to provide said other client portable multi-tracking systems with said host position data of said portable multi-tracking system; a display device, which is connected to said system processor, for displaying said map data in form of a map, wherein said map data is retrieved by said system processor from said storage device, moreover said host position data and said client position data are processed in said system processor to form a current host location and client locations respectively, which are overlayingly displayed on said map displayed on said display device; and a 4D GIS virtual reality interface system supporting and enhancing situation awareness of said portable multi-tracking system, comprising: a plurality of robot operator control interface modules adapted for both autonomous and tele-operational modes of operation and arranged for communicating with a plurality of robots corresponding to said plurality of robot operator interface modules; a distributed autonomous and semi-autonomous task planning and resource allocation interface module adapted for mission planning and collaboration among multiple human-robot users; a radio frequency communication interface module adapted for enabling control and information exchange between said robot and multiple robot operator control interface modules and facilitating coordination and collaboration among said robot operator control interface modules; and a GIS-based database system which includes a geospatial and terrain modeling system, a resource geo-location/tracking system, a real-time video services system, a navigation information database, and a task and mission information database, each communicating with and providing data to said 4D GIS virtual reality interface system. 2. The portable multi-tracking system, as recited in claim 1, each of the robots is embodied as an unmanned vehicle and each said robot operator control interface module is embodied as an unmanned vehicle manipulation module adapted for providing standardized communication protocols and predetermined customized protocols for accessing and controlling multiple unmanned vehicles, sensors, manipulators. 3. The portable multi-tracking system, as recited in claim 2, wherein said radio frequency communication interface module is pre-programmed to utilize standard TCP/IP model, and provides transmission for all control messaging, environment and visual sensors data, tasking and mission information. 4. The portable multi-tracking system, as recited in claim 3, wherein said GIS-based database system contains information for identify possible bottlenecks, and failures before status reaches urgent. 5. The portable multi-tracking system, as recited in claim 4, wherein said GIS-based database system has a plurality of vehicle assets which includes a real time tracking and monitoring feature, and has a multi-layer database structure with an optimal data fusion algorithms that identify attributes associated with said vehicles asset, tasks requirements, GIS terrain and obstacles. 6. The portable multi-tracking system, as recited in claim 5, wherein said robot operator control interface modules are communicated through Ethernet based communication system for logistic and location information exchange with real time video server for enhancing situational awareness. 7. The portable multi-tracking system, as recited in claim 6, wherein said a GIS-based database system is adapted for automated task assignments and route planning for a wide range of mission scenarios. 8. The portable multi-tracking system, as recited in claim 2, wherein said GIS-based database system contains information for identify possible bottlenecks, and failures before status reaches urgent. 9. The portable multi-tracking system, as recited in claim 8, wherein said GIS-based database system has a real time tracking and monitoring feature of vehicle assets, and has a multi-layer database structure with an optimal data fusion algorithms that identify attributes associated with said vehicles asset, tasks requirements, GIS terrain and obstacles. 10. The portable multi-tracking system, as recited in claim 9, wherein said robot operator control interface modules are communicated through Ethernet based communication system for logistic and location information exchange with real time video server for enhancing situational awareness. 11. The portable multi-tracking system, as recited in claim 10, wherein said a GIS-based database system is adapted for automated task assignments and route planning for a wide range of mission scenarios. 12. The portable multi-tracking system, as recited in claim 1, wherein said radio frequency communication interface module is pre-programmed to utilize standard TCP/IP model, and provides transmission for all control messaging, environment and visual sensors data, tasking and mission information. 13. The portable multi-tracking system, as recited in claim 12, wherein said GIS-based database system contains information for identify possible bottlenecks, and failures before status reaches urgent. 14. The portable multi-tracking system, as recited in claim 13, wherein said GIS-based database system has a plurality of vehicle assets which includes a real time tracking and monitoring feature, and has a multi-layer database structure with an optimal data fusion algorithms that identify attributes associated with said vehicles asset, tasks requirements, GIS terrain and obstacles. 15. The portable multi-tracking system, as recited in claim 14, wherein said robot operator control interface modules are communicated through Ethernet based communication system for logistic and location information exchange with real time video server for enhancing situational awareness. 16. The portable multi-tracking system, as recited in claim 15, wherein said a GIS-based database system is adapted for automated task assignments and route planning for a wide range of mission scenarios. 17. The portable multi-tracking system, as recited in claim 1, wherein said GIS-based database system contains information for identify possible bottlenecks, and failures before status reaches urgent. 18. The portable multi-tracking system, as recited in claim 17, wherein said GIS-based database system has a real time tracking and monitoring feature of vehicle assets, and has a multi-layer database structure with an optimal data fusion algorithms that identify attributes associated with said vehicles asset, tasks requirements, GIS terrain and obstacles. 19. The portable multi-tracking system, as recited in claim 18, wherein said robot operator control interface modules are communicated through Ethernet based communication system for logistic and location information exchange with real time video server for enhancing situational awareness. 20. The portable multi-tracking system, as recited in claim 19, wherein said a GIS-based database system is adapted for automated task assignments and route planning for a wide range of mission scenarios. 