A work station including hide away doors is presented. The work station includes a frame defining a work area, a front door assembly movable within the frame and a front door assembly track disposed within the frame, the front door assembly movable along the front door assembly track. A drive mechanism is disposed along the frame, the drive mechanism in mechanical communication with the front door assembly, the drive mechanism operable to position the front door assembly in a plurality of positions along the front door assembly track. The front door assembly is capable of being positioned beneath a device within the work area thereby allowing full frontal access to the device within the work area and full overhead access to the device within the work area.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus comprising: a frame defining a work area; a front door assembly movable within said frame; a front door assembly track disposed within said frame, said front door assembly movable along said front door assembly track; a drive mechanism disposed along said frame, said drive mechanism in mechanical communication with said front door assembly, said drive mechanism operable to position said front door assembly in a plurality of positions along said front door assembly track; a rear door assembly and a rear door assembly track disposed within said frame, said rear door assembly movable along said rear door assembly track; and wherein said front door assembly is capable of being positioned beneath a welding fixture within said work area thereby allowing full frontal access to said welding fixture within said work area and full overhead access to said welding fixture within said work area. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a splatter shield disposed within said work area, wherein when said front door assembly is positioned beneath the welding fixture in said work area and, said front door assembly is beneath said splatter shield. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said front door assembly comprises an upper front door panel and a lower front door panel, wherein in one position a bottom portion of said upper front door panel overlaps an upper portion of said lower front door panel. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein in another position said upper front door panel nests on top of said lower front door panel. 5. The apparatus of claim 3 further comprising a plurality of rollers disposed between said front door assembly and said front door assembly track, and wherein said front door assembly is movable along said front door assembly track by way of said plurality of rollers. 6. The apparatus of claim 3 further comprising a spacer block between said upper front door panel and said lower front door panel of said front door assembly. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said rear door assembly comprises an upper rear door panel and a lower rear door panel and a plurality of rollers disposed between said rear door assembly track and said rear door assembly, and wherein said rear door assembly is movable along said rear door assembly track by way of said plurality of rollers. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein when said front door assembly is in a position preventing frontal access to said work area, said rear door assembly is in a position allowing rear access to said work area. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein when said front door assembly is in a position allowing frontal access to said work area, said rear door assembly is in a position preventing rear access to said work area. 10. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said drive mechanism comprises a first motor coupled to a first flexible connection device, said first flexible connection device in mechanical communication with said front door assembly. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein said first flexible connection device is selected from the group consisting of a chain, a cable and a belt. 12. The apparatus of claim 3 further comprising at least one window in said upper front door panel. 13. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising at least one stop in said front door assembly track. 14. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said rear door assembly comprises an upper rear door panel and a lower rear door panel, wherein in one position a bottom portion of said upper rear door panel overlaps an upper portion of said lower rear door panel. 15. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein in another position said upper rear door panel nests along side of said lower rear door panel. 