Disclosed is a spotter device and methods for the formation of microassays, biochips, biosensors, and cell cultures. The spotter may be used to deposit highly concentrated spots of protein or other materials on a microarray a slide, wafer, or other substrate. The spotter uses microfluidic conduits and orifices to deposit proteins, other biomolecules, or chemicals on a spot on a substrate. Each orifice is part of a fluid pathways that includes an inlet and outlet conduit. When the spotter contacts a substrate a seal is formed between the orifices and the substrate.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A spotter for depositing a substance on a surface in an ordered pattern, the spotter comprising: a plurality of fluid pathways, wherein each fluid pathway independently comprises at least first conduit and a second conduit, the first and second conduits each having a proximal and a distal end, the first and second conduits each having a wall defining a channel in the first and second conduits, wherein the distal end of the first conduit and the distal end of the second conduit join to form an orifice, wherein the orifice is adapted to form a seal with a surface, thereby forming a plurality of independent fluid pathways having a plurality of orifices adapted to form a seal with a surface, wherein each fluid pathway is configured such that fluid is flowable in one direction through the first conduit, over the surface, and then through the second conduit when the orifice is sealed against the surface; the plurality of the orifices configured in a static array adapted to dispose fluid on the surface in an ordered pattern. 2. The spotter of claim 1, wherein a fluid pathway further comprises a third conduit, where the third conduit has a proximal and a distal end, and a wall defining a fluid pathway channel in the third conduit, wherein the distal end of the third conduits is connected to the distal ends of the first and second conduits to form a fluid pathway having three fluid flow channels. 3. The spotter of claim 1, wherein the static array of the plurality of orifices are configured in a chessboard or honeycomb fashion. 4. The spotter of claim 1, wherein two or more of the proximal ends of the first conduits of each of the plurality of independent fluid pathways are interconnected. 5. The spotter of claim 4, wherein two or more of the proximal ends of the second conduits of each of the plurality of fluid pathways are interconnected. 6. The spotter of claim 1, wherein two or more of the plurality of independent fluid pathways are interconnected to become a single fluid pathway. 7. The spotter of claim 1, wherein the plurality of independent fluid pathways are connected to a pump. 8. The spotter of claim 1, further comprising a constriction of at least one of the plurality of fluid pathways. 9. The spotter of claim 1, wherein a junction of the distal end of the first conduit and the distal end of the second conduit is adapted-to provide a turbulent transition flow of a substance over the surface. 10. The spotter of claim 1, further comprising thermal regulatory or gas diffusion elements proximal to the orifices. 11. The spotter of claim 1, wherein the proximal ends of the second conduits are connected to a reservoir. 12. The spotter of claim 1, wherein the proximal ends of the first conduits are connected to one reservoir and the proximal ends of the second conduits are connected to a second reservoir. 13. The spotter of claim 1, wherein each of the proximal ends of the first conduits of each of the fluid pathways are connected to individual reservoirs and the proximal ends of all of the second conduits are connected to a second individual reservoir. 