A system for separating a solid magnetic substrate from liquid contents of a reaction vessel, the system comprising at least one micro-well plate having a plurality of rows and a plurality of magnets arranged in at least two rows. In one embodiment, the at least two rows of the plurality of magnets are controlled so as to cause the magnets in the at least two rows of magnets to move in unison. In another embodiment, one row of the at least two rows of the plurality of magnets is controlled so as to cause the magnets in said one row to move at a first velocity in the vertical direction and another row of the at least two rows of the plurality of magnets is controlled so as to cause the magnets in that other row to move at a second velocity in the vertical direction.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for separating a solid magnetic substrate from liquid contents of a reaction vessel, said system comprising a micro-well plate having a plurality of wells; a first magnet holder including a first row of magnets to magnetically engage one or more wells; a second magnet holder including a second row of magnets to magnetically engage one or more wells, wherein the first magnet holder is independently movable relative to the second magnet holder, and wherein the first row of magnets is to move vertically at a first velocity and the second row of magnets is to move vertically at a second velocity; a first mixing assembly having the first magnet holder coupled thereto; and a second mixing assembly having the second magnet holder coupled thereto, wherein the first mixing assembly and the second mixing assembly are movable horizontally. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the first magnet holder includes a plurality of rows of magnets. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the first and second magnet holders collectively include four rows of magnets. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the first and second magnet holders collectively include eight rows of magnets. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the first row of magnets and the second row of magnets are to move in unison. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein the first velocity differs from the second velocity. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the first velocity and the second velocity are different directions. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein the first magnet holder is vertically movable on the first mixing assembly and the second magnet holder is vertically movable on the second mixing assembly. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein the first mixing assembly is offset laterally from the second mixing assembly. 10. The system of claim 1 further comprising a first track along which the first mixing assembly moves and a second track along which the second mixing assembly moves. 11. The system of claim 1, wherein the first mixing assembly includes a first motor to move the first row of magnets vertically. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein the second mixing assembly includes a second motor to move the second row of magnets vertically. 13. The system of claim 1, wherein the first mixing assembly includes a connector block that is coupled to the first row of magnets and which is to move along a bearing. 14. The system of claim 13, wherein the connector block is to also move along a lead screw. 15. A system for separating a solid magnetic substrate from liquid contents of a reaction vessel, said system comprising, the system comprising: a micro-well plate having a plurality of wells; a first magnet holder including a first row of magnets to magnetically engage one or more wells; a second magnet holder including a second row of magnets to magnetically engage one or more wells, wherein the first magnet holder is independently movable relative to the second magnet holder; and an incubator to incubate the first row of magnets for a first duration and to incubate the second row of magnets for a second duration. 16. A system for separating a solid magnetic substrate from liquid contents of a reaction vessel, said system comprising, the system comprising: a micro-well plate having a plurality of wells; a first magnet holder including a first row of magnets to magnetically engage one or more wells; a second magnet holder including a second row of magnets to magnetically engage one or more wells, wherein the first magnet holder is independently movable relative to the second magnet holder; and a controller to bypass a wash for at least one of the first row of magnets or the second row of magnets. 