A semiconductor device having a redistribution layer, and methods of forming same, are disclosed. After fabrication of semiconductor die on a wafer, a tape assembly is applied onto a surface of the wafer, in contact with the surfaces of each semiconductor die on the wafer. The tape assembly includes a backgrind tape as a base layer, and a film assembly adhered to the backgrind tape. The film assembly in turn includes an adhesive film on which is deposited a thin layer of conductive material. The redistribution layer pattern is traced into the tape assembly, using for example a laser. Thereafter, the unheated portions of the tape assembly may be removed, leaving the heated redistribution layer pattern on each semiconductor die.
Claims We claim: 1. A portable memory, comprising: a substrate; a semiconductor die affixed to the substrate, the semiconductor die including a redistribution pattern, the redistribution pattern including: an adhesive material adhered to a surface of the semiconductor die in a pattern of the redistribution pattern, and conductive material deposited on the adhesive material. 2. A portable memory as recited in claim 1, wherein the semiconductor die is a flash memory die. 3. A portable memory as recited in claim 1, wherein the semiconductor die is a controller die. 4. A portable memory as recited in claim 1, wherein the conductive material is at least one of titanium and aluminum. 5. A portable memory as recited in claim 1, further comprising molding compound for encapsulating the semiconductor die and at least a portion of the substrate. 6. A portable memory, comprising: a substrate; a semiconductor die affixed to the substrate, the semiconductor die including a die bond pad at a first location, and a pattern for electrically coupling the die bond pad to a second location on the semiconductor die spaced from the first location, the pattern including: an adhesive material adhered to a surface of the semiconductor die, and conductive material deposited on the adhesive material. 7. A portable memory as recited in claim 6, wherein the pattern is defined by a cured portion of the adhesive material. 8. A portable memory as recited in claim 7, further comprising uncured portions of adhesive material outside of the pattern. 9. A portable memory as recited in claim 6, wherein the adhesive material is formed as part of a backgrind tape applied to the portable memory during fabrication. 10. A portable memory as recited in claim 6, wherein the conductive material deposited on the adhesive material is one of aluminum, titanium and alloys of aluminum and titanium. 11. A portable memory as recited in claim 6, wherein the pattern is heated by laser. 12. A portable memory as recited in claim 6, wherein the adhesive material is part of a layer of adhesive material, the adhesive material included in the pattern being heated and cured onto the semiconductor die. 13. A portable memory as recited in claim 12, wherein unheated portions of the adhesive layer are removed. 14. A portable memory as recited in claim 12, wherein the heated material is heated by a laser. 15. A portable memory as recited in claim 12, wherein the pattern is a redistribution pattern. 