A method of isolation of nucleic acids from a biological sample of cells comprising a combination of a solid phase cell nuclei isolation procedure with a solid phase nucleic acid isolation method.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of isolating nucleic acids from a biological sample of cells, comprising: a) contacting a sample containing cells with a cell membrane lysis solution in the presence of a solid support coated with negative charge, wherein the cell membrane lysis solution selectively lyses cell membranes over nuclear membranes, and wherein said solid support coated with negative charge binds to intact cell nuclei; b) separating intact cell nuclei bound solid support from cell membrane lysis supernatant; c) contacting the intact cell nuclei bound to said solid support with a nuclear membrane lysis solution to lyse nuclear membranes, wherein nucleic acids are released from lysed nuclei and bind to said solid support; and d) contacting the lysed nuclear membranes and nucleic acid bound solid support with a precipitant to precipitate said nucleic acid bound solid support. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said solid support comprises spherical particles. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein said spherical particles are monodisperse particles having uniform size and uniform reproducibility of reaction. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein said monodisperse particles are non-magnetic, magnetic, or super paramagnetic polymeric beads. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said solid support comprises magnetic polymeric beads, and wherein step (b) comprises applying a magnetic field to precipitate cell nuclei-magnetic beads complexes in pellets. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein said magnetic field is a permanent magnet. 7. The method of claim 5, wherein said magnetic polymeric beads are further coated with functionalized surfaces selected from the group consisting of hydrophilic or hydrophobic surfaces, DNA binding proteins, complementary DNA or RNA sequences, zippers, histones, and intercalating dyes. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein said cell membrane lysis solution in step (a) comprises a nonionic surfactant selected from the group consisting of NONIDE P40, TRITON X-100, and octy glycoside, and wherein said nonionic surfactant is within the range of about 0.1 to 5% v/v in said lysis solution. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein said cell membrane lysis solution has a pH of about 5 to 8. 10. The method of claim 8, wherein said cell membrane lysis solution has a pH of about 6.5 to 7.5. 11. The method of claim 8, wherein said cell membrane lysis solution in step (a) comprises 10 mM tris base, pH 7.5-8.0, 0.5% NONIDE P 40, 40 mM sodium citrate, and 3 mM MgCl.sub.2. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein said cell nuclear membrane lysis solution in step (c) comprises a detergent, a chaotrope, or a combination thereof. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein said detergent is selected from the group consisting of SDS, LiDS and sarkosyl. 14. The method of claim 12, wherein said chaotrope is selected from the group consisting of guanidium hydrochloride (GHCl), guanidium thiocyanate (GTC), sodium iodide (NaI), perchlorate, and lysis enzymes. 15. The method of claim 12, wherein said cell nuclear membrane lysis solution in step (c) comprises 1% (w/v) sarkosyl and 4M GTC. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein said precipitant in step (d) is selected from the group consisting alcohol, salt, detergent, polyethylene glycol, or a combination thereof. 17. The method of claim 1, further comprising a later step of isolating nucleic acids from said solid support by elution following a washing step. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein said elution comprises heating, leaving said nucleic acids in solution, and removing the solid support from the solution. 19. The method of claim 17, wherein said washing step comprises using a washing media comprising low to moderate ionic strength or alcohols. 20. The method of claim 1, wherein said nucleic acid is DNA. 