Various embodiments provide keyboards that utilize electrically-deformable material as an actuating mechanism to provide haptic feedback to a user of the keyboard. In at least some embodiments, the electrically-deformable material is utilized to impart, to a depressed key or keyboard element, a multi-vectored movement that produces a perceived acceleration of the key or keyboard element thus providing a user with haptic feedback which simulates a snapover movement. In at least some embodiments, a light source can be mounted or otherwise positioned relatively close to and beneath the top surface of one or more keys or keyboard elements to backlight a portion or portions of a keyboard.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A keyboard comprising: a plurality of separately movable keys positioned on the keyboard, each of one or more of the plurality of keys have operatively associated therewith: a user-engageable top surface; and an actuation mechanism positioned thereunder its associated key, wherein the actuation mechanism is configured to: provide haptic feedback to a user engaging the user-engageable top surface of its associated key, and facilitate light transmission therethrough the actuation mechanism and to its associated key, and the actuation mechanism includes an electrically-deformable material configured to actuate its associated key; and a light source positioned beneath at least a portion of the top surface of at least some of the plurality of keys and configured to backlight one or more of the plurality of keys by light from the light source passing through at least a portion of the top surface of the one or more backlit keys. 2. The keyboard of claim 1, wherein the electrically-deformable material comprises an electroactive polymer (EAP). 3. The keyboard of claim 1, wherein the electrically-deformable material is translucent. 4. The keyboard of claim 1, wherein the light source is positioned beneath at least part of the electrically-deformable material. 5. The keyboard of claim 1, wherein the light source comprises an electroluminescent light source. 6. The keyboard of claim 1, wherein individual keys of the plurality of keys are associated with a travel distance of between 0 millimeters to about 3 millimeters. 7. The keyboard of claim 1, wherein the light source is further configured to backlight only a sub-region of an individual key of the plurality of keys. 8. A keyboard comprising: at least one key positioned on the keyboard; an actuating mechanism, associated with the keys, the actuating mechanism being configured to actuate the key using structures that enable the transmission of light to underneath the key; and a light source positioned to illuminate the key. 9. The keyboard of claim 8, wherein the structures of the actuating mechanism that actuate the key are characterized by their properties that encourage non-diffusion of light and non-blocking of light emanating from underneath the key. 10. The keyboard of claim 8, wherein the actuating mechanism comprises an electrically-deformable material. 11. The keyboard of claim 10, wherein the electrically-deformable material comprises an electroactive polymer (EAP). 12. The keyboard of claim 10, wherein the electrically-deformable material is translucent. 13. The keyboard of claim 8, wherein at least part of the actuating mechanism is positioned between the light source and the one or more individual keys or keyboard elements. 14. The keyboard of claim 8, wherein the light source is configured to illuminate only a sub-region of an individual key or keyboard element of the plurality of keys or keyboard elements. 15. A keyboard comprising: a plurality of separately movable keys positioned on the keyboard, each of one or more of the plurality of keys have operatively associated therewith; a user-engageable top surface; and an actuation mechanism positioned thereunder its associated key, wherein the actuation mechanism is configured to: provide haptic feedback to a user engaging the user-engageable top surface of its associated key, and facilitate light transmission therethrough the actuation mechanism and to its associated key, and the actuation mechanism includes an electrically-deformable material configured to actuate its associated key; and at least one light source positioned beneath at least a portion of the top surface of at least one of the plurality of keys and configured to backlight one or more of the plurality of keys by light from the light source passing through at least a portion of the top surface of the one or more backlit keys, wherein only a sub-region of the top surface of at least one individual key has light from the light source passing therethrough. 16. The keyboard of claim 15, wherein the electrically-deformable material comprises an electroactive polymer (EAP). 17. The keyboard of claim 15, wherein the electrically-deformable material is translucent. 18. The keyboard of claim 15, wherein the at least one light source is positioned beneath at least part of the electrically-deformable material. 19. The keyboard of claim 15, wherein the at least one light source comprises an electroluminescent light source. 20. The keyboard of claim 15, wherein individual keys of the plurality of keys are associated with a travel distance of between 0 millimeters to about 3 millimeters. 