A mobile robot guest for interacting with a human resident performs a room-traversing search procedure prior to interacting with the resident, and may verbally query whether the resident being sought is present. Upon finding the resident, the mobile robot may facilitate a teleconferencing session with a remote third party, or interact with the resident in a number of ways. For example, the robot may carry on a dialogue with the resident, reinforce compliance with medication or other schedules, etc. In addition, the robot incorporates safety features for preventing collisions with the resident; and the robot may audibly announce and/or visibly indicate its presence in order to avoid becoming a dangerous obstacle. Furthermore, the mobile robot behaves in accordance with an integral privacy policy, such that any sensor recording or transmission must be approved by the resident.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot comprising: a head assembly including: a display; at least one camera mounted near the display to direct an objective lens of the camera in the same direction as the display; and a rotatable pivot supporting the at least one camera, wherein the at least one camera is movable to prevent the objective lens of the camera from viewing an area around the robot, and wherein the robot defines a hollow portion at least partially defined by an opaque surface, the at least one camera movable such that the lens of the camera faces the opaque surface. 2. The robot of claim 1, wherein the camera is adapted to monitor a resident when the resident is within range of the camera. 3. The robot of claim 1, wherein the opaque surface encompasses a field of vision of the camera. 4. A robot comprising: a head assembly including: a display; at least one camera mounted near the display to direct an objective lens of the camera in the same direction as the display; and a rotatable pivot supporting the at least one camera, wherein the at least one camera is movable to prevent the objective lens of the camera from viewing an area around the robot, and wherein the robot defines a hollow portion and the camera is entirely retractable into the hollow portion. 5. A robot comprising: a head assembly including: a display; at least one camera mounted near the display to direct an objective lens of the camera in the same direction as the display; a rotatable pivot supporting the at least one camera, wherein the at least one camera is movable to prevent the objective lens of the camera from viewing an area around the robot; and a light configured to dim when the camera is not recording visual data. 6. The robot of claim 5, further comprising a microphone configured to be disabled when entering a privacy mode. 7. A robot comprising: a head assembly including: a display; at least one camera mounted near the display to direct an objective lens of the camera in the same direction as the display; a rotatable pivot supporting the at least one camera, wherein the at least one camera is movable to prevent the objective lens of the camera from viewing an area around the robot; and a controller in communication with the camera, the controller configured to enable a transmission of surveillance data from the camera to an outside environment only when an emergency condition signal is detected by the robot. 8. A robot comprising: a head assembly including: a display; at least one camera mounted near the display to direct an objective lens of the camera in the same direction as the display; a rotatable pivot supporting the at least one camera, wherein the at least one camera is movable to prevent the objective lens of the camera from viewing an area around the robot; and a controller in communication with the camera, the controller configured to enable transmission of data from the camera to a remote terminal (i) if an emergency condition is detected by the robot or (ii) after an authorized remote caregiver sends to the robot an authorization previously permitted by the resident and an emergency indication, wherein the transmission of data from the camera over a network is otherwise prohibited. 9. The robot of claim 8, wherein the controller is further configured to be overridden to allow transmission of data from the camera to a remote terminal associated with emergency personnel. 10. The robot of claim 8, further comprising a connector capable of receiving a lock-out member, the controller further configured to enable a transmission of data from the camera over the network if the controller receives a local permission and only when the lock-out member is inserted in the connector. 11. The robot of claim 10, wherein the lock-out member mechanically closes electrical contacts, enabling the camera to operate. 12. A robot comprising: a head assembly including: a display; at least one camera mounted near the display to direct an objective lens of the camera in the same direction as the display; a rotatable pivot supporting the at least one camera, wherein the at least one camera is movable to prevent the objective lens of the camera from viewing an area around the robot; and a controller in communication with the camera, the controller configured to receive permissions granted or denied by the resident. 13. The robot of claim 12, further comprising a privacy controller configured to track any permissions granted or denied by the resident and control a data stream from the at least one camera. 14. The robot of claim 13, wherein the privacy controller permits the data stream from the at least one camera to be recorded or transmitted only if recording or transmitting complies with permissions granted by the resident. 15. The robot of claim 13, wherein the privacy controller comprises a physical medium that enables the at least one camera only when installed. 16. A robot comprising: a head assembly including: a display; at least one camera mounted near the display to direct an objective lens of the camera, the at least one camera movable to direct the objective lens of the camera from a viewing an area around the robot; and a controller in communication with the camera, the controller configured to enable transmission of surveillance data from the camera if a resident grants permission for the transmission. 17. The robot of claim 16, wherein the controller is further configured to receive a command from a remote source to override the permission set by the resident. 18. The robot of claim 17, wherein the command comprises an encrypted code. 19. The robot of claim 16, wherein the controller is further configured to override the permission set by the resident based at least on data detected by the controller. 20. The robot of claim 16, wherein the controller is further configured to override the permission set by the resident based at least in part on a determination by the robot that the resident has become non-responsive. 21. The robot of claim 16, wherein the controller is further configured to override the permission set by the resident based at least in part on a fire alarm or smoke detector triggered on the robot. 