A method for measuring the contact force exerted on tissue by a probe for heating the tissue and containing an antenna which is connected to a radiometer whose output reading indicates the temperature at depth of the tissue contacted by the probe comprises displaying the output reading of the radiometer, applying sufficient power to the probe to heat the tissue to a selected first temperature that is not lethal to the tissue, moving the probe into contact with the tissue, observing the increase in the displayed temperature reading that occurs when the probe contacts the tissue, and advancing the probe toward the tissue until the displayed temperature reading reaches a value corresponding to a selected tissue contact force. After the probe position in the tissue has stabilized, the applied power to the probe may be increased to heat the tissue to a selected second temperature that is lethal to tissue for a sufficient time to ablate the tissue followed by lowering the tissue heating to a sub-lethal temperature. Apparatus for practicing the method is also disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for measuring the contact force exerted on tissue by a probe capable of heating tissue and containing an antenna connected to a radiometer whose output reading indicates the temperature at depth of the tissue contacted by the probe, said method comprising the steps of: displaying the temperature reading of the radiometer; applying sufficient power to the probe to heat the tissue to a selected first temperature that is not lethal to the tissue; moving the probe into contact with the tissue; observing the increase in the temperature reading that occurs when the probe actually contacts the tissue, and advancing the probe toward the tissue until the temperature reading reaches a value corresponding to a selected tissue contact force. 2. The method defined in claim 1 including the additional steps of after the probe position in the tissue has stabilized, increasing the applied power to the probe sufficiently to heat the tissue to a second, higher, temperature that is lethal to the tissue for a sufficient time to ablate the tissue, and following said tissue ablation, cooling the tissue to a sub-lethal temperature. 3. The method defined in claim 1 wherein the probe is powered by supplying electromagnetic energy to the antenna. 4. The method defined in claim 1 wherein the probe is powered by supplying electrical current to a heating device in the probe. 5. The method defined in claim 1 wherein said moving and advancing steps are accomplished manually. 6. The method defined in claim 1 wherein said moving and advancing steps are accomplished by a robotic arm attached to the probe. 7. The method defined in claim 1 including the additional step of displaying, at least during the moving and observing steps, the force exerted on the tissue by the probe as a function of the temperature reading. 8. The method defined in claim 2 wherein the cooling step is accomplished by withdrawing the probe from the tissue. 9. The method defined in claim 2 wherein the cooling step is accomplished by reducing the heating of the probe below said second temperature. 10. The method defined in claim 2 including the additional step of flowing a cooling fluid to the probe at least while the probe is heated to the second temperature. 11. Apparatus for measuring the contact force exerted on tissue by a probe, said apparatus comprising a probe containing an antenna, said antenna being connected to a radiometer which produces an output reading corresponding to the temperature at depth of the tissue contacted by the probe; a moving mechanism for moving the probe relative to the tissue; a display device responsive to said output reading for displaying the tissue temperature; a heating device in the probe for heating the tissue, and a heating controller responsive to said output reading for controlling the heating device, said heating controller including a temperature/force calibration table, and being programmed to control the heating device so as to heat the probe to a selected first temperature which is not lethal to the tissue, and control the moving mechanism to advance the probe toward the tissue whereby the display device first displays the sudden increase in the output reading that occurs when the probe actually contacts the tissue followed by a gradual output reading increase that occurs as the probe is advanced further into the tissue and then stop the advance when the gradual output reading increase reaches a value corresponding to a selected tissue contact force indicated by said calibration table. 12. The apparatus defined in claim 11 wherein after said further advance is stopped, the controller is programmed to control the heating device to thereafter heat the tissue to a selected second temperature that is lethal to the tissue for a sufficient time to ablate the tissue. 13. The apparatus defined in claim 11 wherein the heating device includes said antenna and further including an RF generator connected to the antenna. 14. The apparatus defined in claim 11 wherein the heating device includes a heating element in the probe and further including a current source connected to the heating element. 15. The apparatus defined in claim 11 wherein said moving mechanism includes a robot which is attached to the probe and limits the further advance of the probe into the tissue as a function of said gradual output reading increase. 16. The apparatus defined in claim 11 wherein the display device also displays the tissue contact force as a function of said output reading. 17. The apparatus defined in claim 12 and further including a cooling device for flowing a liquid to the probe to cool the probe below said second temperature. 