A system and method for automated processing of nucleic acids and other samples includes a disposable container comprising a tray and a flexible barrier. The barrier is configured to seal with a top edge of the tray, providing a closed, aseptic work area within the sealed tray. A pipette head and/or other sample manipulation device can be attached to the inside of the barrier, and the barrier can include an interface for a robotic arm or other device. When the barrier is sealed over the tray, the barrier separates the contents of the tray from the robot or other manipulation device. The barrier can be flexible, and allow the robotic arm to move the pipette head throughout the work area of the tray. All samples, reagents, pipette tips and other tools or devices for processing nucleic acid samples may remain within the closed compartment provided by the container during processing.
Claims That which is claimed: 1. A method of processing samples, comprising: providing a single-use disposable container having an interior comprising a plurality of processing stations; loading at least one reagent and at least one sample into the container; sealing the container with a flexible barrier, the flexible barrier comprising a pipette head integrated with or within the flexible barrier, and the pipette head having a pipette tip adapter extending from one side of the barrier for engaging pipette tips within the interior of the container and a receptacle on an opposite side of the barrier for receiving a pipette head adapter of a robotic arm; attaching the pipette head adapter of the robotic arm to the pipette head, such that the robotic arm resides outside of the sealed container; manipulating the pipette head using the robotic arm from outside of the container to transfer the sample and the reagent between one or more of the processing stations in the container; and processing at least one sample at one or more of the processing stations. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of processing stations comprise a PCR plate, an elution station and a waste station. 3. The method of claim 2, further comprising loading at least one manifold holding a binding column into the container before sealing the container, the manifold configured to fit within the elution station and the waste station. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the processing step comprises moving the manifold between the elution station and waste station positions. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising maintaining a closed volume within the container during the processing. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein maintaining the closed volume comprises recirculating air within the container. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein maintaining the closed volume further comprises controlling the humidity and/or vapor concentration(s) within the container. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the manipulating step comprises moving a center portion of the flexible barrier responsive to moving the robotic arm so that the center portion of the flexible barrier translates in three dimensions and changes in shape while an outer perimeter portion of the flexible barrier remains sealably attached to the container to allow the robotic device to move the pipette tip adapter within the interior region of the container. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the pipette tip adapter can move between about 4-24 inches in a vertical direction and about a length and width of the container while the container remains sealed. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the sample comprises a nucleic acid sample. 11. The method of claim 10, which further comprises purifying said nucleic acid in the sealed container using magnetic beads. 12. A method of processing samples, comprising: providing a sealed single-use disposable container having an interior comprising a plurality of processing stations and at least one sample for processing, the container having a flexible upper barrier sealed to a perimeter of the container to define a closed processing system with a sealed interior, the flexible barrier comprising (i) a pipette head attached to the flexible barrier, the pipette head having a pipette tip adapter extending down from the barrier for engaging pipette tips within the sealed interior of the container and (ii) a receptacle extending outward from an opposing side of the barrier for externally engaging a robotic arm; attaching a robotic arm to the receptacle so that the robotic arm resides outside of the sealed container; then manipulating the pipette head using the robotic arm from outside of the container to transfer the sample between one or more of the processing stations in the sealed container. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the at least one sample comprises a nucleic acid. 14. The method of claim 12, wherein the plurality of processing stations comprise a PCR plate, an elution station and a waste station. 15. The method of claim 13, further comprising purifying said nucleic acid using magnetic beads in the sealed container. 16. The method of claim 12, wherein the manipulating step comprises moving a center portion of the flexible barrier responsive to moving the robotic arm so that the center portion of the flexible barrier translates in three dimensions and changes its configuration while an outer perimeter portion of the flexible barrier remains sealably attached to the container to allow the robotic device to move the pipette tip adapter within the interior region of the container. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the robotic arm cooperates with the flexible barrier to move the pipette tip adapter between about 4-24 inches in a vertical direction and about a length and width of the container. 18. A method of processing biosamples, comprising: providing a sealed container having an interior comprising a plurality of processing stations and at least one biosample, the container having a flexible upper barrier sealed to a perimeter of the container to define a sealed interior with a plurality of spaced apart workstations, the flexible barrier; attaching an external robotic arm to the flexible barrier, the robotic arm extending outwardly from the flexible barrier; and automatically moving a pipette head held inside the sealed interior using the external robotic arm to advance the at least one biosample through a defined series of stations inside the sealed container. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein the biosample comprises nucleic acid, and wherein the plurality of workstations comprise a PCR plate station, an elution station and a waste station. 20. The method of claim 18, wherein the moving step comprises moving a center portion of the flexible barrier responsive to moving the robotic arm so that the center portion of the flexible barrier translates in three dimensions and changes its configuration while an outer perimeter portion of the flexible barrier remains sealably attached to the container to allow the robotic device to move the pipette tip within the sealed interior of the container. 21. The method of claim 18, wherein the robotic arm cooperates with the flexible barrier to move the pipette tip between about 4-24 inches in a vertical direction and about a length and width of the container. 22. The method of claim 18, wherein the flexible barrier includes an internal pipette head adapter residing on an inside of the flexible barrier substantially aligned with a robotic arm adapter residing on an outside of the flexible barrier, the pipette head adapter configured to releasably hold at least one pipette tip, and wherein the automatically moving step is carried out to move the robotic arm and the pipette head using a programmatically defined set of operations to process the biosample. 