A system is disclosed for the detection of blood flow. The system provides, a portable transceiver unit having a signal generator, a signal comparator, and an audio output whereby a user receives an audio signal indicating differences in Doppler signal, and a Doppler probe coupled to the portable transceiver. The Doppler probe including a piezoelectric crystal disposed at a first end of the Doppler probe; at least one wire transmitting signals between the transceiver unit to the piezoelectric crystal; a rigid or flexible sheath disposed around at least part of the at least one wire and the piezoelectric crystal; and a transceiver unit coupler disposed at a second end of the Doppler probe. The system may also have a quantitative blood flow meter or signal strength meter.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for the detection of blood flow, the system comprising: a non-imaging Doppler transceiver unit comprising a signal generator having a plurality of factory defined preset signal sensitivity depth selectors, said preset signal sensitivity depth selectors being configured to allow a user to transition between standard signal depths during a procedure; a Doppler probe for insertion in to a body cavity, said cavity being external to a target blood vessel during minimally invasive surgical procedures coupled to said transceiver; said Doppler probe comprising; a piezoelectric crystal disposed at a first end of said Doppler probe; at least one wire transmitting signals between said transceiver unit to said piezoelectric crystal and a transceiver unit coupler disposed at a second end of said Doppler probe. 2. The system according to claim 1 wherein said transceiver is portable. 3. The system according to claim 1 wherein said probe is disposable. 4. The system according to claim 1 further comprising a quantitative blood flow meter. 5. The system according to claim 4 wherein said blood flow meter comprises a numeric display. 6. The system according to claim 4 wherein said meter comprises a graphic display. 7. The system according to claim 6 wherein said graphic display comprises a paper printout. 8. The system according to claim 1 further comprising a signal strength meter having an amplifier for amplifying reflected signals, a rectifier for rectifying said reflected signal and a low band filter producing a signal proportional to said reflected signal strength. 9. The system according to claim 1 further comprising a sheath disposed around at least part of said at least one wire and said piezoelectric crystal. 10. The system according to claim 9 wherein said sheath is rigid. 11. The system according to claim 9 wherein said sheath is flexible. 12. The system according to claim 9 wherein said sheath comprises a surgical instrument. 13. The system according to claim 9 further comprising at least one channel disposed within said sheath. 14. The system according to claim 13 further comprising at least one surgical instrument disposed within said at least one channel. 15. The system according to claim 13 wherein at least one said channel is coupled to a tissue marking dye source, and whereby a tissue marking dye may be delivered to said first end of said Doppler probe. 16. The system according to claim 13 wherein at least one said channel is coupled to a vacuum source, and whereby a vacuum may be applied to a target, steadying said Doppler probe proximate to said target. 17. The system according to claim 13 wherein at least one said channel is coupled to at least one electrically activated adhesive pad. 18. A method for the assessment of blood flow in vessels, said method comprising: inserting a Doppler probe into a body cavity external to a blood vessel; positioning said Doppler probe proximate to a target tissue region; selecting a depth of signal sensitivity from a plurality of factory defined preset signal depths configured for transition during a procedure; emitting at least one pulse from said Doppler probe; receiving at least one reflected pulse; generating an audio signal correlating to the velocity of blood flowing in said vessel; and assessing blood flow in said vessel based on said audio signal and without an ultrasonic image. 19. The method according to claim 18 wherein said step of inserting a Doppler probe into a body cavity comprises a step selected from the group of steps consisting of inserting said Doppler probe via an endoscopic channel of an endoscope, and inserting said Doppler probe via a laparoscopic port. 20. The method according to claim 18 further comprising providing a quantitative measure correlating to velocity of said blood flowing in said vessel. 21. The method according to claim 18 wherein said assessment of blood flow is employed in at least one medical procedure, selected from the group of medical procedures consisting of assessment of esophageal varices, esophageal ulcers, Mallory-Weiss tears, gastric varices, Dieulafoy's lesion, AVMs, vascular malformations, post-haemostatic treatment assessment, and pre-operative assessment of incision sights for sphincterotomy, polypectomy and cyst drainage. 22. The method according to claim 18 wherein said assessment of blood flow is employed in at least one medical procedure, selected from the group of medical procedures consisting of partial and total nephrectomy, prostatectomy with nerve sparing, pyeloplasty, varicocelectomy, adrenalectomy, lymph node dissection, tumor resection and resection of small bowel for infarction. 23. The method according to claim 18 further comprising monitoring signal strength by amplifying returning echoes at a fixed gain and then passes them through a full wave rectifier and low pass filter. 24. A system for the quantitative assessment of blood flow, said system comprising: a non-imaging Doppler transceiver unit comprising a signal generator, a signal comparator, and an audio output whereby a user receives an audio signal indicating differences in Doppler signal; a Doppler probe coupled to said transceiver; and a flow meter comprising a visual quantitative display and a zero-crossing detector; said Doppler probe comprising: a piezoelectric crystal disposed at a first end of said Doppler probe; at least one wire transmitting signals between said transceiver unit to said piezoelectric crystal; a sheath disposed around at least part of said at least one wire and said piezoelectric crystal; a transceiver unit coupler disposed at a second end of said Doppler probe; and a plurality of factory defined preset signal sensitivity depth selectors. 25. A system for the quantitative assessment of blood flow, said system comprising: a non-imaging, Doppler transceiver unit comprising a signal generator, a signal comparator, and an audio output whereby a user receives an audio signal indicating differences in Doppler signal; a Doppler probe coupled to said transceiver; and a signal strength meter comprising a visual quantitative display and a signal strength detector having an amplifier for amplifying a reflected signal, a rectifier for rectifying said reflected signal and a low band filter producing a signal proportional to strength of said reflected signal; said Doppler probe comprising: a piezoelectric crystal disposed at a first end of said Doppler probe; at least one wire transmitting signals between said transceiver unit to said piezoelectric crystal; a sheath disposed around at least part of said at least one wire and said piezoelectric crystal a transceiver unit coupler disposed at a second end of said Doppler probe; and a plurality of factory preset signal sensitivity depth selectors. 