A multi-station, gantry-based automated welding system includes a gantry mounting robotic arc welders or other equipment. The gantry has a range of travel over multiple workstations, each workstation being adapted for rotatably mounting a respective workpiece. A control system controls and coordinates the movements and operation of the gantry, the robotic arc welders and the workpiece-rotating motors located at the workstations. Encoders are installed at the moving elements of the system for precisely tracking and providing output to the computer controller. Primary and secondary power/data distribution systems include cable and hose carriers for providing mobile power/data connections to the gantry and also to the robotic arc welders mounted thereon. The power/data distribution systems are elevated above a facility floor to avoid interfering with equipment, personnel and activities at floor level.
Claims Having thus described the invention, what is claimed as new and desired to be secured by Letters Patent is: 1. An automated welding system, which includes: a gantry including first and second ends with rollers mounted thereon and an elevated platform extending between said ends; said platform including first and second sides and upper and lower decks; a welder mounted on said platform and depending downwardly from said lower deck; a welder guide mounted on said platform lower deck and movably mounting said welder for longitudinal movement along said platform; a control system adapted for positioning said welder relative to said platform and positioning said gantry relative to a workpiece; a primary mobile power and data distribution system connected to said controller and to said gantry; a secondary mobile power and data distribution system connected to said gantry and to said welder; one or more adjustable workstations located below said gantry, each said adjustable workstation being adapted for receiving a workpiece for welding by said welder; said controller being adapted for adjustably positioning said workpiece in said one or more adjustable workstations; said primary mobile power and data distribution system connected to said controller and to said gantry including electrical power and data lines; said secondary mobile power and data distribution system connected to said controller and to said gantry including electrical power and data lines; said primary power and data distribution system including a primary flexible cable/hose carrier and a primary guide located alongside a path of movement of said gantry and receiving said primary flexible cable/hose carrier; and said secondary power and data distribution system including a secondary flexible cable/hose carrier and a secondary guide mounted on top of said gantry platform and located alongside a path of movement of said welder and receiving said secondary flexible cable/hose carrier. 2. The welding system according to claim 1, which includes: said primary flexible cable/hose carrier including a channel elevated above a floor level at approximately the elevation of said gantry platform. 3. The welding system according to claim 1, which includes: said primary flexible cable/hose carrier being adapted for length adjustment by folding over on itself with movement of said gantry alongside said primary flexible cable/hose carrier. 4. The welding system according to claim 1, which includes: said secondary flexible cable/hose carrier guide including rollers mounted on top of said gantry platform and rollingly supporting said secondary flexible cable/hose carrier through movement along said gantry platform. 5. The welding system according to claim 4, which includes: said secondary flexible cable/hose carrier being adapted for length adjustment by folding over on itself with movement of said welder alongside said secondary flexible cable/hose carrier. 6. The welding system according to claim 1, which includes: a welding wire container mounted on top of said gantry and connected to said welder for supplying welding wire thereto. 7. The welding system according to claim 1, which includes: each said workstation including a rotary workpiece mount adapted for rotatably mounting a workpiece; and said control system being connected to said rotary workpiece mounts and adapted for rotating workpieces through preprogrammed movements for access by said welder. 8. An automated welding system, which includes: a gantry including first and second ends with rollers mounted thereon and an elevated platform extending between said ends; said platform including first and second sides and upper and lower decks; a pair of welders mounted on said platform and depending downwardly from said lower deck, each said welder including a weld wire spool located adjacent to a respective platform side and each said welder being movable along said platform parallel to a respective platform side; a welder guide mounted on said platform lower deck and movably mounting said welder for longitudinal movement along said platform; a control system adapted for positioning said welder relative to said platform and positioning said gantry relative to a workpiece; a primary mobile power and data distribution system connected to said controller and to said gantry; a secondary mobile power and data distribution system connected to said gantry and to said welder; multiple adjustable workstations located below said gantry, each said adjustable workstation being adapted for receiving a workpiece for welding by said welder; said controller being adapted for adjustably positioning said workpiece in said adjustable workstations; said primary mobile power and data distribution system connected to said controller and to said gantry including electrical power and data lines; said secondary mobile power and data distribution system connected to said controller and to said gantry including electrical power and data lines; said primary power and data distribution system including a primary flexible cable/hose carrier and a primary guide located alongside a path of movement of said gantry and receiving said primary flexible cable/hose carrier; and said secondary power and data distribution system including a secondary flexible cable/hose carrier and a secondary guide mounted on top of said gantry platform and located alongside a path of movement of said welder and receiving said secondary flexible cable/hose carrier. 9. The welding system according to claim 8, which includes: said primary flexible cable/hose carrier including a channel elevated above a floor level at approximately the elevation of said gantry platform. 10. The welding system according to claim 8, which includes: said primary flexible cable/hose carrier being adapted for length adjustment by folding over on itself with movement of said gantry alongside said primary flexible cable/hose carrier. 11. The welding system according to claim 8, which includes: said secondary flexible cable/hose carrier guide including rollers mounted on top of said gantry platform and rollingly supporting said secondary flexible cable/hose carrier through movement along said gantry platform. 12. The welding system according to claim 11, which includes: said secondary flexible cable/hose carrier being adapted for length adjustment by folding over on itself with movement of said welder alongside said secondary flexible cable/hose carrier. 13. The welding system according to claim 8, which includes: a welding wire container mounted on top of said gantry and connected to said welder for supplying welding wire thereto. 14. The welding system according to claim 8, which includes: each said workstation including a rotary workpiece mount adapted for rotatably mounting a workpiece; and said control system being connected to said rotary workpiece mounts and adapted for rotating workpieces through preprogrammed movements for access by said welder. 