The present invention is related to the field of semiconductor processing equipment and methods and provides, in particular, methods and equipment for the sustained, high-volume production of Group III-V compound semiconductor material suitable for fabrication of optic and electronic components, for use as substrates for epitaxial deposition, for wafers and so forth. In preferred embodiments, these methods are optimized for producing Group III-N (nitrogen) compound semiconductor wafers and specifically for producing GaN wafers. Specifically, the method includes reacting an amount of a gaseous Group III precursor as one reactant with an amount of a gaseous Group V component as another reactant in a reaction chamber under conditions sufficient to provide sustained high volume manufacture of the semiconductor material on one or more substrates, with the gaseous Group III precursor continuously provided at a mass flow of 50 g Group III element/hour for at least 48 hours. A system for conducting the method is also provided.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for epitaxial deposition of a Group III-V semiconductor material, which comprises: reacting an amount of a gaseous Group III trichloride precursor as one reactant with an amount of a gaseous Group V component as another reactant at a reaction zone in a reaction chamber under conditions sufficient to provide the semiconductor material, and decomposing dimers and trimers of the gaseous Group III trichloride precursor by heating of the gaseous Group III trichloride precursor to a temperature at which the dimers and trimers decompose prior to introduction of the gaseous Group III trichloride precursor through an entry aperture into the reaction chamber to facilitate manufacture of the semiconductor material. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the Group III precursor is gaseous gallium trichloride which is heated to a temperature sufficient to decompose gallium chloride dimers or trimers before the gaseous gallium trichloride enters the reaction chamber. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein the gaseous gallium trichloride is heated to at least 700.degree. C. prior to entering the reaction chamber. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the heated gaseous Group III trichloride precursor is continuously provided into the reaction zone chamber at a mass flow of at least 50 g Group III element/hour for a time of at least 48 hours. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the gaseous Group V component is a nitrogen containing component and is provided in a greater amount than that of the gaseous Group III precursor so that a monocrystalline Group III nitride is provided. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein the nitrogen containing component is a nitrogen containing gas comprising ammonia, a nitrogen ion or a radical generated by plasma activation of nitrogen gas. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein the reaction chamber includes one or more walls and which further comprises introducing the Group III precursor and Group V component into the reaction chamber in a controlled manner to provide a reaction above one or more substrates to optimize the production of the monocrystalline material thereon. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein the reaction chamber includes a floor, a ceiling, a pair of sidewalls, an open inlet and an open outlet, and which further comprises introducing the heated Group III precursor through a slot in the floor of the chamber. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein the gaseous Group III precursor is heated in a nozzle subjacent the slot. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein the heating of the gaseous Group III trichloride precursor is conducted in a heating device external to the reaction chamber, and wherein the source of gaseous Group III trichloride precursor continuously provides the precursor at a mass flow of at least 50 g Group III element/hour to facilitate high volume manufacture of the semiconductor material. 11. The method of claim 1 wherein the reaction chamber is configured as a horizontal, rectangular chamber and the apertures for introducing the reactants are located in different portions of the chamber to avoid reaction until they meet at a predetermined location adjacent and immediately above one or more substrates for deposition of the semiconductor material thereon. 12. The method of claim 11 wherein the reaction chamber includes a floor, a ceiling, a pair of sidewalls, an open inlet, an open outlet, and one reactant entry aperture comprises a horizontal slot in the floor for introducing that reactant into the reaction chamber, with the slot configured and dimensioned to introduce the reactant and to direct it to the predetermined location for re action with another reactant. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein the source of gaseous Group III precursor is in gas flow association with the slot to introduce the precursor into the reaction zone through the slot. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein the gaseous Group III precursor is directed into the reaction chamber by way of an introduction device that includes a nozzle containing heat transfer materials therein wherein the device is operatively associated with the heating device to heat the precursor prior to its introduction into the reaction chamber. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein the gaseous Group III precursor is gallium trichloride and the heating device heats the gallium trichloride to at least 700.degree. C. to decompose gallium chloride dimers or trimers before the heated gaseous gallium trichloride enters the reaction chamber. 16. The method of claim 14 wherein the reaction chamber further comprises a rotatable support for holding the one or more substrates upon which the monocrystalline semiconductor material is to be deposited. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein the reaction chamber further comprises an entry aperture for the Group V component which comprises an injection nozzle that directs that component to the predetermined location to efficiently form the monocrystalline semiconductor material upon the one or more substrates. 18. The method of claim 10 wherein the reaction chamber is made of quartz. 19. The method of claim 10 wherein the reaction chamber includes one or more walls and is surrounded by an enclosure which is operatively associated with one or more fans for circulating air in the enclosure to lower the temperature of the reaction chamber walls to reduce or prevent deposition of the Group III precursor or reaction byproducts on the reaction chamber walls to provide a longer operating time before maintenance is required. 20. The method of claim 1 further comprising preventing reformation of the dimers and trimers within the reaction chamber by heating a region of the reaction chamber between the entry aperture through which the gaseous Group III trichloride precursor enters the reaction chamber and the reaction zone in the reaction chamber to a temperature not less than the temperature of the gaseous Group III trichloride precursor upon entry. 