A method for correcting truncated projection data of a rotation for a reconstruction technique for computed tomography scans with truncated projection data in the computed tomography images produced by a C-arm is proposed. At least one truncated projection is recorded. The truncated portions prior to acquisition of the rotation for the at least one truncated projection is captured. The truncated projection and the truncated portions are assembled into at least one complete projection. Truncated projection data is acquired during the rotation. The truncated data is estimated based on a model of the patient geometry from the at least one complete projection. A reconstruction technique is performed on the basis of the acquired and the estimated data.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for correcting truncated projection data in computed tomography images of a patient recorded by an imaging recording device, comprising: acquiring truncated projection data of a patient during rotation of an imaging recording device until an angular range of projection data has been captured by: (a) recording a truncated projection image having at least one truncated portion of the patient; (b) recording the at least one truncated portions of the patient for the truncated projection; (c) assembling the truncated projection image and the at least one truncated portions into a complete projection; (d) incrementing an angle of rotation in the angular range; estimating intermediate values of the truncated projection data based on a geometry model of the patient from the complete projection; and reconstructing the truncated projection data based on the acquired truncated projection data and the estimated intermediate values of the truncated projection data. 2. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the truncated portions are captured by displacing a patient positioning table of the imaging recording device laterally and/or vertically. 3. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the complete projection is assembled by image stitching. 4. The method as claimed in claim 1, further comprising: positioning a radiation source and an x-ray detector of the imaging recording device at an angle .alpha.; centering a patient positioning table of the imaging recording device; recording the truncated projection as a first partial image; displacing the patient positioning table laterally and/or vertically so that truncation no longer occurs at a right-hand edge of the x-ray detector; recording a second partial image; displacing the patient positioning table laterally and/or vertically so that truncations no longer occur at a left-hand edge of the x-ray detector; recording a third partial image; assembling the first, the second, and the third partial images into a complete projection image of angle .alpha.; positioning the radiation source and the x-ray detector at a new angle .alpha.+.delta..alpha. increased by an increment .delta..alpha.; and repeating recording the first, the second and the third partial images until a required angular range has been captured. 5. The method as claimed in claim 4, wherein single images are captured for the first, the second, and the third partial images. 6. The method as claimed in claim 4, wherein a plurality of single images are captured for first, the second, and the third partial images and are summated for noise reduction. 7. The method as claimed in claim 4, wherein the increment .delta..alpha.=15.degree. . 8. The method as claimed in claim 4, wherein the patient positioning table is displaced continuously and a series of images are recorded for the second and the third partial images during the continuous displacement. 9. An imaging recording device, comprising: a patient positioning for supporting a patient; a radiation source for emitting divergent radiation for scanning an examination subject on the patient in different projection directions; an x-ray detector for detecting the radiation that has passed through the examination subject for acquiring truncated projection data of a patient during rotation of an imaging recording device until an angular range of projection data has been captured by: a) recording a truncated projection image having at least one truncated portion of the patient; (b) recording the at least one truncated portions of the patient for the truncated projection image; and (c) incrementing an angle of rotation in the angular range; a processing unit for: assembling the truncated projection image and the at least one truncated portions into a complete projection; and estimating intermediate values of the truncated projection data based on a geometry model of the patient from the complete projection; and an imaging system for reconstructing the truncated projection data based on the acquired truncated projection data and the estimated intermediate values of the truncated projection data. 10. The device as claimed in claim 9, wherein the processing unit assembles the truncated projection image and the truncated portions into the complete projection by image stitching. 11. The device as claimed in claim 9, wherein a plurality of single images are captured for the truncated projection and the truncated portions and the processing unit summates the plurality of the single images for noise reduction. 