Antisense compounds, compositions and methods are provided for modulating the expression of stearoyl-CoA desaturase. The compositions comprise antisense compounds, particularly antisense oligonucleotides, targeted to nucleic acids encoding stearoyl-CoA desaturase. Methods of using these compounds for modulation of stearoyl-CoA desaturase expression and for treatment of diseases associated with expression of stearoyl-CoA desaturase are provided.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An antisense oligonucleotide 12 to 30 nucleobases in length comprising at least one modified nucleobase targeted to a nucleic acid molecule encoding human stearoyl-CoA deasaturase (SEQ ID NO: 3), wherein said antisense oligonucleotide specifically hybridizes to SEQ ID NO: 3 with 100% complementarity and comprises at least an 8-nucleobase portion of SEQ ID NO: 30. 2. The antisense oligonucleotide of claim 1 wherein the antisense oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified internucleoside linkage. 3. The antisense oligonucleotide of claim 2 wherein the modified internucleoside linkage is a phosphorothioate linkage. 4. The antisense oligonucleotide of claim 1 wherein the antisense oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified sugar moiety. 5. The antisense oligonucleotide of claim 4 wherein the modified sugar moiety is a 2'-O-methoxyethyl sugar moiety. 6. The antisense oligonucleotide of claim 1 wherein the modified nucleobase is a 5-methylcytosine. 7. The antisense oligonucleotide of claim 1 wherein the antisense oligonucleotide is a chimeric oligonucleotide. 8. A composition comprising the antisense oligonucleotide of claim 1 and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent. 9. The composition of claim 8 further comprising a colloidal dispersion system. 10. A method of inhibiting the expression of human stearoyl-CoA desaturase in cells or tissues comprising contacting the cells or tissues in vitro with the antisense oligonucleotide of claim 1 so that expression of human stearoyl-CoA desaturase is inhibited. 