A lithographic apparatus includes an illumination system configured to condition a radiation beam; a support configured to support a patterning device, the patterning device being capable of imparting the radiation beam with a pattern in its cross-section to form a patterned radiation beam; a substrate table configured to hold a substrate; a projection system configured to project the patterned radiation beam onto a target portion of the substrate; and a robot configured to transfer an exchangeable object to and from a support region, the robot including an arm and an end effector, the end effector including a first and second carrier configured to carry respective exchangeable objects, and the end effector being rotatably connected to the arm of the robot around a rotation axis which extends substantially parallel to the support region.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A lithographic apparatus comprising: an illumination system configured to condition a radiation beam; a support configured to support a patterning device, the patterning device being capable of imparting the radiation beam with a pattern in its cross-section to form a patterned radiation beam; a substrate table configured to hold a substrate; a projection system configured to project the patterned radiation beam onto a target portion of the substrate; and a robot configured to transfer an exchangeable object to and from a support region, the robot comprising an arm and an end effector, the end effector comprising a first and second carrier configured to carry respective exchangeable objects, and the end effector being rotatably connected to the arm of the robot around a rotation axis which extends substantially parallel to the support region. 2. The lithographic apparatus of claim 1, wherein the end effector is rotatably connected to the robot around a horizontal rotation axis. 3. The lithographic apparatus of claim 1, wherein the robot is further configured such that upon rotation of the end effector around the rotation axis, each carrier can be positioned with respect to the support region to take the exchangeable object disposed on the support region. 4. The lithographic apparatus of claim 1, wherein the position of a carrier on the end effector is tangential with an imaginary cylinder having its center axis defined by the rotation axis. 5. The lithographic apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first and second carrier are positioned above, and substantially parallel to, one another. 6. The lithographic apparatus of claim 1, wherein a proximal end of said arm is rotatably connected to a base part, and wherein the end effector is rotatably connected to a distal end of said arm around the rotation axis. 7. The lithographic apparatus of claim 1, wherein the robot comprises two or more arms, the two or more arms being rotatably connected to each other by linkages. 8. The lithographic apparatus of claim 1, wherein said arm is moveably arranged with respect to a base part in a direction perpendicular to the support region, and positioned above the support region, and wherein the end effector is rotatably connected around the rotation axis to a distal end of the arm. 9. The lithographic apparatus of claim 8, wherein the arm is movably arranged with respect to the base part in a vertical direction. 10. The lithographic apparatus of claim 8, further comprising a second robot configured to transfer an exchangeable object to and from the rotatable end effector of the first robot or the support region, the second robot comprising an end effector, the end effector of the second robot comprising a carrier configured to carry the exchangeable object. 11. The lithographic apparatus of claim 10, wherein the second robot comprises one or more arms, a proximal end of a first arm of the one or more arms being rotatably connected to a base part, and the end effector being arranged on a distal end of the one or more arms. 12. The lithographic apparatus of claim 11, wherein the second robot comprises two or more arms, the two or more arms being rotatably connected to each other by linkages. 13. The lithographic apparatus of claim 1, wherein the end effector further comprises a third and fourth carrier configured to carry respective exchangeable objects. 14. The lithographic apparatus of claim 1, wherein the exchangeable object is the patterning device and wherein the support region is a support region of the support structure configured to support the patterning device. 15. The lithographic apparatus of claim 1, wherein the exchangeable object is the substrate and wherein the support region is a support region of the support structure configured to hold the substrate. 16. The lithographic apparatus of claim 1, wherein the support region lies in a plane. 17. The lithographic apparatus of claim 1, wherein each of said first and second carriers include a support region that is adapted to support the exchangeable object, said rotation axis extending substantially parallel to the support region of each of said first and second carriers. 18. The lithographic apparatus of claim 17, wherein the support region of said first carrier is substantially perpendicular to the support region of said second carrier. 19. A device manufacturing method comprising: patterning a beam of radiation; projecting the patterned beam of radiation onto a target portion of a substrate, and transferring an exchangeable object to and from a support region with a robot, wherein the robot comprises an arm and an end effector, the end effector comprising a first and second carrier configured to carry respective exchangeable objects, the end effector being rotatably connected to the arm of the robot around a rotation axis which extends substantially parallel to the support region, and wherein the end effector is rotated around its rotation axis for exchange of the exchangeable object on the support region. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein said arm is moveably arranged with respect to a base part in a direction perpendicular to the support region, and positioned above the support region, and wherein the end effector is rotatably connected around the rotation axis to a distal end of the arm. 21. The method of claim 19, wherein said exchangeable object is a patterning device configured to pattern the beam of radiation. 22. The method of claim 19, wherein said exchangeable object is the substrate. 23. The method of claim 19, wherein the support region lies in a plane. 24. The method of claim 19, wherein each of said first and second carriers include a support region that is adapted to support the exchangeable object, said rotation axis extending substantially parallel to the support region of each of said first and second carriers. 