The present invention provides novel methods and devices for filling at least one microfluidic channel with a gas or with a degassed fluid. In particular the methods and devices of the invention are useful in completely filling substantially all areas of a microfluidic device with a gas or with a degassed fluid without incorporating bubbles within such microfluidic devices.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of filling at least one microfluidic element of a microfluidic device with a gas or fluid, the method comprising: placing the microfluidic device in a vacuum chamber; applying a vacuum to the vacuum chamber; while the microfluidic device remains under vacuum, introducing the gas or fluid into the vacuum chamber such that the microfluidic device is submerged in to gas or fluid; venting the at least one microfluidic element to the gas or fluid; and filling the at least one microfluidic element with the gas or fluid. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein applying a vacuum comprises applying a vacuum between about 0.5 and 102 kPa. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein applying a vacuum comprises applying a vacuum between about 15 and 85 kPa. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein applying a vacuum comprises applying a vacuum between about 30 and 70 kPa. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein applying a vacuum comprises applying a vacuum between about 45 and 55 kPa. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein applying a vacuum comprises applying a vacuum between about 0.5 and 5 kPa. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein filling the at least one microfluidic element with the gas or fluid comprises filling the at least one microfluidic channel with a degassed fluid. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein filling the at least one microfluidic element with the gas or fluid comprises filling the at least one microfluidic element with at least one fluid selected from a group consisting of water, buffer, EDTA solution, DMSO, PEG, polyacrylamide, and NaOH solution. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein filling the at least one microfluidic element with the gas or fluid comprises diffusing the gas or fluid into the at least one microfluidic element. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein the at least one microfluidic element is fluidly connected to an at least one capillary element, which element includes a capillary channel disposed therein. 11. The method of claim 1 wherein the at least one microfluidic element comprises a plurality of microfluidic channels. 12. The method of claim 11 wherein the plurality of microfluidic channels are fluidly coupled to one or more micro-reservoirs. 13. The method of claim 1 wherein filling the at least one microfluidic element with the gas or fluid comprises filling the at least one microfluidic element with at least one inert gas. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein the at least one inert gas is selected from a group consisting of carbon dioxide and nitrogen. 15. The method of claim 1 wherein filling the at least one microfluidic element with the gas or fluid comprises filling the at least one microfluidic element with both a gas and a fluid. 16. A system for filling a microfluidic element of a microfluidic device with a gas or a fluid, the system comprising: a) a chamber configured to receive the microfluidic device; b) a vacuum source which is fluidly coupled to the chamber and which is configured to apply a vacuum to the chamber; c) at least one source of a gas or fluid which is fluidly coupled to the chamber and which is configured to introduce at least one of a gas or a fluid into the chamber; and d) a detector configured to monitor filling of the microfluidic element of the microfluidic device with the gas or fluid. 17. The system of claim 16 wherein the microfluidic element comprises at least one microfluidic channel. 18. The system of claim 16 wherein the vacuum source is applicable to apply a vacuum between about 0.5 and 102 kPa to the chamber. 19. The system of claim 16 wherein the vacuum source is applicable to apply a vacuum between about 15 and 85 kPa to the chamber. 20. The system of claim 16 wherein the vacuum source is applicable to apply a vacuum between about 30 and 70 kPa to the chamber. 21. The system of claim 16 wherein the vacuum source is applicable to apply a vacuum between about 0.5 and 5 kPa to the chamber. 22. The system of claim 16 further comprising a processor operably coupled to the microfluidic device, wherein the processor comprises an instruction set for acquiring data from the detector and for controlling filling of the microfluidic device with the gas or the fluid. 