A method of identifying the position of an opening, for example a door or a cargo bay, or the like of an aircraft, said opening having a predetermined perimeter, said method comprising: i) providing at least one passive target means (10, 11) proximate the perimeter of said opening and preferably being disposed proximate the perimeter of said opening, and when said opening is a door proximate the four corners of said door, and in another embodiment said target means is provided as a cluster of targets for example, at least one target located proximate each corner of said door; ii) directing a preferably pulsing lighting means (30) on said target (10, 11), preferably a passive reflective target such as that manufactured by the 3M company under the trademark Scotchlite.RTM. in one embodiment being in the invisible spectrum such as infrared or the like; iii) providing a target identification means and preferably at least one camera (20) and preferably a digital camera synchronized with said lighting means (30) and preferably housed together with said light to provide raw data, preferably images to a computing means; iv) computing means for receiving information from said target identification means and preferably at least one camera to process said information (in one embodiment provide enhanced images) and compare it to information stored in the computing means and thereby determine further action which might be taken based on the identification of the position opening.
Claims The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are as follows: 1. An imaging system for identifying the location of an aircraft opening or door and for docking a passenger, cargo, or service vehicle with said aircraft, said system comprising; i) a passive target means, including at least one distinctive retro-reflective target, which can be reliably identified, located at the extremities of the opening or door; ii) a target identification means including at least one camera having a field of view including said at least one retro-reflective target of the aircraft and to cooperate with lighting means; iii) lighting means cooperating with said target identification means, for lighting said at least one retro-reflective target and providing for identification thereof by computer means in communication with said target identification means; iv) computer means to process an image of the at least one retro-reflective target from the target identification means and to enhance said image to uniquely identify said at least one distinctive retro-reflective target; v) software means resident in said computer means to provide the instructions set and logic for said system to compare processed information including the enhanced image with stored information, and to thereby determine the relevant orientation, distance, and trajectories of the vehicle to be automatically docked with said aircraft based on the system's determination only. 2. An automatic computerized passenger boarding bridge control system, said bridge having passenger bridge locomotion means to allow the bridge to move in relation to the aircraft, said system for use in conjunction with departing/arriving aircraft at an airport and comprising: i) passive retro-reflective target means for identifying an exit/entrance doorway irrespective of each aircraft type; ii) target identification means, preferably at least one camera, to identify when the aircraft containing the retro-reflective target means is proximate a parking location adjacent a predetermined gate for the passenger boarding bridge; iii) position detection means for determining the physical location of the passenger boarding bridge, including the angle of the wheels relative to the telescopic tunnel, angle of the vestibule relative to the tunnel, and the radius of curvature based upon gallery extension relative to the pivot point on the terminal, to permit the computer to calculate the trajectory of the passenger loading bridge and then instruct passenger bridge locomotion means over the required path; iv) computing means in communication with said target identification means, said position detection means, and said passenger bridge locomotion means, to activate said locomotion means and to provide instruction to said bridge as to when and how to move based on input from said target identification means, and said position detection means, to receive and process all input system signals and provide output system signals to said passenger bridge locomotion means, to stop, move, elevate or lower, pause, or steer in a predetermined direction, to turn on and synchronize the cameras and lights as necessary; and initiate any warning lights, buzzer, horn or audible signals; v) lighting means to light the target means when the aircraft is proximate the parked location for the aircraft; vi) software means resident in said computing means to provide the instruction set and logic required to operate said system, to compare processed information including the enhanced image with stored information, and to thereby determine the relevant orientation, distance, and trajectories of the vehicle to be automatically docked with said aircraft based on the system's determination only; wherein said system allows for the movement of a passenger boarding bridge during the departure and/or arrival of an aircraft without need for an operator thereof. 3. The system of claim 1 wherein said system is installed with a vehicle selected from the group of equipment of: i) cargo hauling equipment; ii) passenger facilities equipment; and iii) a passenger boarding bridge. 4. The system of claim 1, 3, or 2 wherein the target identification means is at least one digital camera. 5. The system of claim 1, 3, or 2 wherein the retro-reflective target is made from retro-reflective material such as manufactured by the 3M Company known as SCOTCHLITE.RTM.. 6. A computerized automatic passenger boarding bridge control system, said bridge having a passenger bridge locomotor to allow the bridge to move in relation to the aircraft, said system for use in conjunction with departing/arriving aircraft at an airport and comprising: i) at least one passive retro-reflective target for identifying an exit/entrance doorway irrespective of each aircraft type; ii) at least one camera, to identify when the aircraft containing the at least one retro-reflective target is proximate a parking location adjacent a predetermined gate for the passenger boarding bridge; iii) a position detector for determining the physical location of the passenger boarding bridge, including the angle of the wheels relative to the telescopic tunnel, and angle of the vestibule relative to the tunnel, to permit the computer to calculate the trajectory of the passenger loading bridge and then instruct said locomotor over the required path; iv) a computer in communication with said target identifier, said position detector, and said passenger bridge locomotor, to activate said locomotor and to provide instruction to said bridge as to when and how to move based on input from said at least one camera, and said position detector, to receive and process all input system signals and provide output system signals to said passenger bridge locomotor, to stop, move, elevate or lower, pause, or steer in a predetermined direction, to turn on and synchronize the cameras and lights as necessary; and initiate any warning lights, buzzer, horn or audible signals; v) an obstacle recognizer to inform said computer that an obstacle is present preventing further motion of said bridge and indicating the need for action by personnel to remove said obstacle; vi) lighting to light the at least one retro-reflective target when the aircraft is proximate the parked location for the aircraft; vii) software resident in said computer to provide the instruction set and logic required to operate said system, to compare processed information including the enhanced image with stored information, and to thereby determine the relevant orientation, distance, and trajectories of the vehicle to be automatically docked with said aircraft based on the system's determination only; wherein said system allows for the movement of a passenger boarding bridge during the departure and/or arrival of an aircraft without need for an operator thereof. 7. An automatic imaging system for, initiating, the controlling, positioning and docking of a vehicle with the opening of an aircraft without being informed of the aircraft type, said vehicle having locomotion means to move and raise/lower said vehicle, said system comprising a cluster of definitive, retro-reflective, targets located adjacent the opening of the aircraft in a recognizable manner, lighting means to focus on said retro-reflective targets when the aircraft is located at least adjacent to an expected position, at least one camera, disposed substantially adjacent said lighting means and with a field of view directed parallel to light emanating from said lighting means so as to capture any reflected images of said retro-reflective targets and to generate enhanced images thereof to communicate to a computer, and having a field of view including said retro-reflective targets in cooperation with the lighting means; a computer disposed with said vehicle to process said images received from said at least one camera and to provide actuating signals to said locomotion means of said vehicles, software resident in said computer to provide an instruction set to said computer as to how to process said image information and what actions to commence in view of the information, wherein said imaging system automatically scans the area whereat said vehicle is expected and, once the retro-reflective targets are acquired as verified by the computer, initiates and controls the positioning and docking of the vehicle with the aircraft opening while maintaining constant observation of said retro-reflective targets. 8. The system of claim 7 wherein said imaging system is installed with a vehicle selected from the group of equipment of: i) cargo hauling equipment; ii) passenger facilities equipment; and iii) a passenger boarding bridge. 9. The system of claim 1, 2, 6 or 7 wherein said at least one camera further comprises at least one primary camera and at least one broad-view camera. 10. The system of claim 1, 2, 6 or 7 wherein said at least one camera further comprises a zoom lens. 11. The system of claim 9 wherein said at least one primary camera or said at least one broad-view camera further comprises a zoom lens. 12. The system of claim 1, 2, 6 or 7 wherein said at least one camera further comprises a pan- or pan-and-tilt mount. 13. The system of claim 1, 2, 6 or 7 further comprising lighting means which are synchronized with said at least one cameras to pulsate co-operatively therewith thus providing the computer means with definitive images. 14. The system of claim 13 wherein said lighting means further comprises monochromatic light. 15. The system of claim 1, 2, 6 or 7 wherein said retro-reflective target means further comprises a cluster of targets. 16. The system of claim 1, 2, 6 or 7 further comprising two cameras synchronized with two lighting means which pulsate alternatively thus providing the computer means with images which may be subtracted from one another to provide an enhanced image. 17. A kit of components comprising the system of claims 1, 2, 6 or 7 to be retrofitted with an existing vehicle selected from the group of equipment of: i) cargo hauling equipment; ii) passenger facilities equipment; and iii) a passenger boarding bridge. 18. A method of identifying the position of an opening, of an aircraft, said opening having a predetermined perimeter; said method comprising i) providing at least one retro-reflective target means proximate the perimeter of said opening, ii) directing lighting means on said at least one retro-reflective target means; iii) providing a target identification means cooperating with said lighting means to provide images of said at least one retro-reflective target means to a computing means; iv) computing means for receiving information from said target identification means to process said information and thereby determine further action which might be taken based on the identification of the position of the opening. 19. The method of claim 18 wherein said opening is selected from the group of openings including a passenger door, or a cargo door. 20. The method of claim 18 wherein a passenger bridge, or cargo handling equipment is controlled by said computing means based on identification of said at least one retro-reflective target means, allowing for the docking of said passenger bridge or cargo handling equipment with said aircraft to facilitate loading and unloading upon arrival of the aircraft at a parked location and the separation thereof when the loading and unloading of the aircraft is completed prior to the departure of the aircraft from the parked location. 21. The method of claim 18 wherein said at least one camera further comprises at least one primary camera and at least one broad-view camera. 22. The method of claim 18 wherein said at least one camera further comprises a zoom lens. 23. The method of claim 21 wherein said at least one primary camera or said at least one broad-view camera further comprises a zoom lens. 24. The method of claim 18 wherein said at least one camera further comprises a pan or pan-and-tilt mount. 