A system for a clinical lab that is capable of automatically processing, including sorting, of multiple specimen containers. The system comprises a central controller, a workstation, one or more analyzers, and an automated centrifuge. The workstation has automatic detectors for detecting the presence of a holder holding specimen containers. The workstation has a bar code reader for reading bar codes on the containers. The system has a transport subsystem, preferably a workstation robotic arm and an analyzer robotic arm for transporting the specimen containers, moving them to and from the workstation, to and from the analyzers, and to and from the centrifuge. The centrifuge is loaded with buckets containing specimen containers. The workstation can be provided with a balance system for balancing the weight of the buckets used. The workstation can also have a decapper for automatically removing caps from the specimen containers.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for automatically processing multiple containers containing specimens, each of the containers having container identification indicia thereon, the containers being held in a holder having holder indicia thereon, the system comprising: (a) a central controller comprising (i) memory storage and (ii) a data input element for inputting processing instructions for the processing of each container according to the container identification indicia, the processing instructions being stored in memory; (b) detectors for detecting the presence of a holder in the system, the detectors having an output element for signaling the presence of a holder to the central controller memory storage; (c) an indicia reader for reading the container identification indicia and the holder identification indicia, the indicia reader having an output element for providing the container identification indicia and the holder identification indicia to the central controller memory storage, wherein the indicia reader is mounted on a vertically and horizontally rotatable robotic arm that permits scanning of both vertically and horizontally oriented indicia, wherein the indicia reader scans vertically and horizontally, wherein the robotic arm has a gripper head; and (d) a container sorting system comprising (i) a data input element in communication with the central controller for receiving instructions from the central controller for sorting containers for selective processing according to the processing instructions stored in the central controller memory storage, and (ii) a plurality of sort sites for placement of containers according to their processing instructions. 2. A method for automatically processing multiple containers containing specimens, each of the containers having container identification indicia thereon, the containers being held in a holder, the method comprising the steps of: (a) providing a system of claim 1; (b) storing in the memory storage of the controller, processing instructions for the processing of each container according to the container identification indicia; (c) automatically detecting the presence of the holder in the system and signaling the presence of the holder to the controller; (d) reading the container identification indicia and signaling the container identification indicia to the controller; and (e) selectively transporting the containers with a robotic arm to the plurality of sort sites according to their processing instructions. 3. A workstation for automatic sorting of multiple containers containing specimens for analysis, the workstation operating in cooperation with a controller, each of the containers having container identification indicia thereon, the containers being held in holders, the workstation comprising; (a) a table; (b) holder positioners on the table for positioning the holders in predetermined locations; (c) detectors for detecting the presence of a holder on the table at the predetermined locations, the detectors having an output element for signaling the presence of a holder to the controller; (d) an indicia reader for reading the container identification indicia, the reader having an output element for providing the container identification indicia to the controller, wherein the indicia reader is mounted on a vertically and horizontally rotatable robotic arm that permits scanning of both vertically and horizontally oriented indicia, wherein the indicia reader scans vertically and horizontally, wherein the robotic arm has a gripper head; and (e) a transport system on the table for sorting containers for processing according to indicia on the containers, the transport mechanism having an input element in communication with the controller so that the controller can control the transport system. 4. The workstation of claim 3, wherein the identification indicia are bar codes, and the indicia reader is a bar code reader. 5. The workstation of claim 3, wherein the table has input sites for holders holding containers for processing on the workstation and output sites for holders holding containers having been processed for removal from the workstation. 6. The workstation of claim 3, wherein the table is proximate to an analyzer, the table having an input side for receiving containers for processing and an analyzer side for holding containers for delivery to the analyzer, and wherein the transport system comprises a transport path with a robotic arm movable along the path, the path being located between the input side and the analyzer side. 7. The workstation of claim 3 further operating in cooperation with at least one analyzer, the workstation father comprising: an analyzer delivery site on the table for placement of holders for analysis by the analyzer and an analyzer receiving site on the table for receiving analyzed samples from the analyzer, wherein the transport system additionally transports the containers to and from the analyzer delivery and receiving sites. 8. A workstation for automatic sorting of multiple containers containing specimens for analysis, the workstation operating in cooperation with a controller, each of the containers having container identification indicia thereon, the containers being held in holders, the workstation further operating in cooperation with a centrifuge, the centrifuge being capable of centrifuging multiple receptacles containing the containers, at least some of the containers having a cap, the workstation comprising: (a) a table; (b) holder positioners on the table for positioning the holders in predetermined locations; (c) detectors for detecting the presence of a holder on the table at the predetermined locations, the detectors having an output element for signaling the presence of a holder to the controller; (d) an indicia reader for reading the container identification indicia, the reader having an output element for providing the container identification indicia to the controller, wherein the indicia reader is mounted on a vertically and horizontally rotatable robotic arm that permits scanning of both vertically and horizontally oriented indicia, wherein the robotic arm has a gripper head; (e) a transport system on the table for sorting containers for processing according to indicia on the containers, the transport mechanism having an input element in communication with the controller so that the controller can control the transport system; (f) receptacle positioners on the table for positioning receptacles; (g) a receptacle balance system on the table for balancing the weight of receptacles containing containers for the centrifuge; (h) a decapper on the table for selectively decapping centrifuged containers; and (i) a delivery site on the table for placement of holders containing centrifuged, decapped containers for analysis by the analyzer and a receiving site on the table for receiving analyzed samples from the analyzer, wherein the transport system additionally transports the containers to and from the centrifuge receptacles, the delivery and receiving sites, and the decapper and the transport system also transports receptacles to and from the receptacle balance system and the centrifuge. 9. The workstation of claim 8, wherein there are two different types of holders, and the positioners for the different type of holders are different. 10. The workstation of claim 9, wherein the holders comprise first and second holders, the first holders are transported by the transport system for sorting of all the containers in the first holders, and the containers in the second holders are transported by the transport system individually for sorting, and wherein the holder positioners for the second holders are closer to the transport system than are the holder positioners for the first holders. 11. The workstation of claim 7, wherein the transport system comprises a robotic arm on a longitudinal track, and the table includes a base, the base comprising: (a) a plurality of rigid bulkheads; (b) a pair of longitudinal beams connecting respective opposite sides of the bulkheads; and (c) a longitudinal rail connecting respective column extremities of the bulkheads in vertically spaced relation between the beams, the track being supported on the rail. 12. The workstation of claim 11, wherein the workstation further comprises a pneumatic subsystem for the transport system, wherein the longitudinal rail forms a reservoir of the pneumatic subsystem. 13. The workstation of claim 7, wherein the analyzer comprises: (a) a base having opposed sides, a front, a top, and a back, the top having analytical equipment thereon and being accessible from the front by a user; and (b) a pedestal on the top of the base, the pedestal having a front work area and a roof, wherein the transport mechanism for transporting the containers to and from the analyzer delivery and receiving sites is located on a top of the roof. 14. The workstation of claim 13, wherein the transport mechanism has a rest position that does not obstruct the top of the base or the front work area of the pedestal. 15. The workstation of claim 13, wherein the transport mechanism comprises a robotic arm, a path along the entire width of the roof, and a drive for moving the robotic arm along the path. 16. The workstation of claim 15, wherein the robotic arm comprises a track engaging element, an extension arm extending from the track engaging element in the same direction the path extends, and grippers connected to the extension arm, the extension arm being sufficiently long that when the track engaging element is at the end of the path, the robotic arm does not obstruct the top of the base or the front work area of the pedestal. 17. The workstation of claim 8, wherein the decapper removes pressed-in caps from the containers, the decapper comprising: (a) a receiver for clampingly holding a container; (b) a yoke member movably mounted relative to the receiver and having means for holding a cap seated in the container; and (c) a translator for laterally moving the yoke member between open and closed positions thereof; and (d) an elevator for raising the yoke member, in the closed position thereof, relative to the receiver to thereby remove the cap. 18. The workstation of claim 17, wherein the decapper further comprises: (a) a collector for receiving caps from the yoke member; and (b) an unloader for transferring removed caps from the yoke member to the collector. 19. The workstation of claim 17, wherein the decapper is used with each cap having a shoulder surface extending outwardly from opposite sides an adjacent container portion, wherein the means for holding the cap comprises the yoke having an upwardly facing ledge portion for engaging the shoulder surface of a cap seated in the container, the ledge portion extending under the shoulder surface of the cap in the closed position. 20. The workstation of claim 18, wherein the unloader comprises a post fixedly located relative to the receiver, in combination with the translator and the elevator being programmed for lowering the yoke member for engagement of the cap with the post, thereby stripping the cap from the yoke member. 21. The workstation of claim 17, wherein the decapper further comprises a guide for directing the stripped caps into the receiver. 22. The workstation of claim 17, wherein the decapper further comprises a cap sensor for sensing and signaling passage of removed caps into the collector. 23. The workstation of claim 17, wherein the decapper further comprises: a drive for rotating the receiver, for removal of threaded caps from the container. 24. The workstation of claim 23, wherein the receiver comprises a bladder member for enclosing a portion of the container, the bladder member being confined by a rigid member and fluid-connected through a control valve to a pressure source for selectively gripping the container. 25. The workstation of claim 23, wherein the receiver comprises: (a) a flexible sleeve within a rigid member for enclosing a bottom portion of the container, the sleeve having a closed end; (b) a jaw member extending between the rigid member and the flexible sleeve; and (c) an actuator for moving the jaw member forcibly against the sleeve, thereby the clamp the container relative to the rigid member. 26. A method for automatically processing multiple containers containing specimens, at least some of the containers having a cap, each of the containers having container identification indicia thereon, the containers being held in a holder, the method comprising the steps of: (a) providing a system comprising: (i) a central controller comprising memory storage, and a data input element for inputting processing instructions for the processing of each container according to the container identification indicia, the processing instructions being stored in memory; (ii) detectors for detecting the presence of a holder in the system, the detectors having an output element for signaling the presence of a holder to the central controller memory storage; (iii) an indicia reader for reading the container identification indicia and the holder identification indicia, the indicia reader having an output element for providing the container identification indicia and the holder identification indicia to the central controller memory storage; and (iv) a container sorting system comprising a data input element in communication with the central controller for receiving instructions from the central controller for sorting containers for selective processing according to the processing instructions stored in the central controller memory storage, and a plurality of sort sites for placement of containers according to their processing instructions; (b) detecting the presence of the holder in the system and signaling the presence of the holder to the controller; (c) reading the container identification indicia and signaling the container identification indicia to the controller; (d) selectively transporting the containers by a robotic arm into the plurality of sort sites according to corresponding processing instructions associated with the respective container indicia; (e) centrifuging selected specimens by the steps of: (i) selectively transporting and loading the containers into multiple centrifuge receptacles by the robotic arm according to the corresponding processing instructions; (ii) balancing the weight of the loaded receptacles; (iii) placing balanced receptacles in a centrifuge by the robotic arm; (iv) simultaneously centrifuging multiple receptacles in response to instructions from the controller; (v) unloading the centrifuge by stopping the centrifuge, indexing the centrifuge to selected unloading positions, and removing receptacles from the centrifuge by the robotic arm in response to signals from the controller; (f) selectively decapping centrifuged containers by transporting centrifuged containers to a decapper with the robotic arm and decapping; and (g) selectively analyzing the specimens by transporting selected containers to an analyzer in accordance with instructions from the controller and analyzing the specimens with the analyzer, and reporting the analysis results to the controller. 27. The method of claim 26, wherein the analyzer can perform multiple analyses, and the step of selectively analyzing comprises receiving instructions from the controller as to what analysis to perform for each specimen. 28. The method of claim 27, wherein the step of selectively analyzing comprises providing analyzer status and availability information of two analyzers to the controller, and transporting the selected containers selectively to one or the other of the analyzers in accordance with the availability information. 29. The method of claim 26, wherein the specimens are human blood samples. 30. A method for automatically processing multiple containers containing specimens, each of the containers having container identification indicia thereon, the containers being held in a holder, the method comprising the steps of: (a) providing a system comprising: (i) a central controller comprising memory storage, and a data input element for inputting processing instructions for the processing of each container according to the container identification indicia, the processing instructions being stored in memory; (ii) detectors for detecting the presence of a holder in the system, the detectors having an output element for signaling the presence of a holder to the central controller memory storage; (iii) an indicia reader for reading the container identification indicia and the holder identification indicia, the indicia reader having an output element for providing the container identification indicia and the holder identification indicia to the central controller memory storage; and (iv) a container sorting system comprising a data input element in communication with the central controller for receiving instructions from the central controller for sorting containers for selective processing according to the processing instructions stored in the central controller memory storage, and a plurality of sort sites for placement of containers according to their processing instructions; (b) storing in the memory storage of the controller processing instructions for the processing of each container according to the container identification indicia; (c) reading the container identification indicia and signaling the container identification indicia to the controller; and (d) centrifuging selected specimens by the steps of: (i) selectively transporting the containers to multiple centrifuge receptacles and loading the receptacles by a robotic arm according to processing instructions from the controller; (ii) balancing the receptacles; (iii) placing balanced receptacles in a centrifuge with the robotic arm, the centrifuge having a lid with a closed position and an open position; (iv) simultaneously centrifuging multiple receptacles in response to instructions from the controller, and (v) unloading the centrifuge by stopping the centrifuge, opening the lid, indexing the centrifuge to selected unloading positions, and removing receptacles from the centrifuge with the robotic arm in response to signals from the controller. 31. The method of claim 30, comprising the additional step of selectively decapping centrifuged containers by transporting centrifuged containers to a decapper with the robotic arm and decapping. 32. The method of claim 30, wherein the balancing step comprises: (a) monitoring the total weight of the receptacles and particular receptacles loaded as each container is loaded therein; (b) determining, from successive load increments and receptacles loaded, a loading of each receptacle; and (c) adjusting the loading of particular receptacle pairs to achieve a predetermined degree of balance. 33. The method of claim 32, wherein the adjusting step comprises adding a dummy load to a selected receptacle by the robotic arm. 34. The method of claim 30, wherein the balancing step comprises loading pairs of the receptacles using symmetrical loading patterns having equal numbers of loaded positions by the robotic arm. 