A calibration system is provided for use in generating calibration data for calibrating an X-Y digitiser. The calibration system uses an alignment head having an array of magnetic field generators which are for alignment with the X-Y digitiser. Each of the magnetic field generators is individually drivable so that calibration data can be obtained for different positions on the X-Y digitiser corresponding to the positions of the magnetic field generators in the array. The resulting calibration data is then used to generate a correction map which is stored in the X-Y digitiser
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A calibration system for determining calibration data for a host device having an X-Y digitiser, the system comprising: an alignment head comprising: i) an array of magnetic field generators in which the relative position of each magnetic field generator is known; and ii) a selector operable to select a magnetic field generator of the array; a calibration controller operable to control the selector to control the selection of said magnetic field generator; a drive circuit operable to energise the selected magnetic field generator to cause the selected magnetic field generator to generate a magnetic field for interaction with the X-Y digitiser; and a calibration data generator operable: i) to receive digitiser signal values from said X-Y digitiser in response to the interaction with the magnetic field generated by the selected magnetic field generator; and ii) to generate calibration data for the X-Y digitiser using the digitiser signal values for the selected magnetic field generator and the known position of the selected magnetic field generator. 2. A system according to claim 1, wherein one or more of said magnetic field generators is a coil of conductor. 3. A system according to claim 1, wherein one or more of said magnetic field generators comprises a plurality of coils. 4. A system according to claim 3, wherein one or more of the coils of the one or more magnetic field generator is individually drivable. 5. A system according to claim 3, wherein the coils of a magnetic field generator have different magnetic axes and have a substantially common magnetic centre. 6. A system according to claim 4, wherein said drive circuit is operable to apply a respective drive signal to each coil of the selected magnetic field generator in order to vary an effective magnetic axis of the magnetic field generator in order to simulate the effects of tilt, and wherein said calibration data generator is operable to generate calibration data for different simulated tilts. 7. A system according to claim 4, wherein the plurality of coils of the or each magnetic field generator have a common magnetic axis and are spaced apart along said axis. 8. A system according to claim 1, further comprising an actuator operable to move the alignment head relative to the host device. 9. A system according to claim 1, wherein said array of magnetic field generators is a substantially two dimensional array with magnetic field generators positioned in X and Y directions. 10. A system according to claim 9, wherein the magnetic field generators are arranged in a regular array in which the spacing between the magnetic field generators is uniform. 11. A system according to claim 9, wherein the magnetic field generators are arranged with non-uniform spacing such that a higher density of magnetic field generators is provided towards the edge of the array than in the centre of the array. 12. A system according to claim 1, wherein said alignment head comprises a locator for use in relating the known positions of the magnetic field generators with corresponding positions on the host device. 13. A system according to claim 12, wherein said locator comprises a mechanical locator which is operable to mechanically locate the alignment head in a predetermined position relative to the host device. 14. A system according to claim 12, wherein said locator is a sensor for sensing features of the host device, wherein said calibration data generator further comprises a mapping generator operable to generate a mapping between a coordinate system of the alignment head and a coordinate system of the host device, wherein the known relative positions of said magnetic field generators are defined in terms of said alignment head coordinate system, and wherein said calibration data generator is operable to use the generated mapping to determine a mapped position of the selected magnetic field generator in terms of the coordinate system of the host device and is operable to generate the calibration data for the X-Y digitiser using the digitiser signal values for the selected magnetic field generator and the mapped position of the selected magnetic field generator. 15. A system according to claim 14, wherein said locator is an optical sensor which is operable to detect the position of optical features on said host device relative to the alignment head. 16. A system according to claim 15, wherein said optical sensor comprises a camera having a field of view and wherein said calibration data generator comprises image processing circuitry operable to process the image from said camera to determine the relative position of one or more optical features within the field of view of the camera in order to determine said mapping between the alignment head coordinate system and the coordinate system of the host device. 17. A system according to claim 16, comprising two or more cameras and image processing circuitry for processing the image from each camera to detect the position of one or more optical features on the host relative to the field of view of the respective cameras. 18. A system according to claim 14, wherein said host device includes a display, wherein said calibration data generator is operable to map the coordinate system of the alignment head to a coordinate system of the display and wherein said X-Y digitiser is operable to measure the position of the selected magnetic field generator in terms of the coordinate system of the display as said digitiser signal values. 19. A system according to claim 1, wherein said selector comprises a plurality of switches coupled between said drive circuit and said array of magnetic field generators. 20. A system according to claim 19, wherein said switches are unipolar switches and wherein said drive circuit is operable to generate a drive signal comprising an AC component and a DC component for preventing the AC component from reverse biasing said switches. 21. A system according to claim 19, wherein said magnetic field generators comprise coils on one or more printed circuit boards and wherein said switches are mounted on said one or more printed circuit boards with said coils. 22. A system according to claim 19, further comprising a plurality of row select signal lines and a plurality of column select lines coupled between said switches and said calibration controller and operable to carry control signals generated by said calibration controller to said switches to control the state of said switches and thereby the selection of said magnetic field generator. 23. A system according to claim 1, wherein said calibration controller and said calibration data generator are provided in a calibration computer. 24. A system according to claim 23, wherein said calibration computer forms part of said X-Y digitiser. 25. A system according to claim 1, wherein said drive circuit is provided on said alignment head. 26. A system according to claim 1, wherein said calibration data generator is operable to generate said calibration data by comparing a measured position of the selected magnetic field generator with the known relative position of the selected magnetic generator. 27. A system according to claim 26, wherein said calibration data generator is operable to generate, as said calibration data, error data representing the difference in position between the measured position for the selected magnetic field generator and the known relative position of the selected magnetic field generator. 28. A system according to claim 26, wherein said calibration data generator is operable to generate error data for each magnetic field generator of the array, which error data represents the difference in position between the measured position for the magnetic field generator and the known relative position of the magnetic field generator and is operable to generate a correction map as said calibration data using the error data generated for the magnetic field generators in the array. 29. A system according to claim 28, wherein said calibration data generator is operable to generate data representative of a calibration function as said correction map, which function relates a measured position to correction data for that measured position or to a corrected measured position. 30. A system according to claim 29, wherein said calibration data generator is operable to generate data representative of a calibration function as said correction map, which function relates a measured position and tilt to correction data for that measured position and tilt or to a corrected measured position. 31. A system according to claim 1, wherein said calibration data generator is operable to store the generated calibration data in said host device for use by said X-Y digitiser to calibrate X-Y position measurements made thereby. 32. A system according to claim 1, further comprising a calibration data analyser operable to analyse first calibration data generated for a plurality of test host devices and operable to generate second calibration data representative of the first calibration data. 33. A system according to claim 32, operable to store said second calibration data within one or more non-test host devices. 34. A system according to claim 1, further comprising a calibration data analyser operable to analyse the calibration data obtained for a digitiser to determine if there are any faults. 35. A system according to claim 34, wherein said calibration data analyser is operable to compare said calibration data with corresponding calibration data obtained from previous devices. 36. A system according to claim 35, wherein said calibration data analyser is operable to compare said calibration data or data derived from the calibration data with predetermined limits and is operable to identify a fault if said calibration data falls outside those limits. 37. An alignment head for use in the calibration system according to claim 1, the alignment head comprising: an array of magnetic field generators in which the relative position of each magnetic field generator is known; a locator for use in relating the known relative positions of the magnetic field generators with corresponding positions on the host device; and a selector operable to select a magnetic field generator of the array. 38. An alignment head according to claim 37, wherein one or more of said magnetic field generators is a coil of conductor. 39. An alignment head according to claim 37 or 38, wherein said locator comprises a mechanical locator which is operable to mechanically locate the alignment head in a predetermined position relative to the host device. 40. An alignment head according to claim 37 or 38, wherein said locator comprises a sensor for sensing predetermined features of the host device. 41. A calibration computer for use in the calibration system of claim 1, the calibration computer comprising: a calibration controller operable to control the selector of the alignment head, to control the selection of said magnetic field generator; a receiver operable to receive digitiser signal values from the X-Y digitiser in response to the interaction with the magnetic field generated by the selected magnetic field generator; and a calibration data generator operable to generate calibration data for the X-Y digitiser using the digitiser signal values for the selected magnetic field generator and the known relative position of the selected magnetic field generator. 42. A calibration computer according to claim 41, wherein said calibration data generator is operable to generate said calibration data by comparing a measured position of the selected magnetic field generator with the known relative position of the selected magnetic field generator. 43. A method of determining calibration data for a host device having an X-Y digitiser, the method comprising: placing an array of magnetic field generators in which the relative position of each magnetic field generator is known, over the host device; selecting a magnetic field generator of the array; energising the selected magnetic field generator to cause the selected magnetic field generator to generate a magnetic field for interaction with the X-Y digitiser; receiving digitiser signal values from the X-Y digitiser in response to the interaction with the magnetic field generated by the selected magnetic field generator; generating calibration data for the X-Y digitiser using the digitiser signal values for the selected magnetic field generator and the known relative position of the selected magnetic field generator; and storing the generated calibration data for use by said X-Y digitiser. 44. A method of manufacturing a host device having an X-Y digitiser, the method comprising: mounting the X-Y digitiser in the host device; positioning an array of magnetic field generators in which the relative position of each magnetic field generator is known adjacent the host device; selecting a magnetic field generator of the array; energising the selected magnetic field generator to cause the selected magnetic field generator to generate a magnetic field for interaction with the X-Y digitiser; receiving digitiser signal values from said X-Y digitiser in response to the interaction with the magnetic field generated by the selected magnetic field generator; generating calibration data for the X-Y digitiser using the digitiser signal values for the selected magnetic field generator and the known relative position of the selected magnetic field generator; and storing the generated calibration data in the host device for use by said X-Y digitiser. 45. A method of manufacturing a host device having an X-Y digitiser, the method comprising: providing one or more test host devices, each having an X-Y digitiser, determining first calibration data for the or each test host device by: i) placing an array of magnetic field generators, in which the relative position of each magnetic field generator is known, adjacent to the X-Y digitiser of the test host device; ii) selecting a magnetic field generator of the array; iii) energising the selected magnetic field generator to cause the selected magnetic field generator to generate a magnetic field for interaction with the X-Y digitiser of the test host device; iv) receiving digitiser signal values from the X-Y digitiser of the test host device, in response to the interaction with the magnetic field generated by the selected magnetic field generator; and v) generating first calibration data for the test host device using the digitiser signal values for the selected magnetic field generator and the known position of the selected magnetic field generator; determining second calibration data representative of the or each first calibration data generated for the or each test host device; mounting an X-Y digitiser in a non-test host device; and storing the second calibration data into the non-test host device. 46. A host device comprising: an X-Y digitiser for sensing X-Y positions of a position indicator relative to a work surface of the host device; and a memory storing calibration data generated by: placing an array of magnetic field generators, in which the relative position of each magnetic field generator is known, over the host device; selecting a magnetic field generator of the array; energising the selected magnetic field generator to cause the selected magnetic field generator to generate a magnetic field for interaction with the X-Y digitiser; receiving digitiser signal values from the X-Y digitiser in response to the interaction with the magnetic field generated by the selected magnetic field generator; and generating calibration data for the X-Y digitiser using the digitiser signal values for the selected magnetic field generator and the known relative position of the selected magnetic field generator. 47. A host device comprising: an X-Y digitiser for sensing X-Y positions of a position indicator relative to a work surface of the host device; and a memory storing calibration data generated by: providing one or more test host devices, each having an X-Y digitiser, determining first calibration data for the or each test host device by: i) placing an array of magnetic field generators, in which the relative position of each magnetic field generator is known, adjacent to the X-Y digitiser of the test host device; ii) selecting a magnetic field generator of the array; iii) energising the selected magnetic field generator to cause the selected magnetic field generator to generate a magnetic field for interaction with the X-Y digitiser of the test host device; iv) receiving digitiser signal values from the X-Y digitiser of the test host device, in response to the interaction with the magnetic field generated by the selected magnetic field generator; and v) generating first calibration data for the test host device using the digitiser signal values for the selected magnetic field generator and the known position of the selected magnetic field generator; determining second calibration data representative of the or each first calibration data generated for the or each test host device; and wherein said second calibration data is the calibration data stored in said memory. 48. A host device according to claim 46 or 47, wherein one or more of said magnetic field generators comprises a plurality of coils and wherein said energising step energises each coil of the magnetic field generator individually. 49. A host device according to claim 48, wherein said energising step applies a respective drive signal to each coil of the selected magnetic field generator in order to vary an effective magnetic axis of the magnetic field generator in order to simulate the effects of tilt, and wherein said calibration data generation step generates calibration data for different simulated tilts. 50. A host device according to claim 46 or 47, further comprising the step of using an actuator to move the alignment head relative to the host device. 51. A host device according to claim 46 or 47, further comprising relating the known positions of the magnetic field generators with corresponding positions on the host device. 52. A host device according to claim 51, wherein said relating step comprises using a mechanical locator to mechanically locate the alignment head in a predetermined position relative to the host device. 53. A host device according to claim 51, wherein said relating step comprises sensing features of the host device, wherein said calibration data generating step comprises a step of generating a mapping between a coordinate system of the alignment head and a coordinate system of the host device, wherein the known relative positions of said magnetic field generators are defined in terms of said alignment head coordinate system, and wherein said calibration data generating step uses the generated mapping to determine a mapped position of the selected magnetic field generator in terms of the coordinate system of the host device and generates the calibration data for the X-Y digitiser using the digitiser signal values for the selected magnetic field generator and the mapped position of the selected magnetic field generator. 54. A host device according to claim 53, wherein said sensing step senses the position of optical features on said host device relative to the alignment head. 55. A host device according to claim 54, wherein said sensing step uses a camera having a field of view and wherein said calibration data generating step comprises an image processing step for processing the image from said camera to determine the relative position of one or more optical features within the field of view of the camera in order to determine said mapping between the alignment head coordinate system and the coordinate system of the host device. 56. A host device according to claim 55, wherein said sensing step uses two or more cameras and wherein said image processing step processes the image from each camera to detect the position of an optical feature on the host relative to the field of view of the respective cameras. 57. A host device according to claim 46 or 47, further comprising a display, wherein said calibration data generating step maps the coordinate system of the alignment head to a coordinate system of the display and wherein said X-Y digitiser measures the position of the selected magnetic field generator in terms of the coordinate system of the display as said digitiser signal values. 58. A host device according to claim 46 or 47, wherein said selecting step uses a plurality of switches coupled between a drive circuit and said array of magnetic field generators. 59. A host device according to claim 58, wherein said switches are unipolar switches and wherein said energising step generates a drive signal comprising an AC component and a DC component for preventing the AC component from reverse biasing said switches. 60. A host device according to claim 46 or 47, wherein said calibration data generating step generates said calibration data by comparing a measured position of the selected magnetic field generator with the known relative position of the selected magnetic field generator. 61. A host device according to claim 60, wherein said calibration data generating step generates, as said calibration data, error data representing the difference in position between the measured position for the selected magnetic field generator and the known relative position of the selected magnetic field generator. 62. A host device according to claim 60, wherein said calibration data generating step generates error data for each magnetic field generator of the array, which error data represents the difference in position between the measured position for the magnetic field generator and the known relative position of the magnetic field generator and generates a correction map as said calibration data using the error data generated for the magnetic field generators in the array. 63. A host device according to claim 62, wherein said calibration data generating step generates data representative of a calibration function as said correction map, which function relates a measured position to correction data for that measured position or to a corrected measured position. 64. A host device according to claim 63, wherein said calibration data generating step generates data representative of a calibration function as said correction map, which function relates a measured position and tilt to correction data for that measured position and tilt or to a corrected measured position. 65. A host device according to claims 46 or 47, further comprising the step of analysing the calibration data obtained for the digitiser to determine if there are any faults. 66. A host device according to claim 65, wherein said analysing step compares said calibration data with corresponding calibration data obtained from previous devices. 67. A host device according to claim 66, wherein said analysing step compares said calibration data or data derived from said calibration data with predetermined limits and identifies a fault if said calibration data falls outside those limits. 68. A host device according to claim 46 or 47, wherein said selecting and energising steps are operable to select and to energise a plurality of said magnetic field generators and wherein said generating step is operable to generate said calibration data using: i) digitiser signal values obtained as a result of the interaction between the selected magnetic field generators and the digitiser; and ii) the corresponding known relative positions of the selected magnetic field generators. 