Enhanced telepresence and telesurgery systems automatically update coordinate transformations so as to retain alignment between movement of an input device and movement of an end effector as displayed adjacent the input device. A processor maps a controller workspace with an end effector workspace, and effects movement of the end effector in response to the movement of the input device. This allows the use of kinematically dissimilar master and slave linkages. Gripping an input member near a gimbal point and appropriate input member to end effector mapping points enhance the operator's control. Dexterity is enhanced by accurately tracking orientational and/or angles of movement, even if linear movement distances of the end effector do not correspond to those of the input device.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A medical robotic system comprising: a master controller having a display, and an input device movable in a controller workspace; a slave robotic mechanism including a slave arm adapted to movably support a tool, and at least one actuator operatively couplable to an end effector of the tool so as to move the end effector in a surgical workspace in response to slave actuator signals; an imaging system including an image capture device having a field of view in the surgical workspace and a linkage including joints for movably supporting the image capture device, the imaging system generating state variable signals including joint measurements indicating the field of view; and a processor coupling the master controller to the at least one actuator of the slave robotic mechanism, the processor generating the slave actuator signals by mapping the input device in the controller workspace with the end effector in the surgical workspace according to a transformation determined at system startup using the state variable signals of the imaging system so that an image of the end effector in the display of the master controller appears substantially connected to the input device in the controller workspace. 2. The medical robotic system of claim 1, wherein the slave robotic mechanism is supported by a slave base and further includes a slave setup arm having setup joints whose positions are indicative of the position of the slave arm relative to the slave base, and the transformation is determined by also using information of the positions of the setup joints. 3. The medical robotic system of claim 2, wherein the imaging system linkage is mechanically coupled to the slave base. 4. The medical robotic system of claim 3, wherein the slave base comprises a patient-side cart having wheels for transporting the slave robotic mechanism and the imaging system to a position suitable for performing a minimally invasive surgical procedure on a patient. 5. The medical robotic system of claim 1, wherein the processor determines a position and orientation of the input device in the master controller space from state variable signals of the master controller, determines a position and orientation of the end effector in the surgical workspace from state variable signals of the slave robotic mechanism, and generates the slave actuator signals by comparing the position and orientation of the input device and the end effector in a mapped space. 6. The medical robotic system of claim 1, wherein the slave arm has an elongate shaft supporting the end effector, the image capture device comprises an endoscope having a distal end, and the processor determines the transformation when the shaft and the endoscope are inserted into a surgical site through minimally invasive access sites so that the end effector and the distal end of the endoscope move by pivoting the shaft and the endoscope about their respective access sites. 7. The medical robotic system of claim 1, wherein the slave robotic mechanism includes a tool holder so that a tool may be detachably mounted in the tool holder, the medical robotic system further comprising a plurality of alternative kinematically dissimilar tools having alternative end effectors, the alternative tools mountable to the tool holder in place of the tool, the processor capable of changing the transformation in response to a tool change signal. 8. The medical robotic system of claim 1, wherein the processor determines the transformation in real time. 9. A medical robotic system comprising: a master controller having a display, and an input device movable in a controller workspace; a slave robotic mechanism supported by a slave base and including a slave arm movably supporting an end effector, a slave setup arm having setup joints whose positions are indicative of the position of the slave arm relative to the slave base, and at least one actuator operatively coupled to the end effector so as to move the end effector in a surgical workspace in response to slave actuator signals; an imaging system including an image capture device having a field of view in the surgical workspace, the imaging system generating state variable signals indicating the field of view; and a processor coupling the master controller to the at least one actuator of the slave robotic mechanism, the processor generating the slave actuator signals by mapping the input device in the controller workspace with the end effector in the surgical workspace according to a transformation determined by the processor using the state variable signals of the imaging system and the positions of the setup joints of the slave setup arm such that movement of an image of the end effector in the display of the master controller appears substantially connected to the input device in the controller workspace; wherein if one or more of the setup joints of the slave setup arm are moved to a new position, the input device is re-mapped with the end effector according to another transformation determined by the processor using the new position. 10. The medical robotic system of claim 9, wherein the image capture device is movable independent of the slave arm. 11. The medical robotic system of claim 9, wherein the processor determines a position and orientation of the input device in the master controller space from state variable signals of the master controller, determines a position and orientation of the end effector in the surgical workspace from state variable signals of the slave robotic mechanism, and generates the slave actuator signals by comparing the position and orientation of the input device and the end effector in a mapped space. 12. The medical robotic system of claim 11, wherein the slave arm has an elongate shaft supporting the end effector, the image capture device comprises an endoscope having a distal end, and the processor determines the transformation when the shaft and the endoscope are inserted into a surgical site through minimally invasive access sites so that the end effector and the distal end of the endoscope move by pivoting the shaft and the endoscope about the access sites. 13. The medical robotic system of claim 9, wherein an imaging system linkage is mechanically coupled to the slave base. 14. The medical robotic system of claim 13, wherein the slave base comprises a patient-side cart having wheels for transporting the slave robotic mechanism and the imaging system to a position suitable for performing a minimally invasive surgical procedure on a patient. 15. The medical robotic system of claim 9, wherein the slave robotic mechanism includes a tool holder and a tool detachably mounted in the tool holder, the tool including the end effector, the medical robotic system further comprising a plurality of alternative kinematically dissimilar surgical tools having alternative surgical end effectors, the alternative tools mountable to the tool holder in place of the tool, the processor capable of changing the transformation in response to a tool change signal. 16. The medical robotic system of claim 9, wherein the processor determines the transformation in real time. 17. A medical robotic system comprising: a master controller having a display, and an input device movable in a controller workspace; a slave robotic mechanism including a slave arm adapted to movably support a tool, and at least one actuator operatively couplable to an end effector of the tool so as to move the end effector in a surgical workspace in response to slave actuator signals; an imaging system including an image capture device having a field of view in the surgical workspace and a linkage including joints for movably supporting the image capture device, the imaging system generating state variable signals including information received from magnetic sensors indicating the field of view; and a processor coupling the master controller to the at least one actuator of the slave robotic mechanism, the processor generating the slave actuator signals by mapping the input device in the controller workspace with the end effector in the surgical workspace according to a transformation determined using the state variable signals of the imaging system so that an image of the end effector in the display of the master controller appears substantially connected to the input device in the controller workspace. 18. The medical robotic system according to claim 17, wherein if the image capture device is moved the state variables of the imaging system change and the input device is re-mapped with the end effector according to another transformation, the other transformation derived in response to the changed state variables of the imaging system. 19. The medical robotic system of claim 17, wherein the slave robotic mechanism is supported by a slave base and further includes a slave setup arm having setup joints whose positions are indicative of the position of the slave arm relative to the slave base, and the transformation is determined by also using information of the positions of the setup joints. 20. The medical robotic system of claim 17, wherein the imaging system linkage is mechanically coupled to the slave base. 21. The medical robotic system of claim 20, wherein the slave base comprises a patient-side cart having wheels for transporting the slave robotic mechanism and the imaging system to a position suitable for performing a minimally invasive surgical procedure on a patient. 22. The medical robotic system of claim 17, wherein the processor determines a position and orientation of the input device in the master controller space from state variable signals of the master controller, determines a position and orientation of the end effector in the surgical workspace from state variable signals of the slave robotic mechanism, and generates the slave actuator signals by comparing the position and orientation of the input device and the end effector in a mapped space. 23. The medical robotic system of claim 17, wherein the slave arm has an elongate shaft supporting the end effector, the image capture device comprises an endoscope having a distal end, and the processor determines the transformation when the shaft and the endoscope are inserted into a surgical site through minimally invasive access sites so that the end effector and the distal end of the endoscope move by pivoting the shaft and the endoscope about their respective access sites. 24. A medical robotic system comprising: a master controller having a display, and an input device movable in a controller workspace; a slave robotic mechanism including a slave arm adapted to movably support a tool, and at least one actuator operatively couplable to an end effector of the tool so as to move the end effector in a surgical workspace in response to slave actuator signals; an imaging system including an image capture device having a field of view in the surgical workspace and a linkage including joints for movably supporting the image capture device, the imaging system generating state variable signals including image recognition-derived information indicating the field of view; and a processor coupling the master controller to the at least one actuator of the slave robotic mechanism, the processor generating the slave actuator signals by mapping the input device in the controller workspace with the end effector in the surgical workspace according to a transformation determined using the state variable signals of the imaging system so that an image of the end effector in the display of the master controller appears substantially connected to the input device in the controller workspace. 25. The medical robotic system according to claim 24, wherein if the image capture device is moved the state variables of the imaging system change and the input device is re-mapped with the end effector according to another transformation, the other transformation derived in response to the changed state variables of the imaging system. 26. The medical robotic system of claim 24, wherein the slave robotic mechanism is supported by a slave base and further includes a slave setup arm having setup joints whose positions are indicative of the position of the slave arm relative to the slave base, and the transformation is determined by also using information of the positions of the setup joints. 27. The medical robotic system of claim 24, wherein the imaging system linkage is mechanically coupled to the slave base. 28. The medical robotic system of claim 27, wherein the slave base comprises a patient-side cart having wheels for transporting the slave robotic mechanism and the imaging system to a position suitable for performing a minimally invasive surgical procedure on a patient. 29. The medical robotic system of claim 24, wherein the processor determines a position and orientation of the input device in the master controller space from state variable signals of the master controller, determines a position and orientation of the end effector in the surgical workspace from state variable signals of the slave robotic mechanism, and generates the slave actuator signals by comparing the position and orientation of the input device and the end effector in a mapped space. 30. The medical robotic system of claim 24, wherein the slave arm has an elongate shaft supporting the end effector, the image capture device comprises an endoscope having a distal end, and the processor determines the transformation when the shaft and the endoscope are inserted into a surgical site through minimally invasive access sites so that the end effector and the distal end of the endoscope move by pivoting the shaft and the endoscope about their respective access sites. 