This disclosure relates to a system and method for creating nano-object arrays. A nano-object array can be created by exposing troughs in a corrugated surface to nano-objects and depositing the nano-objects within or orienting the nano-objects with the troughs.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for fabricating an array of nano-objects comprising: providing nano-objects having a length and a thickness, the length being significantly larger than the thickness; providing a superlattice having a working surface and alternating layers of a conductive material and one or more other materials, the working surface comprising exposed edges of the alternating layers, the exposed edges of the conductive material layers being offset from the exposed edges of one or more of the one or more other material layers and having a length and a thickness, the length being significantly larger than the thickness; exposing the nano-objects to the working surface; and orienting, with an electrical field, the lengths of the nano-objects with the lengths of the offset, exposed edges of the conductive material layers. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the nano-objects include polymer nano-tube complexes. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the nano-objects include inorganic or organic molecules; biological molecules; metal, semiconductor, or insulating nano-particles; metal or semiconductor nanowires; metal or semiconductor nano-needles; or metal, dielectric, or semiconductor nano-tubes. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the offset, exposed edges of the conductive material layers form troughs in the working surface. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the orienting is performed electrophoretically. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the orienting is performed electrostatically. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the orienting is performed electrochemically. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the offset, exposed edges of the conductive material layers form troughs in the working surface and the orienting is performed electro-phoretically such that many of the troughs contain one or more of the nano-objects. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the offset, exposed edges of the conductive material layers form troughs in the working surface; the orienting is performed electro-phoretically such that many of the troughs partially contain one or more of the nano-objects; and the orienting includes applying an alternating current to oscillate the partially contained nano-objects to aid in substantially collecting the nano-objects within the troughs. 10. The method of claim 1, further comprising: charging the nano-objects in a bath; and charging the offset, exposed edges of the conductive material layers, wherein the exposing the nano-objects to the working surface includes placing the working surface within the charged bath. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the orienting includes laminarly flowing the nano-objects along the offset, exposed edges of the conductive material layers. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the orienting includes: collecting the nano-objects at the offset, exposed edges of the conductive material layers in part by laminarly flowing the nano-objects along the length of the offset, exposed edges of the conductive material layers but leaving some of the nano-objects uncollected; and introducing turbulent flow outside of the offset, exposed edges of the conductive material layers to remove the uncollected nano-objects. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the offset, exposed edges of the conductive material layers form troughs in the working surface and the orienting includes settling the nano-objects substantially within the troughs by agitating the nano-objects. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein the orienting includes: charging the offset, exposed edges of the conductive material layers and a solution containing the nano-objects and ions to spatially distribute some of the ions near the offset, exposed edges of the conductive material layers, wherein the spatial distribution restricts a spatial region within which the electric field is non-zero near the offset, exposed edges of the conductive material layers; exposing the nano-objects to the restricted spatial region within which the electric field is non-zero near the offset, exposed edges of the conductive material layers to polarize the exposed nano-objects; and collecting, electrophoretically, the polarized nano-objects on the offset, exposed edges of the conductive material layers. 15. The method of claim 1, further comprising: removing substantially all of the nano-objects that are not oriented with the offset, exposed edges of the conductive material layers. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more other materials is conductive. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein the offset, exposed edges of the conductive material layers form troughs or furrows in the working surface. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein the working surface has a sine-wave, saw-tooth, or stepped-square cross-section across the lengths of the offset, exposed edges of the conductive material layers. 19. A robotic platform configured to perform actions comprising: providing nano-objects having a length and a thickness, the length being significantly larger than the thickness; providing a superlattice having a working surface and alternating layers of a conductive material and one or more other materials, the working surface comprising exposed edges of the alternating layers, the exposed edges of the conductive material layers being offset from the exposed edges of one or more of the one or more other material layers and having a length and a thickness, the length being significantly larger than the thickness; exposing the nano-objects to the working surface; and orienting with an electrical field, the lengths of the nano-objects with the lengths of the offset, exposed edges of the conductive material layers. 20. The actions of claim 19, wherein the nano-objects include inorganic or organic molecules; biological molecules; metal, semiconductor, or insulating nano-particles; metal or semiconductor nanowires; metal or semiconductor nano-needles; or metal, dielectric, or semiconductor nano-tubes. 21. The actions of claim 19, wherein the offset, exposed edges of the conductive material layers form troughs in the working surface. 22. The actions of claim 19, wherein the orienting is performed electrophoretically. 23. The actions of claim 19, further comprising: charging the nano-objects in a charged bath; and charging the offset, exposed edges of the conductive material layers, wherein the exposing the nano-objects to the working surface includes placing the working surface within the charged bath. 24. The actions of claim 19, wherein the orienting includes laminarly flowing the nano-objects along the offset, exposed edges of the conductive material layers. 