Methods for specifying the layout of a MALDI sample plate are provided. In general, the methods involve creating a file containing sample plate layout parameters that describe the layout of a MALDI sample plate, and storing the file on a computer readable medium prior to placement of the MALDI sample plate into a MALDI ion source. In many embodiments, the file includes information about the size or shape of the sample plate, or information about the size, shape or position of a sample on the sample plate. In many embodiments, a MALDI sample plate is placed in a MALDI ion source and a stored layout file for the sample plate is accessed and used to position an area of the sample plate in a laser beam. The subject methods, kits and apparatus find use in a variety of different mass spectrometry applications.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of positioning a sample on a MALDI sample plate in a laser beam, comprising: a) accessing a stored sample plate layout file containing parameters that describe the perimeter of said sample present on said MALDI sample plate; said file stored prior to placement of said MALDI sample plate in a MALDI ion source; and b) positioning the sample in relation to the laser beam such that the sample is in the laser beam using said parameters in said stored sample plate layout file. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein positioning comprises moving the sample relative to the laser beam. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein positioning comprises moving the laser beam relative to the sample. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein said accessing comprises using a barcode associated with said MALDI sample plate. 5. The method of claim 1 further comprising ionizing a portion of said sample using said laser beam. 6. A system for positioning a MALDI sample plate in a MALDI ion source, comprising: (a) a computer readable file having stored sample plate layout parameters that describe a perimeter of a sample on said MALDI sample plate, the file being stored in a computer readable medium prior to placement of said MALDI sample plate in the MALDI ion source; and (b) means for positioning the MALDI sample plate using said stored sample plate layout parameters placement of said MALDI sample plate in the MALDI ion source. 7. The system of claim 6 wherein the computer readable file comprises parameters that describe a position of the MALDI sample plate relative to a fixed reference point of said MALDI ion source. 8. The system of claim 6 further comprising a sample on the MALDI sample plate and wherein the computer readable file comprises parameters that describe a position of the sample relative to a fixed reference point of the MALDI ion source. 9. The system of claim 7 wherein said fixed reference point is a point in the laser beam. 10. A method for positioning a MALDI sample plate in a MALDI ion source with respect to a laser beam, comprising: (a) storing sample plate layout parameters that describe a perimeter of a sample on said MALDI sample plate into a computer readable file prior to placement of said MALDI sample plate in the MALDI ion source; and (b) adjusting the relative position of the MALDI sample plate and the laser beam such that a selected position on said MALDI sample plate is impacted by the laser beam; wherein said adjusting is done using the sample plate layout parameters of the computer readable file. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein adjusting comprises moving the MALDI sample plate using the sample plate parameters and maintaining the laser beam in a fixed position. 12. The method of claim 10 wherein adjusting comprises moving the laser beam using the sample plate parameters and maintaining the MALDI sample plate in a fixed position. 13. The method of claim 10 further comprising ionizing a sample on the MALDI sample plate. 14. The method of claim 10 wherein said adjusting comprises positioning an impact point of the laser beam in a coordinate system defined on the MALDI sample plate. 15. A method for operating a MALDI ion source, comprising: (a) entering sample plate layout parameters that describe a perimeter of a sample on said MALDI sample plate into a computer readable file prior to installation of a MALDI sample plate in the MALDI ion source; (b) positioning the MALDI sample plate using the sample plate layout parameters; and (c) ionizing a sample on the MALDI sample plate with a laser beam. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein steps (a), (b) and (c) are automated. 17. A system for positioning a MALDI sample plate in a MALDI ion source, comprising: (a) a computer readable file having stared sample plate layout parameters that describe a perimeter of said MALDI sample plate, the file being stored in a computer readable medium prior to placement of said MALDI sample plate in the MALDI ion source; and (b) means for positioning the MALDI sample plate using said sample plate layout parameters after placement of said MALDI sample plate in the MALDI ion source. 18. A method of positioning a sample on a MALDI sample plate in a laser beam, comprising: a) accessing a stored sample plate layout file containing parameters that describe the perimeter of said MALDI sample plate; said file stored prior to placement of said MALDI sample plate in a MALDI ion source; and b) positioning the sample in relation to the laser beam such that the sample is in the laser beam using said sample plate layout parameters of said stored sample plate layout file. 