The present invention provides a system that enables the use of electrophoretic resists in the microfabrication industry for the production of microelectronic devices and is of sufficiently high quality to be used as a replacement for, or supplement to, current photoresist deposition technology. This system enables the application of electrophoretic resists in automated equipment that meets the standards for cleanliness and production throughput desired by the microelectronic fabrication industry. The system, apparatus and method, for providing electrophoretic resist ("EPR") layers on microelectronic workpieces for the microfabrication of microelectronic devices comprises a deposition station for receiving a microelectronic workpiece and depositing a layer of electrophoretic photoresist (EPR) thereon, a workpiece handling apparatus, and a control unit coupled to the workpiece handling apparatus and the deposition station for coordinating the processing of the workpiece in accordance with a predetermined sequence and set of processing parameters.
Claims We claim: 1. A reactor base of an electrophoretic deposition station for depositing electrophoretic material onto a workpiece, comprising: an overflow cup; a processing cup in the overflow cup, the processing cup having an inlet coupled to a supply conduit for an electrophoretic emulsion (EPE) and a weir defining a processing zone; a gas control system in the processing cup, the gas control system being configured to inhibit bubbles from residing on a workpiece oriented at least substantially horizontal in the processing zone; and an electrode in the processing cup wherein the electrode comprises an annular electrode; and the gas control system is configured to prevent bubbles at the electrode from traveling to the workpiece in the processing zone, and the gas control system comprises an annular bubble trap extending around an interior portion of the processing cup and oroiectina radially inwardly above the electrode. 2. The reactor base of claim 1 further comprising a reservoir in the reactor base below the overflow cup, a thermal element in the reservoir, and a drainage passage between the overflow cup and the reservoir through which the EPE ctan flow downward. 3. The reactor base of claim 1 further comprising an ultrafilter configured to separate the EPE into a permeate solution and a concentrated EPE. 4. The reactor base of claim 1 wherein the annular bubble trap comprises a ledge extending around the interior portion of the processing cup and projecting radially inwardly above the electrode, and the gas control system further comprises a vent through the processing cup located under a portion of the ledge through which bubbles can flow out of the processing cup before reaching the processing zone. 5. The reactor base of claim 4 wherein the ledge has a lower surface that projects radially inwardly and downwardly from the processing cup. 6. The reactor base of claim 1 wherein the gas control system further comprises a diffuser at the inlet of the processing cup that directs a flow component of the EPE upwardly toward a central location of the processing zone. 7. The reactor base of claim 1 wherein: the electrode comprises a ring; and the gas control system further comprises a diffuser at the inlet of the processing cup that directs a first flow component of the EPE toward a central location of the processing zone and a second flow component of the EPE upward and radially outward toward the side wall of the electrode. 8. The reactor base of claim 1 wherein: the electrode comprises a ring; and the gas control system further comprises a diffuser at the inlet of the processing cup that directs a first flow component of the EPE fluid toward a central location of the processing zone and a second flow component of the EPE fluid upward and radially outward toward the side wall of the electrode, and the annular bubble trap comprises a ledge extending around an interior portion of the processing cup and projecting radially inward above the electrode, and the gas control system further comprises a vent through the processing cup located under the ledge. 9. A reactor base of an electrophoretic deposition reactor for depositing electrophoretic material onto a workpiece having a first diameter, comprising: a reservoir for containing an electrophoretic emulsion (EPE); a thermal element in the reservoir for maintaining the EPE at a desired temperature; a reactor vessel above the reservoir, the reactor vessel comprising an overflow cup; a processing cup in the overflow cup, the processing cup having an inlet coupled to a supply conduit for an electrophoretic emulsion and a weir having a diameter larger than the first diameter of the workpiece to define a processing zone for a single-workpiece oriented at least substantially horizontal; an annular electrode in the processing cup, and a gas control system configured to inhibit bubbles from residing on the horizontally oriented workpiece in the processing zone, wherein the gas control system comprises an annular bubble trap extending around an interior portion of the processing cup and proiecting radially inwardly above the electrode; and a filter in fluid communication with EPE flowing through the reactor vessel and/or the reservoir, the filter being configured to separate the EPE into a permeate solution and a concentrated EPE solution. 10. The reactor base of claim 9 further comprising an in-situ ancillary processing assembly above the processing cup, the in-situ processing assembly having a nozzle to direct a flow of an ancillary processing fluid different than the EPE fluid radially inward and a collector to catch spent ancillary processing fluid above the weir. 11. The reactor base of claim 9 wherein the annular bubble trap comprises a ledge extending around the interior portion of the processing cup and projecting radially inwardly above the electrode, and the gas control system further comprises a vent through the processing cup located under a portion of the ledge through which bubbles can flow out of the processing cup before reaching the processing zone. 12. The reactor base of claim 11 wherein the ledge has a lower surface that projects radially inwardly and downwardly from the processing cup. 13. The reactor base of claim 9 wherein the gas control system comprises a diffuser at the inlet of the processing cup that directs a flow component of an EPE upwardly toward a central location of the processing zone. 14. The reactor base of claim 9 wherein: the annular electrode has a vertically oriented side wall and an opening aligned with the processing zone through which an EPE fluid can flow; and the gas control system further comprises a diffuser at the inlet of the processing cup that directs a first flow component of the EPE fluid toward a central location of the processing zone and a second flow component of the EPE fluid upward and radially outward toward the side wall of the electrode. 15. The reactor base of claim 9 wherein: the annular electrode has a vertically oriented side wall and an opening aligned with the processing zone through which an EPE fluid can flow; and the gas control system further comprises a diffuser at the inlet of the processing cup that directs a first flow component of the EPE fluid toward a central location of the processing zone and a second flow component of the EPE fluid upward and radially outward toward the side wall of the electrode. 16. A reactor base of an electrophoretic deposition reactor for depositing electrophoretic material onto a workpiece, comprising: an overflow cup; a processing cup in the overflow cup, the processing cup having an inlet coupled to a supply conduit for an electrophoretic emulsion (EPE) and a weir defining a processing zone; an annular electrode in the processing cup; a gas control system in the processing cup, the gas control system being configured to prevent bubbles from traveling from the electrode to a workpiece oriented at least substantially horizontal in the processing zone, and wherein the gas control system comprises an annular bubble trap extending around an interior portion of the processing cup and proiecting radially inwardly above the electrode; and an in-situ ancillary processing assembly above the overflow cup, the in-situ processing assembly having a nozzle to direct a flow of an ancillary processing fluid different than the EPE radially inward and a collector to catch spent ancillary processing fluid above the weir. 17. The reactor base of claim 16 further comprising a reservoir in the reactor base below the overflow cup, a thermal element in the reservoir, and a drainage passage between the overflow cup and the reservoir through which the EPE can flow downward. 18. The reactor base of claim 16 further comprising an ultrafilter configured to separate an EPE into a permeate solution and a concentrated EPE. 19. The reactor base of claim 16 wherein the annular bubble trap has a ledge extending around the interior portion of the processing cup and projecting radially inwardly above the electrode, and the gas control system further comprises a vent through the processing cup located under a portion of the ledge through which bubbles can flow out of the processing cup before reaching the processing zone. 20. The reactor base of claim 19 wherein the ledge has a lower surface that projects radially inwardly and downwardly from the processing cup. 21. The reactor base of claim 16 wherein the gas control system further comprises a diffuser at the inlet of the processing cup that directs a flow component of an EPE upwardly toward a central location of the processing zone. 22. The reactor base of claim 16 wherein: the electrode comprises a ring; and the gas control system further comprises a diffuser at the inlet of the processing cup that directs a first flow component of the EPE fluid toward a central location of the processing zone and a second flow component of the EPE fluid upward and radially outward toward the side wall of the electrode. 23. The reactor base of claim 16 wherein: the electrode comprises a ring; and the gas control system further comprises a diffuser at the inlet of the processing cup that directs a first flow component of the EPE fluid toward a central location of the processing zone and a second flow component of the EPE fluid upward and radially outward toward the side wall of the electrode, the bubble trap has a ledge extending around an interior portion of the processing cup and projecting radially inward above the electrodes, and the gas control system further comprises a vent through the processing cup located under the ledge. 