Robot and remote controlled devices have been utilized for information gathering purposes. However these robotic vehicles lack efficiency because they are not capable of operating out of doors or where the sensors and apparatus located on the robots are subject to harsh environments. The present invention provides a new and unique manner of overcoming these problems by providing a platform system that is placed upon existing robots without requiring adjustments to these devices. The platform effectuates easy installation of a plurality of sensors and apparatus on its top surface while providing internal housing for its wires and components, thereby providing a water, dirt and dust resistant environment which leads to better equipment function and ease of maintenance and repair.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic vehicle having a drive train and power supply comprising: an upper portion, a first side, a second side, a front portion and a back portion constructed so as to form a platform, wherein said platform is further constructed so as to house a plurality of apparatus and sensors; said platform further comprising a plurality of quick release upper hinges, said upper hinges constructed so as to allow said upper portion to be lifted away from said front portion and a base portion; said platform further comprising a plurality of gas charged lift supports, said lift supports constructed so as to control the rate of ascent and descent of said upper portion, said lift supports further constructed so as to hold said upper portion in an open position and prevent inadvertent closing of said upper portion; said platform comprising a plurality of quick release lower hinges, said hinges constructed so as to allow said upper portion and said base to be lifted away from said front portion; and said platform further comprising a support mechanism, said support mechanism further comprising a catch, a rod and a safety cable, said support mechanism further constructed so as to maintain said upper portion and said base in a raised position, said safety cable further constructed so as to prevent said upper portion and said base from opening too far. 2. A robotic vehicle as recited in claim 1 wherein said upper portion comprising a top surface having a plurality of plates, each of said plates constructed so as to be fastened onto said upper surface, wherein said upper portion further comprising at least two quick release hinges constructed so as to rapidly release said upper portion. 3. A robotic vehicle as recited in claim 2, wherein said first and second side portions comprise at least one air flow apparatus having a filter, fan and vent, constructed so as to prevent wire and component overheating. 4. A robotic vehicle as recited in claim 3, wherein said platform further comprises a base portion comprising a plurality of sonar sensors. 5. A robotic vehicle as recited in claim 4, wherein said upper portion comprises an inner portion, said inner portion constructed so as to house said wires and said components, said inner portion further comprising a wire housing system constructed so as to effectuate wire tracking, maintenance and removal, said wire housing system further constructed so as to prevent said wire from vibration. 6. A robotic vehicle as recited in claim 5, wherein said inner portion further comprises a plurality of brackets, said brackets constructed so as to house said components within said inner portion, said brackets further constructed so as to stabilize said components and prevent vibration of said components. 7. A robotic vehicle having a drive train and power supply comprising: an upper portion, a first side, a second side, a front portion and a back portion constructed so as to form a platform, wherein said platform is further constructed so as to house a plurality of apparatus and sensors; said platform connected to a base and comprising a plurality of quick release hinges, said hinges constructed so as to allow said upper portion and said base to be lifted away from said front portion; and said platform further comprising a support mechanism, said support mechanism further comprising a catch, a rod and a safety cable, said support mechanism further constructed so as to maintain said upper portion and said base in a raised position, said safety cable further constructed so as to prevent said upper portion and said base from opening too far. 8. A robotic vehicle as recited in claim 7, wherein said upper portion comprises a top surface having a plurality of plates, each of said plates constructed so as to be attached onto said upper surface. 9. A robotic vehicle as recited in claim 8, wherein said first and second side portions each comprise a removable side panel, said side panel constructed so as to allow easy access to an inner portion of said platform. 10. A robotic vehicle as recited in claim 9, wherein said inner portion further comprising a wire housing system constructed so as to effectuate wire tracking, maintenance and removal of wires connected to said apparatus and sensors, said wire housing system further constructed so as to prevent said wires from vibration. 11. A system as recited in claim 10, wherein said inner portion further comprises a plurality of brackets, said brackets constructed so as to house components in said inner portion, said components connected to said apparatus and sensors, said brackets further constructed so as to stabilize said components and prevent vibration of said components. 12. A system as recited in claim 11, wherein said back portion further comprises a plurality of sonar sensors and an interface panel, said panel constructed so as to allow apparatus to be connected to said platform. 13. A system as recited in claim 12, wherein said back portion further comprises a back dock, said back dock constructed so as to provide access for robotic apparatus to board said vehicle. 