Abrasive cleaning and decontamination methods and systems are disclosed. The methods and systems use a high pressure liquefied gas, such as carbon dioxide, which produces insignificant quantities of secondary waste. These principles of the invention exploit the properties of the relatively high triple point of CO.sub.2 in order to first pressurize it to 35,000 to 60,000 PSI from a pressurized liquid. In the pressurized state, such a fluid can be at or above room temperature, allowing for transport over long distances in a flexible high pressure hose. At a point of use, a heat exchanger may subsequently chill the liquid, so that after expansion through a small high pressure orifice, a significant fraction of the liquid is converted to solid phase crystals exiting at high velocity to effectively clean and decontaminate. For more aggressive cleaning, abrasive particles and/or small diameter solid CO.sub.2 pellets can be entrained into the high pressure CO.sub.2 slipstream.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A non-cryogenic cleaning system, comprising: a pumping system receptive of a non-cryogenic liquid supply; the pumping system comprising: a non-cryogenic receiving hose; an intensifier capable of pressurizing non-cryogenic fluids to at least 35,000 PSI; a first heat exchanger in fluid communication with the non-cryogenic receiving hose upstream of the intensifier; a flexible umbilical capable of transporting non-cryogenic fluids at at least 35,000 PSI for insertion into a cleaning area downstream of the intensifier. 2. A non-cryogenic cleaning system according to claim 1, further comprising: an air hose receptive of a pressurized air source; a second heat exchanger in fluid communication with the air hose; at least one abrasive particle hopper connected to the air hose; wherein the air hose comprises a line of the flexible umbilical downstream of the at least one abrasive particle hopper. 3. A non-cryogenic cleaning system according to claim 2, wherein the at least one abrasive particle hopper comprises a garnet particle hopper and a CO.sub.2 pellet hopper. 4. A non-cryogenic cleaning system according to claim 1, further comprising a third heat exchanger downstream of the intensifier. 5. A non-cryogenic cleaning system according to claim 1, further comprising a nozzle connected to the umbilical and a fourth heat exchanger at the nozzle. 6. A non-cryogenic cleaning system according to claim 1, wherein the intensifier comprises a hydraulic differential area piston pump. 7. A non-cryogenic cleaning system according to claim 6, further comprising a liquid cooled jacket surrounding the piston pump. 8. A non-cryogenic cleaning system according to claim 1, further comprising a portable trailer housing the pumping system. 9. A non-cryogenic cleaning system according to claim 1, further comprising a non-cryogenic fluid tank and an air compressor connected to the pumping system. 10. A non-cryogenic cleaning system according to claim 9, further comprising liquid non-cryogenic fluid in the flexible umbilical at at least 35,000 PSI and at a temperature of at least 20 degrees F. 11. A non-cryogenic cleaning system according to claim 1, further comprising a robotic arm connected to the flexible umbilical capable of directing a portion of the umbilical adjacent to a cleaning surface. 