A printhead assembly is provided comprising at least one printhead module comprising at least two printhead integrated circuits, each of which has nozzles formed therein for delivering printing fluid onto the surface of print media, a support member supporting the printhead integrated circuits and carrying the printing fluid, and an electrical connector for connecting electrical signals to the printhead integrated circuits. The assembly further comprises drive electronics arranged to control the printing operation of at least one printhead integrated circuit via the electrical connector, a plurality of longitudinally extending electrical conductors for providing power from a power supply to the drive electronics and the printhead integrated circuits, a casing comprising a support frame supporting the printhead module and at least one mounting element. The mounting element mounts the drive electronics and electrical conductors and incorporates a clamping arrangement for clamping the printhead module to the support frame.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A printhead assembly, comprising: at least one printhead module comprising at least two printhead integrated circuits, each of which has nozzles formed therein for delivering printing fluid onto the surface of print media, a support member supporting and carrying the printing fluid to the at least two printhead integrated circuits, and an electrical connector for connecting electrical signals to the at least two printhead integrated circuits; at least one controller for processing print data and controlling at least one of the at least two printhead integrated circuits to print the processed print data via the electrical connector; a plurality of longitudinally extending electrical conductors for providing power from a power supply to the controller and the at least two printhead integrated circuits; a casing comprising a support frame supporting the at least one printhead module; and at least one mounting element held by the support frame, the at least one mounting element mounting the controller and electrical conductors and incorporating a clamping arrangement for clamping the at least one printhead module to the support frame. 2. A printhead assembly according to claim 1, wherein the support member includes longitudinally extending tabs on the two parallel sides thereof; the support frame comprises a first side wall having a longitudinally extending recessed groove and a second side wall substantially parallel to the first side wall; and the longitudinally extending tab on one side of the support member is received in the longitudinally extending recessed groove of the support frame and the longitudinally extending tab on the other side of the support member is received on an upper surface of the second side wall of the support frame. 3. A printhead assembly according to claim 2, wherein the clamping arrangement comprises locking members for interlocking with lug members of the printhead module. 4. A printhead assembly according to claim 3, wherein: the lug members are provided along the longitudinally extending tabs of the support member and are spaced so as to correspond to the mounted positions of the at least two printhead integrated circuits; and the locking members of the clamping arrangement are provided as recessed portions which engage with the lug members on the clamped the longitudinally extending tab. 5. A printhead assembly according to claim 4, wherein the clamping arrangement of the at least one the mounting element comprises at least one extending arm portion arranged so as to clamp the longitudinally extending tab of the support member to the upper surface of the second side wall of the support frame. 6. A printhead assembly according to claim 5, wherein the at least oat extending arm portion includes at least one of the recessed portions of the clamping arrangement. 7. A printhead assembly according to claim 1, wherein: the at least one printhead module is formed as a unitary arrangement of the at least two printhead integrated circuits, the support member, the electrical connector, and at least one fluid distribution member mounting the at least two printhead integrated circuits to the support member; and the support member has at learn one longitudinally extending channel for carrying the printing fluid for the printhead integrated circuits and includes a plurality of apertures extending through a wall of the support member arranged so as to direct the printing fluid from the at least one channel to associated nozzles in both, or if more than two, all of the printhead integrated circuits by way of respective ones of the fluid distribution members. 