A method is provided for at least one of detecting and tracking an object within a wide-area. The method including: deploying three or more sensors within the wide-area, each of the sensors having one or more polarized radio frequency waveguides; transmitting polarized radio frequency radiation from at least one source; detecting a reflection of the transmitted polarized radio frequency radiation; and calculating one of a detection or position of an object within the wide-area based on the detected reflection. At least one of the three or more sensors and at least one source can be a mobile platform, which can be manned or unmanned. The three or more sensors can be deployed manually or remotely, such as from a projectile.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for at least one of detecting and tracking an object within a wide-area, the method comprising: deploying three or more sensors within the wide-area, each of the sensors having one or more polarized radio frequency waveguides; transmitting polarized radio frequency radiation from at least one source; detecting a reflection of the transmitted polarized radio frequency radiation; and calculating one of a detection or position of an object within the wide-area based on the detected reflection. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the deploying comprises manually placing the three or more sensors within the wide-area. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the deploying comprises remotely placing the three or more sensors within the wide-area. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the remotely placing comprises deploying the three or more sensors from a projectile. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising aligning at least one of the three or more sensors to more fully receive the transmitted radio frequency radiation. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the aligning comprises mounting the at least one of the three or more sensors to a movable base and moving the base to a position which more fully receives the transmitted radio frequency radiation. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising self-calibrating the three or more sensors and at least one source to determine the location of the three or more sensors and at least one source subsequent to the deploying. 8. The method of claim 7, further comprising updating the self-calibrating at regular intervals. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein each of the three or more sensors and at least one source have an orientation with respect to each other, the method further comprising reconfiguring the orientation of at least one of the three or more sensors and at least one source with respect to each other. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the three or more sensors and at least one source is a mobile platform. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the mobile platform is manned. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the mobile platform is unmanned. 13. A system for at least one of detecting and tracking an object within a wide-area, the system comprising: three or more sensors disposed within the wide-area, each of the sensors having one or more polarized radio frequency waveguides; at least one source for transmitting polarized radio frequency radiation; a detector for detecting a reflection of the transmitted polarized radio frequency radiation; and a processor for calculating one of a detection or position of an object within the wide-area based on the detected reflection. 14. The system of claim 13, further comprising means for manually deploying the three or more sensors within the wide-area. 15. The system of claim 13, further comprising means for remotely deploying the three or more sensors within the wide-area. 16. The system of claim 15, wherein the means for remotely deploying comprises a projectile having the three or more sensors deployable therefrom. 17. The system of claim 13, further comprising means for aligning at least one of the three or more sensors to more fully receive the transmitted radio frequency radiation. 18. The system of claim 17, wherein the means for aligning comprises a movable base having at least one of the three or more sensors mounted thereto and means for moving the base to a position which more fully receives the transmitted radio frequency radiation. 19. The system of claim 13, further comprising means for self-calibrating the three or more sensors and at least one source to determine the location of the three or more sensors and at least one source. 20. The system of claim 19, further comprising means for updating the self-calibrating at regular intervals. 21. The system of claim 13, wherein each of the three or more sensors and at least one source have an orientation with respect to each other, the system further comprising means for reconfiguring the orientation of at least one of the three or more sensors and at least one source with respect to each other. 22. The system of claim 13, wherein at least one of the three or more sensors and at least one source is a mobile platform. 23. The system of claim 22, wherein the mobile platform is manned. 24. The system of claim 23, wherein the mobile platform is unmanned. 