The present invention generally relates to a method and programmable apparatus for the assembly of body components to an automotive body that has undergone a progressive series of framing and welding steps so as to produce a structurally rigid body frame, termed a body-in-white. More specifically, this invention relates to creating a new net locating scheme (X-Y and Z Cartesian coordinate system) for a body-in-white to direct associated tooling to create net attachment features on a rigid body frame with respect to a new net locating scheme so that components may be attached to an automotive body at a net location eliminating the need for any slip plane attachment techniques.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for creating net attachment features on a three-dimensional object defined by X, Y and Z Cartesian coordinates, said apparatus comprising: a three-dimensional body having one end and an opposite end, each end of said three-dimensional body having at least one primary locating point thereon, said at least one primary locating point selectively located within a known tolerance range with respect to said X, Y and Z directions of said Cartesian coordinate system; means for storing design-intent locations of said at least one primary locating point on said three-dimensional body defined by X, Y and Z Cartesian coordinates; means for establishing an actual location of said at least one primary locating point on said three-dimensional body, in each of said X, Y and Z directions, said actual location being defined as a datum position; programmable means for comparing said actual location of said at least one primary locating point on said three-dimensional body with said design-intent location of said at least one primary locating point in said means for storing in each of said X, Y and Z directions, said comparing means further comprising: microprocessor means for determining an imprecise distance in each of said X, Y and Z directions between said actual location of said at least one primary locating point with said design-intent location; and means for creating a median point of said imprecise distance in each of said X, Y and Z directions, said median point of said imprecise distance of said at least one primary locating point of said three-dimensional body being an adjusted net position of said at least one primary locating point in each of said X, Y and Z directions on said three-dimensional body; and programmable means for directing at least one programmable work performing device to said adjusted net position to locate thereat whereby said work performing device performs work on said three-dimensional body such that at least one adjusted net attachment location is established for objects to be attached to said three-dimensional body. 2. The apparatus claimed in claim 1, wherein said three-dimensional body comprises a welded body-in-white. 3. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said means for establishing an actual location of said at least one primary locating point on said three-dimensional body further comprises at least one triangulation-type sensor illuminator means for generating image data usable by a machine vision controller to determine three-dimensional measurements of an object. 4. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said means for storing design-intent locations of said at least one primary locating point on said three-dimensional body comprises a microprocessor. 5. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said means for comparing said actual location of said at least one primary locating point on said three-dimensional body with said design intent location stored in said microprocessor is a central processor means, said central processor means determining said imprecise distance in each said X, Y and Z directions between said actual location of said at least one primary locating point and said design-intent location. 6. The apparatus as claimed in claim 5, wherein said central processor further calculates said median point of said imprecise distance in each said X, Y and Z directions in order to establish a best-fit centerline or grid line or an actual vehicle Cartesian coordinate map or wire frame for the body-in-white in an as built condition whereby any error between an as built location of said at least one primary locating point and said design-intent location of said at least one primary locating point is reduced by one-half. 7. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said means for directing said at least one programmable work-performing device is a robot means. 8. The apparatus as claimed in claim 7, wherein said robot means further comprises at least one robot located alongside said three-dimensional body; and a work-performing tool attached to said robot. 9. A master locating apparatus for establishing a plurality of net attachment features on an imprecisely constructed three-dimensional body structure of unknown dimensional accuracy within a known tolerance range, relative to an X, Y and Z Cartesian coordinate system, said imprecisely constructed three-dimensional body structure adapted for attachment of one or more external members, said apparatus comprising: at least one columnar member located adjacent said three-dimensional body; at least two programmable position detecting apparatuses attached to said at least one columnar member, said at least two programmable position detecting apparatuses further being located in spaced apart relation on opposing sides of said three-dimensional body structure, each of said at least two programmable position detecting apparatuses further comprising: programmable means for visually engaging said three-dimensional body structure at least one predetermined primary locating point to establish an actual location in at least two-dimensional planes of said three-dimensional body structure, said programmable means for visual engaging said three-dimensional body structure located alongside said three-dimensional body structure; means for storing design-intent locations of selective primary locating points on said three-dimensional body structure defined by X, Y and Z Cartesian coordinates; microprocessor means for comparing said actual location of said at least one predetermined primary locating point in said at least two-dimensional planes with said design-intent locations of said at least one predetermined primary locating point in each of said at least two-dimensional planes to establish an imprecise distance in each of said two-dimensional planes between said actual location and said design-intent location in each said two-dimensional planes; means for creating a median point of said imprecise distance between said actual location found by said programmable visual engaging means for each of said two-dimensional planes and said design-intent location, said median point of said imprecise distance in each of said two-dimensional planes defining an adjusted net location; and means for communicating said adjusted net location to a work performing device whereby said work performing device performs work on said three-dimensional body structure with respect to said adjusted net location. 10. The apparatus claimed in claim 9, wherein said at least one columnar member comprises a front and rear gantry straddling a production line such that said three-dimensional body structure can pass through thereunder. 11. The apparatus claimed in claim 10, wherein each of said at least two programmable position detecting apparatuses each have a laser thereon. 12. The apparatus claimed in claim 11, wherein said means for creating a median point of said imprecise distance comprises a microprocessor. 13. The apparatus claimed in claim 10, wherein said at least two programmable position detecting apparatuses comprise a first pair of programmable position detecting apparatuses disposed on opposite sides of said three-dimensional body structure, and a second pair of programmable position detecting apparatuses disposed on opposite sides of said three-dimensional body structure, each of said first and second pair of position detecting apparatuses having a laser sensor thereon. 14. The apparatus claimed in claim 9, wherein said at least two programmable position detecting apparatuses comprise a first pair of position detecting apparatuses disposed on opposite sides of said three-dimensional body structure, and a second pair of position detecting apparatuses disposed on said opposite sides of said three-dimensional body structure, each of said second pair of position detecting apparatuses having a laser mounted thereto. 15. The apparatus as claimed in claim 9, wherein said programmable means for visually engaging said three-dimensional body structure at an actual location of said at least one primary locating point in at least two-dimensional planes on said three-dimensional body further comprises at least one triangulation-type sensor illuminator means for generating image data useable by a machine vision controller to determine three-dimensional measurements of an object. 16. The apparatus as claimed in claim 9, wherein said means for storing design-intent locations of said selective primary locating points on said three-dimensional body comprises a microprocessor. 17. The apparatus as claimed in claim 9, further comprising means for comparing said actual location of said at least one primary locating point on said three-dimensional body with said design-intent location stored in said microprocessor is a central processor means, said central processor means determining an imprecise distance in each X, Y, and Z directions between said actual location of said at least one primary locating point and said design-intent location. 18. The apparatus as claimed in claim 17, wherein said central processor further calculates a median point of said imprecise distance in each said X, Y and Z directions in order to establish a best-fit centerline or grid line or an actual vehicle Cartesian coordinate map or wire frame for a body-in-white in the as built condition whereby any error between an as built location of said at least one primary locating point and said design-intent location of said at least one primary locating point is reduced by one-half. 19. The apparatus as claimed in claim 9, wherein said means for communicating said adjusted net location to a work performing device further comprises; robot means located in spaced relation to said three-dimensional body structure, said robot means having a work-performing device attached thereto. 20. The apparatus as claimed in claim 19, wherein said robot means further comprises at least one robot located alongside said opposing sides of said three-dimensional body; and a work-performing tool attached to each of said robots. 21. A method for assembling objects to a three-dimensional body, said method comprising the steps of: moving said three-dimensional body having one end and an opposite end into a fixture location, said three-dimensional body having at least one primary locating point thereon, visually engaging said at least one primary locating point of one end of said three-dimensional body with at least one programmable position detecting apparatus reading an actual location of said at least one primary locating point, said actual location being defined by X, Y and Z Cartesian coordinates; storing design-intent locations of selective primary locating points on said three-dimensional body defined by X, Y and Z Cartesian coordinates into a microprocessor; determining an imprecise distance by calculating in said microprocessor the variance between said design-intent location and said actual location of said at least one primary location point of said one end of said three-dimensional body in each one of X, Y and Z directions of the Cartesian coordinate system; creating a median point of said imprecise distance, said median point defining a new adjusted net position at said median point of said imprecise distance; locating at least one work performing device with respect to said new adjusted net position adjacent said three-dimensional body; and performing work on said three-dimensional body to establish a net attachment feature on said three-dimensional body for assembling at least one object at said net attachment feature of said three-dimensional body. 22. The method according to claim 21 further comprising the step of assembling and welding said three-dimensional body prior to said step of visually engaging said at least one primary locating point such that minimal additional variation is introduced after the position of said at least one primary locating point is established. 23. The method according to claim 21, wherein the step of visually engaging said at least one primary locating point comprises the step of providing said at least one programmable position detecting apparatus with a laser sensor, whereby said laser sensor visually engages said at least one primary locating point to establish two of said X, Y, and Z directions, and wherein said step of visually engaging said at least one primary locating point comprises the step of providing another, at least one position, primary detecting apparatus with a second laser sensor and the second of said laser sensors visually engages said at least one primary locating point to establish the third of said X, Y and Z directions. 24. The method according to claim 23, wherein the step of visually engaging said at least one primary locating point of one end of said three-dimensional body with said at least one programmable position detecting apparatus comprises the step of visually engaging a first pair of primary locating points on said one end of said three-dimensional body with a first pair of programmable position detecting apparatuses disposed on opposite sides of said three-dimensional body; and visually engaging a second pair of primary locating points on said opposite end of said three-dimensional body, said second pair of programmable position detecting apparatuses disposed on said opposite sides of said three-dimensional body. 25. The method according to claim 23, wherein the step of creating a median point of said imprecise distance comprises the step of providing a microprocessor to receive data from said step of visually engaging said at least one primary locating point on each end of said three-dimensional body and comparing said data with said design-intent positions stored in said microprocessor to generate said median point of said imprecise distance. 26. The method according to claim 23, wherein the step of locating at least one work performing device with respect to said new adjusted net position further comprises the step of communicating a calculated position of said median point to said work performing device. 27. A master locating apparatus mounted alongside of the direction of travel of an assembly line for a three-dimensional body structure of unknown dimensional construction within a known tolerance range, said master locating apparatus comprising: at least two columnar members in spaced apart relationship on opposite sides of said assembly line; a support member having respective ends, one of said ends attached to one of said at least two columnar members, the other of said ends attached to the other of said at least two columnar members; at least two programmable position detecting apparatuses located in spaced apart relations on opposite sides of said assembly line to permit said assembly line to pass therebetween, each of said at least two programmable position detecting apparatuses further having: means for visually engaging opposite sides of said three-dimensional body structure at a plurality of preselected defined locations to establish an actual position in at least three-dimensional planes of said plurality of preselected defined locations of said three-dimensional body structure on each side of said three-dimensional body structure when said three-dimensional body structure is between said visually engagement means, said means for visually engaging located alongside said assembly line and visually engaging said three-dimensional body structure at said plurality of preselected defined locations; programmable means for storing design-intent locations of each of said plurality of preselected defined locations of said three-dimensional body: programmable means for determining an imprecise distance between each of said plurality of preselected defined locations and the design-intent location of each of said plurality of preselected defined locations of said three-dimensional body: means for establishing a median distance point of said imprecise distance to establish an adjusted net position of each of said plurality of preselected defined locations on said one side and said opposing side of said three-dimensional body structure of each of said plurality of preselected defined locations of said three-dimensional planes, said median distance defining an adjusted net position of each of said plurality of preselected defined locations of said three-dimensional body structure; and means for performing work on said three-dimensional body structure with respect to said adjusted net position. 28. The apparatus claimed in claim 27, wherein said means for visually engaging opposite sides of said three-dimensional body structure further comprises a front and rear gantry straddling a production line such that said three-dimensional body structure can pass through thereunder. 29. The apparatus claimed in claim 27 wherein said means for visually engaging opposite sides of said three-dimensional body structure, said means further comprises a first plurality of programmable position detecting apparatuses, at least two of said first plurality of programmable position detecting apparatuses being disposed on opposing sides of said three-dimensional body structure. 30. The apparatus claimed in claim 29, wherein said means for establishing the actual location of said preselected defined locations on each end of said three-dimensional body comprises a second plurality of programmable position detecting apparatuses each having a laser sensor, at least two of said second plurality of programmable position detecting apparatuses being disposed on opposing sides of said body. 31. The apparatus claimed in claim 27, wherein each of said at least two programmable position detecting apparatuses include a laser. 32. The apparatus claimed in claim 27, wherein said means for establishing a median distance point of said imprecise distance further comprises a microprocessor. 33. The apparatus claimed in claim 27, wherein said three-dimensional body structure comprises a welded body-in-white. 34. The apparatus claimed in claim 27, wherein said at least two columnar members comprise a front and rear gantry straddling a production line such that said three-dimensional body structure can pass through thereunder. 35. The apparatus as claimed in claim 27, wherein said means for visually engaging opposite sides of said three-dimensional body structure at a plurality of preselected defined locations to establish a datum position in at least three-dimensional planes of said three-dimensional body structure further comprises at least two triangulation-type sensor illuminator means for generating image data usable by a machine vision controller to determine three-dimensional measurements of an object. 36. The apparatus as claimed in claim 27, wherein said programmable means for storing design-intent locations of each of said plurality of preselected defined locations of said three-dimensional body comprises a microprocessor. 37. The apparatus as claimed in claim 27, wherein said means for establishing a median distance further comprises programmable means for comparing said actual location of each of plurality of preselected defined locations on said body with said design intent location stored in said programmable means for storing, said programmable means for comparing determining an imprecise distance in each said X, Y and Z directions between said actual location of each of said plurality of preselected defined locations and said design-intent location. 38. The apparatus as claimed in claim 37, wherein said programmable means for comparing further calculates a median point of said distance in each X, Y and Z directions in order to establish a best-fit centerline or grid line or an actual vehicle Cartesian coordinate map or wire frame for the body-in-white in an as built condition whereby any error between an as built location of each of said preselected defined location and said design-intent locations of each of said preselected defined locations is reduced by one-half. 39. The apparatus as claimed in claim 27, wherein said means for performing work further comprises a robot means. 40. The apparatus as claimed in claim 39, wherein said robot means further comprises at least one robot located alongside each of said two columnar members on opposite sides of said assembly line, and a work performing tool attached to said at least one robot. 41. An apparatus for creating net attachment features on a three-dimensional object defined by X, Y and Z Cartesian coordinates, said apparatus comprising: a three-dimensional body having at least one primary locating feature thereon; means for storing design-intent locations of said at least one primary locating feature of said three-dimensional body: means for establishing an actual location of said at least one primary locating feature in each of said X, Y and Z Cartesian coordinates; means for calculating an imprecise distance between said actual location of said at least one primary locating feature with said design-intent location of said at least one primary locating feature in each of said X, Y and Z Cartesian coordinates; means for creating a median of said imprecise distance in each of said X, Y and Z Cartesian coordinates, said median of said imprecise distance defining an adjusted net reference feature; and means for locating at least one work performing device with respect to said adjusted net reference feature, whereby work performed on said three-dimensional body establishes at least one adjusted net attachment feature location for objects to be attached to said three-dimensional body. 42. The apparatus as claimed in claim 41, further comprising means for net-forming surfaces of said three-dimensional body at design-intent coordinates for said objects. 43. A method for assembling objects to a three-dimensional body comprising the steps of: moving said three-dimensional body having as-build defined locating features thereon into a fixture location; engaging said locating features with programmable position detecting apparatuses; storing design-intent positions of said defined locating features of said three-dimensional body in a central processor; determining an imprecise distance between said as-build defined locating features of said three-dimensional body and said design-intent positions of said defined locating features in one or more of X, Y and Z directions of a Cartesian coordinate system; creating a median of said imprecise distance in each of said X, Y and Z directions to define best-fit net reference features; and locating robot tooling with respect to said best-fit net reference features to perform work on said three-dimensional body. 44. The method as claimed in claim 43, further comprising the step of providing a programmable robot with a work performing tool attached thereto to net-form at least one attachment feature on said three-dimensional body for assembling said object to said at least one net attachment feature. 