The steel drill string attached to a drilling bit during typical rotary drilling operations used to drill oil and gas wells is used for a second purpose as the casing that is cemented in place during typical oil and gas well completions. Methods of operation are described that provide for the efficient installation of a cemented steel cased well wherein the drill string and the drill bit are cemented into place during one single drilling pass down into the earth. Methods are provided to selectively cause a drilling trajectory to change during drilling with casing. A one-way cement valve is installed near the drill bit of the drill string that allows the cement to set up efficiently under ambient hydrostatic conditions while the drill string and drill bit are cemented into place during one single drilling pass into the earth.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of making a cased wellbore comprising at least the steps of: assembling a lower segment of a drill string comprising in sequence from top to bottom a first hollow segment of drill pipe, a latching subassembly means, a directional drilling means, and a rotary drill bit having at least one mud passage for passing drilling mud from the interior of the drill string to the outside of the drill string; periodically halting rotary drilling, introducing into said wellbore a directional surveying means to determine the direction of the wellbore being drilled, and thereafter removing said directional surveying means from said wellbore; rotary drilling the well into the earth in a desired direction to a predetermined depth with the drill string by attaching successive lengths of hollow drill pipes to said lower segment of the drill string and by circulating mud from the interior of the drill string to the outside of the drill string during rotary drilling so as to produce a wellbore; after said predetermined depth is reached, pumping a latching float collar valve means down the interior of the drill string with drilling mud until it seats into place within said latching subassembly means; pumping a bottom wiper plug means down the interior of the drill string with cement until the bottom wiper plug means seats on the upper portion of the latching float collar valve means so as to clean the mud from the interior of the drill string; pumping any required additional amount of cement into the wellbore by forcing it through a portion of the bottom wiper plug means and through at least one mud passage of the drill bit into the wellbore; pumping a top wiper plug means down the interior of the drill string with water until the top wiper plug seats on the upper portion of the bottom wiper plug means thereby cleaning the interior of the drill string and forcing additional cement into the wellbore through at least one mud passage of the drill bit; allowing the cement to cure; thereby cementing into place the drill string to make a cased welbore. 2. Rotary drilling apparatus to drill a borehole into the earth comprising a hollow drill string possessing directional drilling means comprising a jet deflection bit having at least one mud passage for passing the drilling mud from within the hollow drill string to the borehole, a source of drilling mud, a source of cement, and at least one latching float collar valve means that is pumped with the drilling mud into place above the jet deflection bit to install said latching float collar means within the hollow drill string above said jet deflection bit that is used to cement the drill string and said jet deflection bit into the earth during one pass into the formation of the drill string to make a steel cased well. 3. A method of directional drilling a well from the surface of the earth and cementing a drill string into place within a wellbore to make a cased well in a formation using an apparatus having at least a hollow drill string attached to a rotary drill bit, the drill bit having at least one mud passage to convey drilling mud from the interior of the drill string to the wellbore, a source of drilling mud, a source of cement, and at least one latching float valve, comprising: pumping the latching float valve from the surface of the earth through the hollow drill string with drilling mud so as to seat the latching float valve above the drill bit; and pumping cement through the seated latching float valve to cement the drill string and rotary drill bit into place within the wellbore. 4. A method for drilling and casing a wellbore, comprising: providing a drill string and an earth removal member operatively connected to the drill suing, at least a portion of the drill string comprising casing; drilling the wellbore using the drill string; using the casing portion to line the wellbore; pumping a latching float valve from the surface of the earth through the drill string with drilling mud so as to seat the latching float valve above the earth removal member, wherein the earth removal member possesses at least one mud passage to convey drilling mud from the interior of the drill string to the wellbore; and pumping cement through the seated latching float valve to cement the drill string and the earth removal member into place within the wellbore. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the earth removal member comprises a drill bit. 6. The method of claim 4, further comprising performing logging of a surrounding geological formation. 7. The method of claim 4, further comprising curing the cement under hydrostatic conditions. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein curing the cement under hydrostatic conditions comprises: pumping a first wiper plug through the drill string; and pumping a second wiper plug through the drill string. 