A floating head liquid dispenser includes a robotic control mechanism for moving a support member toward and away from a substrate. A liquid dispensing head is operatively connected to the support member for movement relative thereto upon contact with the substrate. A linear displacement sensor is operatively connected to the support member and the liquid dispensing head so that displacement of the liquid dispensing head relative to the support member is sensed upon contact of the dispensing head with the substrate. The floating head liquid dispenser stops movement of the support member and dispensing head toward the substrate when the displacement is sensed to ensure proper positioning of the dispensing head relative to the substrate during a liquid dispensing cycle.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A floating head liquid dispenser for dispensing liquid onto a substrate, comprising: a support member mounted for linear movement toward and away from the substrate along a first axis; a floating liquid dispensing head operatively connected to said support member and configured for floating linear movement relative to said support member along a second axis parallel to the first axis in response to contact of said liquid dispensing head with the substrate, said liquid dispensing head having a liquid flowpath extending therethrough terminating in an outlet for dispensing fluid onto the substrate; and a linear displacement sensor having a first sensor component supported by and movable with said support member and a second sensor component supported by and movable with said liquid dispensing head, said linear displacement sensor being configured to generate a signal that indicates a sensed displacement of said liquid dispensing head relative to said support member in response to contact of said liquid dispensing head with the substrate. 2. The floating head liquid dispenser of claim 1 wherein said linear displacement sensor comprises a linear encoder. 3. The floating head liquid dispenser of claim 2 wherein said linear encoder comprises an optical read head mounted on one of said support member and said liquid dispensing head, and a graduated linear scale mounted on said other capable of being read by said optical read head. 4. The floating head liquid dispenser of claim 1 further comprising a robotic control mechanism operatively connected to said support member for moving said support member toward and away from the substrate along the first axis, said linear displacement sensor being coupled to said robotic control mechanism for applying the signal to said robotic control mechanism that indicates a sensed displacement of said liquid dispensing head relative to said support member. 5. The floating head liquid dispenser of claim 4 wherein said robotic control mechanism is responsive to the signal applied from said linear displacement sensor to stop movement of said support member toward the substrate. 6. The floating head liquid dispenser of claim 4 wherein said robot control mechanism is responsive to the signal applied from said linear displacement sensor to provide an alert. 7. A floating head liquid dispenser for dispensing liquid onto a substrate, comprising: a robotic control mechanism; a support member operatively connected to said robotic control mechanism for linear movement toward and away from the substrate along a first axis under control of said robotic control mechanism; a floating liquid dispensing head operatively connected to said support member and configured for floating linear movement relative to said support member along a second axis parallel to the first axis in response to contact of said liquid dispensing head with the substrate, said liquid dispensing head having a liquid flowpath extending therethrough terminating in an outlet for dispensing fluid onto the substrate; and a linear encoder having a first sensor component supported by and movable with said support member and a second sensor component supported by and movable with said liquid dispensing head, and coupled to said robotic control mechanism, said linear encoder being configured to apply a signal to said robotic control mechanism that indicates a sensed displacement of said liquid dispensing head relative to said support member in response to contact of said liquid dispensing head with the substrate. 8. The floating head liquid dispenser of claim 7 wherein said linear encoder comprises an optical read head mounted on one of said support member and said liquid dispensing head, and a graduated linear scale mounted on said other capable of being read by said optical read head. 9. The floating head liquid dispenser of claim 7 wherein said robotic control mechanism is responsive to the signal applied from said linear encoder to stop movement of said support member toward the substrate. 10. The floating head liquid dispenser of claim 7 wherein said robot control mechanism is responsive to the signal applied from said linear encoder to provide an alert. 