A visual assistance guide system for placement of a disrupter device for explosive ordinance disposal includes a checkerboard base and adhesive containing areas on the base. One of the adhesive containing areas is used to secure a disrupter device on the base. The checkerboard pattern helps position of the disrupter device (preferably done with a robot) at the proper standoff distance from the package targeted for disposal. Other adhesive areas are located so that a detonation line or shock tube emanating from the disrupter device can be secured to the base in the proper position.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A guide system for placing a disrupter device comprising: a) a base having a checkerboard pattern; b) a first substrate of defined size mounted to the base, and having at least one adhesive surface; and c) at least one second substrate mounted along a periphery of the base, and having at least one adhesive surface; d) wherein the at least one adhesive surface of the first substrate is adapted to hold the disrupter device in a location spaced from an edge of the base and defined by squares of the checkerboard pattern, and the at least one adhesive surface of the at least one second substrate is adapted to hold a portion of a detonation line extending from the disrupter; and e) at least one water- and explosive charge-containing disrupter device located on the first substrate as the disrupter device. 2. In a method of placing at least one disrupter device at a predetermined location near a target package, and detonating the disrupter device using a detonation line extending from the disrupter device to a remote detonation site, the improvement comprising: a) providing a base having a checkerboard pattern, the base having at least one central adhesive surface and one or more peripheral adhesive surfaces; b) positioning the base near the target package; c) placing the disrupter device on the central adhesive surface using squares on the checkerboard pattern to determine a standoff distance from the target package; and d) placing a portion of the detonation line on one of the peripheral adhesive surfaces. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the base with the central adhesive surface and one or more peripheral adhesive surfaces further comprises a) a base having a checkerboard pattern; b) a first substrate of defined size mounted to the base, and having at least one adhesive surface; and c) at least one second substrate mounted along a periphery of the base, and having at least one adhesive surface; d) wherein the at least one adhesive surface of the first substrate is adapted to hold a disrupter device in a location spaced from an edge of the base and defined by squares of the checkerboard pattern, and the at least one adhesive surface of the at least one second substrate is adapted to hold a portion of a detonation line extending from the disrupter. 4. The method of claim 2, wherein the disrupter device and detonation line are placed first, and the base is then positioned near the target package. 5. The method of claim 2, wherein two or more disrupter devices are provided and placed on the base. 6. The method of claim 2, wherein a robot is used for the positioning and placing steps. 7. The method of claim 2, wherein the at least one disrupter device is a water- and explosive charge-containing disrupter device. 