The present invention provides an amusement device having a body, wherein the body has features, at least one motor for powering the device and at least some of the features, and an information receiving structure for receiving information from an information carrying item that is separate or discrete from the amusement device.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An interactive amusement device comprising: (a) a body; (b) a transport element moveably connected to the body; (c) a motor associated with the body, the motor operably coupled to the transport element; (d) a microprocessor operably coupled to the motor; (e) a data reader-writer operably coupled to the microprocessor to receive data from a swipe card handled by a user of the amusement device, said swipe card being separate from said amusement device, wherein the data comprises enhancement data adapted to enhance a function of the amusement device, after said swipe card has been swiped, wherein said enhanced function must at least include one of the following enhanced functions selected from the group consisting of: increased mobility, increased speed, expanded defense, and diminished defense of the amusement device, and wherein said data reader-writer is also adapted such that one or more additional swipes of said swipe card while the amusement device is in operation results in said enhanced function being further enhanced. 2. The interactive amusement device of claim 1 further comprising at least two limbs moveably connected to the body, wherein the motor is operably coupled to the at least two limbs. 3. The interactive amusement device of claim 1, further comprising a wireless receiver operably coupled to the microprocessor. 4. The interactive amusement device of claim 3, further comprising a remote wireless transmitter operably coupled by wireless communication with the wireless receiver. 5. The interactive amusement device of claim 1, further comprising a unit wireless transmitter associated with the body, the unit wireless transmitter capable of wireless communication with a second interactive amusement device. 6. The interactive amusement device of claim 1 wherein the transport element comprises at least two wheels. 7. The interactive amusement device of claim 1 wherein the transport element comprises at least two legs. 8. The interactive amusement device of claim 1, further comprising a card game, wherein the card game is played using a number of said data storage cards. 9. The interactive amusement device of claim 8, wherein said amusement device receives information or commands from said data storage cards to perform actions which complement the card game. 10. An interactive amusement device comprising: (a) a body; (b) a transport element moveably connected to the body; (c) a motor associated with the body, the motor operably coupled to the transport element; (d) a microprocessor operably coupled to the motor; (e) a data reader-writer operably coupled to the microprocessor to receive data from a swipe card handled by a user of the amusement device, said swipe card being separate from said amusement device, wherein the data comprises enhancement data adapted to enhance a function of the amusement device after said swipe card has been swiped, wherein said enhanced function by said swipe card must at least include one of the following enhanced functions selected from the group consisting of: increased mobility, increased speed, expanded defense and diminished defense of the amusement device, and wherein said data reader-writer is also adapted such that one or more additional swipes of said swipe card while the amusement device is in operation results in said enhanced function being further enhanced; (f) a wireless receiver operably coupled to the microprocessor;. (g) a unit wireless transmitter associated with the body, the unit wireless transmitter capable of wireless communication with a second interactive amusement device; and (h) a remote wireless transmitter operably coupled by wireless communication with the wireless receiver. 11. The interactive amusement device of claim 10 further comprising at least two limbs moveably connected to the body, wherein the motor is operably coupled to the at least two limbs. 12. The interactive amusement device of claim 10 wherein the transport element comprises at least two wheels. 13. The interactive amusement device of claim 10 wherein the transport element comprises at least two legs. 14. The interactive amusement device of claim 10, further comprising a card game, wherein the card game is played using a number of said data storage cards. 15. The interactive amusement device of claim 14, wherein said amusement device receives information or commands from said data storage cards to perform actions which complement the card game. 16. An interactive amusement system comprising: (a) a body; (b) at least two transport elements moveably connected to the body; (c) at least two arms moveably connected to the body; (d) a motor associated with the body, the motor operably coupled to the at least two transport elements and the at least two arms; (e) a data reader-writer associated with the body, the data reader-writer adapted to receive data from a swipe card handled by a user of the amusement device, said swipe card being separate from said amusement device, wherein the data comprises enhancement data adapted to enhance a function of the amusement device after said swipe card has been swiped, wherein said enhanced function must at least include one of the following enhanced functions selected from the group consisting of: increased mobility, increased speed, expanded defense and diminished defense of the amusement device and wherein said data reader-writer is also adapted such that one or more additional swipes of said swipe card while the amusement device is in operation results in said enhanced function being further enhanced; and (f) a microprocessor operably coupled to the motor, the microprocessor being adapted to receive data from the data reader-writer and command the motor to perform an action. 17. The interactive amusement device of claim 16 wherein the enhancement data increases the mobility of the device. 18. The interactive amusement device of claim 16 wherein the enhancement data increases the speed of the device. 19. The interactive amusement device of claim 16 wherein the enhancement data allows the device to perform an additional function. 20. The interactive amusement device of claim 19 wherein the additional function comprises a punching motion performed by the at least two arms. 21. The interactive amusement device of claim 16 wherein the card is adapted to resemble a playing card. 22. The interactive amusement device of claim 16 wherein the at least two transport elements are at least two wheels. 23. The interactive amusement device of claim 16 wherein the at least two transport elements are at least two legs. 24. The interactive amusement device of claim 16, further comprising a card game, wherein the card game is played using a number of said data storage cards. 25. The interactive amusement device of claim 24, wherein said amusement device receives information or commands from said data storage cards to perform actions which complement the card game. 26. An interactive amusement system comprising: (a) a body; (b) at least two transport elements moveably connected to the body; (c) at least two arms moveably connected to the body; (d) a motor associated with the body, the motor operably coupled to the at least two transport elements; (e) a microprocessor operably coupled to the motor, the microprocessor being adapted to command the motor to perform an action; (f) a data reader-writer associated with the body, the data reader-writer adapted to receive enhancement data from a swipe card handled by a user of the amusement device and transmit the enhancement data to the microprocessor, said swipe card being separate from said amusement device, wherein the enhancement data enhances a function of the device after said swipe card has been swiped , wherein said enhanced function must at least include one of the following enhanced functions selected from the group consisting of: increased mobility, increased speed, expanded defense and diminished defense of the amusement device and wherein said data reader-writer is also adapted such that one or more additional swipes of said swipe card while the amusement device is in operation results in said enhanced function being further enhanced ; (g) a wireless receiver associated with the body, the wireless receiver adapted to receive a wireless communication and transmit the wireless communication to the microprocessor; (h) a unit wireless transmitter associated with the body, the unit wireless transmitter operably coupled with the microprocessor and capable of wireless communication with a second interactive amusement device; and (I) a remote wireless transmitter operably coupled by wireless communication with the wireless receiver. 27. The interactive amusement device of claim 26 wherein the enhancement data increases the mobility of the device. 28. The interactive amusement device of claim 27 wherein the enhancement data increases the speed of the device. 29. The interactive amusement device of claim 27 wherein the enhancement data allows the device to perform an additional function. 30. The interactive amusement device of claim 29 wherein the additional function comprises a punching motion performed by the at least two arms. 31. The interactive amusement device of claim 26 wherein the at least two transport elements are at least two wheels. 32. The interactive amusement device of claim 26 wherein the at least two transport elements are at least two legs. 33. An interactive amusement system comprising: (a) a body; (b) at least two transport elements moveably connected to the body, wherein the at least two transport elements are selected from the group consisting of (1) at least two wheels, and (2) at least two legs; (c) at least two arms moveably connected to the body; (d) a motor associated with the body, the motor operably coupled to the at least two transport elements; (e) a microprocessor operably coupled to the motor, the microprocessor being adapted to command the motor to perform an action; (f) a data card reader associated with the body, data card reader adapted to receive enhancement data from a data card handled by an operator of the device and transmit the enhancement data to the microprocessor, said data card being separate from said amusement device, wherein the enhancement data provides an enhanced function after said data card has been swiped, wherein said enhanced function must at least include one of the following enhanced functions selected from the group consisting of: increased mobility, increased speed, expanded defense and diminished defense of the amusement device and wherein said data card reader is also adapted such that one or more additional swipes of said swipe card while the amusement device is in operation results in said enhanced function being further enhanced; (g) a wireless receiver associated with the body, the wireless receiver adapted to receive a wireless communication and transmit the wireless communication to the microprocessor; (h) a unit wireless transmitter associated with the body, the unit wireless transmitter operably coupled with the microprocessor and capable of wireless communication with a second interactive amusement device; and (I) a remote wireless transmitter operably coupled by wireless communication with the wireless receiver. 