A water amusement system is described which includes a number of different water park rides. The water amusement system may include a water fountain system. The water fountain system includes a roof configured to turn in response to directing a stream of water at the roof. The water amusement system may include a water carousel. The water carousel is a carousel which is configured to float on a body of water. The water amusement system may include a musical fountain system. The musical fountain system is configured to spray water, play music and/or provide visual effects. The water amusement system may include a water powered Ferris wheel. The water amusement system may include a water powered bumper vehicle system. The water powered bumper vehicle system is configured such that the vehicles are preferably propelled by streams of water produced by water nozzles arranged about the water bumper vehicle system. The water system may include a boat ride system. The boat ride system includes a number of boats which are preferably towed by a rotatable base. The boats may also include steering devices and participant interaction devices. The water amusement system may also include a water train system. The water train system is a train system which is propelled by a water propulsion device.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A water Ferris wheel system, comprising: a Ferris wheel; one or more water interaction devices coupled to the Ferris wheel; one or more seating devices configured to hold participants during use, wherein the seating devices are coupled to the Ferris wheel; and a water supply system for directing a water stream onto at least one of the water interaction devices during use; wherein the Ferris wheel is configured to rotate about a central axis in response to the force imparted by the water stream upon at least one of the water interaction devices. 2. The Ferris wheel system of claim 1, wherein the water supply system is configured to direct water onto at least one of the water interaction devices at a location above the central axis during use. 3. The Ferris wheel system of claim 1, wherein the water supply system is configured to direct water onto at least one of the water interaction devices at a location substantially even with the central axis during use. 4. The Ferris wheel system of claim 1, wherein the water supply system is configured to direct water onto at least one of the water interaction devices at a location below the Ferris wheel during use. 5. The Ferris wheel system of claim 1, wherein the water supply system is configured to supply water along a tangent of the Ferris wheel. 6. The Ferris wheel system of claim 5, wherein the water supply system is configured to supply the water stream such that the water falls from the water supply system along a substantially vertical path. 7. The Ferris wheel system of claim 1, wherein the water supply system comprises a conduit, a water regulation system, and a reservoir, the water regulation system being disposed between the reservoir and an opening of the conduit, and wherein water flows out of the opening of the conduit to form the water stream. 8. The Ferris wheel system of claim 7, wherein the water regulation system is configured to vary the flow of water from the reservoir through the conduit and to at least one of the water interaction devices. 9. The Ferris wheel system of claim 7, wherein the reservoir is configured to collect water from at least one of the water interaction devices. 10. The Ferris wheel system of claim 7, wherein the water regulation system comprises a pump. 11. The Ferris wheel system of claim 1, wherein at least one of the water interaction devices is coupled to at least one of the seating devices. 12. The Ferris wheel system of claim 11, wherein at least one of the water interaction devices and at least one of the seating devices is separated by a wall, the wall comprising an opening for passing water from the water interaction device into the seating device. 13. The Ferris wheel system of claim 11, wherein at least one of the water interaction devices communicates with at least one of the seating devices such that water from the water interaction device contacts at least some of the participants during use. 14. The Ferris wheel system of claim 11, wherein at least one of the water interaction devices is substantially offset from at least one of the seating devices such that water released from the water interaction device is inhibited from contacting participants during use. 15. The Ferris wheel system of claim 14, wherein at least one of the water interaction devices are positioned between at least one of the seating devices and a central axis of the Ferris wheel. 16. The Ferris wheel system of claim 1, wherein at least one of the water interaction devices comprises a paddle. 17. The Ferris wheel system of claim 1, wherein at least one of the water interaction devices comprises a receptacle. 18. The Ferris wheel system of claim 1, wherein at least one of the water interaction devices comprises one or more openings for releasing the water during use. 19. The Ferris wheel system of claim 1, wherein at least one of the water interaction devices is substantially non-rotatable, and wherein at least one of the water interaction devices is oriented in a substantially upright position as the water interaction device passes through an apex of the Ferris wheel, and wherein at least one of the water interaction devices is configured to release water as the water interaction device reaches a location substantially below the central axis. 20. The Ferris wheel system of claim 1, wherein at least one of the water interaction devices is at least partially rotatable and wherein at least one of the water interaction devices is configured to release water at a location substantially below the central axis. 21. The Ferris wheel system of claim 1, further comprising a braking system configured to inhibit rotation of the Ferris wheel during use. 22. The Ferris wheel system of claim 1, wherein the Ferris wheel defines a first plane, and wherein at least one of the water interaction devices is oriented in a second plane, and wherein the first and second planes are substantially parallel, and wherein the second plane is laterally displaced from the first plane. 23. The Ferris wheel system of claim 1, wherein at least one of the water interaction devices is substantially non-pivotally attached to the Ferris wheel, and wherein at least one of the water interaction devices is oriented in a substantially upright position as the water interaction device passes through an apex of the support member, and wherein the water interaction device is configured to release water at a location substantially below the central axis. 24. A water Ferris wheel system, comprising: a Ferris wheel; one or more water interaction devices coupled to an outer portion of the Ferris wheel; one or more seating devices configured to hold participants during use, wherein the seating devices are coupled to the Ferris wheel; and a water supply system for producing a substantially vertical water stream such that the water stream is directed onto at least one of the water interaction devices during use; wherein the Ferris wheel is configured to rotate about a central axis in response to the force imparted by the water stream upon at least one of the water interaction devices. 25. The Ferris wheel system of claim 24, wherein the water supply system is configured to direct water onto at least one of the water interaction devices at a location above the central axis during use. 26. The Ferris wheel system of claim 24, wherein the water supply system is configured to direct water onto at least one of the water interaction devices at a location substantially even with the central axis during use. 27. The Ferris wheel system of claim 24, wherein the water supply system is configured to supply water along a tangent of the Ferris wheel. 28. The Ferris wheel system of claim 24, wherein the water source comprises a conduit, a water regulation system, and a reservoir, the water regulation system being disposed between the reservoir and an opening of the conduit, and wherein water flows out of the opening of the conduit to form the water stream. 29. The Ferris wheel system of claim 24, wherein at least one of the water interaction devices is coupled to at least one of the seating devices of the Ferris wheel. 30. The Ferris wheel system of claim 24, wherein at least one of the water interaction devices communicates with at least one of the seating devices such that water from one of the water interaction devices contacts at least some of the participants during use. 31. The Ferris wheel system of claim 24, wherein at least one of the water interaction devices is substantially offset from at least one of the seating devices such that water released from at least one of the water interaction devices is inhibited from contacting participants during use. 32. The Ferris wheel system of claim 24, wherein at least one of the water interaction devices comprises a paddle. 33. The Ferris wheel system of claim 24, further comprising a braking system configured to inhibit rotation of the Ferris wheel during use. 34. A water Ferris wheel system, comprising: a Ferris wheel; one or more water interaction devices coupled to an outer surface of the Ferris wheel; one or more seating devices configured to hold participants during use, wherein the seating devices are coupled to the Ferris wheel; and a water supply system for supplying a water stream, wherein the water stream flows at a location below the Ferris wheel, and wherein the water supply system is further configured to direct water onto at least one of the water interaction devices during use; wherein the Ferris wheel is configured to rotate about a central axis in response to the force imparted by the water stream upon at least one of the water interaction devices. 35. The Ferris wheel system of claim 34, the water supply system is configured to supply water along a tangent of the Ferris wheel. 36. The Ferris wheel system of claim 34, wherein at least one of the water interaction devices is coupled to at least one of the seating device of the Ferris wheel. 37. The Ferris wheel system of claim 34, wherein at least one of the water interaction devices is substantially offset from at least one of the seating devices such that water released from at least one of the water interaction devices is inhibited from contacting participants during use. 38. The Ferris wheel system of claim 34, wherein at least one of the water interaction devices comprises a paddle. 39. The Ferris wheel system of claim 34, further comprising a braking system configured to inhibit rotation of the Ferris wheel during use. 40. A water Ferris wheel system, comprising: a Ferris wheel; one or more water interaction devices coupled to the Ferris wheel, wherein the Ferris wheel defines a first plane, and wherein at least one of the water interaction devices is oriented in a second plane, and wherein the first and second planes are substantially parallel, and wherein the second plane is laterally displaced from the first plane; and a water supply system for directing a water stream onto at least one of the water interaction devices during use; wherein the Ferris wheel is configured to rotate about a central axis in response to the force imparted by the water stream upon at least one of the water interaction devices. 41. The Ferris wheel system of claim 40, wherein the water supply system is configured to direct water onto at least one of the water interaction devices at a location above the central axis during use. 42. The Ferris wheel system of claim 40, wherein the water supply system is configured to direct water onto at least one of the water interaction devices at a location substantially even with the central axis during use. 43. The Ferris wheel system of claim 40, wherein the water source comprises a conduit, a water regulation system, and a reservoir, the water regulation system being disposed between the reservoir and an opening of the conduit, and wherein water flows out of the opening of the conduit to form the water stream. 44. The Ferris wheel system of claim 40, further comprising one or more seating devices coupled to the Ferris wheel, wherein at least one of the water interaction devices is substantially offset from at least one of the seating devices such that water released from at least one of the water interaction devices is inhibited from contacting participants during use. 45. The Ferris wheel system of claim 40, wherein at least one of the water interaction devices comprises a paddle. 46. The Ferris wheel system of claim 40, further comprising a braking system configured to inhibit rotation of the Ferris wheel during use. 47. A water Ferris wheel system, comprising: a central axle member; a support member coupled to the central axle member, wherein the support member is rotatable about the central axle member in a substantially vertical plane during use; a base support structure, wherein the central axle member is coupled to the base support structure such that the support member is substantially suspended above the ground; a plurality of axle members positioned about the support member during use; a plurality of seating devices for holding participants during use, the seating devices coupled to the axle members during use; a plurality of water interaction devices for imparting a force to the support member during use; and a water source for supplying a water stream to the water interaction devices during use; wherein a support member is configured to rotate about a central axle member in response to the force imparted by the water interaction devices during use. 48. The Ferris wheel system of claim 47, wherein the water supply system is configured to direct water onto at least one of the water interaction devices at a location above the central axis during use. 49. The Ferris wheel system of claim 47, wherein at least one of the water interaction devices is substantially offset from at least one of the seating devices such that water released from at least one of the water interaction devices is inhibited from contacting participants during use. 50. The Ferris wheel system of claim 47, wherein at least one of the water interaction devices comprises a paddle. 51. The Ferris wheel system of claim 47, further comprising a braking system configured to inhibit rotation of the Ferris wheel during use. 52. A method for powering a Ferris wheel with water, comprising: directing a water stream from a water source to a plurality of water interaction devices disposed on the Ferris wheel; interacting at least a portion of the water stream with the water interaction devices, wherein interaction of the water stream with the water interaction devices causes rotation of the Ferris wheel; and releasing at least a portion of the water stream from the water interaction devices through an opening in at least one of the water interaction devices as the Ferris wheel rotates. 53. The method of claim 52, wherein directing the water stream comprises pumping water through a conduit from the water source to the water interaction devices. 54. The method of claim 52, wherein the water interaction devices communicate with seating devices of the Ferris wheel, and further comprising passing water from the water interaction devices to the seating devices such that the water contacts the participants. 55. The method of claim 52, further comprising collecting at least a portion of the released water stream in a reservoir located under the Ferris wheel and recycling at least a portion of the water stream to the water interaction devices. 56. The method of claim 52, wherein at least a portion of the water stream is directed to the water interaction devices at a location proximate an apex of the Ferris wheel. 57. The method of claim 52, wherein at least a portion of the water stream is directed to the water interaction devices at a location approximately level with a central axis of the Ferris wheel. 58. The method of claim 52, further comprising directing at least a portion of the water stream to the water interaction devices at a location below the Ferris wheel. 59. The method of claim 52, wherein the water interaction devices comprise one or more receptacles, and further comprising substantially completely filling at least one receptacle with water at a location proximate an apex of the Ferris wheel, and further comprising substantially gradually releasing the water from at least one of the receptacles as the receptacles move from the apex of the Ferris wheel to a lower portion of the Ferris wheel such that substantially all of the water is released from at least one of the receptacles by a time that at least one of the receptacles is located at a lower portion of the Ferris wheel. 60. The method of claim 52, further comprising controlling a flow rate of the water stream, wherein a rate of rotation of the Ferris wheel is a function of the flow rate of the water stream to the water interaction devices. 61. The method of claim 52, further comprising reducing a speed of rotation of the Ferris wheel, wherein the speed of rotation is reduced by reducing a flow of the water stream to the water interaction devices. 62. The method of claim 52, wherein the Ferris wheel further comprises a braking system, and further comprising reducing a speed of rotation of the Ferris wheel by reducing a flow of the water stream to the water interaction devices and by applying a braking force from the braking system to the Ferris wheel. 63. The method of claim 52, further comprising increasing a speed of rotation of the Ferris wheel, wherein the speed of rotation is increased by increasing a flow of the water stream to the water interaction devices. 64. A method of constructing a water Ferris wheel system, comprising: coupling one or more water interaction devices to a Ferris wheel; coupling one or more seating devices to hold participants during use to the Ferris wheel; and coupling a water supply system to a water Ferris wheel system for directing a water stream onto at least one of the water interaction devices to the Ferris wheel; wherein the Ferris wheel is configured to rotate about a central axis in response to the force imparted by the water stream upon at least one of the water interaction devices. 65. The method of claim 64, wherein the water source comprises a conduit, a water regulation system, and a reservoir, and further comprising: positioning the conduit proximate at least one of the water interaction devices such that water passing through an opening of the conduit contacts at least one of the water interaction devices; coupling the conduit to the reservoir; and positioning the water regulation system between the reservoir and the opening of the conduit. 66. The method of claim 65, further comprising positioning the reservoir proximate at least one of the water interaction devices such that the reservoir collects water from at least one of the water interaction devices. 67. The method of claim 64, wherein coupling at least one of the water interaction devices to the Ferris wheel comprises attaching at least one of the water interaction devices to at least one seating device of the Ferris wheel. 68. The method of claim 64, wherein coupling at least one of the water interaction devices to the Ferris wheel comprises positioning at least one of the water interaction devices such that the water interaction device is substantially offset from at least one of the seating devices. 69. The method of claim 64, wherein coupling at least one of the water interaction devices to the Ferris wheel comprises positioning at least one of the water interaction devices between at least one of the seating devices and a central axis of the Ferris wheel. 70. The method of claim 64, further comprising coupling a braking system to the Ferris wheel, wherein the braking system is configured to inhibit rotation of the Ferris wheel during use. 71. The method of claim 64, wherein the Ferris wheel defines a first plane, and wherein coupling at least one of the water interaction devices to the Ferris wheel comprises positioning the water interaction devices in a second plane, and wherein the first and second planes are substantially parallel, and wherein the second plane is laterally displaced from the first plane. 72. A water Ferris wheel system, comprising: a Ferris wheel; one or more water interaction devices coupled to the Ferris wheel; and a water supply system for directing a water stream onto at least one of the water interaction devices during use; wherein the Ferris wheel is configured to rotate about a central axis in response to the force imparted by the water stream upon at least one of the water interaction devices, and wherein at least one of the water interaction devices comprises one or more openings for releasing the water during use. 73. The Ferris wheel system of claim 72, wherein the water supply system comprises a conduit, a water regulation system, and a reservoir, the water regulation system being disposed between the reservoir and an opening of the conduit, and wherein water flows out of the opening of the conduit to form the water stream. 74. The Ferris wheel system of claim 73, wherein the reservoir is configured to collect water from at least one of the water interaction devices. 75. The Ferris wheel system of claim 72, further comprising one or more seating devices coupled to the Ferris wheel, wherein at least one of the water interaction devices is coupled to at least one of the seating devices. 76. The Ferris wheel system of claim 72, wherein the Ferris wheel defines a first plane, and wherein at least one of the water interaction devices is oriented in a second plane, and wherein the first and second planes are substantially parallel, and wherein the second plane is laterally displaced from the first plane. 77. A method of constructing a water Ferris wheel system, comprising: coupling one or more water interaction devices to a Ferris wheel, wherein the Ferris wheel defines a first plane, and wherein coupling at least one of the water interaction devices to the Ferris wheel comprises positioning the water interaction devices in a second plane, and wherein the first and second planes are substantially parallel, and wherein the second plane is laterally displaced from the first plane; and coupling a water supply system to a water Ferris wheel system for directing a water stream onto at least one of the water interaction devices to the Ferris wheel; wherein the Ferris wheel is configured to rotate about a central axis in response to the force imparted by the water stream upon at least one of the water interaction devices. 78. The method of claim 77, wherein the water source comprises a conduit, a water regulation system, and a reservoir, and further comprising: positioning the conduit proximate at least one of the water interaction devices such that water passing through an opening of the conduit contacts at least one of the water interaction devices; coupling the conduit to the reservoir; and positioning the water regulation system between the reservoir and the opening of the conduit. 79. The method of claim 77, further comprising coupling one or more seating devices to the Ferris wheel and wherein coupling at least one of the water interaction devices to the Ferris wheel comprises attaching at least one of the water interaction devices to at least one seating device of the Ferris wheel. 80. The method of claim 77, further comprising coupling one or more seating devices to the Ferris wheel and wherein coupling at least one of the water interaction devices to the Ferris wheel comprises positioning at least one of the water interaction devices such that the water interaction device is substantially offset from at least one of the seating devices. 81. The method of claim 77, further comprising coupling one or more seating devices to the Ferris wheel and wherein coupling at least one of the water interaction devices to the Ferris wheel comprises positioning at least one of the water interaction devices between at least one of the seating devices and a central axis of the Ferris wheel. 