An apparatus for drying a generally flat substrate that has been cleaned has a rotatable support for supporting the substrate, a substrate drying assembly, and a controller. The substrate drying assembly includes a substrate drying assembly support arm, an outlet for applying liquid to an upper surface of the substrate, and an outlet for applying a drying vapor to the upper surface of the substrate. The substrate drying assembly is configured to position the liquid applying outlet and to position the vapor applying outlet above a portion of the substrate. The controller causes the substrate drying assembly to be retracted over the upper surface of the substrate at a faster rate near a center of the substrate than near a periphery of the substrate.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of drying a generally flat substrate that has been cleaned, the substrate positioned on a rotatable support, the method comprising the steps of: selecting at least one of a blanket substrate drying process window if the substrate has a blanket portion and a patterned substrate drying process window if the substrate has a patterned portion; moving a substrate drying assembly support arm into position closely spaced above the substrate, the substrate drying assembly including an outlet for applying liquid to an upper surface of the substrate and including an outlet for applying a drying vapor to the upper surface of the substrate; rotating the substrate; retracting the substrate drying assembly support arm radially outwardly according to the selected drying process window to a periphery of the substrate while applying liquid to the substrate through the liquid applying outlet and following that with said drying vapor being applied to the substrate to dry the substrate. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: positioning the liquid applying outlet approximately over a center of the substrate; applying liquid to the substrate through the liquid applying outlet; positioning the drying vapor outlet approximately over the center of the substrate; applying tensioactive vapor to the substrate as the substrate is rotating to thereby dry the center of the substrate due to the rotation and by the action of the vapor on the liquid; wherein the positioning the liquid applying outlet, applying liquid, positioning the drying vapor outlet; and applying tensioactive vapor steps are performed before the retracting step. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the blanket substrate drying process window comprises a range of retraction rates up to and including a maximum rate, and wherein the maximum rate is increased as the rate at which the substrate is rotated is increased by about 0.5 mm per second for about each 100 increase in the revolutions per minute of the rotation of the substrate, and wherein the maximum retraction rate is about 5 mm/sec when the rate of rotation of the substrate is about 300 revolutions per minute. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the patterned substrate drying process window comprises the range of retraction rates up to and including a maximum rate, and wherein the maximum retraction rate is increased as the rate at which the substrate is rotated is increased by about 0.5 mm per second for about each 100 increase in the revolutions per minute of the rotation of the substrate, and wherein the maximum retraction rate is retracted is about 4 mm/sec when the rate of rotation of the substrate is about 300 revolutions per minute. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein during the drying operation of the upper surface of the substrate the substrate is rotated in a range between 50 rpm and 1,000 rpm while the retraction rate of the drying arm is in the range between about 1 and about 20 mm per second. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein during the drying operation of the upper surface of the substrate the substrate is rotated in a range between 200 rpm and 1,000 rpm while the retraction rate of the drying arm is in the range between about 4 and about 9 mm per second. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of retracting the substrate drying assembly support arm comprises using a stepper motor to retract the substrate drying assembly support arm. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the retraction rate comprises a range of rates up to and including a maximum rate, and wherein the maximum rate is increased as the rate at which the substrate is rotated is increased at a rate of at a rate of about 0.5 mm per second for each 100 increase in the revolutions per minute of the rotation of the substrate. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the maximum rate at which the drying arm is retracted is 5 mm/sec when the rate of rotation of the substrate is 300 revolutions per minute. 