A multi-agent autonomous system for exploration of hazardous or inaccessible locations. The multi-agent autonomous system includes simple surface-based agents or craft controlled by an airborne tracking and command system. The airborne tracking and command system includes an instrument suite used to image an operational area and any craft deployed within the operational area. The image data is used to identify the craft, targets for exploration, and obstacles in the operational area. The tracking and command system determines paths for the surface-based craft using the identified targets and obstacles and commands the craft using simple movement commands to move through the operational area to the targets while avoiding the obstacles. Each craft includes its own instrument suite to collect information about the operational area that is transmitted back to the tracking and command system. The tracking and command system may be further coupled to a satellite system to provide additional image information about the operational area and provide operational and location commands to the tracking and command system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for controlling a craft within an operational area, comprising: providing a tracking and command system that floats above the operational area and coupled to the craft through a transceiver; generating imaging information of the operational area by the tracking and command system; generating a path for the craft by the tracking and command system using the imaging information; generating a set of craft commands for the craft by the tracking and command system using the path; and transmitting the craft commands by the tracking and command system to the craft via the transceiver. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein generating a path for the craft further includes: identifying the craft's position within the operational area by the tracking and command system using the imaging information; identifying a target by the tracking and command system using the imaging information; and determining a path between the craft's position and the target. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the craft further includes an instrument suite and generating a path for the craft further includes: collecting operational area information from the instrument suite by the craft; transmitting the operational area information from the craft to the tracking and command system; and generating a path for the craft further using the operational area information. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the tracking and command system is airborne. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the tracking and command system is supported by a lighter-than-air aircraft. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the lighter-than-air aircraft is tethered. 7. The method of claim 5, wherein the lighter-than-air aircraft includes a thrust generating element. 8. The method of claim 4, wherein the tracking and command system is supported by a heavier-than-air aircraft. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the craft includes means for collision avoidance. 10. A multi-agent autonomous system, comprising: a tracking and command system that is floating, the tracking and command system including: a transceiver; an operational area imager; and a craft path planning module coupled to the operational area imager and the transceiver; and a craft coupled to the tracking and command system through the transceiver. 11. The multi-agent autonomous system of claim 10, further comprising: a craft position module coupled to the operational area imager and the path planning module; and a reconnaissance target identification module coupled to the operational area imager and the path planning module. 12. The multi-agent autonomous system of claim 10, wherein the craft further includes an instrument suite. 13. The multi-agent autonomous system of claim 10, wherein the tracking and command system is airborne. 14. The multi-agent autonomous system of claim 13, wherein the tracking and command system is supported by a lighter-than-air aircraft. 15. The multi-agent autonomous system of claim 14, wherein the lighter-than-air aircraft is tethered. 16. The multi-agent autonomous system of claim 14, wherein the lighter-than-air aircraft includes a thrust generating element. 17. The multi-agent autonomous system of claim 13, wherein the tracking and command system is supported by a heavier-than-air aircraft. 18. The multi-agent autonomous system of claim 10, wherein the craft includes means for collision avoidance. 19. The multi-agent autonomous system of claim 10, wherein the craft further comprises an instrument suite for collection of operational area information. 20. A tracking and command system for controlling a craft within an operational area, comprising: a processor; a memory coupled to the processor, the memory having program instructions executable by the processor stored therein, the program instructions including: generating imaging information of an operational area; generating a path for the craft using the imaging information; generating a set of commands for the craft using the path; and transmitting the craft commands to the craft via a transceiver, wherein the tracking and command system is floating. 21. The tracking and command system for controlling a craft within an operational area of claim 20, the program instructions for generating a path for the craft further including: identifying the craft's position within the operational area using the imaging information; identifying a target using the imaging information; and determining a path between the craft's position and the target. 22. The tracking and command system for controlling a craft within an operational area of claim 20, wherein the craft further includes an instrument suite and the program instructions for generating a path for the craft further include: receiving operational area information collected from the instrument suite by the craft; transmitting the operational area information from the craft to the tracking and command system; and generating a path for the craft using the operational area information and the imaging information. 23. The tracking and command system for controlling a craft within an operational area of claim 20, wherein the tracking and command system is airborne. 24. The tracking and command system for controlling a craft within an operational area of claim 20, wherein the tracking and command system is supported by a lighter-than-air aircraft. 25. The tracking and command system for controlling a craft within an operational area of claim 24, wherein the lighter-than-air aircraft is tethered. 26. The tracking and command system for controlling a craft within an operational area of claim 24, wherein the lighter-than-air aircraft includes a thrust generating element. 27. The tracking and command system for controlling a craft within an operational area of claim 20, wherein the tracking and command system is supported by a heavier-than-air aircraft. 28. The tracking and command system for controlling a craft within an operational area of claim 20, wherein the craft further includes: a proximity sensor; a drive mechanism; and a controller coupled to the proximity sensor and drive mechanism, the controller programmed to avoid collisions using signals received from the proximity sensor. 29. A multi-agent autonomous system, comprising: a self-propelled craft deployed in an operational area; a tracking and command system that is floating and coupled to the craft, the tracking and command system including: an imager for generating imaging information of the operational area; a path planner for planning a path for the craft using the imaging information; a craft command generator for generation of craft commands using the path; and a craft commander for transmitting the craft commands to the craft. 30. The multi-agent autonomous system of claim 29, further comprising: a craft position determiner for determining the position and heading of the craft using the imaging information; a reconnaissance target identifier for identifying targets using the imaging information. 31. The multi-agent autonomous system of claim 29, further comprising an aircraft for supporting the tracking and command system. 32. The multi-agent autonomous system of claim 31, wherein the aircraft includes a tether for tethering the aircraft. 33. The multi-agent autonomous system of claim 31, wherein the aircraft includes a thrust generating element for maneuvering the aircraft. 34. The multi-agent autonomous system of claim 31, wherein the aircraft is lighter-than-air. 35. The multi-agent autonomous system of claim 31, wherein the aircraft is heavier-than-air. 36. The multi-agent autonomous system of claim 29, wherein the craft further includes: a proximity sensor for detecting an object in close proximity to the craft; and a controller, responsive to the proximity sensor, for avoiding a collision with the object. 37. The multi-agent autonomous system of claim 29, wherein the tracking and command system is airborne. 38. A method for controlling a craft within an operational area, comprising: providing a first tracking and command system at a first distance from the operational area and coupled to the craft through a transceiver; providing an operational area imager at a second distance from the operational area; generating a first imaging dataset of the operational area by the first tracking and command system; generating a second imaging dataset of the operational area by the operational area imager; generating a first path for the craft by the first tracking and command system using the first imaging dataset; generating a first set of commands for the craft by the first tracking and command system using the first path; and transmitting the first set of commands by the first tracking and command system to the craft via the transceiver. 39. The method for controlling a craft of claim 38, further comprising: providing a second tracking and command system coupled to the operational area imager; generating a second path for the first tracking and command system using the second imaging dataset; generating a second set of commands for the first tracking and command system by the second tracking and command system using the second path; and transmitting the second set of commands by the second tracking and command system to the first tracking and command system. 40. A method for controlling a craft within an operational area, comprising: providing a mobile tracking and command system coupled to the craft through a transceiver; generating imaging information of an operational area by the tracking and command system; generating a path for the craft by the tracking and command system using the imaging information; generating a set of craft commands for the craft by the tracking and command system using the path; and transmitting the craft commands by the tracking and command system to the craft via the transceiver. 41. A multi-agent autonomous system, comprising: a first tracking and command system at a first distance from an operational area, the tracking and command system including: a transceiver; a first operational area imager; and a first path planning module coupled to the operational area imager and the transceiver; a second operational area imager at a second distance from the operational area and coupled to the first tracking and command system; and a craft coupled to the first tracking and command system through the transceiver, wherein the first distance and the second distance are different. 42. The multi-agent autonomous system of claim 41, further comprising a second tracking and command system coupled to the second operational area imager, the second tracking and command system comprising a second path planning module. 43. A multi-agent autonomous system, comprising: a mobile tracking and command system, the tracking and command system including: a transceiver; an operational area imager; and a craft path planning module coupled to the operational area imager and the transceiver; and a craft coupled to the tracking and command system through the transceiver. 44. A tracking and command system for controlling a craft within an operational area, comprising: a processor; a memory coupled to the processor, the memory having program instructions executable by the processor stored therein, the program instructions including: generating imaging information of the operational area; generating a path for the craft using the imaging information; generating a set of commands for the craft using the path; and transmitting the craft commands to the craft via a transceiver, wherein the tracking and command system is mobile. 45. A multi-agent autonomous system, comprising: a self-propelled craft deployed in an operational area; a first tracking and command system at a first distance from the operational area and coupled to the craft, the first tracking and command system including: a first imager for generating a first imaging dataset of the operational area; a first path planner for planning a first path for the craft using the first imaging dataset; a first command generator for generation of a first set of commands using the path; and a first craft commander for transmitting the first set of commands to the craft; and a second imager at a second distance from the operational area for generating a second imaging dataset of the operational area, the second imager coupled to the first tracking and command system, wherein the first distance and the second distance are different. 46. The multi-agent autonomous system of claim 45, further comprising a second tracking and command system coupled to the second imager, the second tracking and command system comprising: a second path planner for planning a second path for the first tracking and command system using the second imaging dataset; a second command generator for generation of a second set of commands using the second path; and a second commander for transmitting the second set of commands to the first tracking and command system. 