The present invention provides a novel distributed factory system framework including a novel factory automation lifecycle (200) having lifecycle activities for SW developing and integrating (210), installing and administrating (220), factory modeling (230), manufacturing planning (240), manufacturing controlling, monitoring and tracking (250) and analyzing of manufacturing results (260). The factory lifecycle comprises framework components. The distributed factory system framework also includes application components and software building blocks. The framework components are adapted for managing the application components, while the application components are utilized to provide instructions for managing a process such as a wafer fab. The building blocks are adapted for forming or modifying framework and application components. The distributed factory system framework provides computer implemented methods for integrating processing systems and facilitates process and equipment changes.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for defining a computer implemented factory automation lifecycle, the method comprising: a) installing and administrating lifecycle activity framework components; b) factory modeling lifecycle activity framework components; and c) manufacturing controlling, monitoring and tracking lifecycle activity framework components that include a visual workflow component configured to execute at least one manufacturing process and at least one business process. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said administrating lifecycle activity framework components comprise a performance and license management component. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said factory modeling lifecycle activity framework components comprise a configuration management component. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said manufacturing controlling, monitoring and tracking lifecycle activity framework components comprise defining one or more framework components selected from a resource coordination component, an event monitor component and a bill of resources component. 5. The method of claim 1 additionally comprising a method for defining one or more analyzing of manufacturing results lifecycle activity framework components. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein defining one or more analyzing of manufacturing results lifecycle activity framework components comprises defining a data manager component. 7. The method of claim 5 additionally defining a method for defining interactions between the one or more manufacturing results lifecycle activity framework components and components selected from the group consisting of factory modeling lifecycle activity framework components. 8. The method of claim 1 additionally defining a software (SW) developing and integrating lifecycle activity. 9. The method of claim 1 additionally defining a manufacturing planning lifecycle activity. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein defining a factory automation lifecycle comprises defining a factory automation lifecycle for processing an integrated circuit structure. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein defining a factory automation lifecycle additionally comprises defining framework components such that the framework components are adapted for communicating with a tool integration component, wherein the framework components are selected from the group consisting of installing and administrating lifecycle activity framework components, factory modeling lifecycle activity framework components, and manufacturing controlling, monitoring and tracking lifecycle activity framework components. 12. An apparatus for processing a product, the apparatus comprising: a) product processing equipment; b) at least one central processing unit for electronic data processing; c) a link for operably linking the central processing unit to the product processing equipment; d) a memory for storing digitally coded data structures, wherein the memory is operably linked to the at least one central processing unit; and e) a digitally coded first data structure stored in the memory wherein the data structure comprises a factory automation lifecycle including: (1) administrating lifecycle activity framework components, (2) factory modeling lifecycle activity framework components, and (3) manufacturing, controlling and tracking lifecycle activity framework components that include a visual workflow component configured to execute at least one manufacturing process and at least one business process. 13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the administrating lifecycle activity framework components comprise a performance and license management component. 14. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the factory modeling lifecycle activity framework components comprise configuration management component. 15. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the manufacturing controlling and tracking lifecycle activity framework components comprise one or more framework components selected from a resource coordination component, an event monitor component and a bill of resources component. 16. The apparatus of claim 12 additionally comprising one or more analyzing of manufacturing results lifecycle activity framework components. 17. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the one or more analyzing of manufacturing results lifecycle activity framework components comprise a data manager component. 18. The apparatus of claim 12 additionally comprising a digitally coded second data structure including application components, wherein the first data structure is adapted for managing the second data structure. 19. The apparatus of claim 18 additionally comprising a digitally coded third data structure including software building blocks for forming one or more of the framework components. 20. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the first data structure comprises: a) a digitally coded fourth data structure including a graphical user interface (GUI) console component; and b) a digitally coded fifth data structure including a configuration management component. 21. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein the fourth and fifth data structures are adapted for interacting. 22. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein the link comprises a tool integration component including: (1) a tool integration component adapter and (2) a tool interface program. 23. The apparatus of claim 12 comprising an apparatus for processing an integrated circuit structure. 24. A data storage device comprising a digitally coded first data structure including a factory automation lifecycle having: a) administrating lifecycle activity framework components; b) factory modeling lifecycle activity framework components; and c) manufacturing controlling and tracking lifecycle activity framework components that include a visual workflow component configured to execute at least one manufacturing process and at least one business process. 25. The device of claim 24, wherein the administrating lifecycle activity framework components comprise a performance and license management component. 26. The device of claim 24, wherein the factory modeling lifecycle activity framework components comprise configuration management component. 27. The device of claim 24, wherein the manufacturing controlling and tracking lifecycle activity framework components comprise one or more framework components selected from a resource coordination component, an event monitor component and a bill of resources component. 28. The device of claim 24 additionally comprising one or more analyzing of manufacturing results lifecycle activity framework components. 29. The device of claim 28, wherein the one or more analyzing of manufacturing results lifecycle activity framework components comprise a data manager component. 30. The device of claim 24 comprising a plurality of framework components which are adapted for interacting with a graphical user interface (GUI) console framework component. 31. The device of claim 24 additionally comprising a digitally coded second data structure including application components, wherein the first data structure is adapted for managing the second data structure. 32. The device of claim 31 additionally comprising a digitally coded third data structure including software building blocks for forming one or more of the framework components. 33. The device of claim 32 wherein the first, second and third data structures are adapted for processing an integrated circuit structure. 34. A method for defining a computer implemented automation lifecycle of a factory, the method comprising the steps of: a) defining software components relating to a lifecycle activity framework for automating the factory comprising a plurality of wafer fabrication tools; and b) installing and controlling the defined software components that include a visual workflow component configured to execute at least one manufacturing process and at least one business process. 35. The method of claim 34, wherein the software components include a manufacturing execution system. 36. A computer implemented method of automating a factory for manufacturing semiconductor devices, the method comprising the acts of: a) developing and installing control software for automating the factory; b) modeling tools and manufacturing processes of the factory; c) generating a plan to manufacture one or more semiconductor devices; d) controlling, tracking and monitoring manufacture of the semiconductor devices according to the plan; e) analyzing manufacturing results, wherein at least one of acts a), b) and c) is modified based on the results; and f) constructing one or more framework components configured to allow a user to conduct acts a) e), wherein said framework components include a visual workflow component. 37. The method of claim 36 further comprises the act of: g) allowing the one or more framework components to access features of the tools and manufacturing processes of the factory with one or more generalized commands. 38. The method of claim 37 further comprises the act of: h) providing an interface between the one or more framework components and the tools of the factory, wherein the providing the interface includes the act of: translating the one or more generalized commands to commands adapted to control one or more of the tools of the factory. 39. The method of claim 36 further comprising the act of: providing common service protocols among a plurality of components of the one or more framework components. 40. The method of claim 39 further comprising the act of: configuring the one or more framework components to be capable of including one or more of: a configuration management component; a data manager component; an event monitor component; a GUI console component; and a security component. 41. The method of claim 39 further comprising the act of: configuring a configuration management component to manage the act of (b) modeling tools and manufacturing processes of the factory. 42. The method of claim 39 further comprising the act of: providing a performance and license management component. 43. The method of claim 39 further comprising the act of: providing a data manager component to manage the act of e) analyzing manufacturing results, wherein at least one of acts a), b) and c) is modified based on the results. 44. The method of claim 39 further comprising the act of: providing an event monitor component to manage the act of d) controlling, tracking and monitoring manufacture of the semiconductor devices according to the plan. 45. The method of claim 39 further comprising the act of: providing a GUI console component to manage the acts of a) developing and installing control software for automating the factory and f) constructing one or more framework components configured to allow a user to conduct acts a) e). 46. The method of claim 39 further comprising the act of: configuring the one or more framework components to be capable of including any one or more of: a configuration management component; a data manager component; an event monitor component; a GUI console component; a security component; a equipment management component; sample application a work-in-progress management component; a dispatching and scheduling component; a quality management component; a tool integration component; and a gateway component. 47. The method according to claim 36, wherein the visual workflow component is configured to execute at least one manufacturing process and at least one business process. 48. A computer implemented method of automating a factory for manufacturing semiconductor devices, the method comprising the acts of: constructing a software framework configured to conduct a plurality of lifecycle activities, wherein the lifecycle activities comprise: a) developing and integrating control software for automating the factory; b) installing and administrating the control software; c) modeling tools of the factory; d) generating a plan to manufacture semiconductor devices; e) controlling, tracking and monitoring manufacture of the semiconductor devices according to the plan; and f) analyzing manufacturing results, wherein at least one of acts a), c) and d) is modified based on the results. 49. The method of claim 48, wherein the act b) further comprises modeling manufacturing processes of the factory. 50. The method of claim 48 further comprises the act of: g) allowing the software framework to access features of the tools of the factory with one or more generalized commands. 51. The method of claim 50 further comprises the act of: h) providing an interface between the software framework and the tools of the factory, wherein the providing the interface includes the act of: translating the generalized commands to commands adapted to control one or more the tools of the factory. 52. The method of claim 48 further comprising the act of: providing common service protocols among a plurality of components of the software framework. 53. The method of claim 52 further comprising the act of: configuring the software framework to be capable of including one or more of: a configuration management component; a data manager component; an event monitor component; a GUI console component; and a security component. 54. The method of claim 52 further comprising the act of: configuring a configuration management component to manage the act of (b) modeling tools of the factory. 55. The method of claim 52 further comprising the act of: providing a performance and license management component. 56. The method of claim 52 further comprising the act of: providing a data manager component to manage the act of e) analyzing manufacturing results, wherein at least one of acts a), b) and c) is modified based on the results. 57. The method of claim 52 further comprising the act of: providing an event monitor component to manage the act of d) controlling, tracking and monitoring manufacture of the semiconductor devices according to the plan. 58. The method of claim 52 further comprising the act of: providing a GUI console component to manage the acts of a) developing and installing control software for automating the factory and f) constructing a software framework configured to allow a user to conduct acts a) e). 59. The method of claim 52 further comprising the act of: configuring the software framework to be capable of including any one or more of: a configuration management component; a data manager component; an event monitor component; a GUI console component; a security component; a equipment management component; sample application; a work-in-progress management component; a dispatching and scheduling component; a quality management component; a tool integration component; and a gateway component. 60. The method according to claim 48, wherein the visual workflow component is configured to execute at least one manufacturing process and at least one business process. 61. A computer implemented system for automating a factory for manufacturing semiconductor devices, the system comprising: a software framework configured to conduct a plurality of lifecycle activities, wherein the software framework comprises: a) means for developing and integrating control software for automating the factory; b) means for installing and administrating the control software; c) means for modeling tools and manufacturing processes of the factory; d) means for modeling manufacturing processes of the factory; e) means for generating a plan to manufacture semiconductor devices; f) means for controlling, tracking and monitoring manufacture of the semiconductor devices according to the plan; and g) means for analyzing manufacturing results, wherein at least one of acts a), c) and d) is modified based on the results wherein said software framework includes a visual workflow component. 62. The system of claim 61 further comprising: h) an interface configured to allow the software framework to access features of the tools of the factory with one or more generalized commands. 63. The system of claim 61 wherein the interface is configured to translate the generalized commands to commands adapted to control one or more the tools of the factory. 64. The system of claim 61 further comprising: common service protocols among a plurality of components of the software framework. 65. The system of claim 64 the software framework to be capable of including one or more of: a configuration management component; a data manager component; an event monitor component; a GUI console component; and a security component. 66. The system of claim 64 further comprising: a configuration management component configured to manage the act of (b) modeling tools and manufacturing processes of the factory. 67. The system of claim 64 further comprising: a performance and license management component. 68. The system of claim 64 further comprising: a data manager component to configured to manage the act of e) analyzing manufacturing results, wherein at least one of acts a), b) and c) is modified based on the results. 69. The system of claim 64 further comprising: an event monitor component configured to manage the act of d) controlling, tracking and monitoring manufacture of the semiconductor devices according to the plan. 70. The system of claim 64 further comprising: a GUI console component configured to manage the acts of a) developing and installing control software for automating the factory and f) constructing a software framework configured to allow a user to conduct acts a) e). 71. The system of claim 64 wherein the software framework is capable of including any one or more of: a configuration management component; a data manager component; an event monitor component; a GUI console component; a security component; a equipment management component; sample application; a work-in-progress management component; a dispatching and scheduling component; a quality management component; a tool integration component; and a gateway component. 72. The system according to claim 61, wherein the visual workflow component is configured to execute at least one manufacturing process and at least one business process. 73. A computer readable medium for storing instructions being executed by one or more computers, the instructions directing the one or more computers for automating a factory for manufacturing semiconductor devices, the instructions comprising the acts of: constructing a software framework configured to conduct a plurality of lifecycle activities, wherein the lifecycle activities comprise: a) developing and integrating control software for automating the factory; b) installing and administrating the control software; c) modeling tools of the factory; d) generating a plan to manufacture semiconductor devices; e) controlling, tracking and monitoring manufacture of the semiconductor devices according to the plan; and f) analyzing manufacturing results, wherein at least one of acts a), c) and d) is modified based on the results, wherein said software framework includes a visual workflow component. 74. The medium of claim 73, wherein the act b) further comprises modeling manufacturing processes of the factory. 75. The medium of claim 73 further comprises the instructions for the act of: g) allowing the software framework to access features of the tools of the factory with one or more generalized commands. 76. The medium of claim 75 further comprises the instructions for the act of: h) providing an interface between the software framework and the tools of the factory, wherein the providing the interface includes the act of: translating the generalized commands to commands adapted to control one or more the tools of the factory. 77. The medium of claim 73 further comprising the instructions for the act of: providing common service protocols among a plurality of components of the software framework. 78. The medium of claim 77 further comprising the instructions for the act of: configuring the software framework to be capable of including one or more of: a configuration management component; a data manager component; an event monitor component; a GUI console component; and a security component. 79. The medium of claim 77 further comprising the instructions for the act of: configuring a configuration management component to manage the act of (b) modeling tools of the factory. 80. The medium of claim 77 further comprising the instructions for the act of: providing a performance and license management component. 81. The medium of claim 77 further comprising the instructions for the act of: providing a data manager component to manage the act of e) analyzing manufacturing results, wherein at least one of acts a), b) and c) is modified based on the results. 82. The medium of claim 77 further comprising the instructions for the act of: providing an event monitor component to manage the act of d) controlling, tracking and monitoring manufacture of the semiconductor devices according to the plan. 83. The medium of claim 77 further comprising the instructions for the act of: providing a GUI console component to manage the acts of a) developing and installing control software for automating the factory and f) constructing a software framework configured to allow a user to conduct acts a) e). 84. The medium of claim 77 further comprising the instructions for the act of: configuring the software framework to be capable of including any one or more of: a configuration management component; a data manager component; an event monitor component; a GUI console component; a security component; a equipment management component; sample application; a work-in-progress management component; a dispatching and scheduling component; a quality management component; a tool integration component; and a gateway component. 85. The medium according to claim 73, wherein the visual workflow component is configured to execute at least one manufacturing process and at least one business process. 86. A method for defining a computer implemented factory automation lifecycle, the method comprising: a) installing and administrating lifecycle activity framework components; b) factory modeling lifecycle activity framework components; and c) manufacturing controlling, monitoring and tracking lifecycle activity framework components that include a visual workflow component. 87. The method of claim 86, wherein said administrating lifecycle activity framework components comprise a performance and license management component. 88. The method of claim 86, wherein said factory modeling lifecycle activity framework components comprise a configuration management component. 89. The method of claim 86, wherein the visual workflow component is configured to execute at least one manufacturing process and at least one business process. 