The invention is a computerized mobile robotic router with an onboard internet web server, and a capability of establishing a first connection to a remote web browser on the internet for robotic control purposes, and a capability of establishing a second short range bi-directional digital radio connection to one or more nearby computerized digital radio equipped computers or devices external to the robot. The short-range bi-directional digital radio connection will typically have a maximum range of about 300 feet. In a preferred embodiment, this short-range wireless digital connection will use the 2.4 gHz band and digital protocols following the IEEE 802.11, 802.15, or other digital communications protocol. By employing the proper set of external short-range digital radio devices capable of interfacing with the robot (such as sensors, mechanical actuators, appliances, and the like), a remote user on the internet may direct the robot to move within range of the external devices or computers, and connect these devices or computers to the internet.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A mobile robot with an onboard web server, telecommunications means to link the onboard web server with the internet, and onboard telecommunications means to establish additional short-range bi-directional digital radio links with a plurality of external computer controlled devices: wherein the mobile robot, under control by commands sent over the internet, travels into the vicinity of one or more of the external computer controlled devices and establishes a bi-directional, short-range, digital radio link with the external device. 2. The robot of claim 1, in which the onboard telecommunications means acts as a router to transmit data packets between the internet and the external computer controlled devices. 3. The robot of claim 2, in which the onboard telecommunications means acts as a router to transmit data packets between the internet and the external computer controlled devices. 4. A mobile robot with an onboard web server, telecommunications means to link the onboard web server with the internet, and onboard telecommunications means to establish additional short-range bi-directional digital radio links with a plurality of non internet connected external computer controlled devices: wherein the mobile robot, under control by commands sent over the internet, travels into the vicinity of one or more of the external computer controlled devices and establishes a direct bi-directional, short-range, digital radio link with the external device. 5. A mobile robot with an onboard web server, and onboard router; telecommunications means to link the onboard web server and router with the Internet; telecommunications means to establish additional short-range bi-directional digital radio links with a plurality of local units selected from the group consisting of external computers, RFID tags, or microprocessor-controlled devices: wherein the mobile robot performs one or more functions selected from the group consisting of: (A) establishing a link with the internet, traveling into the vicinity of one or more of the local units, establishing a bi-directional short-range, digital radio link with these local units, and relaying data packets between these local units and the internet; (B) establishing a bi-directional, short-range, digital radio link with a local unit, and then traveling into range of an internet connection, and relaying data packets between these local units and the internet. 6. The robot of claim 5, in which the local units were not connected to the Internet, and in which the bi-directional, short-range, digital radio link is a direct link. 7. A mobile robot with an onboard web server, telecommunications means to link the onboard web server with the internet, and onboard telecommunications means to establish additional short-range bi-directional digital radio links with a plurality of external digital radio controlled devices: said internet consisting of an interconnected system of networks that connects computers around the world via the TCP/IP protocol, said external digital radio controlled devices being controlled by short range bi-directional digital radio links; wherein the mobile robot, under control by commands from either the robot's internal programming, the robot's response to environmental stimuli, from the internet, or from an external digital radio controlled device, travels into the vicinity of one or more of the external digital radio controlled devices and establishes a bi-directional, short-range, digital radio link with the external digital radio controlled device; in which the onboard telecommunications means acts as a router to transmit data packets between the internet and the external digital radio controlled device. 8. The robot of claim 7, in which said external digital radio controlled device is a radiofrequency identification tag (RFID tag), and in which said RFID tag is powered by the energy from the robot's radio signal. 