A supercritical fluid cleaning system uses process fluid for operating rotary motors in the chamber with fluid bearings and fluid load levitation for rotating workpieces and impellers. Rotating speed and direction sensors and a home position locator facilitate motor control. Impellers add further agitation of the fluid in the chamber, faster processing, and greater uniformity of supercritical fluid components and increase mass transfer of fluid to the processed surface. Centrifugal operated clips and cassettes hold wafers and impellers. Non-contact, fluid operated rotating mechanisms reduce contamination. Physical, rotational, and shear affects are enhanced through centrifugal forces which can induce the separation of films localized deposits or molecular products of the reaction from the surface. There is a concomitant agitation of fluid, and continuous angular acceleration imparted to the processed surface features.
Claims We claim: 1. A system for supercritical phase fluid processing, comprising: a supercritical phase process chamber with an exhaust port; at least one fluid isolated and operated rotary device inside said process chamber, said rotary device comprising a base component and a fluid isolated and fluid driven rotable component, said base component comprising isolation fluid flow ports directed towards said rotable component and connectable to an external source of process fluid; and a fluid flow control circuit for maintaining an isolation fluid pressure at said fluid flow ports of said base component at higher pressure than the nominal fluid pressure within said process chamber. 2. The system for supercritical phase fluid processing according to claim 1, said rotable component configured with holding clips for securing at least one workpiece. 3. The system for supercritical phase fluid processing according to claim 1, said rotable component comprising at least one impeller. 4. The system for supercritical phase fluid processing according to claim 1, said base component comprising a fluid flow part for applying rotational torque with fluid flow to said rotable component. 5. The system for supercritical phase fluid processing according to claim 4, said fluid flow port for applying rotational torque to said rotable component comprising a fluid flow port for applying a clockwise rotation force, and a fluid flow port for applying a counterclockwise rotation force. 6. The system for supercritical phase fluid processing according to claim 1, said rotary device configured with a home position locator for stopping said rotating component at a pre-determined rotation angle with respect to said base component. 7. The system for supercritical phase fluid processing according to claim 4, said rotary device further comprising a speed of rotation indicator. 8. The system for supercritical phase fluid processing according to claim 4, said rotary device further comprising a direction of rotation indicator. 9. The system for supercritical phase fluid processing according to claim 4, said system further comprising a speed and direction of rotation controller. 10. The system for supercritical phase fluid processing according to claim 4, said rotary component further comprising turbine blades, said fluid flow port in said base component comprising turbine fluid flow ports directed towards said turbine blades, said turbine fluid flow ports communicating with said source of process fluid for applying torque. 11. The system for supercritical phase fluid processing according to claim 10, said turbine blades further comprising a first set of turbine blades oriented for applying clockwise torque to said rotating component and a second set of turbine blades oriented for applying counterclockwise torque to said rotating component. 12. The system for supercritical phase fluid processing according to claim 10, said turbine fluid flow ports on said base component comprising a first set of turbine fluid flow ports oriented for directing fluid flow against said first set of turbine blades and a second set of turbine fluid flow ports oriented for directing fluid flow against said second set of turbine blades, said system further comprising means for switching fluid flow between said first set and said second set of said turbine fluid flow ports. 13. The system for supercritical phase fluid processing according to claim 1, said at least one fluid operated rotary device comprising lower and upper fluid operated rotary devices, between which a workpiece is positionable for processing. 14. A system for supercritical phase fluid processing according to claim 1, said system further comprising a workpiece cassette being configured to hold at least one of a workpiece and an impeller, and being mountable on said rotable component. 15. The system for supercritical phase fluid processing according to claim 14, said workpiece cassette configured with at least one workpiece slot with open slot ends for receiving at least one of a said workpiece and a said impeller, said slot ends configured with workpiece retention clips operable by centrifugal force for closure for securing said workpiece therein. 16. The system for supercritical phase fluid processing according to claim 1, said base component comprising a fluid flow port for centering said rotable component with respect to said base component. 17. The system for supercritical phase fluid processing according to claim 1, said at least one fluid operated rotary device comprising at least two fluid operated rotary devices. 