A method is provided wherein a gate dielectric film that is plasma nitrided in a chamber of one system is subsequently heated or "annealed" in another chamber of the same system. Processing delay can be controlled so that all wafers processed in the system experience similar nitrogen content.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A method of processing a substrate, comprising: incorporating nitrogen (N) into a gate dielectric layer formed on the substrate while the substrate is located in a nitridation chamber of a system; transporting the substrate to an anneal chamber of the system without transporting the substrate out of the system; and annealing the gate dielectric layer by heating the substrate while in the anneal chamber to a temperature above a temperature of the substrate in the nitridation chamber. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the heating the substrate occurs within five minutes after the incorporating nitrogen. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the substrate is annealed within two minutes after the nitrogen is incorporated. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the substrate is annealed within one minute after the nitrogen is incorporated. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein a temperature ramp rate of the substrate in the anneal chamber is at least 60.degree. C./s. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the anneal chamber is a cold wall chamber. 7. The method of claim 5, wherein the substrate is heated to at least 800.degree. C. in the anneal chamber. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the substrate is heated to at least 800.degree. C. in the anneal chamber. 9. The method of claim 1, further comprising exposing the gate dielectric layer to a gas mixture comprising nitrogen or oxygen gas during the annealing. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein a pressure in the anneal chamber is at least 50 Torr. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein a pressure in the anneal chamber is at least 50 Torr. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the gate dielectric layer is annealed within five minutes after the nitrogen is incorporated, a temperature ramp rate of the substrate in the anneal chamber is at least 60.degree. C./s and the anneal chamber comprises nitrogen while the dielectric layer is annealed. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the nitrogen is incorporated by exposing the gate dielectric layer to a nitrogen plasma. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein the gate dielectric layer is silicon dioxide (SiO.sub.2). 15. A method of processing a substrate, comprising: incorporating nitrogen (N) into a gate dielectric layer formed on a substrate while the substrate is located in a nitridation chamber of a system; transporting the substrate to an anneal chamber of the system without transporting the substrate out of the system; and annealing the gate dielectric layer by heating the substrate while in the anneal chamber to a temperature above a temperature of the substrate in the nitridation chamber, wherein the gate dielectric layer is exposed to at least 50% nitrogen gas by volume during the annealing. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the substrate is annealed within one minute after the nitrogen is incorporated and a pressure in the anneal chamber is at least 50 Torr. 