An autonomous machine comprises driving means for moving the machine along a surface of an area, and a navigation system. The navigation system causes the machine to follow a boundary of the area, storing path information on the path travelled by the machine as the machine follows the boundary and compares when the machine has returned to a previously visited position in the area. The navigation system compares the latest section of the path travelled by the machine with information representing a section of the path previously stored in the memory and decides when the new path information and previously stored path information are substantially the same.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An autonomous machine comprising: a driving mechanism for moving the machine along a surface of an area, and a navigation system, comprising a memory element, for navigating the machine around the area, the navigation system comprising: a boundary following unit causing the machine to follow a boundary of the area and storing path information taken at regular intervals spaced by an equal predetermined distance from one another on the path travelled by the machine as the machine follows the boundary; and a comparator determining when the machine has returned to a previously visited position in the area, the comparator being configured to compare the latest section of the path travelled by the machine with information representing a section of the path previously stored in the memory, and deciding when the new path information and previously stored path information are substantially the same. 2. An autonomous machine according to claim 1, wherein the path information is representative of the change in direction of the machine as the machine follows the boundary of the area. 3. An autonomous machine according to claim 2, wherein the path information indicates the relative change in direction of the machine compared to a previous point at which path information was stored. 4. An autonomous machine according to claim 1, wherein the navigation system also comprises a sensor sensing another parameter and storing this other parameter in the memory element along with the path information as the machine follows the boundary of the area. 5. An autonomous machine according to claim 4, wherein the comparator also uses the other parameter to determine when the machine has returned to a previously visited position in the area. 6. An autonomous machine according to claim 4 or 5, wherein the other parameter is the absolute direction of the machine. 7. An autonomous machine according to claim 4 or 5, wherein the other parameter is received light level or distance information. 8. An autonomous machine according to claim 1, wherein, if the comparator fails to find a match between the new path information and previously stored path information, the comparator is configured to increase the length of the path section used by the comparator. 9. An autonomous machine according to claim 1, wherein the navigation system is configured to travel around the boundary of the area and the condition of new path information being substantially the same as previously stored information is used to indicate that the machine has completed a traverse of the boundary of the area. 10. An autonomous machine according to claim 1, wherein the navigation system is configured to construct a map of the area and to add the path information to the map. 11. An autonomous machine according to claim 10, wherein, on determining that the machine has returned to a previously visited position on the boundary, the navigation system corrects the map. 12. An autonomous machine according to claim 10 or 11, wherein the navigation system is configured to cause the machine to follow the boundary of the area after a period of operating away from the boundary, the comparator being used to compare new path information from the path around the boundary with previously stored path information to decide when the two sets of path information are substantially the same and, upon detecting a match, to retrieve the position on the map corresponding to the matched path information. 13. An autonomous machine according to claim 12, wherein the navigation system is also configured to update, on the map, the path travelled by the machine during the period of operating away from the boundary based on the error between an estimate by the navigation system of the current position and the position which is retrieved from the map. 14. An autonomous machine according to claim 10 or 11, wherein the navigation system uses the recognition of a previously visited location to update the position of the machine on the map. 15. An autonomous machine according to claim 10 or 11, wherein the navigation system is configured so that, once the map has been constructed, the navigation system selects a starting point on the boundary from which to work in the area; extracts the section of path information on the boundary preceding the selected starting point; and causes the machine to travel along the boundary towards the starting point and to use the comparator to compare new path information, as the machine follows the boundary, with the extracted section of path information so as to find the starting point. 16. An autonomous machine according to claim 1, further comprising a deriving unit deriving odometry data, wherein the path information is derived from the odometry data. 17. An autonomous machine according to claim 16, wherein the comparator comprises: an indicating unit maintaining an indication of the reliability of the new path information as the machine travels around the area, the reliability decreasing with the distance travelled by the machine since the last reset; and wherein the comparator is configured to use the indication in comparing new path information with stored path information. 18. An autonomous machine, comprising: a driving mechanism for moving the machine along a surface of an area, and a navigation system, comprising a memory element, for navigating the machine around the area, the navigation system comprising: a boundary following unit causing the machine to follow a boundary of the area and storing path information on the path travelled by the machine as the machine follows the boundary; and a comparator determining when the machine has returned to a previously visited position in the area, the comparator being configured to compare the latest section of the path travelled by the machine with information representing a section of the path previously stored in the memory, and deciding when the new path information and previously stored path information are substantially the same, wherein the navigation system is configured to derive, from the stored path information, a second set of path information which is a less detailed representation of the travelled path. 19. An autonomous machine according to claim 18, wherein the comparator is configured to use the second set of path information in deciding whether the new path information and previously stored path information are substantially the same. 20. A method of controlling an autonomous machine comprising: causing the machine to follow a boundary of an area, storing path information taken at regular intervals along the boundary spaced by an equal predetermined distance from one another in a memory, the path information relating to a path travelled by the machine as the machine follows the boundary; determining when the machine has returned to a previously visited position in the area by comparing the latest section of the path travelled by the machine with information representing a section of the path previously stored in the memory, and deciding when the new path information and previously stored path information are substantially the same. 21. A computer readable medium containing program instruction for: causing a machine to follow a boundary of an area, storing path information on a path traveled by the machine taken at regular intervals along the path spaced by an equal predetermined distance from one another as the machine follows the boundary; determining when the machine has returned to a previously visited position in the area by comparing the latest section of the path traveled by the machine with information representing a section of the path previously stored in a memory, and deciding when the new path information and previously stored path information are substantially the same. 