A workpiece handling and processing system has a interface section for loading wafers from cassettes into carriers. The wafers are lifted out of cassettes by a buffer elevator and moved into a position over an open carrier by a buffer robot. A comb elevator lifts combs entirely through the open cassette, to transfer the wafers from the buffer robot into the carrier. A process robot moves loaded carriers from the interface section to one or more process chambers in a process section. The advantages of processing wafers within a carrier are achieved within a compact space and with high throughput.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A workpiece handling system comprising: a workpieoe elevator positioned for moving workpieces substantially vertically up and out of a workpiece container; a carrier loader including a carrier gate opener, a carrier loading elevator, and a plurality of carrier shelves having a plurality of carrier holding positions, and a carrier loader robot movable to substantially each of the carrier shelves, and the carrier loader robot having a carrier engager, adapted to engage and hold a carrier; a buffer robot moveable between the workpiece elevator and the carrier loading elevator; a carrier at one of the plurality of carrier holding positions, with the carrier having a side opening and one or more workpiece retainers moveable between open and closed positions via the carrier gate opener, and with the carrier loading elevator moveable vertically through the side opening of the carrier, for loading and unloading workpieces into and out of the carrier. 2. The system of claim 1 further comprising a carrier shuffle moveable in direction parallel to movement of the buffer robot. 3. A workpiece handling system, comprising: an indexer for moving a plurality of cassettes among a plurality of cassette holding positions; a first elevator moveable vertically through the indexer to lift a batch of workpieces up and out of a cassette; a carrier loader having a carrier load position and a plurality of carrier holders, and a carrier loader robot movable from the carrier load position to substantially each of the carrier holders; a generally cylindrical workpiece carrier supported by the workpiece carrier holder; a second elevator moveable vertically through an opening in the workpiece carrier, to load or unload workpieces into and out of the workpiece carrier; a buffer robot moveable from the first elevator to the second elevator; a carrier shuttle extending alongside the indexer, for moving a carrier from the carrier loader to a carrier transfer position; one or more spin/spray process chambers each having a rotor, with the carrier engageable into the rotor; and a process robot movable in a direction generally perpendicular to movement of the carrier shuttle, for moving a carrier from the carrier transfer position to a process chamber. 