A clamp device including a support frame member, a lower clamp unit and an upper clamp unit supported by the support frame member. The lower clamp unit has a pair of lower jaws and a first actuator for actuating at least one of the lower jaws between clamped and unclamped positions. The upper clamp unit has a first upper jaw and a second upper jaw, and a second actuator for actuating at least one of the upper jaws between clamped and unclamped positions, the first upper jaw being fixed for movement with one of the lower jaws.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A clamp device comprising a support frame member, a lower clamp unit supported by the support frame member for clamping a first work piece at a first lower elevation and an upper clamp unit supported by the support frame member for clamping a second work piece at a second upper elevation, the lower clamp unit having a pair of lower jaws to hold the first work piece and first actuating means for actuating at least one of the lower jaws between clamped and unclamped positions, the upper clamp unit having a first upper jaw and a second upper jaw to hold the second work piece, and a second actuating means for actuating at least one of the upper jaws between clamped and unclamped positions, the first upper jaw being fixed with a first of said lower jaws to form an intermediate jaw arrangement for movement therewith between the clamped and unclamped positions, the intermediate jaw arrangement being located above the first lower elevation and below the second upper elevation, the lower clamp unit further comprising a lower anchor portion mounted on the support frame member the first lower jaw including a first member pivotally coupled to the lower anchor portion for movement about a first axis and a second member coupled to the first member, the upper clamp unit further comprising an upper anchor portion which is mounted on the support frame member, the second upper jaw being movable relative to the upper anchor portion, the second upper jaw including a third member pivotally coupled to the upper anchor portion for movement about a second axis and a fourth member which is coupled to the third member. 2. A device as defined in claim 1, further comprising displacement means for displacing the second upper jaw between the unclamped position and an inoperable position. 3. A device as defined in claim 1 wherein the second lower jaw is fixedly mounted to the lower anchor portion. 4. A device as defined in claim 1 wherein each of the first and second actuating means includes a linear or rotary, hydraulic or pneumatic drive member. 5. A device as defined in claim 1, further comprising control means for which is operable in: a first phase to actuate the lower clamp unit between unclamped and clamped positions; a second phase to actuate the second upper clamp member between the unclamped and inoperative positions; and a third phase to actuate the upper clamp unit between the unclamped and clamped positions. 6. A device as defined in claim 1, wherein each of the lower jaws and/or each of the upper jaws is operable to receive one of a number of templates to accommodate differences from one work piece type to another. 7. A device as defined in claim 1, wherein each of the lower jaws and/or each of the upper jaws includes a template to provide a clamp surface which is tailored to the corresponding work piece. 8. A clamp device capable of clamping two different work pieces, comprising a lower pair of clamp members for clamping a first work piece and an upper pair of clamp members for clamping a second work piece, actuating means for actuating the lower and upper clamp members between respective clamped and unclamped positions, at least one of the upper clamp members being moveable between the unclamped position and a retracted position wherein the upper pair of clamp members are inoperable, one of the upper clamp members being fixed to one of the lower clamp members to form an intermediate jaw arrangement, the intermediate jaw arrangement being above the first work piece and below the second work piece in the clamped position, at least one of the lower clamp members being pivotally connected for movement about a first axis and at least one of the upper clamp members being pivotally connected for movement about a second axis. 9. A device as defined in claim 8, wherein each of the lower clamp members and/or each of the upper clamp members is operable to receive one of a number of templates to accommodate differences from one work piece type to another. 10. A device as defined in claim 8, wherein each of the lower clamp members and/or each of the upper clamp members includes a template to provide a clamp surface which is tailored to the corresponding work piece. 11. A clamp device capable of clamping two different work pieces, comprising a support frame member, a lower jaw unit, an intermediate jaw unit and an upper jaw unit, the lower jaw unit having a first upwardly facing clamp surface and the intermediate jaw unit having a first downwardly facing clamp surface to clamp a first work piece, the intermediate jaw unit having a second upwardly facing clamp surface and the upper jaw unit having a second downwardly facing clamp surface to clamp a second work piece, first actuating means for actuating either the lower jaw unit or the intermediate jaw unit or both to clamp the first work piece, second actuating means for actuating either the intermediate jaw unit or the upper jaw unit or both to clamp the second work piece, the upper jaw unit or the lower jaw unit or both being pivotally movable between an operative position and an inoperative position, the intermediate jaw unit including a first member pivotally connected to the support frame member for movement about a first axis and a second member coupled to the first member. 12. A device as defined in claim 11, further comprising a lower anchor portion mounted on the support frame member, the intermediate jaw unit being pivotally movable relative to the lower anchor portion. 13. A device as defined in claim 12, wherein the lower jaw unit is fixedly mounted to the lower anchor portion. 14. A device as defined in claim 11, further comprising an upper anchor portion mounted on the support frame member, the upper jaw unit being pivotally movable relative to the upper anchor portion. 15. A work piece clamp assembly for supporting at least two different work pieces, comprising a frame, a plurality of clamp devices mounted on the frame and operable in a first phase to clamp a first work piece at a corresponding plurality of clamping sites thereon and at a first elevation, and in a second phase to clamp a second work piece at a corresponding plurality of clamping sites thereon and at a second elevation, each of the clamp devices having a lower pair of clamp members for clamping the first work piece and an upper pair of clamp members for clamping the second work piece, one of the upper clamp members being fixed to one of the lower clamp members, the fixed upper and lower clamp members being located between the first and second elevations in the first and second phases, actuating means for actuating the lower and upper clamp members between respective clamped and unclamped positions, at least one of the upper clamp members or at least one of the lower clamp members being moveable between the unclamped position and a retracted position wherein the corresponding upper pair of clamp members or the corresponding lower pair of clamp members is inoperable and at least one of the lower clamp members being pivotally connected to the frame for movement about a first axis and at least one of the upper clamp members being pivotally connected to the frame for movement about a second axis. 16. A work piece clamp assembly for supporting at least two different work pieces, comprising a frame, a plurality of clamp devices mounted on the frame and operable in a first phase to clamp a first work piece at a corresponding plurality of clamping sites thereon and in a second phase to clamp a second work piece at a corresponding plurality of clamping sites thereon, wherein the clamping sites on the first work piece are in substantially the same location as the clamping sites on the second work piece, each clamp device comprising a lower jaw unit, an intermediate jaw unit and an upper jaw unit, the intermediate jaw unit being located below the upper jaw unit and above the lower jaw unit, the lower jaw unit and the intermediate jaw unit having adjacent clamp surfaces to clamp a first work piece, the intermediate jaw unit and the upper jaw unit having adjacent clamp surfaces to clamp a second work piece, first actuating means for actuating either the lower jaw unit or the intermediate jaw unit or both to clamp the first work piece, second actuating means for actuating either the intermediate jaw unit or the upper jaw unit or both to clamp the second work piece, the upper jaw unit being movable between an operative position and a retracted position, the retracted position being selected to permit the first work piece to be clamped and the operative position being selected to permit the second work piece to be clamped, the lower jaw unit and/or the intermediate jaw unit being pivotally connected to the frame for movement about a first axis, the intermediate jaw unit and/or the upper jaw unit being pivotally connected to the frame for movement about a second axis. 17. A clamp device comprising a support frame member, a lower clamp unit and an upper clamp unit supported by the support frame member, the lower clamp unit having a first lower jaw and a second lower jaw, at least one of the lower jaws being pivotally connected to the support frame for movement about a first axis, first actuating means for actuating at least one of the lower jaws between clamped and unclamped positions, the upper clamp unit having a first upper jaw and a second upper jaw, at least one of the first and second upper jaws being pivotally connected to the support frame for movement about a second axis, a second actuating means for actuating at least one of the upper jaws between clamped and unclamped positions, the first upper jaw being fixed with the first lower jaw for movement therewith, the first upper and lower jaws being located above the second lower jaw and below the second upper jaw. 