A technique for simultaneously processing media requests is disclosed. It is determined whether a removable storage media resource required to service a first request is currently associated with a second request that is currently being serviced. In the event that the resource is currently associated with a second request, it is determined whether the first request can be interleaved with the second request. In the event it is determined that the first request can be interleaved with the second request, the first request is interleaved with the second request.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of simultaneously processing media requests, comprising: determining whether a removable storage media resource required to service a first request is currently associated with a second request that is currently being serviced; in the event that the resource is currently associated with a second request, determining whether the first request can be interleaved with the second request; and in the event it is determined that the first request can be interleaved with the second request, interleaving the first request with the second request; wherein the resource can only service the first request or the second request at any given time. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said interleaving comprises using the resource to perform an action associated with the first request without waiting for the servicing of the second request to be completed. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said interleaving comprises using the resource to perform an action associated with the first request while the resource is still associated with the second request. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the first request and second request are received from different data movers. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the removable storage media resource comprises a library. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the removable storage media resource comprises a robot associated with a library. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the removable storage media resource comprises a storage device. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the removable storage media resource comprises a tape drive. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the removable storage media resource comprises a volume of removable storage media. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein determining whether the first request can be interleaved with the second request comprises comparing a first priority associated with the first request with a second priority associated with the second request. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein determining whether the first request can be interleaved with the second request comprises determining a request type associated with the second request. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein determining whether the first request can be interleaved with the second request comprises determining an estimated time to completion of the second request. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein determining whether the first request can be interleaved with the second request comprises determining an action or actions that remain(s) to be performed to complete the servicing of the second request. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein the extent of interleaving is determined at least in part by a capability associated with a piece of hardware. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein the extent of interleaving is determined at least in part by a user input. 16. A system configured to simultaneously process media requests, comprising: a processor configured to: determine whether a removable storage media resource required to service a first request is currently associated with a second request that is currently being serviced; in the event that the resource is currently associated with a second request, determine whether the first request can be interleaved with the second request; and in the event it is determined that the first request can be interleaved with the second request, interleave the first request with the second request; and a communication interface configured to send commands, directly or indirectly, to the resource; wherein the resource can only service the first request or the second request at any given time. 17. A computer program product for simultaneously processing media requests, the computer program product being embodied in a computer readable medium and comprising computer instructions for: determining whether a removable storage media resource required to service a first request is currently associated with a second request that is currently being serviced; in the event that the resource is currently associated with a second request, determining whether the first request can be interleaved with the second request; and in the event it is determined that the first request can be interleaved with the second request, interleaving the first request with the second request; wherein the resource can only service the first request or the second request at any given time. 