A rugged terrain robot (RTR) apparatus can function as a reconnaissance robot to optimize safety of search or rescue personnel. Remote control places the RTR in either a rolling mode or in a stair-climbing mode. Remote feedback is provided by an on-board RTR camera and microphone. The RTR consists of two clamshell sections and a tail boom section. The RTR uses polymorphic locomotion of the clamshells for efficient maneuverability in traversing rugged terrain when in a "rolling" mode and is switched remotely into a stair-climbing mode (or extreme terrain) using end-over-end clamshell motion with a tail boom assist to climb stairways. The RTR can carry various communication devices, sensors and payloads for use by police, firemen, soldiers, rescue or other applications to optimize safety when direct entry by a human may not desirable until an area is reconnoitered. The RTR is remote controllable and easily transported to a reconnaissance area.
Claims I claim: 1. A robot adapted to claim stairs and obstacles, said robot comprising: a left body section; a right body section; said left and right body sections forming a robot body; a pivotable tail boom mounted between the left and the right body section; a plurality of support legs affixed to each body section, wherein the robot body is supported above a ground surface; a motor housed in the robot body; wherein the motor powers the tail boom downward in an obstacle climbing mode against a ground surface, thereby rotating a rear end of the robot body upward and forward to accomplish a flipping/panning of the robot body, thereby effectuating a positioning of a pair of rear support legs up and over a first obstacle; and wherein the motor again powers the tail boom downward and repeats the panning of the robot body over a second obstacle. 2. The robot of claim 1, wherein the plurality of support legs further comprise a left forward and rearward set Of wheels and a right forward and rearward set of wheels, all said wheels having a driving source mounted inside the robot body, thereby enabling the robot to travel. 3. The robot of claim 2, wherein the left set of wheels has a motive power source, and the right set of wheels has a motive driving source, thereby enabling a turning of the robot by varying a speed of the left and right set of wheels. 4. The robot of claim 3, wherein the left and the right bodies are each a separate housing interconnected by a central axle, thereby providing an independent movement of each body about the center axle. 5. The robot of claim 4, wherein the motive driving source further comprises a left and a right motor housed in their respective body sections. 6. The robot of claim 4 further comprising a remote signal receiver and a control processor, wherein the remote signal carries control information including speed, direction and a stair climbing mode, wherein the stair climbing mode comprises a locking of the left and the right bodies in a fixed position relative to one another, and the tail boom is lowered downward to pan the robot body while all the wheels are powered forward. 7. The robot of claim 6 further comprising a video camera having a transmitter for its signal. 8. The robot of claim 7, wherein the video camera is mounted on the tail boom. 9. The robot of claim 8 further comprising a microphone and a speaker and an audio transmitter. 10. The robot of claim 7 further comprising a payload area. 11. The robot of claim 8, wherein the tail boom has variable length mode of remote control operation. 12. The robot of claim 11, wherein the variable length mode further comprises a telescoping tail boom having a worm gear drive. 13. The robot of claim 7 further comprising a remote control unit having a user headgear heads up display and a joystick control module. 14. The robot of claim 13, wherein the robot and the remote control unit each have a separate battery power source. 15. The robot of claim 14, wherein the robot further comprises a speaker and a microphone, and the user headgear further comprises a microphone and a speaker sending a voice signal to the robot via the remote control unit. 16. The robot of claim 7 further comprising a remote control unit having a video screen and a control panel to control the robot. 17. The robot of claim 2 further comprising an environmental sensor and a transmitter for sending the environmental sensor signal to a remote receiver. 18. The robot of claim 8, wherein the tail boom has a remote controllable positioning mechanism. 19. The robot of claim 4, wherein the robot has a positive buoyancy in water, and the wheels have a paddle type extension. 20. A robot comprising: a left clam shell housing means functioning to house a front and a rear wheel and a motor for powering the left wheels, and providing a connection to an interconnect axle; a right clam shell housing means functioning to house a front and a rear wheel and a motor for powering the right wheels and providing a connection to the interconnect axle, thereby enabling an independent axial motion between the left and the right clam shell housing means when traversing a rough terrain; and a tail boom means mounted between the left and the right clam shell housing means functioning to controllably push down against a ground surface causing the left and the right clam shell housings to flip/pan, thereby placing the left and the right rear wheels forward and on top of an obstacle, thus defining a stair climbing mode. 21. The robot of claim 20, wherein the stair climbing mode further comprises a locking of the left and the right clam shell housings into a fixed position relative to one another. 22. The robot of claim 21 further comprising an on board video camera with a transmitter. 23. The robot of claim 22 further comprising a remote control station having a receiver for the video camera signal and a control panel to control the robot. 24. The robot of claim 23, wherein the tail boom means further comprises a mount for housing the video camera. 25. The robot of claim 24, wherein the tail boom has an independent position controller controlled by the remote control station. 26. The robot of claim 25, wherein the remote control station further comprises a user headgear mounted heads up display. 27. The robot of claim 26, wherein each of the robot and the remote control station has a battery pack. 28. The robot of claim 21 further comprising a payload area. 29. The robot of claim 20, wherein the tail boom means further comprises a motor mounted either in the right or the left clamshell housing means. 