An apparatus for winding the stator for a dynamoelectric machine is provided. The apparatus includes a stator nest located on a support base for holding a stator. The stator nest defines a horizontal longitudinal axis and includes a front side for receiving a stator and an opposite back side, and a winding tool extends through the stator nest from the back side toward the front side. The winding tool includes a hollow tubular member for guiding wire to a stator located in the stator nest, and a reciprocating driver is connected to the winding tool for driving the winding tool in reciprocating movement relative to the stator nest. An oscillating driver connected to the winding tool drives the winding tool in oscillating movement. A wire feeder for feeding wire through the winding tool is supported adjacent the oscillating driver and is supported for reciprocating movement with the winding tool.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for winding the stator for a dynamoelectric machine, the apparatus comprising: a stator nest located on a support base for holding a stator, the stator nest defining a horizontal longitudinal axis and including a front side for receiving a stator and an opposite back side; a winding tool extending through the stator nest from the back side toward the front side, the winding tool comprising a winding head including a side wall and a wire feed opening extending radially through the side wall, the side wall surrounding a hollow interior area of the winding head; a reciprocating driver connected to the winding tool for driving the winding tool in reciprocating movement relative to the stator nest; an oscillating driver connected to the winding tool for driving the winding tool in oscillating movement; a wire feeder for feeding wire through the winding tool, the wire feeder supported for reciprocating movement with the winding tool; and a guide tube extending through the hollow interior area of the winding head to the wire feed opening to guide wire passing from the wire feeder to the wire feed opening. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the oscillating driver comprises a drive motor having a rotational axis substantially aligned along the longitudinal axis of the stator nest. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the oscillating driver comprises a drive motor supported for reciprocating movement with the winding tool. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the reciprocating driver drives the winding tool, the oscillating driver and the wire feeder in reciprocating movement in a substantially horizontal plane. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 including a nest driver driving the stator nest in oscillating rotational movement about the horizontal longitudinal axis substantially coinciding with a rotational axis for the oscillating movement of the winding tool. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the wire feeder comprises a wire drive roller and a plurality of pressing rollers in cooperating engagement with the wire drive roller, the wire drive roller receiving wire wrapped around at least substantially the entire circumference of the wire drive roller and the pressing rollers pressing the wire into engagement with the wire drive roller. 7. An apparatus for winding the stator for a dynamoelectric machine, the apparatus comprising: a stator nest located on a support base for holding a stator, the stator nest defining a horizontal longitudinal axis and including a front side for receiving a stator and an opposite back side; a winding tool extending through the stator nest from the back side toward the front side, the winding tool comprising a hollow tubular member for guiding wire to a stator located in the stator nest; a reciprocating driver connected to the winding tool for driving the winding tool in reciprocating movement relative to the stator nest; an oscillating driver connected to the winding tool for driving the winding tool in oscillating movement; a wire feeder for feeding wire through the winding tool, the wire feeder supported for reciprocating movement with the winding tool, the wire feeder comprising wire drive roller and a plurality of pressing rollers in cooperating engagement with the wire drive roller, the pressing rollers pressing wire into engagement with the wire drive roller; and including a wire feeder drive motor connected to the wire drive roller for driving the wire drive roller in rotation, the wire feeder drive motor being supported in stationary relation to the support base. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 including an angle drive connection between the wire feeder drive motor and the wire drive roller accommodating movement of the wire feeder relative to the wire feeder drive motor. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the winding tool comprises a rigid tubular drive shaft attached to the winding head, and the guide tube comprises a flexible tube extending through the drive shaft to the wire feed opening for guiding wire from the wire feeder through the winding tool. 10. The apparatus of claim 1 including a drift tool located adjacent the front side of the stator nest, and a drift tool driver for driving the drift tool in reciprocating movement relative to the stator nest. 11. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the stator nest comprises an automatically actuated collet. 12. The apparatus of claim 11 including a tray holding empty stators to be wound and a robot structure for transferring stators from the tray to the collet of the stator nest. 13. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein the robot structure includes a pick up structure having jaw members movable radially outwardly for engaging within a stator to thereby temporarily attach a stator to a movable arm of the robot structure. 14. An apparatus for winding the stator for a dynamoelectric machine, the apparatus comprising: a stator nest located on a support base for holding a stator, the stator nest defining a longitudinal axis and including a front side for receiving a stator and an opposite back side; a winding tool extending through the stator nest from the back side toward the front side, the winding tool comprising a hollow tubular member for guiding wire to a stator located in the stator nest; a reciprocating driver connected to the winding tool for driving the winding tool in reciprocating movement relative to the stator nest; an oscillating driver including a drive motor connected to the winding tool for driving the winding tool in oscillating movement, the drive motor supported for reciprocating movement with the winding tool; and a wire feeder connected for feeding wire through the winding tool, the wire feeder supported for reciprocating movement with the winding tool, and the wire feeder including a wire outlet substantially aligned with the longitudinal axis of the stator nest. 15. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein the wire passes through the drive motor for the oscillating driver. 16. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein the reciprocating driver drives the winding tool, the drive motor for the oscillating driver and the wire feeder in a substantially horizontal plane. 17. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein the longitudinal axis of the stator nest is horizontal. 