A torch for MIG welding includes a gas nozzle for supplying a fluid therethrough to a workpiece, a tip disposed coaxially in the gas nozzle for supplying an electrode wire from a center thereof to a workpiece, and a rotor rotatably supported on the tip. The rotor includes a plurality of blades connected to a bearing rotatably supported on the tip for receiving rotary power due to a flow of fluid through the gas nozzle, a ring joining ends of the blades, and a plurality of spatter removal plates extending axially along an inner surface of the gas nozzle.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A torch for MIG welding comprising: a hollow gas nozzle for supplying a fluid therethrough; a tip disposed coaxially in said gas nozzle for supplying an electrode wire from a center thereof to a workpiece; and a rotor rotatably supported on said tip; said rotor comprising: a bearing rotatably supported on said tip; a plurality of first blades connected to said bearing and receiving rotary power due to a flow of said fluid; and a foreign matter remover extending axially along an inner surface of said gas nozzle. 2. A torch for MIG welding according to claim 1, wherein said fluid comprises an inert shielding gas for protecting a region to be welded on said workpiece. 3. A torch for MIG welding according to claim 1, wherein said rotor comprises a ring, said first blades having respective ends connected to said ring, and wherein said foreign matter remover is connected to said ring. 4. A torch for MIG welding according to claim 1, wherein said foreign matter remover extends to a distal end of said gas nozzle. 5. A torch for MIG welding according to claim 1, wherein said rotor is made of a ceramic material. 6. A torch for MIG welding according to claim 1, wherein said foreign matter remover comprises an air receiver, which is subject to rotary power in the same direction as said first blades. 7. A torch for MIG welding according to claim 1, wherein the number of said first blades is in a range of three to nine. 8. A torch for MIG welding according to claim 1, wherein said blades are angularly spaced at equal intervals around said tip. 9. A torch for MIG welding according to claim 1, further comprising: a plurality of second blades, which are the same in number as said first blades, for receiving rotary power due to the flow of said fluid, said second blades being axially spaced from said first blades, wherein said second blades are rotatable in unison with said first blades, and wherein said first blades and said second blades are kept out of axial alignment with each other when viewed axially along said tip. 10. A torch for MIG welding according to claim 1, wherein said foreign matter remover comprises two helical plates having a shape formed by twisting respective thin elongate plates the same number of times in one direction about their longitudinal axes, said helical plates being arranged such that said helical plates have successive twists held 90.degree. out of phase with each other. 11. A torch for MIG welding comprising: a hollow gas nozzle for supplying a fluid therethrough; a tip disposed coaxially in said gas nozzle for supplying an electrode wire from a center thereof to a workpiece; and a rotor rotatably supported on said tip such that said rotor receives a rotating power due to a flow of said fluid through said nozzle, and including a foreign matter remover extending axially along an inner surface of said gas nozzle. 12. A torch for MIG welding according to claim 11, wherein said fluid comprises an inert shielding gas for protecting a region to be welded on said workpiece. 13. A torch for MIG welding according to claim 11, wherein said rotor further includes a bearing rotatably supported on said tip, a plurality of blades connected to said bearing and receiving rotary power due to a flow of said fluid, and a ring, said blades having respective ends connected to said ring, and said foreign matter remover is also connected to said ring. 14. A torch for MIG welding according to claim 13, wherein the number of said blades is in a range of three to nine. 15. A torch for MIG welding according to claim 13, wherein said blades are angularly spaced at equal intervals around said tip. 16. A torch for MIG welding according to claim 13, wherein said blades are disposed in multiple axially spaced rows, rotatable in unison together, and wherein the blades in each said row are kept out of axial alignment with the blades of an adjacent one of said rows when viewed axially along said tip. 17. A torch for MIG welding according to claim 11, wherein said foreign matter remover extends to a distal end of said gas nozzle and is in substantial contact with an inner surface of said nozzle. 18. A torch for MIG welding according to claim 11, wherein said rotor comprises a ceramic material. 19. A torch for MIG welding according to claim 11, wherein said foreign matter remover comprises an air receiver, which is subject to rotary power in the same direction as said rotor. 20. A torch for MIG welding according to claim 11, wherein said foreign matter remover comprises two helical plates having a shape formed by twisting respective thin elongate plates the same number of times in one direction about their longitudinal axes, said helical plates being arranged such that said helical plates have successive twists held 90.degree. out of phase with each other. 