A device for gripping, holding, releasing, and conveying objects of varying sizes and shapes, comprising an elongated torus (120) enclosing a fluid material (121), an outer roller assembly (136), and an inner roller assembly (134). Torus (120) may be made of a flexible membrane and able to seal in fluid material (121). Fluid material (121) can be a gas, liquid, solid particles, semisolid particles, or mixtures of these. Central channel (128) of torus (120) is collapsed due to pressure of fluid material (121) within torus (120). Gripping and conveying action is achieved by rolling motion of roller assemblies (134) and (136) which move collapsed channel (128) along the longitudinal (elongated) axis of torus (120). This causes front portion of the torus to slide radially inward to grip objects. Further movement of the roller assemblies can cause the object to be pulled completely inside the collapsed channel (121) and conveyed to the rear portion of the collapsed channel and out of torus (120). The soft flexible nature of torus (30) allows grasping even the most delicate objects without damaging them. Even over-ripe strawberries can be rapidly grasped without bruising.
Claims We claim: 1. A mechanical conveyer for gripping and conveying objects, comprising: a substantially torus shaped membrane elongated parallel to its symmetric axis with a front end, a rear end, an expanded exterior portion and a substantially collapsed central channel portion collinear with the symmetric axis of the torus; said torus shaped membrane enclosing an interior volume filled with a fluid material; said torus shaped membrane being sufficiently flexible to allow the collapsed central channel portion of the torus to be rotated to the position of the expanded exterior portion of the torus; and a roller assembly placed in rolling contact with said expanded exterior portion; and said roller assembly having at least one driven roller in physical contact with the torus to provide radial sliding motion of said front end, wherein the path through the collapsed central channel portion is unobstructed by said roller assembly, whereby objects can enter said front end and exit said rear end without making physical contact with the roller assembly. 2. The mechanical conveyer in claim 1, wherein the roller assembly allows continuous radial sliding motion of the membrane at the front and rear ends and continuous conveying of objects in at least one direction through the collapsed central channel portion of the torus shaped membrane. 3. The mechanical conveyer in claim 1, wherein: said roller assembly is adapted for attachment to a robotic arm with said robotic arm providing power to drive said driven roller. 4. The mechanical conveyer in claim 1, further including: a translatable roller assembly substantially attached to said front end of the torus and able to move said front end with respect to said roller assembly by mechanical control, whereby said torus shaped membrane acts as a movable conveyer that completely surrounds an object as it is transported from said front end of the torus to said rear end. 5. The mechanical conveyer in claim 1, further including: at least one passive roller assembly placed along the length of the torus with said torus shaped membrane passing through said passive roller assembly; and wherein, said passive roller assembly provides substantially unhindered sliding of the expanded exterior portion therethrough. 6. The mechanical conveyer in claim 1, further including: a housing designed for attachment to said roller assembly; and a tool element mounted on said housing and providing additional functions for the mechanical conveyer. 7. The mechanical conveyer in claim 1, wherein the roller assembly comprises an inner roller assembly positioned within said interior volume and an outer roller assembly positioned outside said torus shaped membrane, wherein the outer roller assembly grips the inner roller assembly through contact with the torus shaped membrane, thereby allowing the outer roller assembly to control the torus shaped membrane. 8. The mechanical conveyer in claim 7, wherein the roller assembly allows continuous radial sliding motion of the membrane at the front end and rear end for continuous conveying of objects in one direction through the collapsed central channel portion of the torus shaped membrane. 9. The mechanical conveyer in claim 8, further including: a translatable roller assembly substantially attached to said front end of the torus and able to move said front end with respect to said roller assembly by mechanical control, whereby said torus shaped membrane acts as a movable conveyer that completely surrounds an object as it is transported from said front end of the torus to said rear end. 10. The mechanical conveyer in claim 8, further including: at least one passive roller assembly placed along the length of the torus with said torus shaped membrane passing through said passive roller assembly; and wherein, said passive roller assembly provides substantially unhindered sliding of the membrane therethrough. 11. The mechanical conveyer in claim 8, further including: a housing designed for attachment to said outer roller assembly; and a tool element mounted on said housing and providing additional functions for the mechanical conveyer. 12. A mechanical conveyer for gripping and conveying objects, comprising: a substantially torus shaped membrane elongated parallel to its symmetric axis and defining an exterior surface, a substantially collapsed central channel, and an interior volume filled with a fluid material; a first roller assembly placed in rolling contact with said exterior surface of the torus shaped membrane and having at least one driven roller in physical contact the exterior surface; and a second roller assembly placed within said interior volume; wherein the second roller assembly forces the exterior surface of the torus shaped membrane against the first roller assembly so that the driven roller provides sufficient traction with the exterior surface to rotate the torus shaped membrane longitudinally around its interior volume, wherein the central channel through the torus shaped membrane is substantially unobstructed for conveying objects therethrough. 13. The mechanical conveyer in claim 12, wherein said exterior surface comprises a front end and a rear end, wherein the first and second roller assemblies are mounted substantially at said rear end. 14. The mechanical conveyer in claim 13, further including: a housing designed for attachment to said first roller assembly; and a tool element mounted on said housing and providing additional functions for the mechanical conveyer. 15. The mechanical conveyer in claim 13, further including a second mechanical conveyer substantially similar to said mechanical conveyor, wherein the rear end of said mechanical conveyer is positioned in proximity to the front end of said second mechanical conveyer, wherein an object being conveyed by said mechanical conveyer can be transferred from the rear end of said first mechanical conveyer to the front end of said second mechanical conveyer for continuous conveying of the object therethrough. 16. The mechanical conveyer in claim 13, further including: a translatable roller assembly substantially attached at said front end of the torus and able to move said front end with respect to said rear end by mechanically translating the translatable roller assembly, whereby said torus shaped membrane acts as a translatable conveyer. 17. The mechanical conveyer in claim 16, further including: a housing designed for attachment to said translatable roller assembly; and a tool element mounted on said housing and providing additional functions for the mechanical conveyer. 18. The mechanical conveyer in claim 12, wherein said fluid material comprises a mixture of a gas and a lubricant. 19. The mechanical conveyer in claim 12, further including: at least one passive roller assembly placed along the length of the torus shaped membrane and providing support for the torus shaped membrane through contact with the expanded exterior portion, wherein said passive roller assembly provides substantially unhindered sliding of the expanded exterior portion therethrough. 