Disclosed are methods of separating a target molecule from a non-target molecule using zinc- or cobalt-charged solid supports.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of isolating a his-tagged protein from a sample comprising hemoglobin comprising: (a) contacting said sample with a zinc or cobalt charged solid support under conditions that allow the his-tagged protein to preferentially bind to the solid support, relative to the binding of the hemoglobin to the solid support; and (b) separating the solid support from the unbound sample. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: (c) removing the bound his-tagged proteins from the solid support. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the conditions of (a) include the presence of imidazole in a concentration of from about 10 mM to about 60 mM. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the conditions of (a) include the presence of imidazole in a concentration of from 10 mM to about 20 mM. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein a binding buffer is combined with the starting material prior to contacting the sample with the solid support. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the binding buffer comprises imidazole. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the starting material and a binding buffer are contacted with the solid support at essentially the same time. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the solid support is washed or equilibrated with a binding buffer prior to contacting the starting material with the solid support. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the solid support comprises zinc. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the solid support comprises cobalt. 11. The method of claim 2, wherein the his-tagged protein is removed by eluting with an elution buffer comprising imidazole in a concentration of at least 100 mM. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the elution buffer comprises imidazole in a concentration of from 100 mM to about 3 M. 13. The method of claim 2, wherein the his-tagged protein is removed by eluting with an elution buffer comprising EDTA in a concentration of from about 10 mM to about 0.5 M. 14. The method of claim 2, wherein the his-tagged protein is removed by eluting with an elution buffer having a pH of about 6.0 or lower. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein the starting material comprises rabbit reticulocyte lysate. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein the conditions comprise sodium chloride present in a concentration of from about 0 to about 0.5 M. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein the solid support comprises magnetic silica particles. 18. A method of separating a target polypeptide from a sample comprising hemoglobin and the target polypeptide comprising: contacting a his-tagged polypeptide having the ability to interact with the target polypeptide with a sample comprising the target polypeptide in the presence of a zinc or cobalt charged solid support under conditions that permit the his-tagged polypeptide to preferentially bind to the solid support relative to the hemoglobin and to interact with the target polypeptide, and separating the solid support from the sample. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein the his-tagged polypeptide is bound to the solid support prior to contacting the his-tagged polypeptide with the sample. 20. The method of claim 18, wherein at least one of the his-tagged polypeptide and the target polypeptide is expressed in a rabbit reticulocyte lysate. 21. The method of claim 20, wherein the his-tagged polypeptide and the target polypeptide are co-expressed in a rabbit reticulocyte lysate. 