A method for semi-autonomous operation of a robotic device in a room. In the method, one or more goal points are set and the distances between the robotic device and the one or more goal points are determined. A first one of the one or more goal points is selected and the robotic device is maneuvered to travel to the first one of the one or more goal points. In addition, one or more functions at the first one of the one or more goal points with the robotic device are performed
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for semi-autonomous operation of a robotic device in a room, said method comprising: determining one or more environmental conditions in the room; categorizing the one or more environmental conditions based upon the one or more environmental conditions exceeding a first predetermined value; identifying the locations of the one or more environmental conditions that exceed the first predetermined value; setting one or more goal points to the locations of the one or more environmental conditions that exceed the first predetermined value; calculating the distances between the robotic device and the one or more goal points; selecting a first one of the one or more goal points; maneuvering the robotic device to travel to the first one of the one or more goal points; and performing one or more functions at the first one of the one or more goal points with the robotic device. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the step of selecting the first one of the one or more goal points comprises selecting the one or more goal points that is the nearest to the robotic device. 3. The method according to claim 1, wherein the step of selecting the first one of the one or more goal points comprises selecting the one or more goal points that is requires the least amount of travel time for the robotic device. 4. The method according to claim 1, further comprising: calculating the distances between the robotic device and the one or more goal points from the location of the first one of the one or more goal points; selecting a second one of the one or more goal points; maneuvering the robotic device to travel to the second one of the one or more goal points; and performing one or more functions at the second one of the one or more goal points with the robotic device. 5. The method according to claim 4, wherein the step of selecting the second one of the one or more goal points comprises selecting the one or more goal points that is the nearest to the robotic device. 6. The method according claim 1, wherein the step of determining one or more environmental conditions comprises detecting one or more environmental conditions with at least one sensor in the room. 7. The method according to claim 6, further comprising: storing the one or more goal points in a memory of the robotic device; and wherein the step of selecting the first one of the one or more goal points comprises selecting the goal point that is closest to the location of one of the one or more environmental conditions that exceed the first predetermined value. 8. The method according to claim 6, further comprising: ranking the one or more environmental conditions according to their deviation from the first predetermined value; and wherein the step of selecting the first one of the one or more goal points comprises selecting the one or more goal points associated with an environmental condition that has the greatest deviation from the first predetermined value. 9. The method according to claim 6, further comprising: categorizing the one or more environmental conditions based upon the one or more environmental conditions exceeding a second predetermined value and falling below the first predetermined value; identifying the locations of the one or more environmental conditions that exceed the second predetermined value and fall below the first predetermined value; and wherein the step of setting one or more goal points comprises setting the locations of the one or more environmental conditions that exceed the second predetermined value and fall below the first predetermined value as the one or more goal points. 10. The method according to claim 9, further comprising: ranking the one or more environmental conditions according to their deviation from the second predeterminod value; and wherein the step of selecting the first one of the one or more goal points comprises selecting the one or more goal points associated with an environmental condition that has the greatest deviation from the second predetermined value. 11. The method according claim 1, wherein the step of determining one or more environmental conditions in the room further comprises creating a predictive modeling of one or more environmental conditions in the room. 12. The method according to claim 11, further comprising: categorizing the one or more environmental conditions based upon the one or more environmental conditions exceeding a second predetermined value and falling below the first predetermined value; identifying the locations of the one or more environmental conditions that exceed the first predetermined value and fall below the second predetermined value; and wherein the step of setting one or more goal points comprises setting the locations of the one or more environmental conditions that exceed the second predetermined value and fall below the first predetermined value as the one or more goal points. 13. The method according to claim 1, wherein the step of performing one or more functions at the first one of the one or more goal points with the robotic device comprises detecting one or more environmental conditions with a sensor of the robotic device. 14. The method according to claim 13, wherein the step of detecting one or more environmental conditions with a sensor of the robotic device comprises detecting a predetermined area around the first one of the one or more goal points. 15. The method according to claim 13, further comprising: transmitting the detected one or more environmental conditions to an energy manager; in the energy manager, determining whether cooling provisions should be altered in response to the detected one or more environmental conditions; and manipulating one or more cooling system components in response to a determination that cooling provisions should be altered. 16. The method according to claim 1, further comprising: calculating the amount of energy required to maneuver the robotic device to the first one of the one or more goal points; determining whether a battery of the robotic device has sufficient energy to enable the robotic device to maneuver to the robotic device to the first one of the one or more goal points; and re-charging the battery in response to the battery having insufficient energy to maneuver the robotic device to the first one of the one or more goal points prior to maneuvering the robotic device to the first one of the one or more goal points. 17. The method according to claim 1, wherein the step of setting one or more goal points comprises setting the one or more goal points in locations around one or more vent tiles, and wherein the step of performing one or more functions at the first one of the one or more goal points with the robotic device comprises detecting the temperature of air exhausting from the first one of the one or more goal points, said method further comprising: in the energy manager, calculating at least one supply heat index based upon the temperature of the air exhausting from the one or more vent tiles. 18. The method according to claim 17, further comprising: in the energy manager, determining whether cooling provisions should be altered in response to the calculated at least one supply heat index; and manipulating one or more cooling system components in response to a determination that cooling provisions should be altered. 19. The method according to claim 1, wherein the step of performing one or more functions at the first one of the one or more goal points with the robotic device comprises performing an inventory function. 20. The method according to claim 1, wherein the step of setting one or more goal points comprises setting at least one of the one or more goal points to include an air conditioning unit, said method further comprising: imaging the air conditioning unit; and determining whether the air conditioning unit is operating properly based upon the image of the air conditioning unit. 21. A system for operating a robotic device in a semi-autonomous manner, said system comprising: a robotic device comprising: a steering and propelling mechanism; a guidance sensor; a device memory configured to store one or more algorithms to operate the steering and propelling mechanism; and a device controller interfaced with the device memory and configured to control the steering and propelling mechanism and the guidance sensor, wherein said device controller is configured to set one or more goal points, calculate the distances between the location of the robotic device and the one or more goal points, select one of the one or more goal points, control the steering and propelling mechanism to maneuver the robotic device to a first one of the one or more goal points, and perform one or more functions at the first one of the one or more goal points. 22. The system according to claim 21, wherein the device controller is further configured to calculate the distances between the robotic device and the one or more goal points from the location of the first one of the one or more goal points, select a second one of the one or more goal points, maneuver the robotic device to travel to the second one of the one or more goal points, and perform one or more functions at the second one of the one or more goal points with the robotic device. 23. The system according to claim 21, wherein the robotic device further comprises: an arm assembly having at least one arm actuator, wherein the device controller is configured to manipulate the arm assembly through operation of the at least one arm actuator. 24. The system according to claim 21, wherein the robotic device further comprises: a sensor configured to detect at least one environmental condition, wherein the device controller is configured to operate the sensor to detect the at least one environmental condition at the one or more goal points. 25. The system according to claim 24, wherein the at least one environmental condition comprises at least one of temperature, pressure and humidity. 26. The system according to claim 21, further comprising: a sensor network configured to detect at least one environmental condition in various sections of a room; a cooling system configured to supply cooling fluid to the various sections of a room; and an energy manager interfaced with the robotic device, wherein the energy manager is configured to receive the at least one environmental condition from the sensor network and the robotic device and to manipulate the cooling system based upon the received at least one environmental condition, and wherein the energy manager is configured to transmit location information at the sensors in the sensor network to the robotic device. 27. The system according to claim 26, wherein the energy manager is further configured to classify the detected at least one environmental condition by the sensor network into a first category and a second category, wherein the first category comprises at least one environmental condition that exceeds a first predetermined value, and wherein the second category comprises at least one environmental condition that exceeds a second predetermined value and falls below the first predetermined value. 28. The system according to claim 27, wherein the energy manager is configured to transmit the classified at least one environmental condition to the robotic device, and wherein the device controller is configured to set the one or more goal points according to the classified at least one environmental condition. 29. The system according to claim 26, wherein the cooling system comprises at least one vent tile and air conditioning unit, and wherein the energy manager is configured to manipulate airflow through the at least one vent tile and air conditioning unit. 30. The system according to claim 26, wherein the energy manager is configured to create a predictive modeling of one or more environmental conditions in the room and categorize the one or more environmental conditions based upon the one or more environmental conditions exceeding a first predetermined value, wherein the energy manager is further configured to identify the locations of the one or more environmental conditions that exceed the first predetermined value and transmit the locations of the one or more environmental conditions to the device controller, and wherein the device controller is configured to the locations of the one or more environmental conditions that exceed the first predetermined value as the one or more goal points. 31. The system according to claim 26, wherein the device controller is configured to set the one or more goal points at one or more vent tiles in the room, and wherein the device controller is further configured to transmit at least one environmental condition detected around the one or more vent tiles to the energy manager, and wherein energy manager is configured to calculate at least one supply heat index of various sections of the room based upon the received at least one environmental condition detected around the one or more vent tiles. 32. The system according to claim 31, wherein the energy manager is configured to determine whether cooling provisions should be altered in response to the calculated at least one supply heat index, and wherein the energy manager is further configured to manipulate one or more cooling system components in response to a determination that cooling provisions should be altered. 33. A system for operating a robotic device in a semi-autonomous manner, said system comprising: means for steering and propelling the robotic device; means for guiding the robotic device; means for storing information in the robotic device; and means for controlling the steering and propelling means, the guiding means, and the storing means, wherein said controlling means is configured to set one or more goal points, calculate the distances between the location of the robotic device and the one or more goal paints, select one of the one or more goal points, control the steering and propelling mechanism to maneuver the robotic device to a first one of the one or more goal points, and perform one or more functions at the first one of the one or more goal points. 34. The system according to claim 33, wherein the means for controlling is configured to calculate the distances between the robotic device and the one or more goal points from the location of the first one of the one or more goal points, select a second one of the one or more goal points, maneuver the robotic device to travel to the second one of the one or more goal points, and perform one or more functions at the second one of the one or more goal points with the robotic device. 35. The system according to claim 33, further comprising: means for detecting one or more environmental conditions in a room; means for categorizing the one or more environmental conditions based upon the one or more environmental conditions exceeding a first predetermined value; means for identifying the locations of the one or more environmental conditions that exceed the first predetermined value; and wherein the controlling means is configured to set the locations of the one or more environmental conditions that exceed the first predetermined value as the one or more goal points. 36. The system according to claim 35, further comprising: means for categorizing to one or more environmental conditions based upon the one or more environmental conditions exceeding a second predetermined value and falling below the first predetermined value; means for identifying the locations of the one or more environmental conditions that exceed the second predetermined value and fall below the first predetermined value; and wherein the controlling means is configured to set to locations of the one or more environmental conditions that exceed the second predetermined value and fall below the first predetermined value as the one or more goal points. 37. The system according to claim 33, further comprising: means for creating a predictive modeling of one or more environmental conditions in the room; means for categorizing the one or more environmental conditions based upon the one or more environmental conditions exceeding a first predetermined value; means for identifying the locations of the one or more environmental conditions that exceed the first predetermined value; and wherein the controlling means is configured to set the locations of the one or more environmental conditions that exceed the first predetermined value as the one or more goal points. 38. The system according to claim 33, wherein the means for controlling is configured to set the one or more goal points in locations around one or more vent tiles and to detect the temperature of air exhausting from the first one of the one or more goal points, the system further comprising: means for calculating at least one supply heat index based upon the temperature of the air exhausting from the one or more vent tiles; means for determining whether cooling provisions should be altered in response to the calculated at least one supply heat index; and means for manipulating one or more cooling system components in response to a determination that cooling provisions should be altered. 39. The system according to claim 33, further comprising: means for calculating the amount of energy required to maneuver the robotic device to the first one of the one or more goal points; means for determining whether a battery of the robotic device has sufficient energy to enable the robotic device to maneuver to the robotic device to the first one of the one or more goal points; and means for re-charging the battery in response to the battery having insufficient energy to maneuver the robotic device to the first one of the one or more goal points prior to maneuvering the robotic device to the first one of the one or more goal points. 40. A computer readable storage medium on which is embedded one or more computer programs, said one or more computer programs implementing a method for semi-autonomous operation of a robotic device in a room, said one or more computer programs comprising a set of instructions for: determining one or more environmental conditions in the room; categorizing the one or more environmental conditions based upon the one or more environmental conditions exceeding a first predetermined value; identifying the locations of the one or more environmental conditions that exceed the first predetermined value; setting one or more goal points; calculating the distances between the robotic device and the one or more goal points; selecting a first one of the one or more goal points; maneuvering the robotic device to travel to the first one of the one or more goal points; and performing one or more functions at the first one of the one or more goal points with the robotic device. 41. The computer readable storage medium according to claim 40, said one or more computer programs further comprising a set of instructions for: calculating the distances between the robotic device and the one or more goal points from the location of the first one of the one or more goal points; selecting a second one of the one or more goal points; maneuvering the robotic device to travel to the second one of the one or more goal points; and performing one or more functions at the second one of the one or more goal points with the robotic device. 42. The computer readable storage medium according to claim 40, said one or more computer programs further comprising a set of instructions for: detecting one or more environmental conditions with at least one sensor in the room. 43. The computer readable storage medium according to claim 42, said one or more computer programs further comprising a set of instructions for: categorizing the one or more environmental conditions based upon the one or more environmental conditions exceeding a second predetermined value and falling below the first predetermined value; identifying the locations of the one or more environmental conditions that exceed the second predetermined value and fall below the first predetermined value; and wherein the step of setting one or more goal points comprises setting the locations of the one or more environmental conditions that exceed the second predetermined value and fall below the first predetermined value as the one or more goal points. 44. The computer readable storage medium according to claim 40, said one or more computer programs further comprising a set of instructions for: creating a predictive modeling of one or more environmental conditions in the room. 45. The computer readable storage medium according to claim 40, said one or more computer programs further comprising a set of instructions for: calculating the amount of energy required to maneuver the robotic device to the first one of the one or more goal points; determining whether a battery of the robotic device has sufficient energy to enable the robotic device to maneuver to the robotic device to the first one of the one or more goal points; and re-charging the battery in response to the battery having insufficient energy to maneuver the robotic device to the first one of the one or more goal points prior to maneuvering the robotic device to the first one of the one or more goal points. 46. The computer readable storage medium according to claim 40, said one or more computer programs further comprising a set of instructions for: setting to one or more goal points in locations around one or more vent tiles; detecting the temperature of air exhausting from the first one of the one or more goal points; calculating at least one supply heat index based upon the temperature of the air exhausting from the one or more vent tiles; determining whether cooling provisions should be altered in response to the calculated at least one supply heat index; and manipulating one or more cooling system components in response to a determination that cooling provisions should be altered. 