A teleoperator system with telepresence is shown which includes right and left hand controllers (72R and 72L) for control of right and left manipulators (24R and 24L) through use of a servomechanism that includes computer (42). Cameras (46R and 46L) view workspace (30) from different angles for production of stereoscopic signal outputs at lines (48R and 48L). In response to the camera outputs a 3-dimensional top-to-bottom inverted image (30I) is produced which, is reflected by mirror (66) toward the eyes of operator (18). A virtual image (30V) is produced adjacent control arms (76R and 76L) which is viewed by operator (18) looking in the direction of the control arms. By locating the workspace image (30V) adjacent the control arms (76R and 76L) the operator is provided with a sense that end effectors (40R and 40L) carried by manipulator arms (34R and 34L) and control arms (76R and 76L) are substantially integral. This sense of connection between the control arms (76R and 76L) and end effectors (40R and 40L) provide the operator with the sensation of directly controlling the end effectors by hand. By locating visual display (246) adjacent control arms (244R and 244L) image (240I) of the workspace is directly viewable by the operator. (FIGS. 12 and 13.) Use of the teleoperator system for surgical procedures also is disclosed. (FIGS. 7 9 and FIG. 13.).
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic surgical system for performing surgery at an internal surgical site through a minimally invasive aperture, the robotic surgical system comprising: a robotic manipulator having an end effector insertable into the internal surgical site, an outer portion for moving the end effector, and an elongate shaft extending therebetween; an input device for inputting a command to move the end effector; and a computer coupling the input device to the manipulator; the computer, in response to the input command, coordinating pivotal movement of the elongate shaft and lateral movement of the outer portion so that the elongate shaft moves pivotally about the minimally invasive aperture. 2. The robotic surgical system of claim 1, wherein the elongate shaft has a proximal end coupled to the outer portion and a distal end supporting the end effector, and wherein the computer coordinates the pivotal and lateral motion of the elongate shaft so that the elongate shaft moves about a pivot point disposed adjacent the minimally invasive aperture and between the proximal and distal ends of the elongate shaft. 3. The robotic surgical system of claim 2, wherein the manipulator comprises a motor for effecting motion of the end effector along a longitudinal axis of the elongate shaft in response to the input command, and a motor for effecting rotational motion of the end effector about the axis of the shaft in response to the input command. 4. The robotic surgical system of claim 2, further comprising a wrist disposed between the proximal end of the shaft and the end effector, wherein the manipulator comprises motor for effecting articulation of the wrist within the surgical site in response to the input command. 5. The robotic surgical system of claim 4, wherein the wrist provides the end effector with first and second degrees of freedom relative to the distal end of the elongate shaft. 6. The robotic surgical system of claim 2, wherein the input device comprises a movable handle for inputting a desired direction of movement with a hand of an operator and a sensor disposed on the handle for inputting an end effector actuation command while the hand moves the handle, and wherein the end effector actuates in response to the end effector actuation command so as to treat tissue engaged by the end effector. 7. The robotic surgical system of claim 6, wherein the end effector comprises an electrosurgical end effector. 8. The robotic surgical system of claim 6, wherein the end effector comprises a pair of jaws, the jaws actuating in response to the end effector actuation command. 9. The robotic surgical system of claim 6, wherein the end effector comprises a retractor, an electrosurgical cutter, an electrosurgical coagulator, microforceps, a microneedle holder, scissors, a blade, an irrigator, or suture. 10. The robotic surgical system of claim 1, wherein the input device has a handle and receives a command to move a desired direction by movement of the handle with a hand of an operator, the computer configured to remap the handle movement into a surgical workspace coordinate system so that the end effector moves the desired direction. 11. The robotic surgical system of claim 10, further comprising a display device for showing an image of the end effector in the surgical workspace and an image of an object in the surgical workspace, wherein the command to move the desired direction defines a direction in an input workspace associated with the image of the object shown in the display, the computer remapping the input workspace coordinate system to the surgical workspace coordinate system. 12. The robotic surgical system of claim 11, further comprising an endoscope coupled to the display device for capturing the image of the end effector and the image of the object, wherein the surgical workspace coordinate system is associated with the endoscope. 13. A robotic surgical system for performing surgery at an internal surgical site through a minimally invasive aperture, the robotic surgical system comprising: a robotic manipulator having an end effector insertable into the internal surgical site, an outer portion for moving the end effector, and an elongate shaft having a proximal end coupled to the outer portion and a distal end supporting the end effector with a wrist disposed therebetween; an input device for inputting a command, the input device comprising a movable handle and a sensor disposed on the handle, the handle configured for inputting a desired direction of movement of the command with a hand of an operator, the sensor configured for inputting an end effector actuation command while the hand moves the handle; and a computer coupling the input device to the manipulator; the computer, in response to the input command, configured to transmit signals to the manipulator to: move the end effector in the desired direction by articulation of the wrist, and by coordinated pivotal movement of the elongate shaft and lateral movement of the outer portion so that the elongate shaft moves pivotally about a pivot point disposed adjacent the minimally invasive aperture and between the proximal and distal ends of the elongate shaft; and actuate the end effector in response to the end effector actuation command so as to treat tissue engaged by the end effector. 14. A robotic surgical method for performing surgery at an internal surgical site through a minimally invasive aperture of a patient, the robotic surgical method comprising: supporting an end effector of a robotic manipulator with an elongate shaft of the manipulator; inserting the end effector and a distal end of the elongate shaft through the minimally invasive aperture into the internal surgical site; inputting a command to move the end effector into an input device; and coordinating pivotal movement of the elongate shaft and lateral movement of the manipulator outside the patient so that the elongate shaft moves pivotally about the minimally invasive aperture between the proximal and distal ends of the elongate shaft in response to the input command. 15. The robotic surgical method of claim 14, further comprising moving the end effector along a longitudinal axis of the elongate shaft in response to the input command, and rotating the end effector about the axis of the shaft in response to the input command. 16. The robotic surgical method of claim 15, further comprising articulating a wrist of the manipulator within the surgical site in response to the input command, the wrist coupling the end effector to the elongate shaft. 17. The robotic surgical method of claim 16, wherein articulating the wrist comprising moving the end effector about first and second degrees of freedom relative to the distal end of the elongate shaft. 18. The robotic surgical method of claim 14, wherein the input device comprises a movable handle for inputting a desired direction of movement with a hand of an operator and a sensor disposed on the handle for inputting an end effector actuation command while the hand moves the handle, and wherein the end effector actuates in response to the end effector actuation command so as to treat tissue engaged by the end effector. 19. The robotic surgical method of claim 18, wherein actuating the end effector comprises energizing an electrosurgical end effector. 20. The robotic surgical method of claim 18, wherein the end effector comprises a pair of jaws, the jaws actuating in response to the end effector actuation command. 21. The robotic surgical method of claim 14, wherein the input device has a handle and receives a command to move a desired direction by moving the handle with a hand of an operator, and further comprising remapping the handle movement into a surgical workspace coordinate system so that the end effector moves the desired direction. 22. The robotic surgical method of claim 21, further comprising showing an image of the end effector in the surgical workspace and an image of an object in the surgical workspace with a display device, wherein the command to move the desired direction defines a direction in an input workspace associated with the image of the object shown in the display, and wherein a computer remaps the input workspace coordinate system to the surgical workspace coordinate system. 23. The robotic surgical method of claim 22, further comprising capturing the image of the end effector and the image of the object with an endoscope coupled to the display device, wherein the surgical workspace coordinate system is associated with the endoscope. 24. A surgical manipulator system comprising: a movable slave manipulator for positioning in a surgery area; a medical device having a distal end, the medical device being held by the slave manipulator and being movable relative to a body cavity; a master section for manually directing operation of the slave manipulator and the medical device, the master section being positioned within a movement region in which a surgeon can operate; and a controller for controlling slave manipulator movement in response to a movement of the master section, the controller determining a geometrical relationship between the slave manipulator and the master section and controlling the slave manipulator movement based on the geometrical relationship such that the medical device's movement about the body cavity is pivoted about a pivot point located in the proximity of the body cavity. 25. The surgical manipulator system of claim 24, wherein the medical device comprises an elongate shaft having a proximal end and supporting the distal end, wherein the controller is configured to effect pivotal motion about the pivot point by providing simultaneous coordinated lateral movement and pivotal movement of the shaft such that a center of rotation of the shaft is fixed in space at the pivot point. 26. The surgical manipulator system of claim 25, wherein the controller comprises a computer configured to remap the movement of the master section to a coordinate system of the distal end of the medical device. 