A method and apparatus for applying a liner to a pipe is disclosed. The apparatus includes a base assembly having a plurality of guide rails and a shuttle plate attached thereto. The apparatus also includes a motor module attached to an end of the base assembly. An extension arm is connected to a top surface of the shuttle plate. The extension arm has a spray head assembly attached at an opposite end thereof. The extension arm and spray head assembly will move relative to the base assembly of the apparatus. A fast cure coating will be applied via the spray head assembly to the interior surface of a pipe being rehabilitated. The spray head assembly will have an air blow off mechanism therein thus allowing for the tip of the spray head assembly to stay relatively clog free during the fast cure coating operation of the apparatus. The methodology also includes an oscillation system wherein the spray head assembly will move relative to the base assembly thus creating an over lapping pattern for the spray coating being applied to the interior surface of the pipeline. This oscillation system will allow for a more uniform coating to be applied.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for spraying a liner on the interior of a structure, said apparatus including: a base; a guide rail connected to a surface of said base; a shuttle plate arranged on said guide rail, said shuttle plate slides along said guide rail a predetermined length of said base; a gear mechanism contacting said shuttle plate; a motor attached at one end of said base; an extension arm secured to said shuttle plate; and a spray head assembly connected to said extension arm. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said predetermined length is approximately between ten and twenty four inches. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said extension arm is secured to said shuttle plate on one end thereof, said spray head assembly secured to an opposite end of said extension arm. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said spray head assembly having a disk arranged within an orifice of said spray head assembly. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said spray head assembly will spray the liner at a predetermined flow rate in conjunction with an air blow off mechanism and said disk. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein said spray head assembly will oscillate with respect to said base, said base moving at a predetermined speed with respect to the structure. 7. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said disk being mounted at 90.degree. to an attaching shaft. 8. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said disk being mounted at up to a 20.degree. oblique angle with rotation to an attaching shaft, so as to dispense a wider spray pattern from said disk. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said spray head assembly having a splatter shield. 10. An apparatus for spraying a liner on the interior of a structure, said apparatus including: a base; a guide rail connected to a surface of said base; a shuttle plate arranged on said guide rail; a gear mechanism contacting said shuttle plate, said gear mechanism includes a ball screw; a motor attached at one end of said base; an extension arm secured to said shuttle plate; and a spray head assembly connected to said extension arm. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein said ball screw moves said plate in one direction and then automatically reverses direction. 12. An apparatus for spraying a liner on the interior of a structure, said apparatus including: a base; a guide rail connected to a surface of said base; a shuttle plate arranged on said guide rail; a gear mechanism contacting said shuttle plate; a motor attached at one end of said base, said motor is secured to a coupling, said coupling connected to said base; an extension arm secured to said shuttle plate; and a spray head assembly connected to said extension arm. 13. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein said coupling having at least one slot therein. 14. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein said coupling pivots in a 90.degree. arc with relation to said base. 15. The apparatus of claim 12 further including a remote operation unit connected to said coupling via a bundle, said remote unit electrically in communication with said motor. 16. An apparatus for spraying a liner on the interior of a structure, said apparatus including: a base; a guide rail connected to a surface of said base; a shuttle plate arranged on said guide rail; a gear mechanism contacting said shuttle plate; a motor attached at one end of said base; an extension arm secured to said shuttle plate; a spray head assembly connected to said extension arm; and a rail system on an interior surface of the structure. 17. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein said base moves in a predetermined direction on said rail system. 