An improved method of laser marking semiconductor wafers is provided wherein undesirable subsurface damage to a silicon semiconductor wafer is avoided while providing a relative improvement in marking speed for a predetermined spot diameter. A laser pulse of a laser beam has a predetermined wavelength, pulse width, repetition rate, and energy. The method further includes irradiating a semiconductor wafer with the pulsed laser beam over a spot diameter to produce a machine readable mark on the semiconductor wafer. The mark has a mark depth. The pulse width is less than about 50 ns, and the step of irradiating irradiates over the spot diameter to produce a mark having a mark depth substantially less than about 10 microns.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of laser marking a semiconductor wafer during at least one step of a semiconductor manufacturing process, the wafer having a first side with circuit features, and a second side having a rough wafer surface portion to be marked, the method comprising: generating a q-switched laser output for wafer marking, the output comprising an output wavelength less than an absorption edge of the semiconductor wafer material, a laser output power of at least about 3W at the wavelength, a plurality of pulses, each pulse having a pulse width less than about 50 ns, at least one pulse having a pulse width in the range of about 10 15 ns, the temporal spacing between at least some consecutive pulses of the plurality of pulses corresponding to a repetition rate of at least 15 Khz; and irradiating the semiconductor wafer with the output over at least one spot having a diameter in the range of less than about 60 microns to produce a shallow mark having sufficient contrast for machine readability, whereby the at least one pulse irradiates at least about 10.sup.8 W/cm.sup.2 over the diameter while avoiding undesirable subsurface damage to the semiconductor wafer. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the diameter is in the range of about 25 40 microns. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the energy of the at least one pulse is in the range of about 230 250 microjoules, whereby the at least one pulse irradiates at least 10.sup.9 W/cm.sup.2 over the at least one spot diameter. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the laser output power is at least about 5 W at the wavelength. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the output wavelength is a green wavelength. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the semiconductor wafer comprises a silicon wafer and wherein the step of generating is carried out using a frequency doubled Nd:YVO.sub.4 laser having a green output wavelength. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein the at least one spot diameter is adjustable. 