A face identification system includes a face data generator to generate face data of an objective person and a face data register to register the face data to be stored in a temporary face data storage, which stores the face data as reference face data. The system also includes a face identifier to identify the face of the objective person by comparing the face data with the reference face data. The system also includes a robot mechanism to move to plural areas, a data base to store face data of plural persons and a controller to transmit the retrieved face data from the data base as reference face data to the robot. By this system configuration, the face identification can be correctly carried out and improved in its process speed.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A face identification system comprising: a robot, enabled to move to plural areas, that has a face data generator to generate face data of an objective person after acquiring a face image data of said objective person, a face data register to register said face data to be stored, a temporary face data storage to store said face data as reference face data and a face identifier to identify a face of said objective person by comparing said face data of said objective person and said reference face data, a data base to record face data of plural persons and; a controller which sends said face data as reference face data to said robot, wherein said face data are retrieved from said data base among face data of possible persons who have concurrent presence in an area and time zone with said robot. 2. A face identification system according to claim 1, wherein said robot has a sensor to detect a position of said robot and a transmitting device to send information of said position and, said controller has a position determiner to specify a position of said robot using said information of said position sent by said transmitting device. 3. A face identification system according to claim 1, wherein said robot has a sensor to detect brightness of area where said robot stays and a transmitting device to send information of said brightness to said controller and, said controller generates a reference face data by correcting said face data, being retrieved from said data base, with information of said brightness. 4. A face identification system according to claim 1, wherein said robot has a sensor to detect a position of said robot and uses the transceiver to send information of said position and, said controller has a position determiner to specify a position of said robot using said information of said position sent by said transceiver. 5. A face identification system comprising: a robot, enabled to move to plural areas, that has a face data generator to generate face data of an objective person after acquiring a face image data of said objective person, a face data register to register said face data to be stored, a temporary face data storage to store said face data as reference face data and a face identifier to identify a face of said objective person by comparing said face data of said objective person and said reference face data, a data base to record face data of plural persons and; a controller which sends said face data as reference face data to said robot, wherein said face data are retrieved from said data base among face data of possible persons who have concurrent presence in an area and time zone with said robot, wherein said controller specifies said possible persons, staying in a same area as an area where said robot is present, for every change of time zones which are predetermined on a basis of planned schedules of said objective persons. 6. A face identification system according to claim 5, wherein said controller determines brightness of area where said robot stays and generates said reference face data by correcting said face data, being retrieved from said data base, with information of said brightness for every change of time zones which are predetermined on a basis of planned schedules of said objective persons. 7. A face identification system according to claim 6, wherein, said data base has a record of skin tone parameters and said controller retrieves said skin tone parameters corresponding to brightness of an environment in which said robot stays from said data base and sends to said robot. 8. A face identification system comprising: a robot, enabled to move to plural areas, that has a face data generator to generate face data of an objective person after acquiring a face image data of said objective person, a face data register to register said face data to be stored, a temporary face data storage to store said face data as reference face data and a face identifier to identify a face of said objective person by comparing said face data of said objective person and said reference face data, and a transceiver to enable communication outside the robot; a data base to record face data of plural persons and; a controller which sends said face data as reference face data to said robot via the transceiver, wherein said face data are retrieved from said data base among face data of possible persons who have concurrent presence in an area and time zone with said robot. 