The present invention pertains to a robotic wash cell including a six-axis robotic arm and end effector equipped with nozzles that spray unheated, solvent free, pure water at high-pressure to clean or debur objects by maintaining the nozzles in close proximity and substantially normal to each surface being cleaned or edge being deburred. The robotic cell wash is particularly useful for cleaning contaminants such as oil and grease from items having more complex shapes. The six-axis robotic arm positions the nozzles and their sprays substantially normal to each surface being cleaned or deburred. The nozzles produce a multi-zone spray pattern with a continuous effective cleaning zone. A water recycling and pressurizing system collects the used water, separates out the oil and grease contaminants to a level of about 5 ppm, and pressurizes the pure water to about 3,000 psi for washing operations or about 6,000 psi for deburring operations.
Claims I claim: 1. An end effector for a robotic arm for spraying a high-pressure fluid, said end effector comprising: a mounting bracket; a first nozzle having a head and a central axis, said nozzle being secured to said mounting bracket and positioned to align its said central axis in a direction of aim, said head being adapted to spray the fluid in a first spray along a first plane, said first plane including said central axis of said first nozzle, and said first spray having an effective cleaning region; a second nozzle having a head and a central axis, said nozzle being secured to mounting bracket and being positioned to align said central axis in said direction of aim, said central axis of said second nozzle being spaced apart from and substantially parallel to said central axis of said first nozzle, said head being adapted to spray the fluid in a second spray along a second plane, said second plane including said central axis of said second nozzle, and said second spray having an effective cleaning region; and, wherein said first and second sprays combine to form a spray pattern having a continuous effective cleaning zone, said sprays forming an area of overlap in said zone, said first and second planes being offset to space said sprays apart in said continuous effective cleaning zone, said sprays remaining apart in said area of overlap. 2. The end effector of claim 1, and wherein said first and second sprays are parallel. 3. The end effector of claim 2, and wherein said first and second sprays are dispersing sprays. 4. The end effector of claim 3, and wherein said first and second dispersing sprays have a fan shape. 5. The end effector of claim 4, and wherein said continuous effective cleaning zone is between about eight to ten inches from said heads of said nozzles. 6. The end effector of claim 1, and wherein each of said first and second sprays are dispersing sprays, each dispersing spray having an ultra high-pressure area, a very high-pressure area and an effective high-pressure cleaning area, and said effective high-pressure cleaning areas forming said continuous effective cleaning zone. 7. The end effector of claim 6, and wherein said spray pattern has multiple zones that include a discontinuous inner zone having a gap between said dispersing sprays, said continuous effective cleaning zone, and an outer zone where said dispersing spray pattern falls below a desired pressure limit. 8. The end effector of claim 1, and wherein said fluid is pure water. 