Certain mechanisms of a plating apparatus address problems associated with interaction between plating solutions or other processing solutions and the components of the plating apparatus (such as the electrical contacts). For example, a circumferential spray skirt around the interface of a "cup" and "cone" in the plating apparatus protects these features during plating. A shield mechanism contacts the cup and/or cone at the periphery of their interface to provide a fluid resistant seal. In some cases, the cone includes an outer circumferential lip that engages a complementary surface of the cup for this purpose. Further, a mechanism is provided for raising and lowering the work piece with the cone in order to allow in situ rinsing of the work piece and/or regions of the cup.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for engaging a work piece during a plating process, the apparatus comprising: a cup having an interior region and a lip within the interior region arranged such that the lip can support the work piece while the work piece remains within the interior region; a cone having a work piece contact surface that fits within the cup's interior and can contact the work piece in a manner that holds the work piece in a fixed position between the work piece contact surface and the lip; and a spray skirt extending around an outer circumference of the cone and around an interface between the cup and the cone when cup and cone engage each other to hold the work piece, wherein the spray skirt protects features on the cup from exposure to a plating solution during the plating process. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the spray skirt is attached to the cone. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein in the spray skirt is made from a material selected from the group consisting of PVDF, PPS, PTFE, polypropylene, PVC, polyethylene, and stainless steel. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the spray skirt comprises a vertical cylindrical structure. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the spray skirt further comprises a flat circular plate engaging a top region of the cylindrical structure. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a cup-contacting surface attached to the spray skirt to block penetration of the plating solution to the interface between the cup and the cone during plating. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the cone comprises a circumferential shielding lip extending about its lower surface and engaging a complementary surface on the cup to thereby block penetration of the plating solution to the interface between the cup and the cone during plating. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the complementary surface of the cup comprises an elastomeric seal. 9. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the elastomeric seal is made from a fluoropolymer. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising one or more vacuum seals for facilitating engagement of the cup and cone while holding the work piece. 11. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the plating solution comprises an acidic solution of copper ions. 12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the lip comprises a lip seal made from a material that provides a fluid-tight seal with the work piece when the work piece is held in place by the cone. 13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the width of the lip seal is between about 0.25 and 4 mm wide. 14. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the material is an elastomer comprising at least one of a silicone rubber, a fluoropolymer, a butyl rubber. 15. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the work piece is a semiconductor wafer. 16. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein at least a portion of the cup comprises at least one of a plastic, a ceramic, a plastic-coated ceramic, a plastic-coated metal, a glass, a glass-coated metal, a glass-coated ceramic, a silicon-oxide coated ceramic, and a composite. 17. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the apparatus is for plating a copper seed layer or copper bulk fill layer. 18. An apparatus for engaging a work piece during a plating process, the apparatus comprising: a cup having an interior region and a lip within the interior region arranged such that the lip can support the work piece while the work piece remains within the interior region; a cone having a work piece contact surface that fits within the cup's interior and can contact the work piece in a manner that holds the work piece in a fixed position between the work piece contact surface and the lip, the cone being movable toward and away from the cup; a mechanism for temporarily attaching the work piece to the cone's work piece contact surface, whereby the work piece, together with the cone, can be separated from the cup; and a cleaning fluid delivery system for delivering a cleaning fluid to at least one of the cup, cone, and work piece while the work piece is attached to the cone's work piece contact surface. 19. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the mechanism for temporarily attaching the work piece to the cone's work piece contact surface is a vacuum engagement device. 20. The apparatus of claim 19, further comprising a remote control valve or a poppet valve in the cone, which poppet valve activates when the cone contacts the work piece. 21. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the cleaning fluid delivery device comprises a spray nozzle. 22. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein the spray nozzle is disposed in a plating chamber that houses the cup and cone. 23. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein the cleaning fluid is dispersed via channels internal to the mechanism for temporarily attaching the work piece to the cone's work piece contact surface. 24. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the cleaning fluid is water. 25. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the cone comprises a circumferential shielding lip extending about its lower surface and engaging a complementary surface on the cup to thereby block penetration of a plating solution to the interface between the cup and the cone during plating. 26. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein the complementary surface of the cup comprises an elastomeric seal. 27. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein the elastomeric seal is made from a silicone rubber or fluoropolymer. 28. The apparatus of claim 18, further comprising one or more vacuum seals for facilitating engagement of the cup and cone while holding the work piece. 29. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the plating chamber is designed to hold a plating solution comprising an acidic solution of copper ions. 30. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the work piece is a semiconductor wafer. 31. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the lip comprises a lip seal made from a material that provides a fluid-tight seal with the work piece when the work piece is held in place by the cone. 