The invention provides methods and devices for detecting the presence of one or more target analytes in a sample employing a channel having affixed therein one or more binding partners for each target analyte. Assays are carried out by transporting the sample through the channel to each successive binding partner so that target analyte present in said sample binds to the corresponding binding partner. The sample is then transported beyond the binding partner(s), followed by detection of any target analyte bound to each binding partner. In one embodiment, binding efficiency is increased by the use of segmented transport, wherein a first bolus or bubble of a fluid that is immiscible with the sample precedes the sample during transport and a second bolus or bubble of a fluid that is immiscible with the sample follows the sample. Many configurations are possible for the device of the invention. A preferred device includes: a substrate with a channel formed in its surface, and a cover element that overlies and seals the channel. Binding partner(s) are affixed to the surface of the cover element facing the channel lumen.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of detecting the presence of a first target analyte in a sample, said method comprising: (a) providing: a substrate; a channel in a surface of said substrate; a cover element that overlies and seals said channel, said cover element having a first surface facing the channel; and a first binding partner for said first target analyte affixed to said first surface; (b) transporting said sample through said channel to said first binding partner so that first target analyte present in said sample binds to said first binding partner; (c) transporting said sample beyond said first binding partner; and (d) detecting the presence of any first target analyte bound to said first binding partner, wherein said cover element is unsealed from said channel to allow said detection. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said channel is molded in a polymeric material. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein said polymeric material is a polydimethylsiloxane. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said channel has a hydrophobic lumenal surface. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said channel has a cross-sectional diameter of about 100 .mu.m or less. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein said cover element is removably attached to said substrate. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein said first surface of said cover element is hydrophilic. 8. The method of claim 1, additionally comprising detecting the presence of a second target analyte in a sample, wherein a second binding partner for a second target analyte is affixed to said first surface of said cover element at a location distinct from that of said first binding partner; said sample is additionally transported through said channel to said second binding partner under conditions wherein second target analyte present in said sample binds to said second binding partner; said sample is transported beyond said first and second binding partners; and the presence of any second target analyte bound to said second binding partner is detected. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein at least about 100 different binding partners are affixed to distinct locations of said first surface of said cover element. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein said sample is transported through said channel at a velocity of at least about 1 mm/second. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein fluid is transported in response to a pressure difference. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein said fluid is transported by electrophoretic force. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein said binding partner is selected from the group consisting of an antibody, a binding protein, and a nucleic acid. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein said first target analyte is labeled. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein said first target analyte is labeled with a light-absorbing label. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein: target analytes derived from at least two different sources are present in said sample or are transported through said channel in a plurality of separate samples, wherein target analytes from each source are labeled with a different label; a plurality of different binding partners are affixed to distinct locations of said first surface of said cover element; said detecting comprises detecting the signals from labeled target analytes bound to each different binding partner; and said method additionally comprises comparing the intensities of any signal produced by each different label at each different binding partner. 