The invention relates to an automated method for carrying out reactions with high spatial resolution on libraries of different materials and for analysis of the products obtained using a simple robot system and an analyzer, for example a mass spectrometer.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method comprising: arranging a capillary supply line and a capillary outlet line into a bundle; robotically positioning said bundle over individual components of a material library; conducting reactants through the supply line to the library components to undergo reactions; and conducting products of the reactions, while the material library is covered by a disk with bores that are open to the ambient environment from the library components through the outlet line to a mass spectrometer for the mass spectrometer to analyze the products. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein, in said robotic positioning step, said library is in a reactor that is open to the environment. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein said positioning includes sequentially positioning said bundle over individual components of said material library. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein said arranging comprises arranging several bundles, each including a capillary supply line for supplying reactants and a capillary outlet line for transferring reaction products, and said positioning includes robotically positioning said bundles over components of the library. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein said positioning includes positioning said bundles over several individual components of said material library at substantially the same time. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: analyzing progress of a reaction of one of the library components as a function of time by transferring reaction products from the component to the mass spectrometer. 7. An apparatus comprising: a material library including multiple components; a plate that covers the library and has bores open to the ambient environment; a mass spectrometer; a capillary supply line configured to supply reactants to each component to undergo a reaction; a capillary outlet line configured to conduct products of the reactions from the library components to the mass spectrometer for analysis by the mass spectrometer; and a robot operative to position said lines sequentially over said components. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein said supply and outlet lines are arranged in a bundle. 9. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein said library is in a reactor that is open to the environment. 10. A method comprising: arranging a capillary supply line and a capillary outlet line into a bundle; and robotically positioning the bundle over individual components of a material library; conducting reactants through the supply line to the library components to undergo reactions; and conducting products of the reactions, while the material library is covered by a disk with bores that are open to the ambient environment, from the library components through the outlet line to a chromatograph for the chromatograph to analyze the products. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein, in the robotically positioning step, the library is in a reactor that is open to the environment. 12. The method of claim 10 wherein the conducting products step includes conducting the products to an analytical device that is a combination of the chromatograph and a mass spectrometer. 13. The method of claim 10 wherein, during the conducting products step, the library is in a reactor that is open to the environment. 14. An apparatus comprising: a material library including multiple components; a disk with bores that are open to the ambient environment; a chromatograph; a capillary supply line configured to supply reactants to each component to undergo a reaction; a capillary outlet line configured to conduct products of the reactions from the library components to the chromatograph for analysis by the chromatograph; and a robot operative to position the lines sequentially over the components. 15. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein the supply and outlet lines are arranged in a bundle. 