A fugitive pattern of an article to be investment cast wherein the pattern includes a plurality of locator embossments disposed in an array to provide a datum reference system by which the pattern can be held and positioned by a manipulator, such as for example a gripper device to a computer controlled robotic device, for assembly with another component of the pattern assembly. The datum embossments are located on a portion of the pattern that will be removed from the final metallic casting made to replicate the pattern. The casting includes integral cast datum embossments thereon by which the casting can be held and positioned.
Claims I claim: 1. A cast metallic article comprising a plurality of locators cast thereon by which the cast article can be held and positioned by a manipulator during further processing, said locators being cast as part of a removable portion of said cast article that ultimately is removed. 2. The article of claim 1 wherein there are three of said locators and wherein two of said locators define a first axis and a third of said locators defines a second axis in a common plane with the first axis and perpendicular thereto. 3. The article of claim 2 wherein said three of said locators include end surfaces that are disposed at corners of a triangular array. 4. The article of claim 1 wherein said plurality of said locators are located on a removable gating region of said cast article. 5. The article of claim 1 wherein each of said plurality of said locators terminates in a partial spherical end surface. 6. The article of claim 5 wherein each of said plurality of said locators includes a cylindrical surface connected to said partial spherical end surface. 7. The article of claim 4 which has an airfoil shaped region, a root region and a tip region, said gating region being connected to one of said root region and said tip region. 8. A cast metallic gas turbine airfoil blade having an airfoil region, root region, and a removable gating region, comprising a plurality of locators all of which are cast as part of the gating region by which locators the cast article can be held and positioned by a manipulator during further processing. 9. The blade of claim 8 wherein there are three of said locators that include end surfaces disposed at corners of a triangular array. 10. The blade of claim 8 wherein there are three of said locators wherein two of said locators define a first axis and a third of said locators defines a second axis in a common plane with the first axis and perpendicular thereto. 