A small-volume sample handling system includes a chamber with first and second portions. A conduit having a flow control valve may be fluidly coupled to the first portion. A pressure in the second portion may be adjusted so that liquid samples can be aspirated and dispensed in a needle coupled to the valve in response to opening of the valve. The first and second portions of the chamber may be separated by a diaphragm.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for handling fluid samples comprising: a fluid reservoir having a diaphragm separating a liquid portion of the reservoir from a gas portion of the reservoir; a variable pressure supply that includes a servo-controlled regulator to provide a controlled gas pressure in the gas portion of the reservoir; a solenoid valve having an input and an output, the solenoid valve adapted to open and close a passage between the input and the output; a conduit fluidly coupling the liquid portion of the reservoir to the input of the solenoid valve; and a sample handling channel in fluid communication with the output of the solenoid valve; wherein a pressure in the gas portion of the reservoir controls the sample handling channel to aspirate and dispense a fluid sample in response to opening of the passage in the solenoid valve. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the variable pressure supply includes a vacuum source that provides a gas pressure below an ambient pressure and a gas supply that provides a gas pressure above an ambient pressure. 3. The system of claim 1, further comprising: a controller that controls operation of the solenoid valve to open and close the passage and controls the gas pressure in the gas portion of the reservoir. 4. The system of claim 3, wherein the solenoid valve is controlled to open and close at a high frequency. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the sample handling channel and the solenoid valve are constructed and arranged to aspirate and dispense nanoliter-sized liquid samples. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein the sample handling channel includes a jeweled needle. 7. The system of claim 1, further comprising: a plurality of sample handling channels each associated with a corresponding solenoid valve in fluid communication with the liquid portion of the reservoir, the sample handling channels arranged in a pattern to cooperate with wells in a microtiter tray. 8. The system of claim 7, further comprising: a robotic device that moves the sample handling channels relative to a work surface so liquid samples are aspirated and dispensed in desired locations. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein the diaphragm includes a sheet of elastomeric material. 10. A liquid sample handling apparatus comprising: a fluid supply; a variable pressure supply constructed and arranged to provide a negative pressure and a positive pressure relative to an ambient pressure; a chamber having a flexible diaphragm separating first and second portions in the chamber, the first portion being in fluid communication with the fluid supply and the second portion being in communication with the variable pressure supply; a valve in fluid communication with the first portion of the chamber; and a needle in fluid communication with the valve; wherein the variable pressure supply includes a servo-controlled regulator that controls a gas pressure in the second portion of the chamber, and wherein a negative pressure in the second portion causes the needle to aspirate a fluid sample when the valve is open, and a positive pressure in the second portion causes the needle to dispense a fluid sample when the valve is open. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the variable pressure supply includes a vacuum source that provides a gas pressure below an ambient pressure and a gas supply that provides a gas pressure above an ambient pressure. 12. The apparatus of claim 10, further comprising: a controller that controls the operation of the valve to open and close and controls the pressure in the second portion of the chamber. 13. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the valve is a solenoid valve. 14. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the needle and the valve are constructed and arranged to aspirate and dispense nanoliter-sized liquid samples. 15. The apparatus of claim 10, further comprising: a plurality of needles each associated with a corresponding valve in fluid communication with the first portion of the chamber, the needles arranged in a pattern to cooperate with wells in a microtiter tray. 16. The apparatus of claim 15, further comprising: a robotic device that moves the needles relative to a work surface so liquid samples are aspirated and dispensed in desired locations. 17. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the flexible diaphragm includes a sheet of elastomeric material. 18. A method of handling liquid samples using a robotically-manipulated tool, the method comprising: fluidly coupling a sample handling channel with a first end of a conduit having a valve controllable to open and close a fluid flow passage along the conduit; fluidly coupling a second end of the conduit opposite the first end to a liquid portion of a reservoir, the liquid portion of the reservoir being separated from a gas portion of the reservoir; adjusting a pressure in the gas portion of the reservoir so liquid in the liquid portion of the reservoir is urged to flow into the conduit and opening the valve so that a fluid sample is dispensed from the sample handling channel; and adjusting a pressure in the gas portion of the reservoir so liquid in the conduit is urged to flow into the liquid portion of the reservoir and opening the valve so that a fluid sample is aspirated by the sample handling channel; wherein the steps of adjusting a pressure include using a servo-controlled regulator to control pressure in the gas portion of the reservoir. 19. A method of handling liquid samples using a robotically-manipulated tool, the method comprising: raising a gas pressure in a reservoir using a servo-controlled regulator so that fluid contained in the reservoir is urged to move out of the reservoir and into a conduit connected to the reservoir; opening a valve that controls flow through the conduit; dispensing a fluid sample from a sample handling channel fluidly coupled to the conduit; lowering a gas pressure in the reservoir using a servo-controlled regulator so that fluid contained in the conduit connected to the reservoir is urged to move into the reservoir; opening a valve that controls flow through the conduit; and aspirating a fluid sample into the sample handling channel. 20. An apparatus for handling liquid samples using a robotically-manipulated tool, the apparatus comprising: means for fluidly coupling a sample handling channel with a first end of a conduit having a valve controllable to open and close a fluid flow passage along the conduit; means for fluidly coupling a second end of the conduit opposite the first end to a liquid portion of a reservoir, the liquid portion of the reservoir being separated from a gas portion of the reservoir; means for adjusting a pressure in the gas portion of the reservoir so liquid in the liquid portion of the reservoir is urged to flow into the conduit and opening the valve so that a fluid sample is dispensed from the sample handling channel; and means for adjusting a pressure in the gas portion of the reservoir so liquid in the conduit is urged to flow into the liquid portion of the reservoir and opening the valve so that a fluid sample is aspirated by the sample handling channel; wherein the means for adjusting includes a servo-controlled regulator to control pressure in the gas portion of the reservoir. 21. A system for handling fluid samples comprising: a fluid reservoir having a diaphragm separating a liquid portion of the reservoir from a gas portion of the reservoir; a solenoid valve having an input and an output, the solenoid valve adapted to open and close a passage between the input and the output; a conduit fluidly coupling the liquid portion of the reservoir to the input of the solenoid valve; and a sample handling channel having a jeweled needle in fluid communication with the output of the solenoid valve; wherein a pressure in the gas portion of the reservoir controls the sample handling channel to aspirate and dispense a fluid sample in response to opening of the passage in the solenoid valve. 