In one aspect, a method of interconnecting two or more foils of a capacitor, the method comprising connecting together one or more anode connection members of one or more anode foils and one or more cathode connection members of one or more cathode foils and electrically isolating the one or more anode foils from the one or more cathode foils.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Foil structures for use in constructing a capacitor, the foil structures comprising: an anode foil having a connection portion comprising a proximal section and a distal section; and a cathode foil having a connection portion comprising a proximal section and a distal section; wherein the proximal section of the anode foil does not overlay the proximal section of the cathode foil and the distal section of the anode foil at least partially overlays the distal section of the cathode foil when the anode foil and the cathode foil are stacked together. 2. The foil structures of claim 1, wherein the connection portion of the anode foil comprises an L-shaped member. 3. The foil structure of claim 2, wherein the connection portion of the cathode foil comprises an L-shaped member, the cathode L-shaped member having a generally reverse image relative to the anode L-shaped member when the anode foil and the cathode foil are stacked together. 4. The foil structure of claim 1, wherein the anode connection member includes at least a partially unetched portion. 5. The foil structures of claim 1, wherein the anode foil and cathode foil are substantially flat. 6. The foil structures of claim 1, wherein the anode foil includes aluminum. 7. The foil structures of claim 1, wherein the anode foil is at least partially etched. 8. The foil structures of claim 1 wherein the cathode foil includes aluminum. 9. A foil stack, comprising: a plurality of anode foils, each anode foil includes an anode connection member having a distal section and a proximal section; a plurality of cathode foils, each cathode foil includes a cathode connection member having a distal section and a proximal section; and a separator between each anode foil and cathode foil; wherein the anode foils and cathode foils are stacked together such that the distal section of the anode connection members overlay the distal section of the cathode connection members. 10. The foil stack of claim 9, wherein the connection members of the anode foils are connected to the connection members of the cathode foils. 11. The foil stack of claim 9, wherein the anode connection members and the cathode connection members are stacked such that the proximal section of the anode connection members do not overlay the proximal section of the cathode connection members. 12. The foil stack of claim 9, the connection members of the anode foils are connected to the connection members of the cathode foils by a weld. 13. The foil stack of claim 9, wherein the anode connection members include at least a partially unetched portion. 14. The foil stack of claim 9, wherein the anode foils and cathode foils are substantially flat. 15. The foil structures of claim 9, wherein the anode foils include aluminum foils. 16. The foil structures of claim 9, wherein the anode foils are at least partially etched. 17. The foil structures of claim 9, wherein the cathode foils include aluminum foils. 18. The foil structures of claim 9, wherein the connection members of the anode foils include an L-shape. 19. The foil structures of claim 9, wherein the connection members of the cathode foils include an L-shape. 