An implementation of Hough transform is described. According to one aspect, the Hough transform is used to perform motion analysis of patterns in a video using two-dimensional primary data items and a two-dimensional voting array.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of detecting one or more motion models in video frames comprising: selecting a current primary data item from data items in a data pool for a video frame, the data items defining a two-dimensional plane in a corresponding parameter space; mapping the plane onto a two-dimensional voting array in the corresponding parameter space; locating one or more intersections between the plane corresponding to the current primary data item and one or more planes corresponding to other data items; and establishing a motion model corresponding to a location in the parameter space where the intersections substantially converge. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein each intersection is represented by a cell in the voting array. 3. The method of claim 2, further comprising: identifying, as a subsequent primary data item, the data item corresponding to the plane that is substantially perpendicular to the plane of the current primary data item and further intersects the plane of the current primary data item substantially close to a cell in the voting array associated with a global maximum vote. 4. The method of claim 2, wherein the establishing the motion model includes identifying a location in the parameter space where the intersections substantially converge with a cell in the voting array associated with a global maximum vote. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: removing the data items in the data item pool that fit the motion model. 6. A machine-readable medium having instructions to cause a machine to perform a method of detecting one or more motion models in video frames, the method comprising: selecting a current primary data item from data items in a data pool for a video frame, the data items defining a two-dimensional plane in a corresponding parameter space; mapping the plane onto a two-dimensional voting array in the corresponding parameter space; locating one or more intersections between the plane corresponding to the current primary data item and one or more planes corresponding to other data items; and establishing a motion model corresponding to a location in the parameter space where the intersections substantially converge. 7. The machine-readable medium of claim 6, wherein each intersection is represented by a cell in the voting array. 8. The machine-readable medium of claim 7, further comprising: identifying, as a subsequent primary data item, the data item corresponding to the plane that is substantially perpendicular to the plane of the current primary data item and further intersects the plane of the current primary data item substantially close to a cell in the voting array associated with a global maximum vote. 9. The machine-readable medium of claim 7, wherein the establishing the motion model includes identifying a location in the parameter space where the intersections substantially converge with a cell in the voting array associated with a global maximum vote. 10. The machine-readable medium of claim 6, further comprising: removing the data items in the data item pool that fit the motion model. 11. A system comprising: a processor coupled to a memory through a bus; and a detection process executed from the memory by the processor to cause the processor to select a current primary data item from data items in a data pool for a video frame, the data items defining a two-dimensional plane in a corresponding parameter space, map the plane onto a two-dimensional voting array in the corresponding parameter space, locate one or more intersections between the plane corresponding to the current primary data item and one or more planes corresponding to other data items, establish a motion model corresponding to a location in the parameter space where the intersections substantially converge. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein each intersection is represented by a cell in the voting array. 13. The system of claim 12, wherein the detection process further causes the processor to identify, as a subsequent primary data item, the data item corresponding to the plane that is substantially perpendicular to the plane of the current primary data item and further intersects the plane of the current primary data item substantially close to a cell in the voting array associated with a global maximum vote. 14. The system of claim 12, wherein the detection process further causes the processor, when establishing the motion model, to identify a location in the parameter space where the intersections substantially converge with a cell in the voting array associated with a global maximum vote. 15. The system of claim 11, wherein the detection process further causes the processor to remove the data items in the data item pool that fit the motion model. 16. A system comprising: a means for processing coupled to a means for storing instructions for the means for processing through a means for communicating; and a detection process executed from the means for storing by the means for processing to cause the means for processing to select a current primary data item from data items in a data pool for a video frame, the data items defining a two-dimensional plane in a corresponding parameter space, map the plane onto a two-dimensional voting array in the corresponding parameter space, locate one or more intersections between the plane corresponding to the current primary data item and one or more planes corresponding to other data items, establish a motion model corresponding to a location in the parameter space where the intersections substantially converge. 17. The system of claim 16, wherein each intersection is represented by a cell in the voting array. 18. The system of claim 17, wherein the detection process further causes the processing means to identify, as a subsequent primary data item, the data item corresponding to the plane that is substantially perpendicular to the plane of the current primary data item and further intersects the plane of the current primary data item substantially close to a cell in the voting array associated with a global maximum vote. 19. The system of claim 17, wherein the detection process further causes the means for processing, when establishing the motion model, to identify a location in the parameter space where the intersections substantially converge with a cell in the voting array associated with a global maximum vote. 20. The system of claim 16, wherein the detection process further causes the processor to remove the data items in the data item pool that fit the motion model. 