A mobile device for traversing a ferromagnetic surface. The device includes a frame and at least one surface contacting device attached to the frame. The device also includes a Halbach magnet array attached to the frame, wherein the Halbach magnet array provides a magnetic force to maintain the surface contacting device substantially into contact with the ferromagnetic surface.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A mobile device for traversing a ferromagnetic surface, comprising: a frame; at least one surface contacting device attached to said frame; a Halbach magnet array attached to said frame, wherein said Halbach magnet array provides a magnetic force to maintain said surface contacting device substantially in contact with the ferromagnetic surface; and a drive device connected to said surface contacting device to enable said mobile device to traverse the ferromagnetic surface when said surface contacting device is held in contact with the ferromagnetic surface by said magnetic force. 2. The device of claim 1, wherein said surface contacting device includes a wheel coated with a polymer. 3. The device of claim 1, wherein said drive device includes a motor attached to said frame, and a drive chain responsive to said motor. 4. The device of claim 1, wherein said surface contacting device includes one of a wheel, a track, and a skid. 5. The device of claim 1, wherein said Halbach magnet array is attached to said frame so as to be held out of contact with the ferromagnetic surface. 6. The device of claim 1, wherein said Halbach magnet array includes a plurality of magnetic bars, and wherein said plurality of magnetic bars are arranged such that a magnetic force created by said array extends substantially toward the ferromagnetic surface. 7. A system, comprising: a generator; and a mobile device in communication with said generator, said mobile device for traversing a ferromagnetic surface, wherein said mobile device includes: a frame; at least one surface contacting device attached to said frame; a Halbach magnet array attached to said frame, wherein said Halbach magnet array provides a magnetic force to maintain said surface contacting device substantially in contact with the ferromagnetic surface; and a drive device connected to said surface contacting device to enable said mobile device to traverse the ferromagnetic surface when said surface contacting device is held in contact with the ferromagnetic surface by said magnetic force. 8. The system of claim 7, further comprising a device controller in communication with said mobile device. 9. The system of claim 8, wherein said device controller is a wireless controller. 10. An apparatus for traversing a ferromagnetic surface, comprising: a frame; surface contacting means; magnetic means attached to said frame, wherein said magnetic means provides a magnetic force to maintain said surface contacting means substantially in contact with the ferromagnetic surface, and wherein said magnetic means is configured in use to be spaced from the ferromagnetic surface; and drive means connected to said surface contacting means to enable said apparatus to traverse the ferromagnetic surface when said surface contacting means is held in contact with the ferromagnetic surface by said magnetic force. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein said surface contacting means includes at least one of a wheel, a track, and a skid. 12. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein said magnetic means includes a Halbach magnet array. 13. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein said surface contacting means includes a wheel coated with a polymer. 14. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein said drive means includes a motor attached to said frame, and a drive chain responsive to said motor. 15. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein said magnet means includes a plurality of magnetic bars, and wherein said plurality of magnetic bars are arranged such that a magnetic force created by said plurality of magnetic bars extends substantially toward the ferromagnetic surface. 16. A robotic device for operating on a ferromagnetic surface, comprising: a frame; at least one wheel attached to said frame, wherein said wheel has a polymeric coating on a surface that is configured to contact the ferromagnetic surface; a Halbach magnet array attached to said frame, wherein said magnet array holds said wheel in substantially constant contact with the ferromagnetic surface, and wherein said Halbach array is configured in use to be spaced from the ferromagnetic surface; and a drive device connected to said wheel to enable said robotic device to traverse the ferromagnetic surface when said wheel is held in contact with the ferromagnetic surface by said magnet array. 17. The device of claim 16, further comprising a steering system attached to said frame. 18. The device of claim 16, further comprising an actuation device attached to said frame. 19. The device of claim 16, wherein said drive device includes a motor attached to said frame, and a drive chain responsive to said motor. 20. The device of claim 16, wherein said Halbach magnet array includes a plurality of magnetic bars, and wherein said plurality of magnetic bars are arranged such that a magnetic force created by said array extends substantially toward the ferromagnetic surface. 21. A mobile device for traversing a ferromagnetic surface, comprising: a frame; at least one surface contacting device attached to said frame; a magnet array attached to said frame, wherein said magnet array includes a plurality of magnet bars oriented such that said magnet array provides a magnetic force to maintain said surface contacting device substantially in contact with the ferromagnetic surface; and a drive device connected to said surface contacting device to enable said mobile device to traverse the ferromagnetic surface when said surface contacting device is held in contact with the ferromagnetic surface by said magnetic force. 22. The device of claim 21, wherein said surface contacting device includes a wheel coated with a polymer. 23. The device of claim 21, wherein said drive device includes a motor attached to said frame, and a drive chain responsive to said motor. 24. The device of claim 21, wherein said surface contacting device includes one of a wheel, a track, and a skid. 25. The device of claim 21, wherein said magnet array is attached to said frame so as to be held out of contact with the ferromagnetic surface. 26. The device of claim 21, wherein said magnet array includes a plurality of magnetic bars, and wherein said plurality of magnetic bars are arranged such that a magnetic force created by said array extends substantially toward the ferromagnetic surface. 27. A method for a mobile device to traverse a ferromagnetic surface, comprising: pulling the mobile device toward a ferromagnetic surface with a magnet array until at least one surface contacting device contacts the ferromagnetic surface; maintaining the surface contacting device substantially in contact with the ferromagnetic surface with said magnet array; and providing a drive force to said mobile device to enable said mobile device to traverse the ferromagnetic surface while said surface contacting device is maintained in contact with said ferromagnetic surface. 28. The method of claim 27 additionally comprising measuring one of the size of the air gap between said mobile device and the ferromagnetic surface or the density of the magnetic flux at the ferromagnetic surface, and determining if said mobile device is about to lose contact with the ferromagnetic surface. 29. The method of claim 28 additionally comprising taking corrective action in response to said determining. 30. The method of claim 27 additionally comprising steering said mobile device. 31. The method of claim 30 additionally providing a view from one of a forward looking camera or a rearward looking camera, and wherein said steering is responsive to said providing a view. 32. The method of claim 31 additionally comprising modifying the driving force based on said view from said rearward looking camera. 33. The method of claim 27 additionally comprising performing work on the ferromagnetic surface as said mobile device traverses said ferromagnetic surface. 34. The method of claim 33 wherein said work includes one of painting, stripping or cleaning. 