A self-propelled lawn mower comprising a microprocessor and at least one cutter (10), wherein an elastic tension element (13) that is connected to the frame of the lawn mower and the at least one cutter (10) is provided. Central automatic adjustment of the height of the cutters (10) in relation to the ground is also provided. The cutters (10) consist of a rotary disk (3) with retractable blades (5) provided with a stop (4) underneath the lower surface in the form of a central extension that can come into contact with the ground.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A self-propelled robotic lawn mower comprising a chassis, a microprocessor, a plurality of cutting heads each of which comprises a rotating disk with retractable blades, each of said cutting heads being pivotally mounted on a support member by means including a tension elastic member which is integral on the one hand to the device chassis and on the other hand to the cutting head, the device having a self-adapting cutting adjustment system comprising a centralized height control member controlling the height of each of said cutting heads, said control member being operatively associated with an algorithm stored in the microprocessor such that when the lawn mower is started, the microprocessor in conjunction with the centralized height control member controls the cutting heads to lift same through a maximum height, the heads being later progressively lowered as the mower moves while the microprocessor constantly analyses an average rotational speed of the cutting disks so that as long as the average rotational speed is above a predetermined value Vr, which corresponds to the speed of the cutting disks when they cut a grass height not to be exceeded, the microprocessor keeps on controlling the heads to lower the same towards a nominal instruction value, and wherein if the average rotational speed decreases below Vr, lowering of the cutting disks is stopped to be only resumed when the cut resistance decreases, the microprocessor being adapted to control grass height at a predetermined level in a predetermined location throughout the mowing operation. 2. The device as claimed in claim 1, wherein at least three cutting heads are provided. 3. The device as claimed in claim 1, wherein each said cutting head comprises a rotating disk having a hemispherical abutment under the lower face, in the form of a central extension adapted to contact the ground. 4. The device as claimed in claim 3, characterized in that the abutment is integral or integrated with the center of the disk, and is mounted coaxially under the cutting disk, in such a manner as to rotate freely. 5. The device as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that the control is automatic and depends from the average rotational speed of the cutting members of the cutting head and/or of each cutting member. 6. The device as claimed in claim 1 wherein the microprocessor is adapted to change the height of said cutting head as a function of the position of the device over a predetermined work surface. 7. The device as claimed in claim 6, wherein the microprocessor is adapted to determine the position of the mower by the intensity of a magnetic field emitted by a peripheral wire which delimits said work surface. 