A user of a virtual object or computer model uses a haptic interface device in the real world to manipulate a virtual tool in a virtual environment to interact and modify the virtual object. The user uses the virtual tool in a sculpting mode to modify the shape of the virtual object by adding, removing, or modifying the material of the object. The user feels an interaction force from the virtual tool as it interacts with and modifies the virtual object. The designer can set geometric constraints, such as a constraint point, constraint line, or constraint surface, to limit or guide the movement of the virtual tool.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for modifying a virtual object in a haptic virtual environment, the apparatus comprising: a memory for storing code that defines a set of instructions; and a processor for executing the set of instructions to: (a) generate a virtual object in a haptic virtual environment; (b) determine a position of a virtual tool in the haptic virtual environment corresponding to a location of a user in real space; (c) modify the virtual object according to a movement of the user in real space; (d) determine a force feedback according to the position of the virtual tool in relation to the virtual object; (e) send the force feedback to the user through a haptic interface device; and (f) update the force feedback according to the movement of the user in real space, wherein the code comprises instructions to modify the virtual object at a slower rate than updating the force feedback. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a haptic interface device in communication with the processor. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the code comprises instructions to perform the modification of step (c) by discretely sampling the position of the virtual tool and modifying the virtual object along a swept path between discretely sampled positions. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the code comprises instructions to either remove or add virtual material to the virtual object along the swept path between discretely sampled positions. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the virtual object is voxel-based. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the virtual tool comprises a plurality of discrete points and wherein the code comprises instructions to: determine a haptic interface location in the haptic virtual environment corresponding to a location of a user in real space; and determine locations for a plurality of discrete points of the virtual tool in the haptic virtual environment relative to the haptic interface location. 7. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the code comprises instructions to compute a voxel value at a point in the haptic virtual environment based on a distance from the point to a line segment connecting two of the discretely sampled positions. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the line segment connects two consecutively sampled positions. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the force feedback comprises an alternate force when a modification to the virtual object occurs. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the alternate force is a viscous force. 11. An apparatus for smoothing a region of a virtual object in a haptic virtual environment, the apparatus comprising: a memory for storing code that defines a set of instructions; and a processor for executing the set of instructions to: (a) generate a virtual object in a haptic virtual environment; (b) determine a position of a virtual tool in the haptic virtual environment in response to a location of a user in real space; (c) determine a force feedback according to the position of the virtual tool in relation to the virtual object; (d) send the force feedback to the user through a haptic interface device; (e) update the force feedback according to a movement of the user in real space; (f) select a region of the virtual object according to a movement of the virtual tool; and (g) smooth the selected region of the virtual object without substantially changing the shape of the virtual object. 12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the virtual tool is a painting tool and the selected region corresponds to a painted area of a surface of the virtual object. 13. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the code comprises instructions to filter a selection volume corresponding to the selected region using an NxNxN kernel applied in three separate, one-dimensional passes. 14. An apparatus for modifying a virtual object in a haptic virtual environment, the apparatus comprising: a haptic interface device for sensing a user control of a virtual sanding tool; a memory for storing code that defines a set of instructions; and a processor for executing the set of instructions to: (a) generate a virtual object in a haptic virtual environment; and (b) modify the virtual object based at least in part on the user control of the virtual sanding tool. 15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the virtual object is a voxel-based virtual object. 16. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the haptic interface device is adapted to produce an oscillating frictional effect when the virtual sanding tool removes virtual material from the virtual object. 17. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the code comprises instructions to perform the modification of step (b) by constraining the virtual sanding tool to a surface of the virtual object outside an area undergoing sanding. 18. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the code comprises instructions to perform the modification of step (b) using an outrigger construct. 19. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the outrigger construct limits how far the virtual sanding tool penetrates the virtual object. 20. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the outrigger construct comprises a slip ring. 21. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the code further comprises instructions to generate a force feedback of increasing resistance as the virtual sanding tool penetrates further into the virtual object. 22. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the code comprises instructions to perform the modification of step (c) by repositioning the virtual tool at the start of the modification substantially tangent to a surface of the virtual object. 23. The apparatus of claim 22, generate a force feedback according to the position of the tool in relation to the virtual object, wherein the repositioning of the virtual tool is only performed during a modification. 24. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein the code comprises instructions to perform the repositioning of the virtual tool by performing a binary search along an approximate surface normal at a point of greatest potential tool penetration, thereby determining a more accurate location for the surface of the virtual object, and by repositioning the virtual tool according to the more accurate location. 25. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the code comprises instructions to perform the modification of step (c) by modifying only voxels whose densities are greater than a desired target density. 26. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the code comprises instructions to perform the modification of step (c) by modifying only voxels whose densities are lower than a desired target density. 27. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the code comprises instructions to perform the modification of step (c) by adding material to the virtual object, wherein the force feedback to the user during the modification is a drag force. 