A robotic manufacturing system may include multiple robots for transporting materials between a series of stages in a manufacturing process. To provide enhanced efficiency, each of these robots may independently operate according to a reverse process flow, cyclical schedule of operation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A manufacturing system for processing semiconductor wafers comprising: an input buffer for holding wafers for processing in the system; a plurality of stages each operable to perform processing for a step in a sequence for processing wafers, each of the stages having one or more stations each operable to perform the processing for the stage; an output buffer for holding wafers processed in the system; and a plurality of robots for transporting wafers between the stages, the input buffer and the output buffer, each robot having assigned ones of the stages and operable to service the stages according to a deterministic schedule that services the assigned stages in reverse of the sequence of steps. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein at least one of the stages is a shared stage, in which a first one of the robots is assigned to load all of the stations of the shared stage and a second one of the robots is assigned to unload all of the stations of the shared stage. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein the first robot, before moving into physical proximity of the shared stage, determines whether movement into the physical proximity of the shared stage will potentially result in a collision with the second robot. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein, for each robot, the schedule according to which the robot operates provides for a least common multiple cycle having a predetermined series of operations for the robot. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein for each of the stages having more than one station, the robot assigned to load the stage loads the stations in round-robin fashion that rotates the station loaded during each consecutive pass of the assigned robot in reverse order to the sequence. 6. The system of claim 1, further comprising a controller operable to assign each of the robots to selected ones of the stages, to assign at least one of the robots to the input buffer, and to assign at least one of the robots to the output buffer. 7. The system of claim 6, wherein the controller is further operable to communicate with each of the robots during operation of the system and to prevent collisions between the robots. 8. A method for processing semiconductor wafers in a multiple robot manufacturing system, the method comprising: identifying a plurality of stages each operable to perform processing for a step in a sequence for processing wafers, each of the stages having one or more stations each operable to perform the processing for the stage; identifying a plurality of robots for transporting wafers between the stages; assigning each of the robots to load selected ones of the stages; assigning each of the robots to unload selected ones of the stages; operating each of the robots according to a deterministic schedule that services the assigned stages for the robot in reverse of the sequence of steps. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein at least one of the stages is a shared stage, the method further comprising assigning a first one of the robots to load all of the stations of the shared stage and assigning a second one of the robots to unload all of the stations of the shared stage. 10. The method of claim 9, further comprising, before moving the first robot into physical proximity of the shared stage, determining whether movement into the physical proximity of the shared stage will potentially result in a collision between the first robot and the second robot. 11. The method of claim 8, wherein, for each robot, the schedule according to which the robot operates provides for a least common multiple cycle having a predetermined series of operations for the robot. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein for each of the stages having more than one station, the deterministic schedule for the robot assigned to load the stage provides for loading the stations in round-robin fashion that rotates the station loaded during each consecutive pass of the assigned robot in reverse order to the sequence. 13. The method of claim 8, further comprising assigning at least one of the robots to unload an input buffer and assigning at least one of the robots to load an output buffer. 14. Logic for processing semiconductor wafers in a multiple robot manufacturing system, the logic encoded in media and operable when executed to perform the steps of: identifying a plurality of stages each operable to perform processing for a step in a sequence for processing wafers, each of the stages having one or more stations each operable to perform the processing for the stage; identifying a plurality of robots for transporting wafers between the stages; assigning each of the robots to load selected ones of the stages; assigning each of the robots to unload selected ones of the stages; operating each of the robots according to a deterministic schedule that services the assigned stages for the robot in reverse of the sequence of steps. 15. The logic of claim 14, wherein at least one of the stages is a shared stage, the logic further operable to assign a first one of the robots to load all of the stations of the shared stage and to assign a second one of the robots to unload all of the stations of the shared stage. 16. The logic of claim 15, further operable, before moving the first robot into physical proximity of the shared stage, to determine whether movement into the physical proximity of the shared stage will potentially result in a collision between the first robot and the second robot. 17. The logic of claim 14, wherein, for each robot, the schedule according to which the robot operates provides for a least common multiple cycle having a predetermined series of operations for the robot. 18. The logic of claim 17, wherein for each of the stages having more than one station, the deterministic schedule for the robot assigned to load the stage provides for loading the stations in round-robin fashion that rotates the station loaded during each consecutive pass of the assigned robot in reverse order to the sequence. 19. The logic of claim 14, further operable to assign at least one of the robots to unload an input buffer and to assign at least one of the robots to load an output buffer. 20. A manufacturing system for processing semiconductor wafers comprising: means for applying a plurality of stages each operable to perform processing for a step in a sequence for processing wafers, each of the stages having one or more stations each operable to perform the processing for the stage; means for identifying a plurality of robots for transporting wafers between the stages; means for assigning each of the robots to load selected ones of the stages; means for assigning each of the robots to unload selected ones of the stages; means for operating each of the robots according to a deterministic schedule that services the assigned stages for the robot in reverse of the sequence of steps. 