A transfer system for use with a tool for treating a work-piece at sub-atmospheric pressure such as an ion implanter for implanting silicon wafers. An enclosure defines a low pressure region for treatment of work-pieces placed at a work-piece treatment station within the low pressure region. Multiple work-piece isolation load locks transfer work-pieces, one or two at a time, from a higher pressure region to the lower pressure for treatment and back to said higher pressure subsequent to said treatment. A first robot transfers work-pieces within the low pressure region from the load locks to a treatment station within the low pressure region. Multiple other robots positioned outside the low pressure region transfers work-pieces to and from the multiple work-piece isolation load locks from a source of said work-pieces prior to treatment and to a destination of said work-pieces after said treatment.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. For use with a tool for treating a work-piece at sub-atmospheric pressure, transfer apparatus comprising: a) one or more work-piece isolation load locks for transferring multiple work-pieces at a time from a higher pressure region to a lower pressure region and back to said higher pressure region, wherein each load lock is subjected to a pressurization and evacuation cycle in order to transfer the multiple work-pieces between the higher and lower pressure regions; b) a buffer that is maintained at the lower pressure during successive pressurization and evacuation cycles of the load lock, the buffer being for storing a plurality of work-pieces at the lower pressure in positions within the buffer accessible for automated transfer into and out of said buffer; and c) a robot including multiple independently operable transfer arms having a common pivot axis for transferring work-pieces from the work-piece load lock to the buffer or to a work-piece treatment station maintained at said lower pressure. 2. The transfer apparatus of claim 1 additionally comprising a work-piece aligner for controlling an alignment of work-pieces moved through the work-piece isolation load lock. 3. The transfer apparatus of claim 1 wherein the buffer stores a plurality of thin wafers in a generally parallel configuration for access by said robot. 4. The transfer apparatus of claim 1 wherein the isolation load lock comprises: a load lock housing that includes a first throughpassage for venting a load lock housing interior to atmosphere and a second throughpassage for lowering the pressure within the load lock housing interior; a pedestal support for supporting a wafer placed on the support within the housing interior; a side entrance that opens and closes to allow the workpieces to be inserted into the load lock housing interior for placement onto the pedestal support; and an actuator for raising and lowering the pedestal support and thereby move the workpieces within the housing interior. 5. The transfer apparatus of claim 4 wherein the load lock housing includes walls that define a first interior region that includes the side entrance and a second interior region in fluid communication with a lower pressure region that is accessible to the robot. 6. The transfer apparatus of claim 5 wherein a surface of the pedestal forms a seal along a region of contact of said walls to maintain pressure isolation between the first and second interior regions of the load lock interior. 7. The transfer apparatus of claim 1 wherein the isolation load lock comprises: a load lock housing that includes a first valve for exposing a load lock housing interior to atmosphere and a second valve for exposing a load lock housing interior to a vacuum region; and a workpiece support for supporting a workpiece within the housing interior after said workpiece is moved into the housing interior through either said first or second valves. 8. For use with a tool for treating a work-piece at sub-atmospheric pressure, transfer apparatus comprising: a) an enclosure defining a low pressure region for treatment of work-pieces placed at a work-piece treatment station within the low pressure region; b) multiple work-piece isolation load locks for transferring work-pieces, one or two at a time, from higher pressure to lower pressure for treatment and back to said higher pressure subsequent to said treatment, wherein the load locks undergo a pressurization and evacuation cycle to transfer the one or two work-pieces between the higher pressure and the lower pressure; c) a first robot including multiple independently operable transfer arms having a common pivot axis for transferring work-pieces within low pressure region from the load locks to a treatment station within the low pressure region; d) multiple other robots positioned outside the low pressure region for transferring work-pieces to and from the multiple work-piece isolation load locks from a source of said work-pieces prior to treatment and to a destination of said work-pieces after said treatment; and e) a low pressure buffer that is maintained at lower pressure dining successive pressurization and evacuation cycles of the load lock, the buffer being for storing a plurality of work-pieces at the lower pressure in positions within the buffer accessible for automated transfer into and out of said buffer. 9. The transfer apparatus of claim 8 wherein the source and the destination are a single storage device that is capable of holding multiple work-pieces. 10. The transfer apparatus of claim 8 additionally comprising a work-piece aligner for controlling an alignment of work-pieces moved through the work-piece isolation load lock. 11. The transfer apparatus of claim 8 wherein the buffer stores a plurality of this wafers in a generally parallel configuration for access by the robot. 12. The transfer apparatus of claim 8 wherein the isolation load locks comprise: a load lock housing that includes a first throughpassage for venting a load lock housing interior to atmosphere and a second through passage for lowering the pressure within the load lock housing interior; a pedestal support for supporting a wafer placed on the support within the housing interior; a side entrance that opens and closes to allow the workpieces to be inserted into the load lock housing interior for placement onto the pedestal support; and an actuator for raising and lowering the pedestal support and thereby move the workpieces within the housing interior. 13. The transfer apparatus of claim 12 wherein the load lock housing includes walls that define a first interior region that includes the side entrance and a second interior region in fluid communication with a lower pressure region that is accessible to the first robot. 14. The transfer apparatus of claim 13 wherein a surface of the pedestal forms a seal along a region of contact of said walls to maintain pressure isolation between the first and second interior regions of the load lock interior. 15. The transfer apparatus of claim 8 where the isolation load locks comprise: a load lock housing tat includes a first valve for exposing a load lock housing interior to atmosphere and a second valve for exposing a load lock housing interior to a vacuum region; and a workpiece support for supporting a workpiece within the housing interior alter said workpiece is moved into the housing interior through either said first or second valves. 