This patent describes a novel method of detecting genetic interactions in yeast. This method can also be used to screen for function of biological effectors on yeast. The method encompasses crossing yeast strains with genetic alterations to acquire double mutants. The phenotypes of these double mutants are then checked to detect genetic interactions between the double mutants. This method can be used to assign function to yeast genes and their viral, prokaryotic, and eukaryotic homologs, and aptamers. It can also be used to study yeast two hybrid interactions and to find genes that regulate certain yeast promoters.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for generating an output array of multiple diploid yeast strains, wherein each diploid yeast strain carries at least two genetic alterations relative to a starting yeast strain, and wherein the combination of the at least two genetic alterations is different in each diploid yeast strain, the method comprising: a) generating multiple derivative yeast strains from a starting yeast strain, each derivative yeast strain carrying a starting genetic alteration relative to the starting yeast strain and wherein at least one derivative yeast strain contains a recombinant construct comprising a mating type specific promoter operably linked to a selectable marker which permits efficient recovery of haploid spore progeny and permits selection of a particular haploid mating type; b) mating sets of two derivative yeast strains of step (a) to provide resulting diploid yeast strains, wherein each of the two derivative yeast strains mated contains a starting genetic alteration relative to the starting yeast strain, which starting genetic alteration is different in each of the two mated derivative yeast strains; c) recovering multiple resulting diploid yeast strains from the mating of step (b), wherein each resulting diploid yeast strain carries a resulting genetic alteration, said resulting genetic alteration comprising the starting genetic alterations from each of the two derivative yeast strains mated in step (b); and d) arraying the resulting diploid yeast strains recovered in step (c) carrying the resulting genetic alterations as a diploid output array, wherein the combination of the starting genetic alterations comprised by said resulting genetic alteration is different in each of the arrayed resulting diploid yeast strain. 2. A method for generating an output array of multiple haploid yeast strains, wherein each haploid yeast strain carries at least two genetic alterations relative to a starting yeast strain, and wherein the combination of the at least two resulting genetic alterations is different in each haploid yeast strain, the method comprising: a) generating multiple derivative yeast strains from a starting yeast strain, each derivative yeast strain carrying a starting genetic alteration relative to the starting yeast strain, and wherein at least one derivative yeast strain contains a recombinant construct comprising a mating type specific promoter operably linked to a selectable marker which permits the efficient recovery of haploid spore progeny and permits selection of a particular haploid mating type; b) mating sets of two derivative yeast strains of step (a), wherein each of the two derivative yeast strains mated contains a starting genetic alteration relative to the starting yeast strain, which starting genetic alteration is different in each of the two mated derivative yeast strains; c) causing the diploid progeny of the derivative yeast strains mated in step (b) to undergo sporulation to provide resulting haploid strains; d) germinating a single mating type from the resulting haploid strains produced in step (c); e) growing the resulting haploid yeast strains germinated in step (d) using selective growth criteria; f) recovering multiple resulting haploid yeast strains grown in step (e), wherein each resulting haploid yeast strain carries a resulting genetic alteration, said resulting genetic alteration comprising the starting genetic alterations from each of the two derivative yeast strains mated in step (b); and g) arraying the resulting haploid yeast strains recovered in step (f) carrying the resulting genetic alterations as an output array, wherein the combination of the starting genetic alterations comprised by said resulting genetic alteration is different in each arrayed resulting haploid yeast strain. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the starting yeast strain is selected from any yeast species that has two mating types and is capable of meiotic and mitotic reproduction. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the starting yeast strain is selected from either the Saccharomyces cerevisiae or the Schizosaccharomyces pombe species. 5. The method of claim 2, wherein the derivative yeast strains and arrayed resulting yeast strains are located on plates, with between about 90 and 6200 yeast colonies on one plate. 6. The method of claim 2, wherein a resulting haploid yeast strain is a double mutant, the double mutant comprising mutations of two different endogenous mutated yeast genes. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the double mutant comprises a deletion of two different non-essential yeast genes. 8. The method of claim 6, wherein the double mutant is either a synthetic lethal double mutant or a synthetic fitness double mutant. 9. The method of claim 2, wherein the output array comprises between about 1,000 and about 25 million resulting haploid yeast strains. 10. The method of claim 2, wherein the starting genetic alteration in at least one derivative yeast strain is selected from the group consisting of: introduction of a gene coding for expression of an aptamer; introduction of a protein-protein interaction detection system; introduction and expression of a heterologous gene from a viral, prokaryotic, or eukaryotic genome, wherein said heterologous gene either has or does not have a yeast homolog; transfection with a promoter operably linked to a reporter gene; and mutation or deletion of an endogenous yeast gene. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the starting genetic alteration in both derivative yeast strains is selected from the group consisting of: introduction of a gene coding for expression of an aptamer; introduction of a protein-protein interaction detection system; expression of a heterologous gene from a viral, prokaryotic, or eukaryotic genome, wherein said heterologous gene either has or does not have a yeast homolog; transfection with a promoter operably linked to a reporter gene; and mutation or deletion of an endogenous yeast gene. 12. The method of claim 10, wherein the aptamer is either a protein aptamer or a nucleic acid aptamer. 13. The method of claim 10, wherein the aptamer performs a function selected from the group consisting of inhibiting expression of a gene, increasing expression of a gene, inhibiting protein-protein interactions, enhancing protein-protein interactions, inhibiting an activity of a protein, and enhancing an activity of a protein. 14. The method of claim 10, wherein the protein-protein interaction detection system is selected from the group consisting of a yeast two-hybrid system, a Ras recruitment system, a split ubiquitin system, and a protein fragment complementation systems. 15. The method of claim 10, wherein the heterologous gene is a human gene. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the human gene comprises a set of alleles, each differing by one or more SNPs (small nucleotide polymorphisms). 17. The method of claim 2, wherein robotic manipulation is utilized. 18. A method for conducting synthetic lethal analysis of yeast colonies within an array of multiple yeast strains, the method comprising: a) generating an output array of multiple resulting haploid yeast strains according to the method of claim 2; b) comparing growth and viability of the resulting haploid yeast strains arrayed in step g) of claim 2 to growth and viability of the derivative yeast strains mated in step b) of claim 2; and c) detecting which resulting haploid strains contain synthetic lethal resulting genetic alterations by observing differences in the growth and viability of the resulting haploid strains as compared to the growth and viability of the derivative yeast strains. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein the starting yeast strain is selected from any yeast species that has two mating types and is capable of meiotic and mitotic reproduction. 20. The method of claim 19 wherein the starting yeast strain is selected from either the Saccharomyces cerevisiae or the Schizosaccharomyces pombe species. 21. The method of claim 18, wherein the derivative yeast strains and arrayed resulting yeast strains are located on plates, with between about 90 and 6200 yeast colonies on one plate. 22. The method of claim 18, wherein a resulting haploid yeast strain is a double mutant, the double mutant comprising a mutation of two different endogenous yeast genes. 23. The method of claim 22, wherein the double mutant comprises a deletion of two different non-essential yeast genes. 24. The method of claim 22, wherein the double mutant is either a synthetic lethal double mutant or a synthetic fitness double mutant. 25. The method of claim 18, wherein the output array comprises between about 1,000 and about 25 million resulting haploid yeast strains. 26. The method of claim 18, wherein the starting genetic alteration in at least one derivative yeast strain is selected from the group consisting of: introduction of a gene coding for expression of an aptamer; introduction of a protein-protein interaction detection system; introduction and expression of a heterologous gene from a viral, prokaryotic, or eukaryotic genome, wherein said heterologous gene either has or does not have a yeast homolog; transfection with a promoter operably linked to a reporter gene; and mutation or deletion of an endogenous gene. 27. The method of claim 26, wherein the starting genetic alteration in both starting yeast strains is selected from the group consisting of: introduction of a gene coding for expression of an aptamer; introduction of a protein-protein interaction detection system; introduction and expression of a heterologous gene from a viral, prokaryotic, or eukaryotic genome, wherein said heterologous gene either has or does not have a yeast homolog; transfection with a promoter operably linked to a reporter gene; and mutation or deletion of an endogenous gene. 28. The method of claim 26, wherein the aptamer is either a protein aptamer or a nucleic acid aptamer. 29. The method of claim 26, wherein the aptamer performs a function selected from the group consisting of inhibiting expression of a gene, increasing expression of a gene, inhibiting protein-protein interactions, enhancing protein-protein interactions, inhibiting an activity of a protein, and enhancing an activity of a protein. 30. The method of claim 26, wherein the protein-protein interaction detection system is selected from the group consisting of a yeast two-hybrid system, a Ras recruitment system, a split ubiquitin system, and a protein fragment complementation systems. 31. The method of claim 26, wherein the heterologous gene is a human gene. 32. The method of claim 31, wherein the human gene comprises a set of alleles, each differing by one or more SNPs (small nucleotide polymorphisms). 33. The method of claim 18, wherein robotic manipulation is utilized. 34. The method of claim 18, wherein the resulting haploid yeast strain comprises a genetic tag. 35. The method of claim 34, wherein the genetic tag is a 20 mer oligonucleotide sequence. 36. A method for conducting synthetic lethal analysis of yeast colonies within an output array of multiple diploid yeast strains, the method comprising: a) generating an output array of multiple resulting diploid yeast strains according to the method of claim 1; b) comparing growth and viability of the resulting diploid yeast strains arrayed in step d) of claim 1 to growth and viability of the derivative yeast strains mated in step b) of claim 1; c) detecting which resulting diploid strains contain synthetic lethal resulting genetic alterations by observing differences in the growth and viability of the resulting diploid yeast strains as compared to the growth and viability of the derivative yeast strains. 