A gas gauge proximity sensor modulates a gas stream that is used to feed reference and measurement air gauges, respectively, in a reference portion proximate a reference surface and a measurement portion proximate a measurement surface. The gas stream can be modulated at a frequency at which there is minimal acoustical interference energy (e.g., minimal noise) in demodulated output signal. The sensor output can be filtered so that a measurement signal includes only the modulated frequency and side bands of that frequency to include the desired response band of the device as a whole. The filtered signal can be demodulated using a demodulator operating at a same frequency as the modulator to produce the demodulated output signal. In this embodiment, substantially only ambient acoustical energy in the band pass region may interfere with the device operation. Alternatively, the modulation can be introduced through the reference portion. A reference nozzle sets up a pressure field with the reference surface. A carrier frequency can be generated by mechanical motion of the reference surface. For example, this motion can be introduced by a mechanism like a piezoelectric device or a voice coil coupled to the reference surface. The modulated gas flow combines with the other gas flows to produce a modulated combined gas flow.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A gas gauge proximity sensor, comprising: a measuring portion that detects a first gas flow proximate a measured surface; a reference portion that detects a second gas flow proximate a reference surface; a modulator that produces a modulated third gas flow, which is at least partially based on gas received from a gas source, flowing through the measuring portion and the reference portion; a detector that generates a differential signal corresponding to a difference between the first and second gas flows; a filter that filters the differential signal to produce a filtered signal; and a demodulator that demodulates the filtered signal to produce a measurement value. 2. The gas gauge proximity sensor of claim 1, wherein the detector comprises a mass flow sensor. 3. The gas gauge proximity sensor of claim 1, wherein the modulator comprises a modulated dynamic flow controller that modulates the gas received from the gas source. 4. The gas gauge proximity sensor of claim 3, wherein the dynamic flow controller comprises a mass flow controller. 5. The gas gauge proximity sensor of claim 1, wherein the modulator comprises a modulating device coupled to the reference surface that modulates the third gas flow by modulating the second gas flow. 6. The gas gauge proximity sensor of claim 5, wherein the modulating device comprises a piezoelectric device or a coil. 7. The gas gauge proximity sensor of claim 1, wherein a frequency of modulation of the modulator is used as a frequency of demodulation for the demodulator. 8. The gas gauge proximity sensor of claim 1, wherein the filter comprises a band pass filter. 9. The gas gauge proximity sensor of claim 1, wherein the filter comprises a band limited filter. 10. The gas gauge proximity sensor of claim 1, wherein the filter comprises a high pass filter. 11. The gas gauge proximity sensor of claim 1, wherein the filter and the demodulator are one or more analog devices. 12. The gas gauge proximity sensor of claim 1, wherein the filter and the demodulator are one or more digital devices. 13. The gas gauge proximity sensor of claim 1, wherein the filter comprises a filter that rejects portions of the measurement signal corresponding to a frequency of ambient noise in the first and second gas flows. 14. The gas gauge proximity sensor of claim 1, further comprising: a measurement standoff between the measurement surface and the measurement portion, wherein the first gas flow impinges on the measurement surface after traveling across the measurement standoff; and a reference standoff between the reference surface and the reference portion, wherein the second gas flow impinges on the reference surface after traveling across the reference standoff, wherein the differential signal corresponds to a difference between the reference standoff and the measurement standoff. 15. The gas gauge proximity sensor of claim 1, wherein the filter and the demodulator are formed as one digital device. 16. The gas gauge proximity sensor of claim 1, wherein the gas comprises air, humidified air, dry air, noble gases, halogen gases, nitrogen, hydrogen, oxygen, or argon. 17. A method, comprising: (a) modulating a gas flow that travels through a reference channel and a measurement channel; (b) positioning a reference channel probe proximate a reference surface and a measurement channel probe proximate a measurement surface; (c) detecting a first gas flow using the reference channel probe and a second gas flow using the measurement channel probe; (d) comparing the first and second gas flows to generate a differential gas flow value; (e) filtering the differential gas flow value to generate a filtered signal; and (f) demodulating the filtered signal, whereby measurement channel and reference channel standoffs are measured. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein step (a) comprises using a modulated dynamic flow controller to modulate gas received from a gas source, such that a frequency of modulation of the modulated dynamic flow controller is a same frequency used to perform step (f). 19. The method of claim 17, wherein step (a) comprises using a modulation device coupled to the reference surface to modulate the gas flow via modulating the first gas flow, such that a frequency of modulation of the modulated dynamic flow controller is a same frequency used to perform step (f). 20. The method of claim 17, wherein step (e) comprises using a band pass filter. 21. The method of claim 17, wherein step (e) comprises using a band limiting filter. 22. The method of claim 17, wherein step (e) comprises using a high pass filter. 23. The method of claim 17, wherein steps (e) and (f) are performed using a same digital device. 24. The method of claim 17, wherein steps (e) and (f) are performed using separate digital devices. 25. The method of claim 17, wherein steps (e) and (f) are performed using separate analog devices. 26. The method of claim 17, wherein step (a) comprises using a modulated mass flow controller to modulate gas received from a gas source, such that a frequency of modulation of the modulated dynamic flow controller is a same frequency used to perform step (f). 27. The method of claim 17, wherein step (e) comprises rejecting portions of the differential gas flow value corresponding to a frequency of ambient noise in at least one of the first and second gas flows. 28. The method of claim 17, further comprising using air, humidified air, dry air, noble gases, halogen gases, nitrogen, hydrogen, oxygen, or argon as the gas. 29. A gas gauge proximity sensor, comprising: a measuring portion that detects a first gas flow proximate a measured surface; a reference portion that detects a second gas flow proximate a reference surface; an acoustical driver that generates a third, bi-directional gas flow through the measuring portion and the reference portion using gas adjacent at least one of a measured surface and a reference surface; a detector that generates a differential signal corresponding to a difference between the first and second gas flows; a filter that filters the differential signal to produce a filtered signal; and a demodulator that demodulates the filtered signal to produce a measured value, whereby the measured value corresponds to a position of the measured surface. 30. The gas gauge proximity sensor of claim 29, wherein the detector comprises a mass flow sensor. 31. The gas gauge proximity sensor of claim 29, wherein the acoustical driver comprises a transducer. 32. The gas gauge proximity sensor of claim 29, wherein a frequency of modulation of the acoustical driver is used as a frequency of demodulation for the demodulator. 33. The gas gauge proximity sensor of claim 29, wherein the filter comprises a band pass filter. 34. The gas gauge proximity sensor of claim 29, wherein the filter comprises a band limited filter. 35. The gas gauge proximity sensor of claim 29, wherein the filter comprises a high pass filter. 36. The gas gauge proximity sensor of claim 29, wherein the filter and the demodulator are one or more analog devices. 37. The gas gauge proximity sensor of claim 29, wherein the filter and the demodulator are one or more digital devices. 38. The gas gauge proximity sensor of claim 29, wherein the filter comprises a filter that rejects portions of the measured value corresponding to a frequency of ambient noise in the first and second gas flows. 39. The gas gauge proximity sensor of claim 29, further comprising: a measurement standoff between the measurement surface and the measurement portion, wherein the first gas flow communicates with the measurement surface after traveling across the measurement standoff; and a reference standoff between the reference surface and the reference portion, wherein the second gas flow communicates with the reference surface after traveling across the reference standoff, wherein the detector detects a difference between the reference standoff and the measurement standoff. 40. The gas gauge proximity sensor of claim 29, wherein an amount of pushed gas equals an amount of pulled gas in the third gas flow. 41. The gas gauge proximity sensor of claim 29, wherein the filter and the demodulator are formed as one digital device. 42. A method, comprising: (a) acoustically driving a gas flow bi-directionally through a reference channel and a measurement channel; (b) positioning a reference channel probe proximate to a reference surface and a measurement channel probe proximate a measurement surface; (c) detecting a first gas flow using the reference channel probe and a second gas flow using the measurement channel probe; (d) comparing the first and second gas flows to generate a differential gas flow value; (e) filtering the differential gas flow value to generate a filtered signal; and (f) demodulating the filtered signal, whereby measurement channel and reference channel standoffs are detected. 43. The method of claim 42, wherein step (a) comprises using a transducer to perform the acoustical driving. 44. The method of claim 42, wherein step (e) comprises using a band pass filter. 45. The method of claim 42, wherein step (e) comprises using a band limiting filter. 46. The method of claim 42, wherein step (e) comprises using a high pass filter. 47. The method of claim 42, wherein steps (e) and (f) are performed using a same digital device. 