Embodiments of an end effector assembly for a substrate robot are provided herein. In one embodiment, the end effector assembly includes a wrist and a first and a second end effector coupled to the wrist in a spaced apart relationship. The first end effector includes a base coupled to the wrist and a tip coupled to the base opposite the wrist. The base and the tip may be made of the same or different materials. The first and the second end effectors may have different resonant frequencies to minimize vibration. Optionally, a low emissivity coating may be provided on the first and second end effector. The low emissivity coating may further have a plurality of stress relief grooves to reduce or prevent flaking of the coating due to differences in rates of thermal expansion between the coating and the underlying end effector.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An end effector assembly for a substrate robot, comprising: a wrist; a base coupled to a first side of the wrist, the base having a substrate support surface; a tip coupled to the base opposite the wrist, the tip having a substrate support surface, wherein the tip and the base define a first end effector; and a second end effector coupled to the first side of the wrist in a spaced apart relationship to the first end effector, wherein the first end effector and the second end effector have different resonant frequencies. 2. The end effector assembly of claim 1, wherein the base and the tip are made of different materials. 3. The end effector assembly of claim 2, wherein the base is made of a metal, metal matrix composite, metal alloy, or CFRP. 4. The end effector assembly of claim 2, wherein the tip is made of ceramic. 5. The end effector assembly of claim 1, wherein the base and the tip are made of the same material. 6. The end effector assembly of claim 5, wherein the base and the tip are made of ceramic. 7. The end effector assembly of claim 1, wherein the first end effector further comprises: a low emissivity coating formed on the base and the tip. 8. The end effector assembly of claim 7, wherein the coating is one of sputtered or plated onto the base and the tip. 9. The end effector assembly of claim 7, wherein the coating is formed of aluminum, chromium, or nickel. 10. The end effector assembly of claim 7, further comprising: a plurality of stress relief grooves formed in the coating. 11. The end effector assembly of claim 1, wherein the first end effector further comprises: a pad sandwiched between the base and the tip. 12. The end effector assembly of claim 11, wherein the pad is made of rubber or aluminum film. 13. An end effector assembly for a substrate robot, comprising: a wrist; a base coupled to a first side of the wrist; a tip coupled to the base opposite the wrist, wherein the tip and the base define a first end effector; a bracket disposed between the wrist and the base; a pad disposed between the bracket and the base; and a second end effector coupled to the first side of the wrist in a spaced apart relationship to the first end effector. 14. The end effector assembly of claim 13, wherein the pad is made of metal or rubber. 15. The end effector assembly of claim 13, having a plurality of holes, each hole configured to receive a set screw for adjusting the alignment of the first end effector with respect to the wrist. 16. An end effector assembly for a substrate robot, comprising: a wrist; a base coupled to a first side of the wrist; a tip coupled to the base opposite the wrist, wherein the tip and the base define a first end effector; a bracket disposed between the wrist and the base; wherein the bracket further comprises: a body having a channel adapted to receive the base; and a pair of shoulders formed on an upper portion of the body; and a second end effector coupled to the first side of the wrist in a spaced apart relationship to the first end effector. 17. The end effector assembly of claim 16, wherein the bracket fits into a slot formed in the wrist, the shoulders of the bracket resting upon a mating pair of flanges formed in the slot. 18. The end effector assembly of claim 17, having a plurality of holes formed through the shoulders adapted to receive a plurality of set screws that are capable of adjustably extending below the shoulders to engage an upper surface of the flange and thereby controllably adjust the alignment of the first end effector with respect to the wrist. 19. The end effector assembly of claim 17, further comprising: a pad disposed in the channel and sandwiched between the bracket and the base. 20. The end effector assembly of claim 19, wherein the pad is made of rubber or metal. 21. An end effector assembly for a substrate robot, comprising: a wrist; a first end effector having a base portion coupled to a first side of the wrist, the first end effector having a length greater than a length of the base; a low emissivity coating formed on the first end effector; a plurality of stress relief grooves formed in the coating; and a second end effector coupled to the first side of the wrist in a spaced apart relationship to the first end effector, wherein the first end effector and the second end effector have different resonant frequencies. 22. The end effector assembly of claim 21, wherein the coating is one of sputtered or plated onto the first end effector. 23. The end effector assembly of claim 21, wherein the coating is formed of aluminum, chrome, or nickel. 24. An end effector assembly for a substrate robot, comprising: a wrists; a first end effector coupled to a first side of the wrist; a low emissivity coating formed on the first end effector; a plurality of stress relief grooves formed in the coating; and a second end effector coupled to the first side of the wrist in a spaced apart relationship to the first end effector, wherein the first end effector is coupled to the wrist by a bracket, the bracket comprising: a body having a channel adapted to receive the first end effector; and a pair of shoulders formed on an upper portion of the body. 25. The end effector assembly of claim 24, wherein the bracket fits into a slot formed in the wrist, the shoulders of the bracket resting upon a mating pair of flanges formed in the slot. 26. The end effector assembly of claim 25, having a plurality of holes formed through the shoulders adapted to receive a plurality of set screws that are capable of adjustably extending below the shoulders to engage an upper surface of the flange and thereby controllably adjust the alignment of the first end effector with respect to the wrist. 27. The end effector assembly of claim 24, further comprising: a pad disposed in the channel and sandwiched between the bracket and the base. 28. The end effector assembly of claim 27, wherein the pad is made of rubber or metal. 29. The end effector assembly of claim 24, wherein the first end effector further comprises: a base coupled to the first side of the wrist; and a tip coupled to the base opposite the wrist. 30. A method of transferring a substrate, comprising: supporting a substrate on an end effector assembly, the assembly comprising: a wrist; a base coupled to a first side of the wrist; a tip coupled to the base opposite the wrist, the tip and the base defining a first end effector; and a second end effector coupled to the first side of the wrist in a spaced apart relationship to the first end effector, wherein the first and second end effector define a substrate receiving surface; and transferring the substrate from the substrate receiving surface to a substrate support, wherein the first end effector and the second end effector have different resonance frequencies . 31. The method of claim 30, wherein the end effector assembly is part of a substrate transfer robot disposed in a transfer chamber. 32. A method of fabricating an end effector assembly, comprising: providing a wrist having a first side; coupling a base to the first side of the wrist; coupling a tip to the base opposite the wrist, the tip and the base defining a first end effector having a first resonant frequency; and coupling a second end effector to the first side of the wrist in a spaced apart relationship to the first end effector, the second end effector having a second resonant frequency different from the first resonant frequency. 33. The method of claim 32, further comprising: inserting a vibration dampening pad between the base and the tip. 