A remote center of motion robotic system including a base unit and a plurality of linking units. The base unit is rotatable about a first axis. The plurality of linking units are coupled with one another. At least two of the linking units are kept parallel to each another during motion. The plurality of linking units are coupled with that base unit at a first end. The plurality of linking units are rotatable about a second axis by changing an angle between each of the plurality of links.
Claims We claim: 1. A remote center of motion robotic system comprising: a base link unit; a connecting link unit, the connecting link unit moveably coupled to the base link unit at a first rotating joint; the first rotating joint comprising a first round member and a first rotation axis, the connecting link unit rotates around the first rotation axis, and the first round member is coupled to the base link unit such that the angle of the first round member with respect to the base link unit is constant; an end link unit, the end link unit moveably coupled to the connecting link unit at a second rotating joint; the second rotating joint comprising a second round member, a third round member and a second rotation axis, the end link unit rotates around the second rotation axis, the second round member is coupled to the end link unit such that the angle of the second round member with respect to the end link unit is constant, the third round member is coupled to the connecting link unit such that the angle of the third round member with respect to the connecting link unit is constant, the first round member is coupled to the second round member so that the angle of the first round member with respect to the second round member is constant; a base unit, the base unit comprising a base rotating joint; and the base rotating joint comprising a base unit round member moveably coupled to the base unit so that the base unit can rotate around a base axis, the base unit round member configured to couple the base unit to a base, wherein the base link unit is moveably coupled to the base unit at a pivot joint, the pivot joint having a pivot axis that is not parallel to the base axis. 2. The remote center of motion robotic system of claim 1, further comprising: a base unit rotating motor drivingly coupled to the base rotating joint to rotate the base unit around the base axis. 3. The remote center of motion robotic system of claim 1, further comprising: a connecting unit rotating motor drivingly coupled to the connecting link unit to rotate the connecting link unit around the first axis. 4. The remote center of motion robotic system of claim 3, further comprising a base unit rotating motor drivingly coupled to the base rotating joint by a first worm gear drive that rotates the base unit about the base axis to rotate the base unit around the base axis; and wherein the connecting unit rotating motor is drivingly coupled to the connecting link unit with a second worm gear drive that rotates the connecting link unit about the first rotation axis. 5. The remote center of motion robotic system of claim 1, wherein the pivot axis and the base axis are orthogonal. 6. The remote center of motion robotic system of claim 1, wherein the first rotation axis and the pivot axis are orthogonal. 7. The remote center of motion robotic system of claim 1, wherein the pivot joint is a passive joint, said passive joint setting an adjustment angle of base axis from an X axis parallel to the base link unit. 8. The remote center of motion robotic system of claim 1, further comprising: a third rotating joint, the third rotating joint is carried by the end link unit, the third rotating joint comprising a fourth round member that rotates around a third rotation axis, the third round member is coupled to the fourth round member so that the angle of the third round member with respect to the fourth round member is constant. 9. The remote center of motion robotic system of claim 8, further comprising: an end-effector, the end-effector coupled to the end link unit at the third rotating joint, the end-effector coupled to the fourth round member so that the angle of the fourth round member with respect to the end-effector is constant. 10. The remote center of motion robotic system of claim 9, wherein changing the angle between the base link unit and the connecting link unit allows an rcm end of the end-effector to rotate about a remote center of motion point. 11. The remote center of motion robotic system of claim 9, wherein the end-effector is coupled to the end link unit in a position parallel to the connecting link unit. 12. The remote center of motion robotic system of claim 8, wherein the first round member is coupled to the second round member with a first belt drive; and the third round member is coupled to the fourth round member with a second belt drive. 13. The remote center of motion robotic system of claim 8, further comprising: a connecting unit rotating motor drivingly coupled to the connecting link unit to rotate the connecting link unit around the first axis. 14. The remote center of motion robotic system of claim 13, further comprising: a base unit rotating motor drivingly coupled to the base rotating joint to rotate the base unit around the base axis. 15. A remote center of motion robotic system comprising: a base unit, the base unit comprising a base rotating joint; the base rotating joint comprising a base unit round member moveably coupled to the base unit so that the base unit can rotate around a base axis, the base unit round member configured to couple the base unit to a base; a base unit rotating motor drivingly coupled to the base rotating joint to rotate the base unit around the base axis; a base link unit, the base link unit moveably coupled to the base unit at a pivot joint, the pivot joint having a pivot axis that is not parallel to the base axis; a connecting link unit, the connecting link unit moveably coupled to the base link unit at a first rotating joint; the first rotating joint comprising a first round member and a first rotation axis, the connecting link unit rotates around the first rotation axis, and the first round member is coupled to the base link unit such that the angle of the first round member with respect to the base link unit is constant; a connecting link rotating motor drivingly coupled to the connecting link unit to rotate the connecting link around the first rotation axis; an end link unit, the end link unit moveably coupled to the connecting link unit at a second rotating joint; the second rotating joint comprising a second round member, a third round member and a second rotation axis, the second and third round members rotate around the second rotation axis, the end link unit rotates around the second rotation axis, the second round member is coupled to the end link unit such that the angle of the second round member with respect to the end link unit is constant, the third round member is coupled to the connecting link unit such that the angle of the third round member with respect to the connecting link unit is constant, the first round member is coupled to the second round member so that the angle of the first round member with respect to the second round member is constant; a third rotating joint, the third rotating joint is carried by the end link unit, the third rotating joint comprising a fourth round member that rotates around a third rotation axis, the third round member is coupled to the fourth round member so that the angle of the third round member with respect to the fourth round member is constant; and an end-effector, the end-effector is coupled to the end link unit at the third rotating joint so that the angle of the fourth round member with respect to the end-effector is constant. 16. A remote center of motion robotic system comprising: a base linking unit; a connecting linking unit; first rotating joint means for moveably connecting the base linking unit to the connecting linking unit; an end linking unit; a second rotating joint means for moveably connecting the connecting linking unit to the end linking unit; kinematic means for kinematically connecting the first and second rotating joint means; a base rotating joint means for coupling a base unit to a base; and a pivot means for coupling the base unit to the base linking unit. 17. The remote center of motion robotic system of claim 16, further comprising: a base unit rotating means coupled to the base rotating joint means for rotating the base unit around a base axis. 18. The remote center of motion robotic system of claim 16, further comprising: a connecting unit rotating means coupled to connecting linking unit for rotating the connecting linking unit around a first axis. 19. The remote center of motion robotic system of claim 16, wherein the pivot means is a passive joint means for setting an adjustment angle of the base axis from an X axis parallel to the base linking unit. 20. The remote center of motion robotic system of claim 16, further comprising: a third rotating joint means for coupling an end-effector to the end linking unit, wherein the kinematic means kinematically connects the first, second and third rotation joint means. 21. The remote center of motion robotic system of claim 20, further comprising: an end-effector, the end-effector coupled to the end linking unit with the third rotating joint means. 22. The remote center of motion robotic system of claim 21, wherein changing the angle between the base linking unit and the connecting linking unit allows an rcm end of the end-effector to rotate about a remote center of motion point. 23. The remote center of motion robotic system of claim 21, wherein the end-effector is coupled to the end linking unit in a position parallel to the connecting linking unit. 24. The remote center of motion robotic system of claim 20 wherein the kinematic means is at least one belt drive. 25. The remote center of motion robotic system of claim 20, further comprising: a connecting unit rotating means coupled to the connecting linking unit to rotate the connecting linking unit around a first axis. 26. The remote center of motion robotic system of claim 25, further comprising: a base unit rotating means coupled to the base rotating joint means for rotating the base unit around the base axis. 27. A remote center of motion robotic system comprising: a base unit; a base rotating joint means for connecting the base unit to a base and for allowing the base unit to rotate around a base axis with respect to the base; a base unit rotating means coupled to the base rotating joint means for rotating the base unit around the base axis; a base linking unit; a pivot joint means for moveably coupling the base unit to the base linking unit; a connecting linking unit; a first rotating joint means for coupling the connecting linking unit to the base linking unit; a connecting link rotating means for rotating the connecting link around a first rotation axis; an end linking unit; a second rotating joint means for coupling the end linking unit to the connecting linking unit; an end-effector; a third rotating joint means for connecting the end-effector to the end linking unit; and a kinematic means for kinematically connecting the first, second and third rotating joint means. 