The invention relates to a device (1) for dispensing or aspirating/dispensing liquid samples, including a pump (2) and a micro-ejection device (3), the micro-ejection device (3) having a pulse generator (4) with a chamber (5). The pulse generator (4) is used to produce pressure waves in the liquid in order to cause the samples of a liquid to be dispensed. The micro-ejection device (3) also comprises an end piece (6) and a liquid line (7) which connects the pulse generator (4) to the end piece (6) the pulse generator comprises a micro-actuator (10) which is configured to function in the same direction as that in which the pressure wave leaves the chamber (5). The inventive devices are characterised in that the chamber (5), in the area of the end facing away from the end piece (6), or the corresponding connecting element (14) has a narrowed section (16) which restricts any expansion of the pressure waves in the direction of the pump (2). The invention also relates to systems with multiple devices of this type.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A device for dispensing or aspirating/dispensing liquid samples, comprising a pump and a micro-ejection apparatus, with said micro-ejection apparatus having an impulse generator with a chamber and with said impulse generator being used to produce pressure waves in the liquid in order to cause the samples of a liquid to be dispensed, and with said micro-ejection apparatus further comprising an end piece and a tubing for the liquid which connects the impulse generator to the end piece and with the impulse generator comprising a micro-actuator which is configured to function in the same direction as that in which the pressure wave leaves the chamber, wherein the device, in the area of the end of the chamber averted from the end piece, comprises a narrowed section which is open during the production of the pressure waves and which restricts any propagation of the pressure waves in the direction towards the pump. 2. The device of claim 1, wherein a corresponding connecting element comprises the narrowed section. 3. The device of claim 1, wherein the entire micro-ejection apparatus is filled completely with a continuous liquid column and that the volume of a dispensed liquid sample is defined alone by the parameters of a single pulse produced by the impulse generator. 4. The device of claim 1, with the chamber of the impulse generator comprising at least one inner wall and/or one connecting element with which the chamber is connected to the tubing for the liquid, wherein the chamber, end piece, tubing and/or connecting elements, for the purpose of enabling a continuous propagation of the pressure waves through the tubing, form substantially continuous transition points up to the end piece and also a substantially constant inside diameter, with said inside diameter being larger than the opening diameter of the end piece. 5. The device of claim 1, wherein the tubings have an inside diameter of 0.1 to 4 mm, especially 0.1 to 1 mm, and a wall thickness of 0.3 to 1.2 mm. 6. The device of claim 1, wherein the end piece is arranged as a pipette tip which is disposable and can be replaced after each use. 7. The device of claim 1, wherein the end piece has an opening diameter of 20 to 150 .mu.m for dispensing sample volumes in the nanoliter range. 8. The device of claim 1, wherein the end piece has an opening diameter of less than 50 .mu.m for dispensing sample volumes in the picoliter range. 9. The device of claim 1, wherein during the dispensing of liquid samples from the end piece the pump is provided with a configuration that allows it to be triggered for replenishing liquid. 10. The device of claim 1, wherein the pump is provided with a configuration that allows it to be triggered for the aspiration of liquid. 11. The device of claim 1, wherein the impulse generator comprises a membrane actuated by at least one of a group comprising a bimorph piezo-element, a piezo stack, a solenoid and a thermal actuator. 12. The device of claim 1, wherein the pump is a piston pump which comprises a cylinder, a piston and a drive. 13. A system with a device according to claim 1, the system comprising a plurality of end pieces and associated tubings and impulse generators. 14. The system of claim 13, which comprises several pumps (2). 15. The system of claim 13, which comprises a three-way valve connected upstream of the pump or the pumps and at least one storage reservoir connected to the same. 16. The system of claim 13, which is arranged to receive sample volumes of at least 1 nl. 17. The system of claim 13, which is configured to dispense sample volumes of at least 0.01 nl. 18. The system of claim 13, wherein the individual impulse generators and pumps can be addressed individually via a control unit. 19. The system of claim 13, which comprises a one-dimensional or two-dimensional array of end pieces. 20. The system of claim 13, wherein the plurality of impulse generators are arranged on a single component. 