A compliance device having a housing, a support block coupled to the housing and movable relative to the housing along a linear axis, and a tool holder coupled to the support block and rotatable relative to the support block about a rotational axis. The compliance device is further incorporated into a trimming assembly for trimming flash from a workpiece. The trimming assembly includes a positioning mechanism and the compliance device is coupled to the positioning mechanism.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A compliance device for trimming comprising: a housing; a support block coupled to said housing and movable relative to said housing along a linear axis; and a tool holder coupled to said support block and rotatable relative to said support block about a rotational axis, said tool holder capable of holding a cutting tool; a first biasing assembly urging said tool holder toward a linearly centered position; and a second biasing assembly urging said tool holder to a rotationally centered position. 2. The compliance device of claim 1 wherein said rotational axis is substantially perpendicular to said linear axis. 3. The compliance device of claim 1 further including a linear slide coupling said support block to said housing, said linear slide having a first member fixed to said housing and a second member fixed to said support block, said second member being linearly movable relative to said first member. 4. The compliance device of claim 3 wherein said first biasing assembly is coupled to said housing, and operably engages said support block and said housing, said first biasing assembly urging said support block toward a linearly centered position. 5. The compliance device of claim 4 wherein said second biasing assembly is coupled to said housing and operably engages said tool holder to urge said tool holder toward a rotationally centered position. 6. The compliance device of claim 5 wherein said second biasing assembly further includes adjustable stops to limit rotation of said tool holder about said rotational axis. 7. The compliance device of claim 6 wherein second biasing assembly further includes first and second dowels fixed to rotate with said tool holder and biasing elements operably engaging said first dowel to urge said tool holder toward the rotationally centered position, and wherein said adjustable stops engage said second dowel to limit rotation of said tool holder about said rotational axis. 8. The compliance device of claim 7 wherein said biasing elements are spring plungers. 9. The compliance device of claim 8 wherein said adjustable stops are set screws. 10. The compliance device of claim 1 wherein said second biasing assembly limits the rotation of said tool holder about said rotational axis. 11. The compliance device of claim 1 wherein said housing includes a cover having an elongated linear slot and wherein said tool holder is disposed within said linear slot for movement along said linear axis. 12. The compliance device of claim 1 wherein said second biasing assembly includes set screws to adjust the limit of the tool holder's angle of rotation about said rotational axis. 13. A trimming assembly for trimming flash from a workpiece, comprising: a positioning mechanism; a compliance device coupled to said positioning mechanism, said compliance device including a housing, a support block coupled to said housing and movable relative to said housing along a linear axis; a first biasing assembly urging said support block toward a linearly centered position; a tool holder coupled to said support block and rotatable relative to said support block about a rotational axis; and a second biasing assembly urging said tool holder to a rotationally centered position. 14. The trimming assembly of claim 13 wherein said rotational axis is substantially perpendicular to said linear axis. 15. The trimming assembly of claim 13 further including a linear slide coupling said support block to said housing, said linear slide having a first member fixed to said housing and a second member fixed to said support block, said second member being linearly movable relative to said first member. 16. The trimming assembly of claim 15 wherein said first biasing assembly is coupled to said housing, and operably engages said support block and said housing, and urges said support block toward a linearly centered position, said second biasing assembly coupled to said housing and operably engaging said tool holder. 17. The trimming assembly of claim 16 wherein second biasing assembly further includes first and second dowels fixed to rotate with said tool holder, biasing elements operably engaging said first dowel to urge said tool holder toward the rotationally centered position, and adjustable stops operably engaging said second dowel to limit rotation of said tool holder about said rotational axis, wherein said first dowel is spaced from and aligned with said second dowel. 