A method for automatically balancing a drive shaft about a rotational axis. The method includes providing an unbalanced drive shaft for rotation about a rotational axis to determine an out-of-balance condition with respect to the drive shaft. A plurality of standardized weights or counterweights are provided wherein each standardized weight has a substantially equivalent mass. The method determines an optimal position for placing at least one of the standardized weights on a drive shaft to correct the out-of-balance condition. Standardized weights are then attached to the outer circumference of the drive shaft at the optimal position. The effectiveness of the added standardized weights is verified by subsequently rotating the drive shaft to determine whether an out-of-balance condition still exists. If the out-of-balance condition still exits, additional standardized weights may then be added to the circumference of the drive shaft.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for balancing a drive shaft about a rotational axis comprising the steps of: providing an unbalanced drive shaft for rotation about said rotational axis; rotating said drive shaft to determine an out-of-balance condition; providing a plurality of standardized weights each having a substantially equivalent mass; determining an optimal position for placing at least one of said standardized weights on said drive shaft to correct said out-of-balance condition; and attaching said standardized weights to said drive shaft at said optimal position. 2. The method as stated in claim 1, wherein attaching said standardized weights further comprises the steps of: welding said weights to said drive shaft with a single tip projection welder. 3. The method as stated in claim 1, further comprising the steps of: verifying the effectiveness of said standardized weights when added to said drive shaft by rotating said drive shaft to determine whether an out-of-balance condition exists. 4. The method as stated in claim 3, further comprising the steps of: attaching additional weights to said drive shaft. 5. The method as stated in claim 4, further comprising the steps of: automatically delivering said standardized weights adjacent a projection welder. 6. A method for balancing a drive shaft about a rotational axis, comprising the steps of: providing a substantially cylindrical, unbalanced drive shaft for rotation about said rotational axis; rotating said drive shaft about said rotational axis to determine an out-of-balance condition of said drive shaft; providing a plurality of standardized weights each having a substantially equivalent mass; determining an optimal position for placing at least one of said standardized weights on an outside surface of said drive shaft to correct said out-of-balance condition; attaching said at least one standardized weight to said outside surface of said drive shaft at said optimal position; and verifying the effectiveness of standardized added weights when added to said drive shaft by rotating said drive shaft to determine whether an out-of-balance condition exists. 7. The method stated in claim 6, wherein said at least one standardized weight further comprises the steps of: welding said at least one standardized weight to said outside surface of said drive shaft. 8. The method stated in claim 7, further comprising the steps of: providing an overhead, single tip projection welder for welding said standardized weights to said outside surface of said drive shaft. 9. The method stated in claim 8, further comprising the steps of: automatically delivering said standardized weights adjacent to said projection welder. 10. The method stated in claim 6, further comprising the steps of: attaching additional weights to said drive shaft to correct said out-of-balance condition. 11. The method stated in claim 10, further comprising the steps of: spacing said additional weights circumferentially about said drive shaft. 12. The method stated in claim 11, further comprising the steps of: axially spacing said additional weights. 13. The method stated in claim 8, further comprising the steps of: moving said projection welder along a path of travel substantially perpendicular to said rotational axis wherein said projection welder moves between a non-welding position, wherein said projection welder is spaced from said drive shaft, and a welding position, wherein said projection welder is immediately adjacent said drive shaft. 14. A method for balancing a drive shaft about a rotational axis, comprising the steps of: providing a substantially cylindrical, unbalanced drive shaft for rotation about said rotational axis; rotating said drive shaft about said rotational axis to determine an out-of-balance condition of said drive shaft; providing a plurality of standardized weights each having a substantially equivalent mass; determining an optimal position for placing at least one of said standardized weights, on an outside surface of said drive shaft to correct said out-of-balance condition; welding said at least one standardized weight to said outside surface of said drive shaft at said optimal position; verifying the effectiveness of said at least one standardized weight when connected to said drive shaft by rotating said drive shaft to determine whether or not an out-of-balance condition exists; and welding additional weights to said outside surface of said drive shaft when said drive shaft remains in an out-of-balance condition after welding said at least one standardized weight to said outside surface of said drive shaft. 15. The method stated in claim 14, further comprising the steps of: providing an overhead, single tip projection welder for welding said at least one standardized weight to said outside surface of said drive shaft. 16. The method stated in claim 15, further comprising the steps of: providing a bowl feeder for automatically delivering said standardized weights adjacent to said projection welder. 17. The method stated in claim 15, further comprising the steps of: reciprocally moving said projection welder along a path of travel substantially perpendicular to said rotational axis wherein said projection welder moves between a non-welding position wherein said welder is radially spaced from said drive shaft, and a welding position, wherein said welder is immediately adjacent said outer surface of said drive shaft. 18. The method stated in claim 15, further comprising the steps of: moving said projection welder along a longitudinal axis of said drive shaft. 19. The method stated in claim 14, further comprising the steps of: spacing said additional weights circumferentially about said drive shaft. 20. The method stated in claim 14, further comprising the steps of: spacing said additional weights axially from said additional weights. 