A method for developing and using real time applications for a dynamic system having a sensing subsystem, actuation subsystem, a control subsystem, and an application subsystem utilizes stochastic compute time algorithms. After optimization functions, desired state and constraints are received and detector data has been provided from a sensor subsystem, a statistical optimization error description is generated. From this statistical optimization error description a strategy is developed, including the optimization errors, within the control subsystem. An execution module within the control subsystem then sends an execution strategy to various actuators within the actuation subsystem.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A dynamic system for developing and using real time applications utilizing stochastic compute time algorithms in the form of constrained optimization techniques under feedback control, the system comprising: a sensing subsystem having a plurality of detectors for receiving detector data; a control subsystem comprising: at least one system state module for inferring an actual system state from said detector data, wherein said actual system state is expressed in constraints, inferring a desired system state from said desired state and constraints, generating a statistical description of the dynamic system utilizing the difference between said actual system state and said desired system state, and providing feedback control comprising updating said statistical description with a next set of detector data; at least one state action module for developing a desired control strategy based on said statistical description, comprising utilizing constraint optimization techniques determining at least one control signal to issue for said desired control strategy, wherein developing a desired control strategy comprises selecting at least one member from the group consisting of determining a maximum bound of errors from a probability distribution of solution errors, using the entire statistical distribution of the error as a measurement noise or disturbance to be rejected, and using said statistical description in a Monte Carlo method; and at least one execution module for executing said control signals in a real time application; communication means for transmitting output information from said plurality of detectors to said control subsystem; at least one application module; an actuation subsystem having a plurality of actuators; and communication means for transmitting execution instructions from said execution module to said plurality of actuators. 2. The dynamic system for developing and using real time applications utilizing stochastic compute time algorithms according to claim 1, wherein said applications module comprises a control subsystem. 3. The dynamic system for developing and using real time applications utilizing stochastic compute time algorithms according to claim 1, wherein said applications module comprises a diagnosis subsystem. 4. The dynamic system for developing and using real time applications utilizing stochastic compute time algorithms according to claim 1, wherein said application module comprises a reconfiguration subsystem. 5. The dynamic system for developing and using real time applications utilizing stochastic compute time algorithms according to claim 1, wherein said statistical description of the dynamic system is generated off-line. 6. The dynamic system for developing and using real time applications utilizing stochastic compute time algorithms according to claim 1, wherein in said statistical description is generated during operation of the dynamic system. 7. The dynamic system for developing and using real time applications utilizing stochastic compute time algorithms according to claim 1, wherein generating said statistical description comprises optimizing a received optimization function, received constraints, and detector data over a fixed time budget and determining a probability distribution of optimization errors. 8. The dynamic system for developing and using real time applications utilizing stochastic compute time algorithms according to claim 1, wherein generating said statistical description comprises optimizing a received optimization function using received detector data over an unrestricted time budget and comparing to the optimization of said received optimization function using a restricted time budget to determine a probability distribution of errors. 9. A dynamic system for developing and using real time applications according to claim 1, wherein generating said statistical description comprises receiving an actual system stat and comparing said actual system state to the optimization of said received optimization function using a restricted time budget to determine a probability distribution of optimization errors. 10. A dynamic system for developing and using real time applications according to claim 1, wherein generating said statistical description comprises: optimizing said detector data over a fixed time budget; optimizing said detector data over an unrestricted time budget; and determining a probability distribution of errors. 11. A dynamic system for developing and using real time applications according to claim 10, wherein developing a desired control strategy by using the statistical information in a Monte Carlo method further comprises using sampling from the algorithm distribution to simulate the system behavior and evaluating the effect of a given control law and various changes to it to find an optimal control. 12. A dynamic system for developing and using real time applications according to claim 1, wherein developing a desired control strategy by determining a maximum bound of errors from a probability distribution of solution errors further comprises: using control error bounds as bounds for model uncertainty; using state error bounds as bounds for observation uncertainty; and determining stability and stability margins from error bounds. 13. The system for developing and using real time applications using stochastic compute time algorithms according to claim 1, wherein said application module includes a diagnostic subsystem. 14. The system for developing and using real time applications using stochastic compute time algorithms according to claim 1, wherein said application module includes a reconfiguration subsystem. 