An improved method of performing surgery on a joint in a patient's body, such as a knee, includes making an incision in a knee portion of one leg while a lower portion of the one leg is extending downward from an upper portion of the one leg and while a foot connected with the lower portion of the one leg is below a support surface on which the patient is disposed. The incision is relatively short, for example, between seven and thirteen centimeters. A patella may be offset from its normal position with an inner side of the patella facing inward during cutting of a bone with a cutting tool. During cutting of the bone, one or more guide members having opposite ends which are spaced apart by a distance less than the width of an implant may be utilized to guide movement of a cutting tool.
Claims Having described the invention, the following is claimed: 1. A cutting guide for making at least one cut on a bone comprising: a base having first and second faces and positionable at a fixed location with respect to the bone; at least one track on the base extending from the first face through the second face; a pin member sized to travel within the track; a locking element for setting the pin member at one of a number of positions within the track; and a cutting edge coupled to the pin member for guiding a cutting tool to make a cut on the bone, wherein movement of the pin member to a first position orients the cutting edge in a first orientation and movement of the pin member to a second position orients the cutting edge in a second orientation. 2. The cutting guide of claim 1 wherein the base is mounted on the bone. 3. The cutting guide of claim 1 wherein the bone is a femur and the first orientation is one extending substantially parallel to a longitudinal axis of the femur. 4. The cutting guide of claim 3 wherein the second orientation extends transverse to the first orientation. 5. The cutting guide of claim 1 wherein the at least one track includes a plurality of track members extending radially from a center hub. 6. The cutting guide of claim 5 wherein the bone is a femur and there are five track members, each track member for making one of an anterior cut, an anterior chamfer cut, a distal cut, a posterior chamfer cut, and a posterior cut. 7. The cutting guide of claim 1 wherein the cutting guide is mounted on a cutting jig. 8. The cutting guide of claim 7 wherein the cutting jig includes a shaft having a portion insertable in a medullary canal of the bone for positioning the base at the fixed location with respect to the bone. 9. The cutting guide of claim 8 wherein the cutting jig includes a length adjustment member slidable on the shaft to vary the location of the length adjustment member with respect to the shaft. 10. The cutting guide of claim 9 wherein the length adjustment member can rotate about the shaft axis. 11. The cutting guide of claim 10 wherein the cutting jig includes a first tightening member for fixing the location and rotational relationship between the shaft and the length adjustment member. 12. The cutting guide of claim 10 wherein the cutting jig includes an arm extending laterally from the length adjustment member. 13. The cutting guide of claim 12 wherein the length adjustment member includes a ring and the arm includes a head configured and dimensioned to be received in the ring. 14. The cutting guide of claim 13 wherein the head rotates within the ring to allow rotation of the arm. 15. The cutting guide of claim 14 further comprising a second tightening member for fixing the rotational relationship between the arm and the length adjustment member. 16. A cutting jig for preparing a bone to receive an implant comprising: a shaft having a portion insertable in a medullary canal of the bone for coupling the cutting jig to the bone; a length adjustment member slidable on the shaft to vary the length adjustment member location with respect to the shaft; an arm extending laterally from the length adjustment member, the arm rotatably connected with the length adjustment member; an extension extending from a lateral end of the arm; and a cutting guide located on an end of the extension, the cutting guide comprises a plurality of cutting edges, wherein there are five cutting edges, with first and second cutting edges substantially parallel to each other, a third cutting edge substantially perpendicular to the first and second cutting, a fourth cutting edge extending transversely from the third cutting edge and connecting the third cutting edge to the first cutting edge, and a fifth cutting edge extending transversely from the third cutting edge and connecting the third cutting edge to the second cutting edge. 