A method and apparatus for attaching an ornamental overlay to a vehicle wheel by injecting adhesive foam through an aperture of the wheel and into a cavity formed between the wheel and the overlay. A first nest engages the outboard side of the wheel/overlay assembly to seal the inner periphery of the overlay, the valve stem opening of the overlay, the lug bolt receiving holes of the wheel, the pilot aperture of the wheel, and/or the valve stem opening of the wheel. A secondary nest engages the inboard side of the wheel/overlay assembly to seal the wheel apertures and a plurality of turbine openings in the overlay. A nozzle disposed within the secondary nest is adapted to inject the adhesive foam into the cavity through either a gap between the periphery of a wheel aperture and the periphery of a corresponding turbine opening in the overlay, through a straight or angled hole within a spoke, or through a groove within a spoke.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for attaching an overlay to a wheel, said method comprising the steps of: providing a wheel having an inboard surface, an outboard surface and a plurality of apertures therethrough, said plurality of apertures each defining an aperture periphery; providing an overlay having an inboard surface, an outboard surface and a plurality of turbine openings therethrough, said plurality of turbine openings each defining a turbine opening periphery; attaching said wheel to said overlay thereby providing a wheel/overlay assembly having an inboard surface and an outboard surface, said wheel/overlay assembly defining a cavity between said inboard surface of said overlay and said outboard surface of said wheel; heating said wheel/overlay assembly to a predetermined temperature; providing a foam filling station having a first nest and an oppositely disposed second nest, said second nest having a nozzle disposed therein such that said nozzle radially aligns with one of said plurality of wheel apertures when said second nest engages said wheel/overlay assembly, said second nest further having a vent; engaging said first nest with said outboard surface of said wheel/overlay assembly; engaging said second nest with said inboard surface of said wheel/overlay assembly such that said nozzle is radially aligned with one of said plurality of wheel apertures; injecting a predetermined quantity of adhesive foam through said nozzle, through said one of said plurality of wheel apertures with which said nozzle is radially aligned, and into said cavity; releasing air trapped within said cavity through said vent in said second nest while injecting said predetermined quantity of adhesive foam; and disengaging said first and second nests and removing said wheel/overlay assembly from said foam filling station. 2. The method according to claim 1 further comprising the step of applying an adhesive sealant to one of said inboard surface of said overlay and said outboard surface of said wheel before said step of attaching said wheel to said overlay. 3. The method according to claim 1 further comprising the step of applying an adhesive sealant to both said inboard surface of said overlay and said outboard surface of said wheel before said step of attaching said wheel to said overlay. 4. The method according to claim 1 further comprising the step of applying a preformed gasket to one of said inboard surface of said overlay and said outboard surface of said wheel before said step of attaching said wheel to said overlay. 5. The method according to claim 2, wherein said step of applying an adhesive sealant comprises the step of applying a UV-cure type adhesive sealant. 6. The method according to claim 2, wherein said step of applying an adhesive sealant comprises the step of applying a dual component adhesive sealant. 7. The method according to claim 2 further comprising the step of applying a vacuum to said overlay before said step of applying an adhesive sealant. 8. The method according to claim 1, wherein said step of attaching said wheel to said overlay further comprises the steps of: providing an assembly fixture adapted to locate and align said overlay and said wheel; loading said overlay into said assembly fixture with said outboard surface of said overlay facing downward; and loading said wheel into said assembly fixture such that said outboard surface of said wheel engages said inboard surface of said overlay. 9. The method according to claim 1, wherein said step of attaching said wheel to said overlay further comprises the step of radially aligning said plurality of apertures with said plurality of turbine openings such that a gap is defined between each said aperture periphery and said turbine opening periphery aligned therewith. 10. The method according to claim 9, wherein said step of providing a foam filling station further comprises the step of providing a second nest having a nozzle disposed therein such that said nozzle radially aligns with one of said gaps when said second nest engages said wheel/overlay assembly. 11. The method according to claim 10, wherein said step of injecting a predetermined quantity of adhesive further comprises the step of injecting said predetermined quantity of adhesive foam through said one of said gaps and into said cavity. 12. The method according to claim 1, wherein said step of heating said wheel/overlay assembly further comprises heating said wheel/overlay assembly to a predetermined temperature within the range of 90.degree. to 190.degree. Fahrenheit (32.degree. to 88.degree. C.). 13. A method for permanently attaching an overlay to a wheel, said method comprising the steps of: providing a wheel having an inboard surface, an outboard surface and a plurality of apertures therethrough, said plurality of apertures each defining an aperture periphery; providing an overlay having an inboard surface, an outboard surface and a plurality of turbine openings therethrough, said plurality of turbine openings each defining a turbine opening periphery; attaching said wheel to said overlay such that said plurality of apertures radially align with said plurality of turbine openings, said alignment defining a gap between each said aperture periphery and the turbine opening periphery aligned therewith, said step of attaching said wheel to said overlay providing a wheel/overlay assembly having an inboard surface and an outboard surface, said wheel/overlay assembly defining a cavity between said inboard surface of said overlay and said outboard surface of said wheel; heating said wheel/overlay assembly to a predetermined temperature within the range of 90.degree. to 190.degree. Fahrenheit (32.degree. to 88.degree. C.); providing a foam filling station having a first nest and an oppositely disposed second nest, said second nest having a nozzle disposed therein such that said nozzle radially aligns with one of said gaps when said second nest engages said wheel/overlay assembly, said second nest further having a vent; engaging said first nest with said outboard surface of said wheel/overlay assembly; engaging said second nest with said inboard surface of said wheel/overlay assembly such that said nozzle is radially aligned with said one of said gaps; injecting a predetermined quantity of adhesive foam through said nozzle, through said one of said gaps and into said cavity; releasing air trapped within said cavity through said vent in said second nest while injecting said predetermined quantity of adhesive foam; and disengaging said first and second nests and removing said wheel/overlay assembly from said foam filling station. 14. The method according to claim 13 further comprising the step of applying an adhesive sealant to one of said inboard surface of said overlay and said outboard surface of said wheel before said step of attaching said wheel to said overlay. 15. The method according to claim 13 further comprising the step of applying an adhesive sealant to both said inboard surface of said overlay and said outboard surface of said wheel before said step of attaching said wheel to said overlay. 16. The method according to claim 13 further comprising the step of applying a preformed gasket to one of said inboard surface of said overlay and said outboard surface of said wheel before said step of attaching said wheel to said overlay. 17. The method according to claim 14, wherein said step of applying an adhesive sealant comprises the step of applying a UV-cure type adhesive sealant. 18. The method according to claim 14, wherein said step of applying an adhesive sealant comprises the step of applying a dual component adhesive sealant. 19. The method according to claim 14 further comprising the step of applying a vacuum to said overlay before said step of applying an adhesive sealant. 20. The method according to claim 13, wherein said step of attaching said wheel to said overlay further comprises the steps of: providing an assembly fixture adapted to locate and align said overlay and said wheel; loading said overlay into said assembly fixture with said outboard surface of said overlay facing downward; and loading said wheel into said assembly fixture such that said outboard surface of said wheel engages said inboard surface of said overlay. 21. A method for attaching an overlay to a wheel comprising the steps of: providing a wheel having an inboard surface, an outboard surface and a plurality of spokes with apertures therebetween, said apertures each defining an aperture periphery, at least one of said plurality of spokes having a hole therethrough; providing an overlay having an inboard surface, an outboard surface and a plurality of turbine openings therethrough, said plurality of turbine openings each defining a turbine opening periphery; attaching said wheel to said overlay such that said apertures radially align with said plurality of turbine openings, said step of attaching said wheel to said overlay providing a wheel/overlay assembly having an inboard surface and an outboard surface, said wheel/overlay assembly defining a cavity between said inboard surface of said overlay and said outboard surface of said wheel, said cavity having a predefined flow channel therein, said flow channel being adapted to direct the flow pattern of a fluid to ensure said cavity is uniformly filled thereby; heating said wheel/overlay assembly to a predetermined temperature within the range of 90.degree. to 190.degree. Fahrenheit (32.degree. to 88.degree. C.); providing a foam filling station having a first nest and an oppositely disposed second nest, said second nest having a nozzle disposed therein, said nozzle being radially aligned with said hole in said spoke when said second nest engages said wheel/overlay assembly, said second nest further having a vent; engaging said first nest with said outboard surface of said wheel/overlay assembly; engaging said second nest with said inboard surface of said wheel/overlay assembly such that said nozzle engages said hole in said spoke; injecting a predetermined quantity of adhesive foam through said nozzle, through said hole in said spoke, and along said predefined flow channel within said cavity; releasing air trapped within said cavity through said vent in said second nest while injecting said predetermined quantity of adhesive foam; and disengaging said first and second nests and removing said wheel/overlay assembly from said foam filling station. 22. The method according to claim 21, wherein said step of providing a wheel further comprises the step of providing said hole at a location adapted to introduce said adhesive foam directly into said flow channel. 23. The method according to claim 22, wherein said step of providing a wheel further comprises the step of forming said hole at a predetermined angle adapted to introduce said adhesive foam directly into said flow channel. 24. A method for attaching an overlay to a wheel comprising the steps of: providing a wheel having an inboard surface, an outboard surface and a plurality of spokes with apertures therebetween, said apertures each defining an aperture periphery, at least one of said plurality of spokes having a concave groove therein; providing an overlay having an inboard surface, an outboard surface and a plurality of turbine openings therethrough, said plurality of turbine openings each defining a turbine opening periphery; attaching said wheel to said overlay such that said apertures radially align with said plurality of turbine openings, said alignment defining a gap between each said aperture periphery and the turbine opening periphery aligned therewith, said step of attaching said wheel to said overlay providing a wheel/overlay assembly having an inboard surface and an outboard surface, said wheel/overlay assembly defining a cavity between said inboard surface of said overlay and said outboard surface of said wheel, said cavity having a predefined flow channel therein, said flow channel being adapted to direct the flow pattern of a fluid to ensure said cavity is uniformly filled thereby; heating said wheel/overlay assembly to a predetermined temperature within the range of 90.degree. to 190.degree. Fahrenheit (32.degree. to 88.degree. C.); providing a foam filling station having a first nest and an oppositely disposed second nest, said second nest having a nozzle disposed therein, said nozzle being radially aligned with said concave groove in said spoke when said second nest engages said wheel/overlay assembly, said second nest further having a vent; engaging said first nest with said outboard surface of said wheel/overlay assembly; engaging said second nest with said inboard surface of said wheel/overlay assembly such that said nozzle engages said concave groove in said spoke; injecting a predetermined quantity of adhesive foam through said nozzle, through said concave groove in said spoke, and along said predefined flow channel within said cavity; releasing air trapped within said cavity through said vent in said second nest while injecting said predetermined quantity of adhesive foam; and disengaging said first and second nests and removing said wheel/overlay assembly from said foam filling station. 25. The method according to claim 24, wherein said step of providing a wheel further comprises the step of providing said concave groove at a location adapted to facilitate the introduction of said adhesive foam directly into said flow channel. 26. The method according to claim 25, wherein said step of providing a wheel further comprises the step providing said concave groove within each of said plurality of spokes such that wheel balance is maintained. 