The present invention relates to a heating device having at least a first heating element 102 for heating at least one protective sleeve 105, 602 arranged around at least a first uncoated optical fiber section 501, 603. Said sleeve 105, 602 being arranged to shrink when exposed to heat to form a protecting member tightly enclosing said uncoated optical fiber section 501, 603. The at least first heating element is flexible, and arranged to take at least a first open state and a second substantially closed state. Said first open state is suitable for inserting and removing said protecting sleeve and fiber into and out off said heating device. Said heating element, in said second state, substantially surrounds said sleeve to form an enclosure around said sleeve, so that said heating element radiates heat around substantially the complete circumference of said sleeve.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A heating device having at least a first heating element for heating at least one protective sleeve arranged around at least a first uncoated optical fiber section, said sleeve being arranged to shrink when exposed to heat to form a protecting member tightly enclosing said uncoated optical fiber section, characterised in that said at least first heating element is flexible, and arranged to take at least a first open state and a second substantially closed state, that said first open state is suitable for inserting and removing said protecting sleeve and fiber into and out off said heating device, and that said heating element, in said second state, substantially surrounds said sleeve to form an enclosure around said sleeve, so that said heating element radiates heat around substantially the complete circumference of said sleeve. 2. The heating device according to claim 1, wherein said heating element is arranged to bear against at least a major portion of the circumference of said sleeve in said second position. 3. The heating device according to claim 1, wherein said heating element is arranged to reduce the radius of the enclosure surrounding said sleeve during the shrinking of the sleeve. 4. The heating device according to claim 2, wherein said heating element is arranged to bear against at least a major portion of the circumference of said sleeve during substantially the whole shrinking process. 5. The heating device according to claim 4, wherein said heating element is spring loaded so as to bear against said sleeve during said shrinking process. 6. The heating device according to claim 1, wherein said heating device comprises a cooling arrangement for quickly cooling said sleeve. 7. The heating device according to claim 1, wherein said at least first heating element comprises a flexible, thermostable foil having resistance threads over the surface, said resistance threads being arranged to heat-up the foil when exposed to a current. 8. The heating device according to claim 7, wherein said foil comprises holes for quickly releasing heat from said sleeve when the heating element has been turned off. 9. The heating device according to claim 1, wherein a pin and glue means is arranged inside said sleeve. 10. A method for applying a protective sleeve around an uncoated optical fiber section comprising the steps of: applying said optical fiber section, having a shrinkable protective sleeve arranged around it, into a flexible heating element taking a first open state, closing said heating element, by bending, so that said heating element substantially surrounds to form an enclosure around said protective sleeve, applying a controlled current to said heating element, so that said heating element takes a preferred temperature, and radiates heat around substantially the complete circumference of said sleeve to shrink said sleeve, turning said current off after a specific time period, opening said heating element, so that said fiber having a protective sleeve, is easily accessible. 11. The method according to claim 10, wherein said heating element is arranged to bear against at least a major portion of said circumference when said heating element is closed. 12. The method according to claim 10, further comprising the step of reducing the radius of the enclosure of said heating element during the shrinking of said sleeve. 13. The method according to claim 10, further comprising the step of cooling the sleeve after said current is turned off. 14. The method according to claim 10, wherein said heating element is a flexible thermostable foil having resistance threads over the surface, said resistance threads being arranged to heat-up the foil when exposed to current, and where said foil comprises holes. 