An electrophoresis instrument for analyzing multiple samples having a loading system. The loading system having a carriage moveable between an external station and a sampling station. The carriage having at least one tray upon the carriage. The sampling station being adapted for sampling the tray by an array of capillary tubes.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An electrophoresis instrument, the instrument comprising: an instrument body; a carriage attached to the instrument body moveable between an external station and an internal sampling station; at least one tray upon the carriage; an array of capillary tubes attached to the instrument body sampling the tray at the sampling station; a photodetector attached to the instrument body for detecting light passing through the capillary tubes; and a light source attached to the instrument body positioned with respect to the photodetector. 2. The system of claim 1 further comprising a tray elevator attached to the instrument body moveable between a carriage station and the sampling station. 3. The system of claim 2 wherein the carriage is further capable of lateral movement between a plurality of internal stations. 4. The system of claim 3 wherein the carriage is further capable of longitudinal movement between the plurality of internal stations. 5. The system of claim 1 wherein the tray includes a shallow reservoir body connected to a spacer body. 6. The system of claim 1 wherein the tray is a deep reservoir body. 7. The system of claim 1 wherein the carriage is longitudinally moveable between the external station and the sampling station. 8. The system of claim 1 wherein the external station is accessible by a robotic positioning tool. 9. A loading system for an electrophoresis instrument, the loading system comprising: a carriage moveable between an external station and an internal sampling station, the carriage moveable along a passageway; a closeable cover attached to the electrophoresis instrument that closes the passageway when the carriage is at the internal sampling station to protect the electrophoresis instrument from external disruptions; at least one tray upon the carriage; and the sampling station adapted for sampling the tray by an array of capillary tubes. 10. The system of claim 9 further comprising a tray elevator moveable between a carriage station and the sampling station. 11. The system of claim 9 wherein the carriage is further capable of lateral movement between a plurality of internal stations. 12. The system of claim 9 wherein the carriage is further capable of longitudinal movement between the plurality of internal stations. 13. The system of claim 9 wherein the carriage is longitudinally moveable between the external station and the sampling station. 14. The system of claim 9 wherein the external station is accessible by a robotic positioning tool. 15. A method of using an electrophoresis instrument with a loading system, the method comprising: loading at least one tray upon a carriage at an external station; moving the carriage from the external station to an internal sampling station; sampling the tray with an array of capillary tubes; emitting light from a light source directed through the array of capillary tubes; and detecting light passing through the capillary tubes with a photodetector. 16. The method of claim 15 further comprising the step of elevating the tray with a tray elevator from a carriage station to a sampling station. 17. The method of claim 16 further comprising the step of laterally moving the carriage between a plurality of internal stations. 18. The method of claim 17 further comprising the step of longitudinally moving the carriage between the plurality of internal stations. 19. The method of claim 15 further comprising the step of longitudinally moving the carriage between the external station and the sampling station. 20. The method of claim 15 wherein the step of loading at least one tray upon a carriage at an external station is performed by a robot. 