A robotic bending apparatus for bending archwires and other types of elongate, bendable medical devices into a desired configuration includes a first gripping tool and a moveable gripping tool. The first gripping tool can be either fixed with respect to a base or table for the robot or positioned at the end of robot am. The moveable gripping tool is mounted to the end of a moveable robot arm having a proximal portion also mounted to the base. The robot preferably comprises a six axis bending robot, in which the distal end of the moveable arm can move relative to the fixed gripping tool about three translational axes and three rotational axes. The gripping tools preferably incorporate force sensors which are used to determine overbends needed to get the desired final shape of the archwire. The robot may also include a resistive heating system in which current flows through the wire while the wire is held in a bent condition to heat the wire and thereby retain the bent shape of the wire. A magazine for holding a plurality of straight archwires needing to be bent and a conveyor system for receiving the wires after the bending process is complete are also described. The robot bending system is able to form archwires with any required second and third order bends quickly and with high precision. As such, it is highly suitable for use in a precision appliance-manufacturing center manufacturing a large number of archwires (or other medical devices or appliances) for a distributed base of clinics.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A machine for bending an orthodontic appliance into a desired configuration, comprising: a first gripper tool having a first gripping structure for releasably holding said orthodontic appliance; an elongate moveable arm having a proximal portion mounted a distance away from said first gripper tool and a free distal end portion, said moveable arm constructed such that said free distal portion of said moveable arm is capable of independent movement relative to said first gripper tool about two independently controllable axes; a second gripping tool mounted to said distal portion of said moveable arm having a second gripping structure for releasably holding said orthodontic appliance; and a control system operative of said moveable arm and said first and second gripping tools so as to cause said first and second gripping tools to grip said orthodontic appliance while said gripping tools are separated from each other and to cause said second gripping tool to move relative to said first gripping tool about at least one of said two independently controllable axes to thereby bend said orthodontic appliance a desired amount. 2. A machine for shaping an orthodontic archwire into a desired configuration, comprising: a first gripper tool having a first gripping structure for releasably holding an orthodontic archwire and gripping said archwire; a second gripper tool having a second gripping structure for gripping said orthodontic archwire, wherein said second gripper tool is mounted a distance away from said first gripper tool and is capable of independent movement relative to said first gripper tool about at least two independently controllable axes; and a control system operative of said first and second gripper tools including movement of said second gripper tool relative to said first gripper tool for shaping said orthodontic archwire in accordance with a plurality of steps comprising: a) gripping said orthodontic archwire with said first gripper tool such that a portion of said archwire projects beyond said first gripper tool; b) gripping said portion of said archwire extending beyond said first gripper tool with said second gripper tool; c) releasing said gripping of said orthodontic archwire by said first gripper tool; d) moving said second gripper tool while continuing gripping said orthodontic archwire so as to draw said orthodontic archwire through said first gripper tool a predetermined amount; e) gripping said orthodontic archwire again with said first gripper tool after the step d) of moving is performed; and f) moving said second gripper tool while gripping said orthodontic archwire relative to said first gripper tool about said at least two independently controllable axes so as to place a bend in the portion of said orthodontic archwire between said first gripper tool and said second gripper tool producing a desired configuration. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein said second gripper tool is capable of moving relative to said first gripper tool about three translation axes and three rotation axes. 4. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein said apparatus further comprises a force sensor system for detecting forces generated by said orthodontic archwire after said orthodontic archwire has been bent by said first and second gripper tools. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein said force system comprises a first force sensor coupled to said first gripper tool and a second force sensor coupled to said second gripper tool. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein said first and second force sensors have unequal levels of sensitivity. 7. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein said apparatus further comprises a heating system for applying heat to said orthodontic archwire while said orthodontic archwire is being bent by said first and second gripper tools. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein said heating system comprises a resistive heating system supplying an electric current to said orthodontic archwire either during a bending movement of said second gripper tool, or while said orthodontic archwire is held in a bent condition. 9. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein said first and second gripper tools are heated above ambient temperature while said orthodontic archwire is being bent. 10. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein said apparatus further comprises an optical sensor system detecting the shape of said orthodontic archwire after a bend in said orthodontic archwire has been made. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein one of said first and second gripper tools opens after said orthodontic archwire has been bent by said first and second gripper tools thereby allowing said orthodontic archwire to assume a shape in a released state, and wherein said optical sensor system detects said released shape of said orthodontic archwire, and wherein said control system moves the opened gripper tool to grip again the orthodontic archwire in its released shape. 12. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein said apparatus further comprises a force sensor system for detecting forces generated by said orthodontic archwire after said orthodontic archwire has been bent by said first and second gripper tools, wherein said second gripper tool is operated to move said orthodontic archwire to a zero-force position in which the forces detected by said force system are below a predetermined threshold after said bend has been placed in said orthodontic archwire, and wherein said optical sensor system detects said shape of said orthodontic archwire in said zero-force position. 13. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein said optical sensor system comprises a camera. 14. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein said orthodontic archwire comprises a shape memory alloy and wherein said apparatus further comprises a resistive heating system for heating said orthodontic archwire during bending or while said orthodontic archwire is placed in a bent condition so as to have said orthodontic archwire retain said bend. 15. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein said apparatus further comprises a supply of straight orthodontic archwires, and wherein said apparatus automatically accesses said supply by said second gripper tool gripping a straight orthodontic archwire from said supply, said second gripper tool feeding said straight orthodontic archwire into said first gripping structure of said first gripper tool. 16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein said first gripping structure of said first gripper tool comprises two opposing gripping fingers moveable between open and closed positions, and wherein in said opened position a gap is formed between said two gripping fingers for insertion of said straight orthodontic archwire into said first gripper tool. 17. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein said gripping fingers comprise a plurality of gripping contours so as to permit said gripping fingers to grip orthodontic archwires of different cross-sectional shapes without having to change said first gripper tool. 18. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein said gripping fingers apply a varying gripping force to said orthodontic archwire, whereby said orthodontic archwire can slide through said gripper if the forces acting on said gripper tool by said orthodontic archwire exceed a predetermined limit. 19. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein said supply comprises a magazine storing a plurality of said straight orthodontic archwires separated from each other. 20. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein said supply comprises a conveyor system carrying said orthodontic archwires separated from each other. 21. The apparatus of claim 2, further comprising a tool for joining a feature to said orthodontic archwire. 22. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein said orthodontic archwire comprises a polymeric archwire. 23. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein said orthodontic archwire comprises a non-metallic material and wherein the apparatus further comprises a means for influencing the material property so as to ease the ability of the material to assume a shape imparted by said first and second gripper tools. 24. The apparatus of claim 2, further comprising a temperature measurement system for measuring the temperature of at least one of said gripper tools or said archwire. 25. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein said plurality of steps are performed in accordance with the information provided in an input file derived from an orthodontic treatment planning workstation. 26. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein said plurality of steps are performed in accordance with the information either provided in an input file prepared manually or entered manually. 27. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein said second gripper tool is mounted to a free distal portion of an elongate moveable arm, said movable arm having a proximal portion mounted a distance away from said first gripper tool, and wherein said control system is further operative of said movable arm. 28. A method for shaping an orthodontic archwire into a desired configuration using an automated machine, comprising: providing a first gripper tool having a first gripping structure for releasably holding an orthodontic archwire and gripping said archwire; providing a second gripper tool having a second gripping structure for gripping said orthodontic archwire, wherein said second gripper tool is mounted a distance away from said first gripper tool and is capable of independent movement relative to said first gripper tool about at least two independently controllable axes; and using a control system operative of said first and second gripper tools including movement of said second gripper tool relative to said first gripper tool for shaping said orthodontic archwire in accordance with a plurality of steps comprising: a) gripping said orthodontic archwire with said first gripper tool such that a portion of said archwire projects beyond said first gripper tool; b) gripping said portion of said archwire extending beyond said first gripper tool with said second gripper tool; c) releasing said gripping of said orthodontic archwire by said first gripper tool; d) moving said second gripper tool while continuing gripping said orthodontic archwire so as to draw said orthodontic archwire through said first gripper tool a predetermined amount; e) gripping said orthodontic archwire again with said first gripper tool after the step d) of moving is performed; and f) moving said second gripper tool while gripping said orthodontic archwire relative to said first gripper tool about said at least two independently controllable axes so as to place a bend in the portion of said orthodontic archwire between said first gripper tool and said second gripper tool producing a desired configuration. 29. The method of claim 28, wherein said second gripper tool is capable of moving relative to said first gripper tool about three translation axes and three rotation axes. 30. The method of claim 28, further comprising the step of using a force sensor system for detecting forces generated by said orthodontic archwire after said orthodontic archwire has been bent by said first and second gripper tools. 31. The method of claim 30, wherein said force system comprises a first force sensor coupled to said first gripper tool and a second force sensor coupled to said second gripper tool. 32. The method of claim 31, wherein said first and second force sensors have unequal levels of sensitivity. 33. The method of claim 28, further comprising the step of using a heating system for applying heat to said orthodontic archwire while said orthodontic archwire is being bent by said first and second gripper tools. 34. The method of claim 33, wherein said heating system comprises a resistive heating system supplying an electric current to said orthodontic archwire either during a bending movement of said second gripper tool, or while said orthodontic archwire is held in a bent condition. 35. The method of claim 33, wherein said first and second gripper tools are heated above ambient temperature while said orthodontic archwire is being bent. 36. The method of claim 28, further comprising the step of using an optical sensor system detecting the shape of said orthodontic archwire after a bend in said orthodontic archwire has been made. 37. The method of claim 36, wherein one of said first and second gripper tools opens after said orthodontic archwire has been bent by said first and second gripper tools thereby allowing said orthodontic archwire to assume a shape in a released state, and wherein said optical sensor system detects said released shape of said orthodontic archwire, and wherein said control system moves the opened gripper tool to grip again the orthodontic archwire in its released shape. 38. The method of claim 36, further comprising the step of using a force sensor system for detecting forces generated by said orthodontic archwire after said orthodontic archwire has been bent by said first and second gripper tools, wherein said second gripper tool is operated to move said orthodontic archwire to a zero-force position in which the forces detected by said force system are below a predetermined threshold after said bend has been placed in said orthodontic archwire, and wherein said optical sensor system detects said shape of said orthodontic archwire in said zero-force position. 39. The method of claim 36, wherein said optical sensor system comprises a camera. 40. The method of claim 28, wherein said orthodontic archwire comprises a shape memory alloy and wherein said method further comprises a resistive heating system for heating said orthodontic archwire during bending or while said orthodontic archwire is placed in a bent condition so as to have said orthodontic archwire retain said bend. 41. The method of claim 28, wherein said orthodontic archwire comprises a polymeric archwire. 42. The method of claim 28, wherein said orthodontic archwire comprises a non-metallic material and wherein the method further comprises a means for influencing the material property so as to ease the ability of the material to assume a shape imparted by said first and second gripper tools. 43. The method of claim 28, further comprising the step of using a temperature measurement system for measuring the temperature of at least one of said gripper tools or said archwire. 44. The method of claim 28, wherein said plurality of steps are performed in accordance with the information provided in an input file derived from an orthodontic treatment planning workstation. 45. The method of claim 28, wherein said plurality of steps are performed in accordance with the information either provided in an input file prepared manually or entered manually. 46. The method of claim 28, further comprising the following steps: g) repeating steps c), d), and e); h) releasing said orthodontic archwire from said second gripper tool; i) moving said second gripper tool to a predetermined location adjacent to said first gripper tool and gripping said orthodontic archwire at said location; j) repeating step f) so as to form a second bend in said orthodontic archwire. 47. The method of claim 28, wherein said step f) comprises a simultaneous combination of a linear movement and a rotational movement of said second gripping tool. 48. A machine for shaping an orthodontic archwire into a desired configuration, comprising: a first gripper tool and a second gripper tool, each of said gripper tools having a gripping structure for gripping an orthodontic archwire; wherein said second gripper tool is mounted a distance away from said first gripper tool; and wherein each of said gripper tools is capable of independent movement relative to each other about at least two independently controllable axes; and a control system operative of said first and second gripper tools including their movement relative to each other for shaping said orthodontic archwire in accordance with a plurality of steps comprising: a) gripping said orthodontic archwire at a desired location with said first gripper tool; b) gripping said orthodontic archwire at a different desired location with said second gripper tool; and c) moving said second gripper tool while gripping said orthodontic archwire relative to said first gripper tool about said at least two independently controllable axes so as to place a bend in the portion of said orthodontic archwire between said first gripper tool and said second gripper tool producing a desired configuration. 49. The apparatus of claim 48, wherein each of said first and second gripper tools is capable of moving relative to each other about three translation axes and three rotation axes. 50. The apparatus of claim 48, wherein said apparatus further comprises a force sensor system for detecting forces generated by said orthodontic archwire after said orthodontic archwire has been bent by said first and second gripper tools. 51. The apparatus of claim 50, wherein said force system comprises a first force sensor coupled to said first gripper tool and a second force sensor coupled to said second gripper tool. 52. The apparatus of claim 51, wherein said first and second force sensors have unequal levels of sensitivity. 53. The apparatus of claim 48, wherein said apparatus further comprises a heating system for applying heat to said orthodontic archwire while said orthodontic archwire is being bent by said first and second gripper tools. 54. The apparatus of claim 53, wherein said heating system comprises a resistive heating system supplying an electric current to said orthodontic archwire either during a bending movement of said second gripper tool, or while said orthodontic archwire is held in a bent condition. 55. The apparatus of claim 53, wherein said first and second gripper tools are heated above ambient temperature while said orthodontic archwire is being bent. 56. The apparatus of claim 48, wherein said apparatus further comprises an optical sensor system detecting the shape of said orthodontic archwire after a bend in said orthodontic archwire has been made. 57. The apparatus of claim 56, wherein one of said first and second gripper tools opens after said orthodontic archwire has been bent by said first and second gripper tools thereby allowing said orthodontic archwire to assume a shape in a released state, and wherein said optical sensor system detects said released shape of said orthodontic archwire, and wherein said control system moves the opened gripper tool to grip again the orthodontic archwire in its released shape. 58. The apparatus of claim 56, wherein said apparatus further comprises a force sensor system for detecting forces generated by said orthodontic archwire after said orthodontic archwire has been bent by said first and second gripper tools, wherein said second gripper tool is operated to move said orthodontic archwire to a zero-force position in which the forces detected by said force system are below a predetermined threshold after said bend has been placed in said orthodontic archwire, and wherein said optical sensor system detects said shape of said orthodontic archwire in said zero-force position. 59. The apparatus of claim 56, wherein said optical sensor system comprises a camera. 60. The apparatus of claim 48, wherein said orthodontic archwire comprises a shape memory alloy and wherein said apparatus further comprises a resistive heating system for heating said orthodontic archwire during bending or while said orthodontic archwire is placed in a bent condition so as to have said orthodontic archwire retain said bend. 61. The apparatus of claim 48, further comprising a tool for joining a feature to said orthodontic archwire. 62. The apparatus of claim 48, wherein said orthodontic archwire comprises a polymeric archwire. 63. The apparatus of claim 48, wherein said orthodontic archwire comprises a non-metallic material and wherein the apparatus further comprises a means for influencing the material property so as to ease the ability of the material to assume a shape imparted by said first and second gripper tools. 64. The apparatus of claim 28, further comprising a temperature measurement system for measuring the temperature of at least one of said gripper tools or said archwire. 65. The apparatus of claim 28, wherein said plurality of steps are performed in accordance with the information provided in an input file derived from an orthodontic treatment planning workstation. 66. The apparatus of claim 28, wherein said plurality of steps are performed in accordance with the information either provided in an input file prepared manually or entered manually. 67. The apparatus of claim 28, wherein at least one of said first and second gripper tools is mounted to an elongate moveable arm, and wherein said control system is further operative of said movable arm. 68. A method for shaping an orthodontic archwire into a desired configuration using an automated machine, comprising: providing a first gripper tool and a second gripper tool, each of said gripper tools having a gripping structure for gripping an orthodontic archwire; wherein said second gripper tool is mounted a distance away from said first gripper tool; and wherein each of said gripper tools is capable of independent movement relative to each other about at least two independently controllable axes; and using a control system operative of said first and second gripper tools including their movement relative to each other for shaping said orthodontic archwire in accordance with a plurality of steps comprising: a) gripping said orthodontic archwire at a desired location with said first gripper tool; b) gripping said orthodontic archwire at a different desired location with said second gripper tool; and c) moving said second gripper tool while gripping said orthodontic archwire relative to said first gripper tool about said at least two independently controllable axes so as to place a bend in the portion of said orthodontic archwire between said first gripper tool and said second gripper tool producing a desired configuration. 69. The method of claim 68, wherein each of said first and second gripper tools is capable of moving relative to each other about three translation axes and three rotation axes. 70. The method of claim 68, further comprising the step of using a force sensor system for detecting forces generated by said orthodontic archwire after said orthodontic archwire has been bent by said first and second gripper tools. 71. The method of claim 70, wherein said force system comprises a first force sensor coupled to said first gripper tool and a second force sensor coupled to said second gripper tool. 72. The method of claim 71, wherein said first and second force sensors have unequal levels of sensitivity. 73. The method of claim 68, further comprising the step of using a heating system for applying heat to said orthodontic archwire while said orthodontic archwire is being bent by said first and second gripper tools. 74. The method of claim 73, wherein said heating system comprises a resistive heating system supplying an electric current to said orthodontic archwire either during a bending movement of said second gripper tool, or while said orthodontic archwire is held in a bent condition. 75. The method of claim 73, wherein said first and second gripper tools are heated above ambient temperature while said orthodontic archwire is being bent. 76. The method of claim 68, further comprising the step of using an optical sensor system detecting the shape of said orthodontic archwire after a bend in said orthodontic archwire has been made. 77. The method of claim 76, wherein one of said first and second gripper tools opens after said orthodontic archwire has been bent by said first and second gripper tools thereby allowing said orthodontic archwire to assume a shape in a released state, and wherein said optical sensor system detects said released shape of said orthodontic archwire, and wherein said control system moves the opened gripper tool to grip again the orthodontic archwire in its released shape. 78. The method of claim 76, further comprising the step of using a force sensor system for detecting forces generated by said orthodontic archwire after said orthodontic archwire has been bent by said first and second gripper tools, wherein said second gripper tool is operated to move said orthodontic archwire to a zero-force position in which the forces detected by said force system are below a predetermined threshold after said bend has been placed in said orthodontic archwire, and wherein said optical sensor system detects said shape of said orthodontic archwire in said zero-force position. 79. The method of claim 76, wherein said optical sensor system comprises a camera. 80. The method of claim 68, wherein said orthodontic archwire comprises a shape memory alloy and wherein said method further comprises a resistive heating system for heating said orthodontic archwire during bending or while said orthodontic archwire is placed in a bent condition so as to have said orthodontic archwire retain said bend. 81. The method of claim 68, wherein said orthodontic archwire comprises a polymeric archwire. 82. The method of claim 68, wherein said orthodontic archwire comprises a non-metallic material and wherein the method further comprises a means for influencing the material property so as to ease the ability of the material to assume a shape imparted by said first and second gripper tools. 83. The method of claim 68, further comprising the step of using a temperature measurement system for measuring the temperature of at least one of said gripper tools or said archwire. 84. The method of claim 68, wherein said plurality of steps are performed in accordance with the information provided in an input file derived from an orthodontic treatment planning workstation. 85. The method of claim 68, wherein said plurality of steps are performed in accordance with the information either provided in an input file prepared manually or entered manually. 86. The method of claim 68, further comprising the following steps: d) releasing said orthodontic archwire from said first gripper tool while continuing gripping said orthodontic archwire with said second gripper tool; e) moving said first gripper tool to yet another desired location; f) re-gripping said orthodontic archwire at said location in step e) with said first gripper tool; and g) moving said first gripper tool while continuing gripping said orthodontic archwire relative to said second gripper tool about said at least two independently controllable axes so as to place a bend in the portion of said orthodontic archwire between said first gripper tool and said second gripper tool producing a desired configuration comprising a second bend in said orthodontic archwire. 87. The method of claim 68, wherein said step f) comprises a simultaneous combination of a linear movement and a rotational movement of said second gripping tool. 