A method, system, and apparatus for a die frame, and for transferring integrated circuit dies therewith, is described. A ring shaped groove is formed in a first surface of a wafer around a plurality of dies. The wafer is scribed to form a grid of grooves in the first surface of the wafer that separates the plurality of dies. A solidifiable material is applied to the first surface of the wafer to substantially fill the ring shaped groove and the grooves of the grid. The solidifiable material is caused to harden into a ring shaped hardened material in the ring shaped groove and into a grid shaped hardened material in the grooves of the grid. The wafer is thinned so that the grid shaped hardened material removably holds the plurality of dies.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for forming a die frame, comprising: (a) forming a ring shaped groove in a first surface of a wafer around a plurality of dies formed in the first surface of the wafer; (b) scribing the first surface of the wafer to form a grid of grooves in the first surface of the wafer that separates the plurality of dies, wherein the grid intersects with the ring shaped groove; (c) applying a solidifiable material to the first surface of the wafer to substantially fill the ring shaped groove and the grooves of the grid; (d) causing the solidifiable material to harden into a ring shaped hardened material in the ring shaped groove and into a grid shaped hardened material in the grooves of the grid; and (e) thinning the wafer so that the grid shaped hardened material removably holds the plurality of dies such that the grid shaped hardened material remains substantially intact as the plurality of dies are removed. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: (f) before step (b), applying a layer of a protective material on the first surface of the wafer. 3. The method of claim 2, further comprising: (g) after step (d), removing the protective material from the first surface of the wafer to remove at least some excess solidifiable material. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein step (g) comprises: dissolving the protective material in a solvent. 5. The method of claim 2, wherein step (f) comprises: spin coating the layer of protective material on the first surface of the wafer. 6. The method of claim 2, wherein the protective material is a photo resist material, wherein step (f) comprises: applying the photo-resist material on the first surface of the wafer. 7. The method of claim 2, wherein step (f) comprises: scribing the first surface of the wafer to a desired depth. 8. The method of claim 2, wherein the solidifiable material is a polymer, wherein step (c) comprises: applying the polymer to the first surface of the wafer to substantially fill the ring shaped groove and the grooves of the grid. 9. The method of claim 2, wherein the solidifiable material is a curable material, wherein step (d) comprises: curing the curable material. 10. A die frame formed according to the method of claim 1. 11. A method for assembling a plurality of radio frequency identification (RFID) tags, comprising: (a) positioning a die frame closely adjacent to a surface of a substrate tape that includes a plurality of substrates such that a die of a plurality of dies removably held in the die frame is closely adjacent to a corresponding substrate of the plurality of substrates of the substrate tape, wherein the die frame comprises a grid shaped hardened material that removably holds the plurality of dies; and (b) transferring the die onto the closely adjacent corresponding substrate from the die frame in a manner such that the die frame remains substantially intact. 12. The method of claim 11, further comprising: (c) incrementing the substrate tape; (d) positioning the die frame closely adjacent to the surface of the substrate tape such that another die of a plurality of dies removably held in the die frame is closely adjacent to a next corresponding substrate of the plurality of substrates of the substrate tape; and (e) transferring the another die onto the closely adjacent next corresponding substrate from the die frame. 13. The method of claim 12, further comprising: (f) repeating steps (c), (d), and (e). 14. The method of claim 12, further comprising: (f) repeating steps (c), (d), and (e) until all dies of the plurality of dies removably held in the die frame have been transferred to a corresponding substrate of the substrate tape. 15. The method of claim 11, wherein step (b) comprises: punching the die onto the closely adjacent corresponding substrate from the die frame. 16. The method of claim 11, wherein step (a) comprises: positioning the die frame, wherein the die frame includes a grid having a plurality of rectangular openings, wherein each opening of the plurality of rectangular openings removably holds a die. 17. The method of claim 11, wherein step (b) comprises: applying gas pressure to move the die onto the closely adjacent corresponding substrate from the die frame. 18. A method for transferring a plurality of dies to a destination surface, comprising: (a) forming a stack of die frames, each die frame including a grid having a plurality of rectangular openings, wherein each opening of the plurality of rectangular openings removably holds a die, wherein corresponding rectangular openings of the die frames in the stack are aligned in a column to form a plurality of columns of openings; and (b) transferring a die removably held in an opening from at least one column of the plurality of columns to the destination surface. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein step (b) comprises: (1) applying a punching member to a first column of openings of the plurality of columns of openings of the stack of die frames; and (2) punching with the punching member so that a die removably held in a rectangular opening of the first column of openings is transferred to the destination surface. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein step (b) further comprises: (3) repeating step (2) until the first column of openings is depleted of dies. 21. The method of claim 18, wherein step (b) comprises: (1) applying each punching member of a plurality of punching members to a respective column of openings of the plurality of columns of openings of the stack of die frames; and (2) punching with each punching member of the plurality of punching members so that a die removably held in a rectangular opening of the respective column of openings is transferred to the destination surface. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein step (b) further comprises: (3) repeating step (2) until the stack is substantially depleted of dies. 23. The method of claim 18, wherein step (b) comprises: (1) applying a hollow barrel to a first column of openings of the plurality of columns of openings of the stack of die frames; (2) causing dies removably held in the openings of the first column of openings to move into the hollow barrel; (3) repeating steps (1) and (2) until the hollow barrel contains a stack of dies; and (4) depositing dies from the hollow barrel onto the destination surface until the stack of dies contained by the hollow barrel is depleted. 24. The method of claim 18, wherein step (b) comprises: (1) applying in parallel each hollow barrel of a plurality of hollow barrels to a respective column of openings of the plurality of columns of openings of the stack of die frames; (2) causing dies removably held in the openings of the respective column of openings to move into each hollow barrel in parallel; (3) repeating steps (1) and (2) until each hollow barrel contains a stack of dies of a predetermined number; and (4) depositing dies from each hollow barrel onto the destination surface until the stack of dies contained by each hollow barrel is substantially depleted. 25. The method of claim 18, wherein the destination surface is an intermediate surface, wherein step (b) comprises: transferring a die removably held in an opening from at least one column of the plurality of columns to the intermediate surface. 26. The method of claim 18, wherein the destination surface is a substrate, wherein step (b) comprises: transferring a die removably held in an opening from at least one column of the plurality of columns to the substrate. 27. The method of claim 26, wherein the substrate includes a plurality of antenna substrates, wherein step (b) comprises: transferring a die removably held in an opening from at least one column of the plurality of columns onto a corresponding antenna substrate of the plurality of antenna substrates. 28. The method of claim 18, wherein each die has at least one contact pad located on a first surface of the die, wherein step (b) comprises: transferring a die removably held in an opening from at least one column of the plurality of columns to the destination surface so that the at least one contact pad is in contact with the destination surface. 29. The method of claim 18, wherein each die has at least one contact pad located on a first surface of the die, wherein step (b) comprises: transferring a die removably held in an opening from at least one column of the plurality of columns to the destination surface so that the at least one contact pad faces away from the destination surface. 30. The method of claim 18, further comprising: (c) prior to step (b), inserting the stack of die frames in a die-deposition apparatus. 31. A die frame apparatus, comprising: a grid having a plurality of rectangular openings therethrough; and a plurality of dies, wherein each opening of the plurality of rectangular openings removably holds a corresponding die of said plurality of dies, whereby the grid remains substantially intact as the plurality of dies are removed from the grid. 32. The apparatus of claim 31, further comprising: a ring attached around said grid. 33. The apparatus of claim 32, further comprising: a holding mechanism that holds said ring and allows for positioning of said grid during a transfer of said plurality of dies from said plurality of rectangular openings. 34. The apparatus of claim 33, wherein said grid is substantially planar, and wherein said grid has a thickness substantially equal to a thickness of a die of said plurality of dies. 35. The apparatus of claim 31, wherein said grid comprises a polymer. 36. The apparatus of claim 31, wherein said grid comprises at least one of an epoxy, a resin, a urethane, and a glass. 37. The apparatus of claim 31, wherein said grid is formed around said plurality of dies while said plurality of dies reside in a wafer. 38. A method for forming a die frame, comprising: (a) scribing a wafer attached to an adhesive surface such that a resulting plurality of dies are separated by a grid of grooves that extend through the wafer to the adhesive surface; (b) applying a solidifiable material to the scribed wafer to substantially fill the grooves of the grid; (c) causing the solidifiable material to harden into a grid shaped hardened material in the grooves of the grid; and (d) removing the adhesive surface so that the grid shaped hardened material removably holds the plurality of dies such that the arid shaved hardened material remains substantially intact as the plurality of dies are removed from the grid shaped hardened material. 39. The method of claim 38, further comprising: (e) prior to step (b), holding the adhesive surface with a support structure. 40. The method of claim 39, wherein step (b) comprises: substantially filling a space between an outer edge of the scribed wafer and an inner edge of the support structure with the solidifiable material. 41. The method of claim 40, wherein step (c) comprises: causing the solidifiable material in the space to harden into a ring shaped hardened material that supports the grid shaped hardened material within. 42. A method for forming a die frame, comprising: (a) applying a layer of a protective material on a first surface of a wafer; (b) forming a ring shaped groove in the first surface of the wafer around a plurality of dies formed in the first surface of the wafer; (c) scribing the first surface of the wafer to form a grid of grooves in the first surface of the wafer that separates the plurality of dies, wherein the grid intersects with the ring shaped groove; (d) applying a solidifiable material to the first surface of the wafer to substantially fill the ring shaped groove and the grooves of the grid; (e) causing the solidifiable material to harden into a ring shaped hardened material in the ring shaped groove and into a grid shaped hardened material in the grooves of the grid; (f) removing the protective material from the first surface of the wafer to remove at least some excess solidifiable material; and (g) thinning the wafer so that the grid shaped hardened material removably holds the plurality of dies. 43. The method of claim 42, wherein step (f) comprises: dissolving the protective material in a solvent. 