A method and system is provided for detecting, commanding and controlling diverse home devices currently connected to a home network. An interface is provided for accessing the home devices that are currently connected to a home network. According to the method, a device link file is generated, wherein the device link file identifies home devices that are currently connected to the home network. A device link page is created, wherein the device link page contains a device button that is associated with each home device that is identified in the device link file. A hyper-text link is associated with each device button, wherein the hyper-text link provides a link to an HTML page that is contained on the home device that is associated with the device button, and the device link page is displayed on a browser based home device.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for providing an interface for accessing devices that are currently connected to a home network, the method comprising the steps of: (a) detecting devices that are currently connected to the home network, said devices having at least one controllable function; (b) creating a top menu that lists the detected devices for individually selecting each of said devices to activate said controllable function, by: (i) creating a device link page from the home network, wherein the device link page includes device controls that are associated with the devices that are detected in step (a), and (ii) associating a hypertext link with each device control, wherein the hypertext link provides a link to graphical or textual information that is contained in the detected device that is associated with the device control; (c) displaying said menu on a display device by displaying said device link page for a user to individually select each listed device and activate said controllable function; and (d) displaying a user interface for a selected device for a user to activate said controllable function. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said device link page comprises a web page or an html page including, for each detected device, at least one hypertext link to a web page or an html page contained within, said associated detected device. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein in step (b)(ii) creating the device link page includes the steps of: generating a device link file, wherein the device link file identifies the detected devices; and creating the device link page including said device control associated with each detected device identified in the device link file. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the step of generating the device link file includes the steps of, for each detected device: associating a logical device name with the detected device; and storing the logical device name in the device link file. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the step of creating the device link page further includes the steps of, for each detected device: retrieving a logical device name from the device link file; storing the logical device name in the device link page; and converting the logical device name to a device control. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein said device link page comprises a web page or an html page including, for each detected device, at least one hypertext link to a web page or an html page contained within said detected device. 7. A method for providing an interface for accessing devices that are currently connected to a home network, the method comprising the steps of: (a) detecting an active state of devices that are currently connected to the home network, said devices having at least one controllable function; (b) creating a top menu that lists the detected devices for individually selecting each of said devices to activate said controllable function, by: (i) creating a device link page from the home network, wherein the device link page includes device controls that are associated with the devices that are detected in step (a), and (ii) associating a hypertext link with each device control, wherein the hypertext link provides a link to graphical to textual information that is contained in the detected device that is associated with the device control; (c) displaying said menu on a display device by displaying said device link page for a user to individually select each listed device and activate said controllable function; and (d) displaying a user interface for each selected device for a user to activate said controllable function. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein said device link page comprises a web page or an html page including, for each detected device, at least one hypertext link to a web page or an html page contained within said associated detected device. 9. The method of claim 7, wherein in step (b)(ii), creating the device link page includes the steps of: generating a device link file, wherein the device link file identifies the detected devices; and creating the device link page including said device control associated with each detected device identified in the device link file. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein generating the device link file includes the steps of, for each detected device: associating a logical device name with the detected device; and storing the logical device name in the device link file. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the step of creating the device link page further includes the steps of, for each detected device: retrieving a logical device name from the device link file; storing the logical device name in the device link page; and converting the logical device name to a device control. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein said device link page comprises a web page or an html page including, for each detected device, at least one hypertext link to a web page or an html page contained within said detected device. 13. A home network system for providing an interface for accessing devices that are currently connected to a home network, comprising: a detector that detects devices that are currently connected to the home network, said devices having at least one controllable function; a menu generator for creating a top menu that lists the detected devices for individually selecting each of said devices to activate said controllable function; a browser for displaying said menu on a browser based device for a user to individually select each listed device and activate said controllable function, and for displaying a user interface for a selected device for a user to activate said controllable function; wherein, the menu comprises a device link page such that the menu generator creates the device link page from the home network, the device link page including device controls that are associated with the devices that are detected by the detector, and the menu generator further associates a hypertext link with each device control, wherein the hypertext link provides a link to graphical to textual information that is contained in the detected device that is associated with the device control; and the browser displays said device link page on the browser based device. 14. The system of claim 13, wherein said device link page comprises a web page or an html page including, for each detected device, at least one hypertext link to a web page or an html page contained within said associated detected device. 15. The system of claim 13, wherein the menu generator creates the device link page by: generating a device link file, wherein the device link file identifies the detected devices; and then creating the device link page including said device control associated with each detected device identified in the device link file. 16. The system of claim 15, wherein the menu generator creates the device link file by, for each detected device: associating a logical device name with the detected device; and storing the logical device name in the device link file. 17. The system of claim 16, wherein the menu generator creates the device link page by, for each detected device: retrieving a logical device name from the device link file; storing the logical device name in the device link page; and converting the logical device name to a device control. 18. The system of claim 17, wherein said device link page comprises a web page or an html page including, for each detected device, at least one hypertext link to a web page or an html page contained within said detected device. 19. A home network system for providing an interface for accessing devices that are currently connected to a home network, comprising: a detector that detects an active state of devices that are currently connected to the home network, said devices having at least one controllable function; a menu generator that creates a top menu that lists the detected devices for individually selecting said devices to activate said controllable function; a browser that displays said menu on a browser based device for a user to individually select each listed device and activate said controllable function, and for displaying a user interface for each selected device for a user to activate said controllable function; wherein, the menu comprises a device link page such that the menu generator creates the device link page, the device link page including device controls that are associated with the devices that are detected by the detector, and the menu generator associates a hypertext link with each device control, wherein the hypertext link provides a link to graphical to textual information that is contained in the detected device that is associated with the device control; and the browser displays said device link page on the browser based device. 20. The system of claim 19, wherein said device link page comprises a web page or an html page including, for each detected device, at least one hypertext link to a web page or an html page contained within said associated detected device. 21. The system of claim 19, wherein the menu generator creates the device link page by: generating a device link file, wherein the device link file identifies the detected devices; and creating the device link page including said device control associated with each detected device identified in the device link file. 22. The system of claim 21, wherein the menu generator generates the device link file by, for each detected device: associating a logical device name with the detected device; and storing the logical device name in the device link file. 23. The system of claim 22, wherein the menu generator creates the device link page by, for each detected device: retrieving a logical device name from the device link file; storing the logical device name in the device link page; and converting the logical device name to a device control. 24. The system of claim 23, wherein said device link page comprises a web page or an html page including, for each detected device, at least one hypertext link to a web page or an html page contained within said detected device. 