A vehicle for automatically milking dairy farm animals which carries a milk reservoir having milk lines which connect to a set of teat cups that are automatically connected to animals' teats by a milking robot. The vehicle is supported from the underlying surface by wheels, caterpillar tracks, or an air cushion, and includes navigational equipment which controls the vehicle so that it positions itself under the animals' teats whereupon the teat cups automatically placed on the relevant animals' teats one by one or in pairs. The vehicle also has its own propulsion power source. The vehicle including all its components is movable and displaceable as a whole. A gripping mechanism for connecting the vehicle to an animal may be included. In a variation, a central station carries a milk reservoir and a plurality of satellite milking units as described above seek out and milk the dairy farm animals. Such units are coupled to the central station by conduits otherwise to deliver milk they receive from the animals to the reservoir carried by the central station.
Claims Having thus disclosed our invention, what we claim as new and to be secured by Letters Patent of the United States of America is: 1. An unmanned vehicle for automatically milking animals that are not in a stall or milking compartment, the vehicle comprising a teat cup, robotic means for connecting said teat cup to a teat of an animal to be milked, a milk reservoir for receiving and storing milk from said animal being milked, conduit means for connecting said teat cup to said milk reservoir, detecting means for continually detecting a location of said animal to be milked, and propulsion means for moving the vehicle into a position at said location to milk said animal, said robotic means, said teat cup, said milk reservoir, said conduit means and said propulsion means being included in the vehicle. 2. The vehicle in accordance with claim 1, wherein said propulsion means comprises drive means. 3. The vehicle in accordance with claim 1, wherein said propulsion means comprises steering means. 4. The vehicle in accordance with claim 1, wherein said propulsion means comprises navigation means for continually determining a course to be followed by the vehicle. 5. The vehicle in accordance with claim 3, which comprises navigation means that controls said steering means. 6. The vehicle in accordance with claim 1, comprising an animal identification means for identifying an animal that is next to be milked which is operatively associated with said detecting means. 7. The vehicle in accordance with claim 6, wherein said identification means is, at least in part, carried by said animal to be milked that is being located by said detecting means. 8. The vehicle in accordance with claim 7, wherein said identification means which is carried at least in part by the animal being located provides data which indicates the location of such animal. 9. The vehicle in accordance with claim 1, comprising coupling means for coupling the vehicle to said animal, said coupling means not comprising said teat cup. 10. The vehicle in accordance with claim 9, wherein said coupling means comprises a gripping arm. 11. The vehicle in accordance with claim 10, wherein said gripping arm comprises body gripping means to grip the body of said animal being milked. 12. The vehicle in accordance with claim 10, wherein said gripping arm comprises gripping means to grip a leg of said animal being milked. 13. The vehicle in accordance with claim 10, wherein said gripping arm comprises retaining means to remain connected to said animal during a time interval after gripping such animal. 14. The vehicle in accordance with claim 13, comprising adjusting means for adjusting said time interval. 15. The vehicle in accordance with claim 13, wherein said time interval is dependent on the time required for milking such animal. 16. The vehicle in accordance with claim 13, wherein said time interval is dependent upon a period of time said teat cup is connected to the teat of the animal being milked. 17. The vehicle in accordance with claim 10, comprising activating means for gripping said animal being milked by said gripping arm after said teat cup has been placed on the teat of said animal being milked. 18. The vehicle in accordance with claim 1, wherein said propulsion means comprises wheels. 19. The vehicle in accordance with claim 1, wherein said propulsion means comprises ground engaging rolling means. 20. The vehicle in accordance with claim 1, wherein said propulsion means comprises endless tracks. 21. The vehicle in accordance with claim 1, which comprises steering means for steering the vehicle and an air cushion construction for supporting the vehicle above an underlying surface on an air cushion produced by said air cushion construction. 22. The vehicle in accordance with claim 1, wherein said propulsion means comprises a motor. 23. The vehicle in accordance with claim 1, which comprises animal attraction means for attracting said animal to the vehicle to be milked. 24. The vehicle in accordance with claim 1, which comprises summoning means for summoning said animal to the vehicle to be milked. 25. The vehicle in accordance with claim 1, which comprises repelling means for keeping animals that are not to be milked for the time being at a distance from said vehicle. 26. The vehicle in accordance with claim 1, in combination with a receiving and transmitting station wherein the vehicle comprises transmitting and receiving means for transmitting and receiving data to and from said receiving and transmitting station. 27. The vehicle in accordance with claim 1, which comprises transmitting and receiving means and wherein said animal to be milked carries a further transmitting and receiving means, said transmitting and receiving means of said vehicle and said further transmitting and receiving means comprising means for interchanging data. 28. A combination of an unmanned first vehicle which comprises a milk reservoir for receiving and storing milk taken from an animal being automatically milked and propulsion means for moving the vehicle to a desired location, with an unmanned second vehicle which comprises a teat cup, robotic means for automatically connecting said teat cup to said animal to be milked, and propulsion means for moving the vehicle into a position near said location to milk said animal automatically, said robotic means, said teat cup, and said propulsion means being carried and displaceable as a whole by said second vehicle, and coupling means between said first vehicle and said second vehicle for conveying milk from said second vehicle to said milk reservoir of said first vehicle. 29. The combination in accordance with claim 28, wherein said coupling means comprises a milk conduit which connects said second vehicle to said first vehicle. 30. The combination in accordance with claim 28, wherein said coupling means connects said teat cup of said second vehicle to said milk reservoir of said first vehicle. 31. The combination in accordance with claim 28, which comprises sensor means for registering movements of said animal to be milked by said second vehicle. 32. The combination in accordance with claim 31, which comprises control means for said first and said second vehicles for controlling the movement of each of said vehicles based on data received by said sensor means. 33. The combination in accordance with claim 28, wherein said second vehicle comprises a tracking means which provides data for tracking said animal to be milked by said second vehicle. 34. The vehicle in accordance with claim 1, which comprises a coupling and suspending means for respectively coupling and suspending the vehicle as a whole to and from said animal being milked. 35. An unmanned vehicle for automatically milking animals which comprises a teat cup, robotic means for connecting said teat cup to an animal to be milked, detecting means for continually detecting where said animal to be milked is located, propulsion means for moving the vehicle into a position where said animal is located to milk said animal, and coupling means for coupling the vehicle to said animal being milked at a location where it is being milked, said teat cup, said propulsion means and said coupling means being included the vehicle. 36. A combination of an unmanned movable central station and a plurality of unmanned satellite units, each of said satellite units comprising a teat cup, robotic means for automatically connecting each said teat cup to a corresponding teat of each said animal being milked, detecting means for continually detecting a location of each of said animals to be milked, propulsion means for moving one of said satellite units into a position at said location to milk each of said animals, and coupling means to convey milk received by each of said satellite units to a milk reservoir in said central station, said teat cup, robotic means and propulsion means for each said satellite unit being displaceable as a whole relative to said central station and said animal being milked. 37. A method for automatically milking a dairy farm animal that is not confined in a stall or a milking compartment which comprises mounting a teat cup and robotic means for connecting said teat cup to the animal to be milked on a surface supported vehicle, continually sensing a location of said animal to be milked, automatically moving said vehicle to said location, automatically connecting said teat cup to the teat of the animal being milked at said location, automatically connecting said vehicle to said animal by gripping means, milking said animal at said location with said teat cup, and disconnecting said teat cup from said teat and said gripping means from said animal upon completion of the milking. 38. A method of automatically milking dairy farm animals that are not confined to a stall or a milking compartment which comprises: moving a central station into an area wherein said animals are located; moving into the vicinity of said central station a plurality of unmanned satellite units, each said satellite units comprising means for automatically milking each of said animals; automatically determining the location of each said animal in said area to be milked; automatically moving one of said satellite units into a position at the location of one of said animals to be milked for milking said one animal; milking said one animal by said one of said satellite units, and conveying milk received by said one of said satellite units to said central station. 