The embodiments disclose means to inhibit the growth and migration of bacteria, mildew and fungus by applying various coatings which contain an inorganic anti-microbial agent onto metal, glass, and plastic substrates. The substrates are used in the manufacture of components for the interior of refrigerators and freezers, which include wire (100) and glass shelving (200, 300), plastic crisper baskets (500) and other articles within the food storage area. The coatings include the inorganic anti-microbial agent combinet with a matrix resin which are applied by electrostatic powder coating (916), roller coating (810), or robotic spraying (710), and then cured.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of imparting a coating, containing an antimicrobial agent onto glass substrate interior refrigerator articles, the method comprising the steps of: a. adding the anti-microbial agent to a coating formulation containing an epoxy-acrylate resin, an adhesion promoter, and a free-radical photo-initiator; b. cleaning and drying the glass substrates; c. depositing the coating formulation to a thickness of approximately 20 microns by the use of a roller-coater; and d. curing the deposited coating utilizing a UV processor. 2. The method in accordance with claim 1, in which the step of adding the anti-microbial agent to the coating formulation utilizes a concentration of approximately 5% by weight. 3. The method in accordance with claim 1, in which the anti-microbial agent is a sodium aluminosilicate. 4. The method in accordance with claim 1, in which the UV processor is of an output of approximately 400 watts per inch. 5. A method of imparting a coating, containing an anti-microbial agent onto plastic substrates consisting of styrene acrylonitrile copolymer (SAN), acrylonitrile butadiene styrene (ABS) or polypropylene (PP) for baskets, crisper drawers, and other interior plastic articles as a part of refrigerator shelving or storage items, the method comprising the steps of: a. adding the anti-microbial agent to a coating formulation containing an epoxy-acrylate resin, an adhesion promoter, and a free-radical photo-initiator; b. cleaning and drying the plastic substrates; c. depositing the coating formulation to a thickness of approximately 20 microns by the use of a programmable robotic spray; and d. curing the deposited coating using a UV processor. 6. The method in accordance with claim 5, in which the step of adding the anti-microbial agent to the coating formulation utilizes a concentration of approximately 5% by weight. 7. The method in accordance with claim 5, in which the anti-microbial agent is a sodium aluminosilicate. 8. The method in accordance with claim 5, in which the step of curing the coating using a UV processor utilizes a UV processor with an output of approximately 400 watts per inch. 