A tape cassette has a housing which contains at least one magnetic tape wound on a tape hub, and a semiconductor memory which contains memory data. The tape cassette also includes at least an optical transmitter, and a circuit which has access to the memory contents and which can read out the memory contents from the memory and embody the memory contents in an optical signal, which is transmitted out of the housing by the optical transmitter. The memory data may characterize data stored on the magnetic tape. The cassette can include a further memory which contains data uniquely identifying the cassette, and this data can also be read out and embodied in optical signals which are transmitted out of the housing. A number of such cassettes can be employed in a cassette library system, having a reader which receives the optical signals and which controls a robotic cassette selector by matching either the memory data or the cassette identification data embodied in the received optical signals to data entered into the reader identifying wanted data or a wanted cassette.
Claims I claim as my invention: 1. A tape cassette comprising: a housing; a magnetic tape wound on at least one hub in said housing, said magnetic tape having tape data recorded thereon in a magnetic recording procedure having procedure parameters associated therewith, said tape data representing information and said procedure parameters being necessary to be known for receiving said information; a semiconductor memory in said housing containing memory data characterizing said tape data; an optical transmitter in said housing which emits outgoing optical signals; an optical receiver in said housing which receives incoming optical signals containing data including said procedure parameters; said housing having at least a region thereof which is transparent to said incoming and outgoing optical signals and said optical transmitter and said optical receiver being disposed in said housing so that said incoming optical signals and said outgoing optical signals pass through said region; and an electronic control circuit in said housing connected between said semiconductor memory and said optical transmitter and said optical receiver, for writing said data contained in said incoming optical signals into said semiconductor memory as at least a portion of said memory data, for reading out said memory data from said semiconductor memory upon a readout request contained in said incoming optical signals, and for embodying memory data read out from said semiconductor memory into said outgoing optical signals. 2. A tape cassette as claimed in claim 1 wherein said semiconductor memory comprises a first semiconductor memory, and said tape cassette further comprising a second semiconductor memory in said housing containing cassette identification data uniquely identifying the tape cassette, and wherein said electronic control circuit comprises means for reading out said cassette identification data from said second semiconductor memory upon a request in said incoming optical signals, and for embodying said cassette identification data in said outgoing optical signals. 3. A tape cassette as claimed in claim 1 comprising a first electrical contact and a second electrical contact accessible from an exterior of said housing, said first electrical contact and said second electrical contact being electrically connected to said electronic control circuit for supplying electrical power to said electronic control circuit. 4. A tape cassette as claimed in claim 3 wherein said housing comprises a housing face composed of electrically conductive material forming said first electrical contact. 5. A tape cassette as claimed in claim 4 wherein said housing face comprises a first housing face, and wherein said housing comprises a second housing face having a region therein composed of electrically conductive material forming said second electrical contact. 6. A tape cassette as claimed in claim 3 wherein said first electrical contact comprises a first part of said housing composed of electrically conductive material and wherein said second electrical contact comprises a second part of said housing composed of electrically conductive material, and wherein said housing has a housing face formed by said first housing part and said second housing part, separated by non-electrically conductive material. 7. A tape cassette as claimed in claim 3 wherein said housing has a plurality of housing faces, and wherein said first electrical contact is disposed on a first of said housing faces and wherein said second electrical contact is disposed on a second of said housing faces. 8. A tape cassette as claimed in claim 3 wherein said housing h as a plurality of housing faces, and wherein both of said first electrical contact and said second electrical contact are disposed on a single one of said housing faces. 9. A tape cassette as claimed in claim 3 wherein said semiconductor memory is connected to said electronic control circuit for receiving power from said first and second electrical contacts via said electronic control circuit. 10. A tape cassette as claimed in claim 3 wherein said semiconductor memory is directly connected to said first and second electrical contacts for receiving power therefrom. 11. A tape cassette as claimed in claim 1 wherein said semiconductor memory comprises a first semiconductor memory and wherein said memory data comprises data characterizing data stored on said magnetic tape, and said tape cassette further comprising a second semiconductor memory containing cassette identification data therein uniquely identifying said tape cassette, and said tape cassette further comprising means in said housing for reading said cassette identification data out of said second semiconductor memory and for embodying said cassette identification data in outgoing optical signals and for transmitting said outgoing optical signals through said housing to the exterior of said housing. 12. A tape cassette as claimed in claim 1 wherein said procedure parameters are selected from the group consisting of a date of first recording of said tape data, a number of times said tape data has been recorded, a number of times said tape data has been read, error performance occurring during said recording procedure, password protection information, write protect status, a key code pattern associated with encryption of said tape data, a code for controlling compression of said data, and recording format identification. 