The invention is an adhesive composition comprising a) i) a trialkoxysilane functional polyether or polyurethane wherein the polyether or polyurethane has a weight average molecular weight of 6000 or greater and a dialkyltin carboxylate or dialkyltin alcoholate; or ii) a dialkoxysilane functional polyether or polyurethane and a dialkyltin alcoholate; and b) a primary or secondary amino straight chain alkyl trialkoxysilane; wherein the dialkyltin carboxylate or dialkyltin alcoholate is present in an effective amount to facilitate bonding of the adhesive to a substrate of from about 0.1 to about 1.0 percent by weight based on the weight of the adhesive and the primary or secondary amino straight chained alkyl trialkoxysilane is present in an amount which is effective to facilitate bonding of the adhesive to a substrate wherein the amount is from about 0.5 to about 1.2 percent by weight. In another embodiment, the invention is a method of bonding a window in a vehicle. The process comprises applying to a window or a window frame of a structure an adhesive according to the invention; contacting the window with the window frame of a substrate wherein the adhesive is located between the window and the substrate; and allowing the adhesive to cure. This process is especially useful when the substrate is unprimed metal, plastic, fiberglass or a composite, optionally coated with a coating. In another embodiment it is useful when the window is unprimed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of bonding a window into a structure which comprises applying to the window or a window frame an adhesive composition comprising a) i) a trialkoxysilane functional polyether or polyurethane wherein the polyether or polyurethane has a weight average molecular weight of 6,000 or greater and a dialkyltin carboxylate or dialkyltin alcoholate; or ii) a dialkoxysilane functional polyether or polyurethane and a dialkyltin alcoholate; and b) a secondary amino straight chain alkyl trialkoxysilane; wherein the dialkyltin carboxylate or dialkyltin alcoholate is present in an effective amount to facilitate bonding of the adhesive to a substrate of from about 0.1 to about 1.0 percent by weight based on the weight of the adhesive and the secondary amino straight chained alkyl trialkoxysilane is present in an amount which is effective to facilitate bonding of the adhesive to a substrate wherein the amount is from about 0.5 to about 1.2 percent by weight; contacting the window and the structure with the adhesive located between the window and the structure and allowing the adhesive to cure. 2. A method of bonding according to claim 1 wherein the window structure has a coating and the coating is not primed prior to being contacted with the adhesive. 3. The method according to claim 1 wherein the window has a ceramic frit deposited on the surface to be contacted with the adhesive and the window is not primed prior to being contacted with the adhesive. 4. The method according to claim 1 wherein the aminoalkyl trialkoxysilane corresponds to the formula (R.sup.7.sub.xNR.sup.8--SiOR.sup.9).sub.3 ).sub.y wherein R.sup.7 is independently in each occurrence a straight chain alkyl or aminoalkyl; R.sup.8 is independently in each occurrence a straight chain alkylene group; R.sup.9 is independently in each occurrence an alkyl group; x is independently in each occurrence an integer of 0 or 1; and y is an integer of 1 or 2 wherein x=y is 2. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein R.sup.7 is independently in each occurrence C.sub.1-3 alkyl or C.sub.1-3 alkylamino; R.sup.8 is independently in each occurrence C.sub.2-4 alkylene; and R.sup.9 is independently in each occurrence C.sub.1-2 alkyl. 6. The method of claim 4 wherein the R.sup.8 is propylene; and R.sup.9 is ethyl or methyl. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein x is 0 and y is 2. 8. The method of claim 4 wherein the catalyst is a dialkyltin alcoholate. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein the catalyst is present in an amount of from about 0.1 to about 0.5 percent by weight. 10. The method of claim 8 wherein the catalyst is a dialkyltin bis acetylacetonate. 11. A method of bonding a window into a structure which comprises applying to the window or a window frame an adhesive composition comprising a) i) a trialkoxysilane functional polyether or polyurethane wherein the polyether or polyurethane backbone has a weight average molecular weight of 10,000 or greater and a dialkyltin carboxylate or dialkyltin alcoholate; or ii) a dialkoxysilane functional polyether or polyurethane and a dialkyltin alcoholate; and b) primary or a secondary amino straight chain alkyl trialkoxysilane; wherein the dialkyltin carboxylate or dialkyltin alcoholate is present in an effective amount to facilitate bonding of the adhesive to a substrate of from about 0.1 to about 1.0 percent by weight based on the weight of the adhesive and the primary or secondary amino straight chained alkyl trialkoxysilane is present in an amount which is effective to facilitate bonding of the adhesive to a substrate wherein the amount is from about 0.5 to about 1.2 percent by weight. 12. A method of bonding according to claim 11 wherein the window structure has a coating and the coating is not primed prior to being contacted with the adhesive. 13. The method according to claim 11 wherein the window has a ceramic frit deposited on the surface to be contacted with the adhesive and the window is not primed prior to being contacted with the adhesive. 14. The method according to claim 11 wherein the aminoalkyl trialkoxysilane corresponds to the formula (R.sup.7.sub.xNR.sup.8--SiOR.sup.9).sub.3).sub.y wherein R.sup.7 is independently in each occurrence a straight chain alkyl or aminoalkyl; R.sup.8 is independently in each occurrence a straight chain alkylene group; R.sup.9 is independently in each occurrence an alkyl group; X is independently in each occurrence an integer of 0 or 1; and Y is an integer of 1 or 2. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein R.sup.7 is independently in each occurrence C.sub.1-3 alkyl or C.sub.1-3 alkylamino; R.sup.8 is independently in each occurrence C.sub.2-4 alkylene; and R.sup.9 is independently in each occurrence C.sub.1-2 alkyl. 16. The method of claim 15 wherein the R.sup.7 is ethylamino; R.sup.8 is propylene; and R.sup.9 is ethyl or methyl. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein x is 0 and y is 2. 18. The method of claim 14 wherein the catalyst is a dialkyltin alcoholate. 19. The method of claim 18 wherein the catalyst is present in an amount of from about 0.1 to about 0.5 percent by weight. 20. The method of claim 18 wherein the catalyst is a dialkyltin bis acetylacetonate. 