Liquid detection sensors are attached to both sides of a robotic arm end effector of a semiconductor wafer process system. The sensor mechanism or probe is situated on the front side and backside of the end effector, designed with electrical lines that are traced onto a polyester base material. The electrical lines are positioned in a serpentine formation. The high conductance of the sulfuric acid in the copper sulfate solution acts as the conductor between the traced lines. When the conductive liquid comes in contact with the traced lines, the lines short and the sensor activates or turns on.
Claims Thus, having described the invention, what is claimed is: 1. A sensor for detecting a conductive liquid exposed to a semiconductor wafer within a semiconductor wafer process comprising: an electronic circuit adapted to detect changes in electrical conductivity; a sensor probe comprising at least one metal trace connected to said electronic circuit, said at least one metal trace exposed on at least one side to come in contact with said conductive liquid, and bonded in a serpentine pattern on said end effector on said backside and said front side of said end effector; and, an end effector attached to a robotic arm, said end effector holding said semiconductor wafer, and having a front side and a backside, and adhesively holding said at least one metal trace; said electronic circuit configured as an electrical "OR" signal detector to measure independently a signal from said at least one metal trace bonded on said backside of said end effector, or a signal from said separate metal trace bonded on said front side of said end effector. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 including having said sensor further comprise metal traces bonded on said end effector about the periphery of said semiconductor wafer. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said sensor further comprises metal traces of platinum, palladium, tantalum, gold, or titanium. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 comprising said sensor traced onto a polyimide base material. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said sensor is applied to said end effector by an adhesive. 6. A sensor for detecting a conductive liquid exposed to a semiconductor wafer within a semiconductor wafer process comprising: an electronic circuit detecting changes in electrical conductivity, said electronic circuit configured as an electrical "OR" signal detector to measure independently a signal from at least one metal trace bonded on a backside of said end effector, or a signal from a separate metal trace bonded on a front side of said end effector; a sensor probe comprising said at least one metal trace connected to said electronic circuit, said at least one metal trace exposed on at least one side to come in contact with said conductive liquid, wherein said at least one metal trace is bonded in a serpentine pattern on said end effector, and bonded on said backside and said front side of an end effector; and, said end effector attached to a robotic arm, said end effector holding said semiconductor wafer, and having said front side and said backside, and adhesively holding said at least one metal trace, said sensor probe mounted in its entirety on said end effector and detecting conductivity changes in said liquid when said liquid comes in contact with said sensor probe. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein said sensing mechanism further comprises metal traces of platinum, palladium, tantalum, gold, or titanium. 8. The apparatus of claim 6 comprising said sensing mechanism traced onto a polyimide base material. 