An inspection system includes a stage, a light source, and a light collection subsystem is disclosed. The stage supports an article for inspection, the article having a surface. The light source provides light impinging on and scattering from an illumination area of the surface. The light collection system includes a plurality of collectors arranged generally in a semi-spherical layout such that each collector collects at least a portion of the scattering light at a collection polar angle and a collection azimuthal angle that are unique relative to collection polar angle and collection azimuthal angle of other collectors. The collectors are arranged in three rings of collectors. The inspection system includes a plurality of channels where each collector of the light collection subsystem is associated with a channel. The inspection system includes a processor connected to the channels. The processor is adapted to process information from the channels.
Claims We claim: 1. An inspection system comprising: a stage operable to support an article for inspection, the article having a surface; a light source adapted to provide light impinging on and scattering from an illumination area of the surface; a first ring of collectors adapted to collect the scattered light, said first ring of collectors positioned at a first ring polar angle and said first ring of collectors comprising a set of collectors; a second ring of collectors adapted to collect the scattered light, said second ring of collectors positioned at a second ring polar angle and said second ring of collectors comprising a set of collectors; a third ring of collectors adapted to collect the scattered light, said third ring of collectors positioned at a third ring polar angle and said third ring of collectors comprising a set of collectors; a plurality of channels wherein each collector of said first ring of collectors, said second ring of collectors, and said third ring of collectors is associated with a channel; and a processor connected to the channels, said processor adapted to process information from the channels; wherein each channel comprises a waveguide to guide collected light to a photo detector adapted to convert the collected light into electrical signal, and an amplifier connected to the photo detector, wherein said amplifier operable to amplify the electrical signal and an analog-to-digital converter operable to convert the amplified electrical signal to digital electrical signals. 2. The inspection system recited in claim 1 wherein said stage is operable to rotate the article about a center of rotation. 3. The inspection system recited in claim 1 wherein said stage is operable to translate the article in lateral axis. 4. The inspection system recited in claim 1 wherein each collector comprises a lens. 5. The inspection system recited in claim 4 wherein the collection lens has a large depth of focus. 6. The inspection system recited in claim 1 further comprising a first adapted to direct the light from said light source toward the illumination area at a first incident angle. 7. The inspection system recited in claim 6 further comprising a turning mirror adapted to direct the light from said tight source toward the illumination area at a second incident angle. 8. The inspection system recited in claim 1 wherein at least one channel comprises a band-pass filter, said band-pass filter adapted to allow light having a predetermined wavelength to pass. 9. The inspection system recited in claim 1 wherein at least one channel comprises a polarization filter proximal to its associated collector, said polarization filter adapted to allow light having a predetermined polarization to pass. 10. The inspection system recited in claim 9 wherein the polarization filler is an s-polarized fitter. 11. The inspection system recited in claim 1 further comprising a photo detector array connected to a bundle of channels, said photo detector array comprising an array of photo multiplier tubes (PMTS), each PMT adapted to convert optical signal from a channel to electrical signal. 12. The inspection system recited in claim 1 wherein said stage comprises: an x-axis stage; a y-axis stage; a z-axis stage; and a rotational stage. 13. An inspection system comprising: a stage operable to support an article for inspection, the article having a surface; a light source operable to provide light impinging on and scattering from an illumination area of the surface; a light collection subsystem including a plurality of collectors, the collectors arranged generally in a semi-spherical layout such that each collector collects at least a portion of the scattering light at a collection polar angle and a collection azimuthal angle that are unique relative to collection polar angle and collection azimuthal angle of other collectors; wherein each collector is associated with a channel; a plurality of channels wherein each collector of said light collection subsystem is associated with a channel; and a processor connected to the channels, said processor adapted to process information from the channels; wherein each channel comprises a waveguide to guide collected light to a photo detector adapted to convert the collected light into electrical signal, and an amplifier connected to the photo detector, wherein said amplifier operable to amplify the electrical signal and an analog-to-digital converter operable to convert the amplified electrical signal to digital electrical signals. 14. The inspection system recited in claim 13 wherein said stage is operable to rotate the article about a center of rotation and to move the article laterally. 15. The inspection system recited in claim 14 wherein each of the collectors is a lens. 16. The inspection system recited in claim 13 further comprising a first mirror adapted to direct the light from said light source toward the illumination area at a first incident angle. 17. The inspection system rccitcd in claim 16 further comprising a turning mirror adapted to direct the light from said light source toward the illumination area at a second incident angle. 18. The inspection system recited in claim 17 further comprising a band-pass filter between the illumination area and a first collector, said band-pass filter adapted to allow light having a predetermined wavelength to pass. 19. The inspection system recited in claim 13 further comprising a polarization filter proximal to a first collector, said polarization filter adapted to allow light having a predetermined polarization to pass. 20. The inspection system recited in claim 13 further comprising a photo detector array connected to a bundle of channels, said photo detector array comprising an array of photo multiplier tubes (PMTS), each PMT adapted to convert optical signal from a channel to electrical signal. 