A printed circuit board is provided comprising an integrally formed spring portion. This printhead circuit board can be used in as a connector arrangement in a circuit assembly comprising a plurality of other printed circuit boards arranged in a linearly aligned manner. Further, a printhead assembly is provided comprising at least one printhead module comprising at least two printhead integrated circuits, each of which has nozzles formed therein for delivering printing fluid onto the surface of print media, a support member supporting and carrying the printing fluid, and an electrical connector for connecting electrical signals to the printhead integrated circuits, and comprising the circuit assembly electrically connected to the printhead integrated circuits via the electrical connector. The printhead assembly further comprises a casing comprising a support frame on which the printhead module and the circuit assembly are removably mounted.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A printhead assembly, comprising: at least one printhead module comprising at least two printhead integrated circuits, each of which has nozzles formed therein for delivering printing fluid onto the surface of print media, a support member supporting and carrying the printing fluid for the at least two printhead integrated circuits, and an electrical connector for connecting electrical signals to the at least two printhead integrated circuits; a circuit assembly comprising a plurality of first printed circuit boards arranged in a linearly aligned manner, each first printed circuit board having drive electronics for controlling the printing operation of at least one of the printhead integrated circuits via the electrical connector, a second printed circuit board arranged at one end of the linearly aligned first printed circuit boards for connecting the drive electronics to power and data supplies, and a third printed circuit board having a spring portion arranged at an opposite end of the linearly aligned first printed circuit boards; and a casing comprising a support frame on which the at least one printhead module and the circuit assembly are removably mounted, the second and third printed circuit boards being arranged at the respective longitudinal ends of the support frame. 2. A printhead assembly according to claim 1, wherein: the at least one printhead module is formed as a unitary arrangement of the at least two printhead integrated circuits, the support member, an electrical connector, and at least two fluid distribution members each mounting a respective one of the at least two printhead integrated circuits to the support member; and the support member has at least one longitudinally extending channel for carrying the printing fluid for the printhead integrated circuits and includes a plurality of apertures extending through a wall of the support member arranged so as to direct the printing fluid from the at least one channel to associated nozzles in both, or if more than two, all of the printhead integrated circuits by way of respective ones of the fluid distribution members. 3. A printhead assembly according to claim 1, wherein the spring portion is integrally formed within material of the third printed circuit board, the spring portion being arranged with edge electrical connections of the third printed circuit board. 4. A printhead assembly according to claim 1, wherein the integrally formed spring portion is formed by removing a section of the printed circuit board material. 5. A printhead assembly according to claim 1, wherein: the plurality of first printed circuit boards of the circuit assembly are mounted to the support frame so as to be linearly aligned in the longitudinal direction thereof. 6. A printhead assembly according to claim 5, wherein the third printed circuit board comprises termination connections on the spring portion for terminating a data signal traversing the at least one first printed circuit board from the second printed circuit board. 