A method of assembling a printhead module for a printhead assembly is provided, the method comprising mounting at least two printhead integrated circuits to an upper surface of at least one fluid distribution member, the at least two printhead integrated circuits each having nozzles formed therein for printing fluid onto the surface of print media, and fixedly attaching with an adhesive material a lower surface of the at least one fluid distribution member onto an upper surface of a support member having fluid delivery channels for the nozzles of the at least two printhead integrated circuits, so as to form a unitary arrangement of the support member, the at least two printhead integrated circuits and the at least one fluid distribution member.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of assembling a printhead module for a printhead assembly, the method comprising the steps of: mounting at least two printhead integrated circuits to an upper surface of a respective one of at least two fluid distribution members, the at least two printhead integrated circuits each having nozzles formed therein for printing fluid onto the surface of print media; fixedly attaching a lower surface of the fluid distribution members onto an upper surface of a support member having fluid delivery channels for the nozzles of the at least two printhead integrated circuits with curable resin adhesive selectively deposited about the fluid delivery channels of the support member and associated apertures of the fluid distribution members leading to the nozzles, so as to form a unitary arrangement of the support member, the printhead integrated circuits and the fluid distribution members; and curing the curable resin adhesive to seal the selective attachment of the fluid distribution and support members. 2. A method according to claim 1, further comprising the step of adhering an electrical connector to a section of the upper surface of the fluid distribution members for connecting electrical signals to the respective printhead integrated circuits. 3. A method according to claim 1, wherein the curable resin is an epoxy resin. 4. A method according to claim 1, wherein the attaching step includes the step of selectively depositing the curable resin about apertures on the upper surface of the support member which extend to the fluid delivery channels. 5. A method according to claim 4, wherein the step of curing the curable resin is performed so as to form sealing gaskets about the apertures of the support member and associated apertures of the fluid distribution members. 