A method and system for transporting a plurality of substrates between a transfer chamber and at least one processing chamber. The system includes a chuck assembly with a plurality of chucks configured to receive wafer substrates, where the chuck assembly is movably configured to provide for transfer of the plurality of substrates between a transfer chamber and a processing chamber. The system provides a structure that allows for the processing of one substrate on a first chuck, while a second substrate is loaded onto a second chuck and prepared for processing.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A substrate processing system comprising: a transfer chamber forming an enclosed volume having therein a transfer arm configured to transfer a substrate; a processing chamber separate from said transfer chamber; a chuck assembly with a plurality of chucks configured to receive the substrate, said chuck assembly being movably configured to provide for transfer of the substrate between said transfer chamber and said processing chamber such that when one of said plurality of chucks is in a processing position within said processing chamber another one of said plurality of chucks is in a substrate exchange position within said transfer chamber; and a valve movably mounted within said enclosed volume of the transfer chamber and configured to form a separately sealed intermediate chamber within said enclosed volume of the transfer chamber such that another substrate on said another one of said plurality of chucks can be processed while located at said substrate exchange position. 2. The system according to claim 1, wherein said chuck assembly is movably configured to perform vertical linear movement and axial rotation. 3. The system according to claim 1, wherein said intermediate chamber is defined by said chuck assembly and the transfer chamber. 4. The chuck transport system according to claim 1, wherein said intermediate chamber is defined by one of said plurality of chucks and said valve. 5. The system according to claim 1, wherein said valve comprises an interface plate and a valve seat. 6. The system according to claim 5, wherein said valve further comprises an electrode driven with RF power to produce plasma. 7. The system according to claim 5, wherein said valve includes a shaft having a passage there through that provides for remote plasma processing. 8. The system according to claim 1, wherein said intermediate chamber includes gas flow channels. 9. The system according to claim 1, wherein said chuck assembly has three chucks configured to receive the substrate, said chuck assembly being movably configured to provide for transfer of the substrate between the transfer chamber, the processing chamber, and an additional processing chamber. 10. The system according to claim 9, wherein said chuck assembly is housed within a chamber, said chamber having a first portion configured to be connected to the processing chamber, a second portion configured to be connected to the transfer chamber, and a third portion configured to be connected to the additional chamber, said chuck assembly being movably configured within the chamber to provide for the transfer of said chucks between said first portion, said second portion, and said third portion. 11. The substrate processing system according to claim 1, wherein said chuck assembly is housed within a chamber, said chamber having a first portion connected to said processing chamber and a second portion connected to said transfer chamber, said chuck assembly being movably configured within said chamber to provide for transfer of said plurality of chucks between said first portion and said second portion. 12. A method for transporting a plurality of substrates between a transfer chamber forming an enclosed volume and at least one separate processing chamber, said method comprising the steps of: receiving in a first chuck on a chuck assembly a first one of the plurality of substrates from a cassette within the enclosed volume of the transfer chamber when the first chuck is in a substrate exchange position; transporting the first one of the plurality of substrates from the transfer chamber to the at least one processing chamber by moving the first chuck from the substrate exchange position to a processing position; receiving in a second chuck on the chuck assembly a second one of the plurality of substrates from the cassette within the enclosed volume of the transfer chamber when the second chuck is in the substrate exchange position; and positioning a valve within the enclosed volume of the transfer chamber to form a separately sealed intermediate chamber sealed within the enclosed volume of the transfer chamber and around said second one of the plurality of substrates; and performing a processing step within an said intermediate chamber when one of the plurality of substrates is in the substrate exchange position. 13. The method according to claim 12, further comprising, substantially simultaneously, the steps of: transporting the first one of the plurality of substrates from the at least one processing chamber to the transfer chamber by moving the first chuck from the processing position to the substrate exchange position; and transporting the second one of the plurality of substrates from the transfer chamber to the at least one processing chamber by moving the second chuck from the substrate exchange position to the processing position. 14. The method according to claim 12, further comprising, substantially simultaneously, the steps of: transporting the first one of the plurality of substrates from the at least one processing chamber to an additional processing chamber by moving the first chuck from the processing position to a second processing position; and transporting the second one of the plurality of substrates from the transfer chamber to the at least one processing chamber by moving the second chuck from the substrate exchange position to the processing position; the method thereafter comprising the step of receiving in a third chuck on the chuck assembly a third one of the plurality of substrates from the cassette within the transfer chamber when the third chuck is in the substrate exchange position. 15. The method according to claim 12, wherein the first one of the plurality of substrates remains on the first chuck during the processing of the first one of the plurality of substrates and the second one of the plurality of substrates remains on the second chuck during the processing of the second one of the plurality of substrates. 16. The method according to claim 12, wherein the method of transporting comprises moving the first chuck on bellows sealed arms, thereby enabling random motion. 