A robot driven robot index system includes a track having indices defining robot workstation positions along the track. The system also includes a non-driven carriage movable about the track. The carriage has a locking device for controllably locking the carriage to the track. The system further includes a robot having a base and a swingable, movable arm. The robot base is secured to the non-driven carriage. The system also includes at least one reference connector spacedly disposed from the track and located within a working range of the robot. The robot arm is adapted to connect with the reference connector, for moving the robot along the track between workstations through the movement of the robot arm.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot driven robot index system comprising: a track including indices defining robot workstation positions along said track; a non-driven carriage movable about said track; said carriage including a locking device for controllably locking said carriage to said track; a robot having a base and a swingable, movable arm; said robot base being secured to said non-driven carriage; and at least one reference connector spacedly disposed from said track and located within a working range of said robot; wherein said robot arm is connectable with said reference connector, for moving said robot along said track between workstations through the movement of said robot arm. 2. The robot driven robot index system of claim 1, wherein said robot is a 6-axis robot. 3. The robot driven robot index system of claim 1, wherein said robot includes a control for engaging and disengaging said locking device. 4. The robot driven robot index system of claim 1, wherein said track is generally linear. 5. The robot driven robot index system of claim 1, wherein each said index is aligned with a workstation spacedly disposed from said track. 6. The robot driven robot index system of claim 1, wherein said track includes stops thereabout. 7. The robot driven robot index system of claim 1, wherein each of said reference connectors is generally centered along the length of said track between two workstations. 8. A method of driving a robot along a path comprising the step of: providing: a track including indices defining robot workstation positions along said track; a non-driven carriage movable about said track; said carriage including a locking device for controllably locking said carriage to said track; a robot having a base and a swingable, movable arm; said robot base being secured to said non-driven carriage; and at least one reference connector spacedly disposed from said track and located within a working range of said robot; wherein said robot arm is connectable with said reference connector, for moving said robot along said track between workstations through the movement of said robot arm. 9. The method of claim 8, further comprising the steps of: linking the arm of said robot to one of the reference connectors; disengaging the locking device of said carriage to allow said carriage to move freely about said track; swinging the arm of said robot about said reference connector, thereby moving said carriage along said track; stopping the carriage at the next index of said track; engaging the locking device to temporarily fix said carriage to said track; and releasing the arm of said robot from said reference connector. 