The invention provides an apparatus and methods for depositing materials on a substrate, and for performing other selected functions, such as material destruction and removal, temperature control, imaging, detection, therapy and positional and locational control. In various embodiments, the apparatus and methods are suitable for use in a tabletop setting, in vitro or in vivo.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus for depositing a material on a substrate, comprising: a. at least one material dispenser, comprising: i. a tip orifice defining an opening through which the material exits the dispenser, ii. at least one elongate feed channel having an inlet and a spaced outlet adjacent the tip orifice, the at least one feed channel having material therein and being sized and shaped so that the material therein may flow through the at least one channel from the inlet to the outlet, and iii. a valve for controlling the flow of material through the outlet of the at least one feed channel, the valve being moveable between an open position, in which material is permitted to flow through the outlet, and a closed position, in which material is not permitted to flow through the outlet, and iv. an actuator operatively coupled to the valve for selectively moving the valve between the open position and the closed position, v. wherein the material is displaced forward as the valve moves to the open position and the material is sucked back as the valve is moved to the closed position. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the actuator comprises a stepper-controlled linear actuator. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the tip orifice comprises a capillary tube, sized and shaped so that the material is deposited on the substrate by capillary action, 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one material dispenser further comprises a tip chamber, the tip chamber comprising: a. a proximal end defining a proximal orifice, b. a spaced distal end defining the tip orifice, the tip orifice being smaller than the proximal orifice, and c. a substantially continuous inner surface, the inner surface extending between the proximal end and the distal end and being tapered from the proximal end toward the distal end. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the tip chamber further comprises a longitudinal axis along a path of material flow from the proximal end toward the distal end. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the inner surface of the tip chamber is substantially circular in cross section taken perpendicular to the longitudinal axis. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the inner surface of the tip chamber is tapered at an angle in the range from about 20.degree. to about 45.degree. measured from the longitudinal axis to the inner surface. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the inner surface of the tip chamber is tapered at an angle in the range from about 25.degree. to about 40.degree. measured from the longitudinal axis to the inner surface. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the inner surface of the tip chamber is tapered at an angle of about 32.degree. measured from the longitudinal axis to the inner surface. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: at least one location control device adapted to position the tip orifice of the at least one dispenser at a selected position with respect to the substrate, said control device comprising a planar location controller adapted to selectively position the tip orifice within a plane that is substantially parallel to the substrate. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, further comprising: c. a first means for selectively synchronizing the location control device with the actuator. 12. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one material dispenser further comprises a tip chamber communicating with the tip orifice, the outlet of the at least one feed channel being disposed within the tip chamber, and wherein the valve comprises a sealing valve sized and shaped to substantially block the flow of material through the outlet and which is moveable between an open position, in which material is permitted to flow through the tip orifice, and a closed position, in which material is not permitted to flow through the tip orifice. 13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the sealing valve is positioned at least partially within the outlet when the sealing valve is in its closed position. 14. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the sealing valve is positioned within the tip chamber and between the outlet and the tip orifice when the sealing valve is in its open position. 15. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the sealing valve comprises a valve tip sized and shaped to substantially seal the tip orifice against the flow of material therethrough. 16. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the sealing valve further comprises a needle valve. 17. The apparatus of claim 16, further comprising a dispense valve actuation assembly comprising: a. the needle valve; b. a piston operably coupled to the needle valve; and c. a piston actuator operably coupled to the piston for moving the needle valve between an open position and a closed position, wherein the flow of materials through the tip orifice is substantially stopped when the needle valve is in the closed position. 18. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one material dispenser further comprises a tip chamber communicating with the tip orifice, the outlet of the at least one feed channel being disposed within the tip chamber, and wherein the valve comprises a sealing valve having a first closed position in which the sealing valve is at least partially received within the outlet of the at least one fed channel and a second open position in which the sealing valve is at least partially disposed within the tip chamber of the dispenser for controlling the flow of the material through the at least one feed chamber. 19. An apparatus for depositing a material on a substrate, comprising: a. at least one material dispenser, comprising: i. a tip orifice defining an opening through which the material exits the dispenser, ii. at least one elongate feed channel having an inlet and a spaced outlet adjacent the tip orifice, the at least one feed channel having material therein and being sized and shaped so that the material therein may flow through the at least one channel from the inlet to the outlet, and iii. a valve for controlling the flow of material through the outlet of the at least one feed channel, the valve being moveable between an open position, in which material is permitted to flow through the outlet, and a closed position, in which material is not permitted to flow through the outlet, and iv. an actuator operatively coupled to the valve for selectively moving the valve between the open position and the closed position, b. at least one location control device adapted to position the tip orifice of the at least one dispenser at a selected position with respect to the substrate, said control device comprising a planar location controller adapted to selectively position the tip orifice within a plane that is substantially parallel to the substrate, and c. a first means for selectively synchronizing the location control device with the actuator; wherein the at least one location control device further comprises a linear location controller adapted to selectively position the tip orifice along a direction that is substantially perpendicular to the plane. 20. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the location control device further comprises a second means for selectively synchronizing the planar location controller with the linear location controller. 21. An apparatus for depositing a material on a substrate, comprising: a. at least one material dispenser, comprising: i. a tip orifice defining an opening through which the material exits the dispenser, ii. at least one elongate feed channel having an inlet and a spaced outlet adjacent the tip orifice, the at least one feed channel having material therein and being sized and shaped so that the material therein may flow through the at least one channel from the inlet to the outlet, and iii. a valve for controlling the flow of material through the outlet of the at least one feed channel, the valve being moveable between an open position, in which material is permitted to flow through the outlet, and a closed position, in which material is not permitted to flow through the outlet, and iv. an actuator operatively coupled to the valve for selectively moving the valve between the open position and the closed position, b. at least one location control device adapted to position the tip orifice of the at least one dispenser at a selected position with respect to the substrate, said control device comprising a planar location controller adapted to selectively position the tip orifice within a plane that is substantially parallel to the substrate, and c. a first means for selectively synchronizing the location control device with the actuator; wherein the at least one material dispenser further comprises a tip chamber communicating with the tip orifice, the outlet of the at least one feed channel being disposed within the tip chamber, and wherein the valve comprises a sealing valve sized and shaped to substantially block the flow of material through the outlet and which is moveable between an open position, in which material is permitted to flow through the tip orifice, and a closed position, in which material is not permitted to flow through the tip orifice. 22. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein the sealing valve is positioned at least partially within the outlet when the sealing valve is in its closed position. 23. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein the sealing valve is positioned within the tip chamber and between the outlet and the tip orifice when the sealing valve is in its open position. 24. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein the sealing valve comprises a valve tip sized and shaped to substantially seal the tip orifice against the flow of material therethrough. 25. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein the sealing valve further comprises a needle valve. 26. The apparatus of claim 25, further comprising a dispense valve actuation assembly comprising: a. the needle valve; b. a piston operably coupled to the needle valve; and c. a piston actuator operably coupled to the piston for moving the needle valve between an open position and a closed position, wherein the flow of material through the tip orifice is substantially stopped when the needle valve is in the closed position. 27. An apparatus for depositing a material on a substrate, comprising: a. at least one material dispenser, comprising: i. a tip orifice defining an opening through which the material exits the dispenser, ii. at least one elongate feed channel having an inlet and a spaced outlet adjacent the tip orifice, the at least one feed channel having material therein and being sized and shaped so that the material therein may flow through the at least one channel from the inlet to the outlet, and iii. a valve for controlling the flow of material through the outlet of the at least one feed channel, the valve being moveable between an open position, in which material is permitted to flow through the outlet, and a closed position, in which material is not permitted to flow through the outlet, and iv. an actuator operatively coupled to the valve for selectively moving the valve between the open position and the closed position, b. at least one location control device adapted to position the tip orifice of the at least one dispenser at a selected position with respect to the substrate, said control device comprising a planar location controller adapted to selectively position the tip orifice within a plane that is substantially parallel to the substrate, and c. a first means for selectively synchronizing the location control device with the actuator; wherein the at least one material dispenser further comprises a tip chamber communicating with the tip orifice, the outlet of the at least one feed channel being disposed within the tip chamber, and wherein the valve comprises a sealing valve having a first closed position in which the sealing valve is at least partially received within the outlet of the at least one feed channel and a second open position in which the sealing valve is at least partially disposed within the tip chamber of the dispenser for controlling the flow of the material through the at least one feed chamber. 28. An apparatus for depositing a material on a substrate, comprising: a. at least one material dispenser, comprising: i. a tip orifice defining an opening through which the material exits the dispenser, ii. at least one elongate feed channel having an inlet and a spaced outlet adjacent the tip orifice, the at least one feed channel having material therein and being sized and shaped so that the material therein may flow through the at least one channel from the inlet to the outlet, and iii. a valve for controlling the flow of material through the outlet of the at least one feed channel, the valve being moveable between an open position, in which material is permitted to flow through the outlet, and a closed position, in which material is not permitted to flow through the outlet, and iv. an actuator operatively coupled to the valve for selectively moving the valve between the open position and the closed position, b. at least one location control device adapted to position the tip orifice of the at least one dispenser at a selected position with respect to the substrate, said control device comprising a planar location controller adapted to selectively position the tip orifice within a plane that is substantially parallel to the substrate, and c. a first means for selectively synchronizing the location control device with the actuator; wherein the tip orifice comprises a capillary tube, sized and shaped so that the material is deposited on the substrate by capillary action. 29. An apparatus for depositing a material on a substrate, comprising: a. at least one material dispenser, comprising: i. a tip orifice defining an opening through which the material exits the dispenser, ii. at least one elongate feed channel having an inlet and a spaced outlet adjacent the tip orifice, the at least one feed channel having material therein and being sized and shaped so that the material therein may flow through the at least one channel from the inlet to the outlet, and iii. a valve for controlling the flow of material through the outlet of the at least one feed channel, the valve being moveable between an open position, in which material is permitted to flow through the outlet, and a closed position, in which material is not permitted to flow through the outlet, and iv. an actuator operatively coupled to the valve for selectively moving the valve between the open position and the closed position, b. at least one location control device adapted to position the tip orifice of the at least one dispenser at a selected position with respect to the substrate, said control device comprising a planar location controller adapted to selectively position the tip orifice within a plane that is substantially parallel to the substrate, and c. a first means for selectively synchronizing the location control device with the actuator, wherein the tip chamber further comprises a longitudinal axis along a path of material flow from the proximal end toward the distal end. 30. The apparatus of claim 29, wherein the inner surface of the tip chamber is substantially circular in cross section taken perpendicular to the longitudinal axis. 31. The apparatus of claim 30, wherein the inner surface of the tip chamber is tapered at an angle in the range from about 20.degree. to about 45.degree. measured from the longitudinal axis to the inner surface. 32. The apparatus of claim 31, wherein the inner surface of the tip chamber is tapered at an angle in the range from about 25.degree. to about 40.degree. measured from the longitudinal axis to the inner surface. 33. The apparatus of claim 32, wherein the inner surface of the tip chamber is tapered at an angle of about 32.degree. measured from the longitudinal axis to the inner surface. 34. An apparatus for depositing a material on a substrate, comprising at least one material dispenser, the material dispenser comprising: a. a tip orifice defining an opening through which the material exits the dispenser, b. a tip chamber, the tip chamber comprising: i. a proximal end defining a proximal orifice, ii. a spaced distal end defining the tip orifice, the tip orifice being smaller than the proximal orifice, and iii. a substantially continuous inner surface, the inner surface extending between the proximal end and the distal end and being tapered from the proximal end toward the distal end; wherein the tip chamber further comprises a longitudinal axis along a path of material flow from the proximal end toward the distal end, wherein the inner surface of the tip chamber is tapered at an angle in the range from about 20.degree. to about 45.degree. measured from the longitudinal axis to the inner surface. 35. The apparatus of claim 34, wherein the inner surface of the tip chamber is tapered at an angle in the range from about 25.degree. to about 40.degree. measured from the longitudinal axis to the inner surface. 36. The apparatus of claim 35, wherein the inner surface of the tip chamber is tapered at an angle of about 32.degree. measured from the longitudinal axis to the inner surface. 