A method for identifying at least a section of a first schematic associated with at least a section of a second schematic wherein each of the first and second schematics includes a set of components for configuring a system to perform a process and wherein the components of the first and second schematics are first and second different types, respectively, the method comprising the steps of identifying the components of the first type included in the first section of the first schematic, examining the second schematic to identify at least one instance of components of the second type that are associated with the identified components of the first type and when at least one instance of components of the second type is identified, rendering the at least one instance accessible.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for identifying at least a section of a first schematic associated with at least a section of a second schematic wherein each of the first and second schematics includes a set of components for configuring a system to perform a process and wherein the components of the first and second schematics are first and second different types, respectively, the method comprising the steps of: a) identifying the components of the first type included in the first section of the first schematic; b) examining the second schematic to identify at least one instance of components of the second type that are associated with the identified components of the first type; and c) when at least one instance of components of the second type is identified, rendering the at least one instance accessible. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the first and second schematics include schematic icons of first and second types, respectively, and wherein the step of identifying the components of the first type includes identifying the icons in the first section of the first schematic. 3. The method of claim 2 further including the step of providing a specification that associates icons of the first type with icons of the second type and wherein the step of examining the second schematic includes using the specification to identify icons of the second type that are associated with the identified icons of the first type and searching the second schematic for the identified icons of the second type. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein the first schematic is a mechanical schematic including icons corresponding to mechanical components in an automated facility and the second schematic is an electrical schematic associated with the mechanical schematic and including icons corresponding to electrical components used to control mechanical components in an automated facility. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein the step of providing a specification includes providing a set of templates, each template including a mechanical template icon subset corresponding to mechanical components and an electrical template icon sub-set corresponding to electrical components for controlling the components associated with the icons in the mechanical template set, the step of identifying icons in the first schematic including identifying at least one mechanical template sub-set in the mechanical schematic. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein at least a sub-set of the templates include child template specifications, each child template specification indicating possible inclusion of at least one other template. 7. The method of claim 5 wherein at least a sub-set of the templates also specify at least one relationship between the mechanical template sub-set icons and wherein the step of identifying the at least one mechanical template sub-set within the mechanical schematic further includes identifying the at least one relationship between mechanical schematic icons. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein the at least one relationship specifies a spatial juxtaposition of the mechanical template sub-set icons and the step of identifying the at least one relationship includes determining the spatial juxtaposition of the mechanical schematic icons. 9. The method of claim 7 wherein the at least one relationship specifies at least one schematic linkage between mechanical template sub-set icons and wherein the step of identifying the at least one relationship includes identifying the at least one schematic linkage between the mechanical schematic icons. 10. The method of claim 5 wherein the step of using the specification includes accessing the electrical template sub-set in the identified template. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein the step of examining includes scanning the second record for at least one instance of the accessed electrical template sub-set. 12. The method of claim 11 wherein the identified template also specifies at least one relationship between electrical template sub-set icons and wherein the step of scanning includes scanning the electrical schematic for at least one instance of the accessed electrical template sub-set where the electrical template sub-set icons are characterized by the at least one relationship. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein the relationship is based on the spatial juxtaposition of the electrical template sub-set icons. 14. The method of claim 12 wherein the relationship is based on at least one schematic linkage between the electrical template sub-set icons. 15. The method of claim 12 wherein the electrical schematics comprise a plurality of schematic pages and wherein the relationship is a function of the pages on which the electrical template sub-set icons appear. 16. The method of claim 11 wherein the first schematic includes a plurality of icon sub-sets corresponding to mechanical template sub-sets specified by the templates and wherein the process is performed for each of the plurality of icon sub-sets in the mechanical schematic. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein the step of rendering accessible includes storing correlating information in a database for subsequent use that correlates mechanical template sub-sets in the first schematic with specific instances of electrical template sub-sets in the second schematic. 18. The method of claim 16 wherein, for at least one of the mechanical template sub-sets in the mechanical schematic there is no corresponding electrical template sub-set in the electrical schematic and, wherein the method further includes the steps of, for the at least one mechanical template sub-set in the mechanical schematic for which there is no corresponding electrical template sub-set in the electrical schematic, performing a secondary function. 19. The method of claim 18 wherein the secondary function includes indicating that there is no electrical template sub-set in the electrical schematic for the at least one mechanical template sub-set. 20. The method of claim 19 for use with a visual interface wherein the step of indicating includes displaying the at least one mechanical template sub-set in the mechanical schematic for which there is no corresponding electrical template sub-set in the electrical schematic in a distinguishing manner. 21. The method of claim 18 wherein the secondary function includes using the electrical template sub-set associated with the at least one mechanical template sub-set to identify a suitable electrical icon sub-set for the at least one mechanical template sub-set. 22. The method of claim 21 wherein the secondary function further includes providing the suitable electronic icon sub-set to a system user as a suggestion to be added to the electronic schematic. 23. The method of claim 21 wherein the secondary function further includes using the suitable electronic icon sub-set to augment the electrical schematic. 24. The method of claim 23 further including the step of, after augmenting the electrical schematic, indicating the augmented portion of the electrical schematic in a distinguishable manner. 25. The method of claim 23 further including the step of, after augmenting the electrical schematic, indicating the at least one mechanical template sub-set icons in the mechanical schematic in a distinguishing manner. 26. The method of claim 16 wherein, for at least some mechanical icons in the mechanical schematic there are no templates and, wherein, the method further includes the step of identifying mechanical icons in the mechanical schematic for which there are no templates. 27. The method of claim 26 further including the step of indicating in a distinguishing manner the mechanical icons for which there are no templates. 28. The method of claim 27 further including the steps of providing tools to enable a system user to define electrical icons corresponding to the mechanical icons for which there are no templates and to add the defined electronic icons to the electrical schematics. 29. The method of claim 28 further including the steps of enabling the system user to store the defined electronic icons and the associated mechanical icons as a new template for subsequent use. 30. The method of claim 1 for use with a visual interface wherein the step of identifying the components of the first type included in the first section of the first schematic includes displaying at least a portion of the first schematic section via the interface and receiving a selection command via the interface. 31. The method of claim 30 wherein the step of rendering accessible includes displaying at least a portion of the second schematic section via the interface. 32. The method of claim 31 wherein the second schematic section is part of a larger segment of the second schematic and wherein the step of displaying the second section includes displaying the second section in a distinguishing fashion within the larger segment. 33. The method of claim 1 wherein, for at least a sub-set of the identified components of the first type included in the first section of the first schematic there are at least two instances of the components of the second type that are associated with the identified components of the first type and wherein the step of rendering accessible includes indicating each of the at least two instances of the components of the second type. 34. The method of claim 33 further including the step of providing a selection tool to enable a system user to designate one of the at least two instances of the components of the second type. 35. A method for use with pre-existing electronically stored electrical and mechanical schematics where the electrical schematic indicates a control system to be used to control mechanical components corresponding to the mechanical schematics, the method comprising the steps of: a) providing at least one electronic visual display screen; b) displaying at least a segment of the mechanical schematics via the at least one display screen; c) when at least one mechanical component is selected on the mechanical schematics, identifying components on the electrical schematics associated with the selected mechanical component on the mechanical schematic; and d) displaying at least the identified electrical components via the at least one display screen. 36. The method of claim 35 further including the step of providing a specification that associates electrical components with mechanical components controllable by the electrical components and wherein the step of identifying components on the electrical schematics includes using the specification to associate mechanical schematic components with electrical schematic components. 37. The method of claim 36 wherein the step of associating is performed prior to step (b). 38. The method of claim 36 wherein the step of associating is performed after the at least one mechanical component is selected. 39. A method for use with pre-existing electronically stored electrical and mechanical schematics where the electrical schematic indicates a control system to be used to control mechanical components corresponding to the mechanical schematics, the method comprising the steps of: a) providing a specification that associates electrical components with mechanical components controllable by the electrical components wherein the specification includes a set of templates where each template includes a mechanical template icon sub-set and an associated electrical template icon sub-set where the electrical icon sub-set includes icons corresponding to electrical components for controlling mechanical components corresponding to the mechanical template icon sub-set; b) providing a visual interface; c) displaying at least a segment of the mechanical schematics via the interface; d) when at least one mechanical component is selected on the mechanical schematics, identifying components on the electrical schematics associated with the selected mechanical component on the mechanical schematic, the step of identifying components on the electrical schematics including using the specification to associate mechanical schematic components with electrical schematic components; and e) displaying at least the identified electrical components. 40. A method for identifying at least a section of a first schematic associated with at least a section of a second schematic wherein each of the first and second schematics includes a set of components for configuring a system to perform a process and wherein the components of the first and second schematics are first and second different types, respectively, the method comprising the steps of: a) identifying the components of the first type included in the first section of the first schematic; b) using a processor to perform the steps of: (1) examining the second schematic to identify at least one instance of components of the second type that are associated with the identified components of the first type; and (2) when at least one instance of components of the second type is identified, rendering the at least one instance accessible. 