A motion sensing system utilizing piezoelectric laminates with predetermined surface electrode patterns disposed thereon utilizes a frequency selector to pass motion waves of predetermined frequencies and an electrical circuit for processing the electrical signals for transmission to an activating device for appropriate activation. In particular, the frequency selector is a low frequency bandpass filter for free-fall acceleration wave frequencies. By directing appropriate action, the present invention increases the applicability of the device upon which it is mounted (e.g., for military or other hostile environment use), decreases the possibility of damage, and lengthens its useful life.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for sensing wave motion utilizing piezoelectric laminates having a distributed surface electrode modal sensor array disposed thereon, comprising the steps of: generating said distributed surface electrode modal sensor array utilizing a normal made expansion; determining the boundary conditions responsive to the shape of the piezoelectric laminates; spatially filtering the wave motion to generate a characteristic polynomial wave transmission spatial bandpass filter; and adjusting the frequency response of the spatial bandpass filter to increase the bandwidth; thereby providing a method for detection of different types of wave motions. 2. A method for sensing wave motion utilizing piezoelectric laminates having a distributed surface electrode modal sensor array disposed thereon, comprising the steps of: collecting the charge generated by deformations in the piezoelectric laminates utilizing the distributed surface electrode modal sensor array to generate a characteristic wave; spatial modal filtering said characteristic wave to generate characteristic electrical signals; parallel processing said characteristic electrical signals to determine the motion sensed. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein said spatial modal filtering step utilizes a wave mode formulation and a dispersion relation, thereby generating transfer functions for said distributed surface electrode modal sensor array having an amplitude response substantially similar to low-pass filter. 4. A sensing method of sensing the vibration of a targeted structure, comprising the steps of: (a) sensing the vibration as a wave motion utilizing a least a layer of piezoelectric lamina sensor having a plurality of electrodes disposed thereon; (b) utilizing a spatial wave filter coupled to the said piezoelectric lamina and electrodes, responsive to the back and forth propagation of the wave transfer on said piezoelectric laminate sensor, and weighting said spatial wave filter responsive to the width of said piezoelectric laminate sensor, said filtered wave transfer upon reaching the boundary of said piezoelectric laminate sensor undergoing a boundary condition phase change; (c) transmitting the wave motion-generated electrical signal by the said piezoelectric lamina to a interface circuit, wherein said electric circuit transmits an activation signal responsive to an active device. 5. The sensing method of claim 4 further comprising the step of utilizing the "method of image" to convert a limited space wave to an unlimited space wave. 6. The sensing method of claim 5 wherein said method of image generate a wave retaining the same phase at the free end and a 180.degree. phase change at the fixed end, thereby avoiding phase delay. 