A method of processing objects using a bilateral architecture. The method comprises the steps of: arranging a plurality of instruments around a bi-directional conveyance device, the instruments spaced at fixed pitch intervals along the conveyor device; assigning dedicated movers to each of the instruments, the dedicated movers for loading and unloading of the objects to and from the instruments and the conveyance device; and controlling the operation of the conveyance device to have an interrupted motion, the interrupted motion for co-ordinating the loading and unloading of the objects; wherein the dedicated movers are positioned such that adjacent movers operate independently of one another. The method can be operated on an automated robotic system having a modular architecture. The system comprises; a backbone having a plurality of backbone connectors; a module having a module connector for releasably coupling with a respective one of the backbone connectors; a bi-directional motion device connected to the backbone, the motion device for presenting an object adjacent to the module when the module is coupled to the backbone; a connection interface formable by coupling the backbone and module connectors, the connection interface for providing an operation coupling between the backbone and the module when adjacent thereto; wherein the connection interface provides a repeatable connection and disconnection capability between the backbone and the module for ready reconfiguration of the modular architecture.
Claims The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows: 1. An automated robotic system having a modular architecture, the system comprising: a) a backbone having a plurality of backbone connectors; b) a module having a module connector for releasably coupling with a respective one of the backbone connectors; c) a bi-directional motion device connected to the backbone, the motion device for presenting an object adjacent to the module when the module is coupled to the backbone; d) a connection interface formable by coupling the backbone and module connectors, the connection interface for providing an operational coupling between the backbone and the module when adjacent thereto; wherein the connection interface provides a repeatable connection and disconnection capability between the backbone and the module for ready reconfiguration of the modular architecture. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the connection interface when formed provides an operational interface between the backbone and the module, the operational interface selected from the group comprising; a mechanical alignment device, an electrical connection, a pneumatic connection, and a supply resource connection. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein the backbone connector is a first docking connector and the module connector is a second docking connector. 4. The system of claim 2, wherein the backbone connector is a set of cables and the module connector is a receptor adapted to connect with the cables. 5. The system of claim 2, wherein the module connector is a set of cables and the backbone connector is a receptor adapted to connect with the cables. 6. The system of claim 1 further comprising a plurality of the modules having respective module connectors, the plurality of modules coupled along the backbone. 7. The system of claim 6, wherein the motion device is a central linear object transport, the transport adapted to be used in conjunction with a plurality of local movers for transferring the transported objects from the transport to the modules. 8. The system of claim 7 further comprising a process instrument mounted on each of the modules. 9. The system of claim 8, wherein the local movers are mounted on the modules as a plurality of respective dedicated movers for each of the instruments, the dedicated movers for transferring the transported objects from the transport to their respective instrument. 10. The system of claim 8, wherein the local movers are mounted on the transport as central movers, the central movers for transferring transported objects between process instruments. 11. The system of claim 8 further comprising a plurality of movers mounted on the modules, the modules mounted along the length of the central transport in a fixed pitch arrangement, the fixed pitch arrangement for inhibiting interference between adjacent movers when transferring a respective one of the objects by each of the movers between the central transport and the respective instrument. 12. The system of claim 8 further comprising a plurality of movers mounted on the central transport, the movers mounted along the length of the central transport in a fixed pitch arrangement, the fixed pitch arrangement for inhibiting interference between adjacent movers when transferring a respective one of the objects by each of the movers between the central transport and the respective instrument. 13. The system of claim 6, wherein the arrangement of the modules provides a one-sided modular architecture. 14. The system of claim 6, wherein the arrangement of the modules provides a two-sided modular architecture with opposing modules on either side of the backbone. 15. The system of claim 6, wherein the motion device is an articulated robot. 16. The system of claim 6, wherein the motion device is a robot mounted on a linear track. 17. The system of claim 1 further comprising a rack mounting connected to at least one end of the backbone, the rack mounting for coupling electronic equipment to the backbone. 18. The system of claim 1, wherein the motion device is adapted to transport lab containers. 19. The system of claim 18, wherein the processing of samples in the lab containers is performed directly on the motion device. 20. The system of claim 18, wherein the processing of the samples is selected from the group comprising; delidding, barcode reading, and dispensing liquids. 21. The system of claim 20 further comprising a plurality of the modules having respective module connectors, the plurality of modules coupled along the backbone to respective backbone connectors. 22. The system of claim 21 further comprising a process instrument mounted on each of the modules. 23. The system of claim 22 further comprising individual local stacking units beside each of the instruments, the stacking units to provide destacking and restacking of the containers between the respective instrument and the stacking device transported by the motion device. 24. The system of claim 23, wherein each of the stacking units contains an empty, stationary stack so that the containers, once processed by the respective instrument, can be stacked into the empty stack, and then subsequently re-stacked into the original stacking device so that the order of the containers is preserved. 25. The system of claim 18 further comprising a stacking device for containing a plurality of the containers in a selected order. 26. The system of claim 25 further comprising a gripper attached to a mover for maintaining a grasp of the stacking device. 27. The system of claim 1 further comprising adjustable shims connected to a table surface of the module, the adjustable shims for bringing instruments to a common datum for loading. 28. The system of claim 1 for processing of the objects in applications selected from the group comprising; drug discovery, genomics, proteomics, combi-chem, ADME/Tox, and lab processing. 29. The system of claim 1, wherein the module further comprises a table with a support structure. 30. The system of claim 29, wherein the support structure is a self-contained structure capable of being used as a stand-alone or interconnected modular unit. 31. The system of claim 29 further comprising a table top of the table that can be lowered to a variety of selected heights. 32. The system of claim 29, wherein the module has a modular electrical power supply connection. 33. The system of claim 32, wherein the module further has a self-contained processing power and intelligence. 34. The system of claim 29, wherein the module has a bottom shelf that can be removed to accommodate storage under the table. 35. The system of claim 29, wherein the support structure can be disassembled and flat-packed. 36. The system of claim 29, wherein the module further comprises wheels and feet to allow both transport and levelling of the table on a supporting surface. 37. The system of claim 29, wherein the connection interface provides a hot-pluggability feature, such that an instrument associated with the module can be connected and disconnected while the system is running. 38. The system of claim 1, wherein the connection interface is a universal interface. 39. The system of claim 1, wherein the backbone is modular, such that the backbone further comprises a plurality of components, each of the components having a motion device connection interface for operationally coupling each of the components to form the backbone. 40. The system of claim 1 further comprising a plurality of controllers monitored by a host computer, the controllers for monitoring the operation of a series of local movers and the motion device. 41. The system of claim 40, wherein the controllers and the host computer form a central mover network, the central mover network for coordinating the simultaneous operation of the local movers and the central motion device. 42. The system of claim 41, wherein the controllers include a master controller and a plurality of slave controllers. 43. The system of claim 42, wherein each of the slave controllers have safety circuitry for emergency stop control. 44. The system of claim 40, wherein each of the controllers communicates on Ethernet protocol. 45. The system of claim 40, wherein each controller is adapted to control a predefined number of local movers. 46. A method of processing objects using a bilateral architecture, the method comprising the steps of: a) arranging a plurality of instruments around a bi-directional conveyance device, the instruments spaced at fixed pitch intervals along the conveyance device; b) assigning dedicated movers to each of the instruments, the dedicated movers for loading and unloading of the objects to and from the instruments and the conveyance device; and c) controlling the operation of the conveyance device to have an interrupted motion, the interrupted motion for coordinating the loading and unloading of the objects; wherein the dedicated movers are positioned such that adjacent movers operate independently of one another. 47. The method of claim 46, wherein the movement of the objects between the instruments further comprises the steps of: a) transferring one of the objects from a selected one of the instruments to the conveyance device; b) conveying the transferred objects by the conveyance device to a subsequent one of the instruments; c) stopping the transport of the conveyance device; and d) transferring another of the objects from the conveyance to the subsequent instrument. 48. The method of claim 47, wherein the conveyance device does not move unless there is at least one object on the device. 49. The method of claim 48, wherein for multiple instruments and objects, steps (a) and (d) are performed simultaneously. 50. The method of claim 49, wherein for multiple objects are in motion at the same time on the conveyance device. 51. The method of claim 47, wherein the displacement of the object between the conveyance device and the instrument by a dedicated mover is done simultaneously with movement of the conveyance device, the movement of the conveyance device being interrupted when the object is exchanged between the mover and the conveyance device. 