A manipulator comprises an operation command unit provided with an attitude adjusting unit and an end effector control unit, a connecting unit having one end connected to the operation command unit, a working unit connected to the other end of the connecting unit and provided with an end effector and a support unit supporting the end effector for motions, and a control unit that transmits an operation command provided by the attitude adjusting unit to the support unit to adjust the attitude of the end effector and transmits an operation command provided by the end effector control unit to the end effector to operate the end effector. The support unit includes a first joint capable of turning about a first axis perpendicular to the center axis of the connecting unit, and a second joint capable of turning about a second axis perpendicular to the first axis. The end effector can be turned for rolling about an axis substantially parallel to the second axis of the second joint. The attitude adjusting unit has a third joint having a third axis perpendicular to the center line of the connecting unit. The end effector control unit is formed such that the fingers of an operator gripping operating members included in the end effector control unit extend substantially in parallel to the fourth axis.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A manipulator comprising: an operation command unit including an attitude adjusting unit and an end effector control unit; a connecting unit having one end connected to the operation command unit; a working unit connected to the other end of the connecting unit and including an end effector and a support unit supporting the end effector for motions in at least two degrees of freedom of motion; and a control unit configured to transmit an operation command provided by the attitude adjusting unit to the support unit to adjust the attitude of the end effector and configured to transmit an operation command provided by the end effector control unit to the end effector to operate the end effector; wherein the support unit includes a first joint configured to turn about a first axis perpendicular to a center axis of the connecting unit, and a second joint configured to turn about a second axis perpendicular to the first axis, and the end effector includes a center axis substantially parallel to the second axis. 2. The manipulator according to claim 1, wherein the center axis, the first axis and the second axis intersect each other at a single point. 3. A manipulator comprising: an operation command unit including an attitude adjusting unit and an end effector control unit; a connecting unit having one end connected to the operation command unit; a working unit connected to the other end of the connecting unit and including an end effector and a support unit configured to support the end effector for motions in at least two degrees of freedom of motion; and a control unit configured to transmit an operation command provided by the attitude adjusting unit to the support unit to adjust the attitude of the end effector and configured to transmit an operation command provided by the end effector control unit to the end effector to operate the end effector; wherein the support unit includes a first joint configured to turn about a first axis perpendicular to a center axis of the connecting unit, and a second joint configured to turn about a second axis perpendicular to the first axis, and the end effector control unit includes a handle part configured to be gripped by fingers and a longitudinal direction is substantially in parallel to the first axis. 4. The manipulator according to claim 3, wherein the end effector includes a center axis, and the center axis, the first axis and the second axis intersect each other at a single point. 5. A manipulator comprising: an operation command unit including an attitude adjusting unit and an end effector control unit; a connecting unit having one end connected to the operation command unit; a working unit connected to the other end of the connecting unit and including an end effector and a support unit configured to support the end effector for motions in at least two degrees of freedom of motion; and a control unit configured to transmit an operation command provided by the attitude adjusting unit to the support unit to adjust the attitude of the end effector and configured to transmit an operation command provided by the end effector control unit to the end effector to operate the end effector; and a driving unit including a first driving device, a second driving device and a third driving device and the first driving device, the second driving device and the third driving device have a longitudinal outside shape, and an axis of the longitudinal outside shape is parallel each other between the first driving device, the second driving device and the third driving device; wherein the support unit includes a first joint configured to turn about a first axis perpendicular to a center axis of the connecting unit, and a second joint configured to turn about a second axis perpendicular to the first axis, and the driving unit is configured to drive the first joint and the second joint, and is configured to turn and drive the end effector. 6. The manipulator according to claim 5, wherein the end effector includes a center axis, and the center axis, the first axis and the second axis intersect each other at a single point. 7. The manipulator according to claim 5, wherein the driving unit is disposed between the operation command unit and the connecting unit. 