A robotic positioning system that cooperates with a sensing system to correct robot motion is provided. The sensing system is decoupled from the sensors used conventionally to control the robot's motion, thereby providing repeatable detection of the robot's true position. In one embodiment, the positioning system includes a robot, a controller, a motor sensor and a decoupled sensor. The robot has at least one motor for manipulating a linkage controlling the displacement of a substrate support coupled thereto. The motor sensor is provides the controller with motor actuation information utilized to move the substrate support. The decoupled sensor provides information indicative of the true position the substrate support that may be utilized to correct the robot's motion.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic system comprising: a robot having at least one motor for manipulating a linkage controlling the displacement of a substrate support coupled thereto; at least one sensor onboard the robot for providing substrate support displacement information utilized to position the substrate support; and at least one sensor decoupled from the robot for providing substrate support displacement information for correcting the position of the substrate support. 2. The robotic system of claim 1, wherein the decoupled sensor is positioned to detect presence of the substrate support in a predetermined position, wherein the predetermined position is different than a taught position. 3. The robotic system of claim 1, wherein the decoupled sensor is positioned to detect the rotational orientation of the substrate support. 4. The robotic system of claim 1, wherein the decoupled sensor is positioned to detect the elevation of the substrate support. 5. The robotic system of claim 1, wherein the decoupled sensor is positioned to detect the extension of the substrate support. 6. The robotic system of claim 1, wherein the decoupled sensor is adapted to detect the lateral movement of a central axis of the robot about which the substrate support is rotated. 7. The robotic system of claim 6 further comprising: a flag fixed in orientation relative to the central axis of the robot and orientated in a position that causes a change in state of the decoupled sensor when the central axis of the robot is moved through a pre-defined position. 8. The robotic sensing system of claim 7, wherein the decoupled sensor is an optical sensor. 9. The robotic system of claim 8, wherein the decoupled sensor comprises: an admitter and receiver disposed in a spaced-apart relation; and wherein the flag is coupled to the robot in a position where it may be moved between the admitter and receiver when the robot is in the predefined position. 10. The robotic system of claim 9, wherein the decoupled sensor is selected from the group of sensors consisting of an optical sensor, a capacitor sensor, a Hall effect sensor, an inductive sensor, a mechanical limit switch, an image capturing device and a magnetic sensor. 11. The robotic system of claim 1 further comprising: a bracket coupled to the robot and having a sensor mounting portion disposed in a spaced-apart relation relative to the central axis of the robot. 12. The robotic system of claim 1, wherein the decoupled sensor is positioned to detect at least one positional attribute of the substrate support selected from the group consisting of elevation, extension or angular position of the substrate support. 13. The robot system of claim 1, wherein the decoupled sensor is fixed in the factory interface in a spaced-apart relation relative to the robot, and wherein the decoupled sensor further comprises a bank of sensors configured to detect at least one positional attribute of the substrate support selected from the group consisting of elevation, extension or angular position of the substrate support, and wherein the position is different than a taught position of the robot. 14. The robotic system of claim 1, wherein the decoupled sensor is positioned to detect presence of the substrate support in a predetermined position, wherein the predetermined position is disposed between a first taught position and a second taught position. 15. The robotic system of claim 1 further comprising: a second robot having a substrate support coupled thereto by a linkage, wherein the decoupled sensor is position to detect the presence of one of the substrate supports at a predefined position, and that the predefined position is within the range of substrate support motion of each robot. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein the decoupled sensor is stationary relative to the substrate support. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein the decoupled sensor is stationary relative to the robot. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein the decoupled sensor is coupled to a factory interface. 19. A robotic system comprising: a robot having at least one motor for manipulating a linkage controlling the displacement of a substrate support coupled thereto; at least one sensor onboard the robot for providing substrate support displacement information; wherein the robot has at least a bracket adapted to receive the sensor having a sensor mounting portion disposed in a spaced-apart relation relative to the central axis of the robot; and at least one sensor decoupled from the robot for providing substrate support displacement information for correcting the position of the substrate support, wherein the decoupled sensor is positioned to detect at least one positional attribute of the substrate support selected from the group consisting of elevation, extension, or angular position of the substrate support. 