A method of calibrating a laser marking system includes calibrating a laser marking system in three dimensions. The step of calibrating includes storing data corresponding to a plurality of heights. A position measurement of a workpiece is obtained to be marked. Stored calibration data is associated with the position measurement. A method and system for calibrating a laser processing or marking system is provided. The method includes: calibrating a laser marker over a marking field; obtaining a position measurement of a workpiece to be marked; associating stored calibration data with the position measurement; relatively positioning a marking beam and the workpiece based on at least the associated calibration data; and calibrating a laser marking system in at least three degrees of freedom. The step of calibrating includes storing data corresponding to a plurality of positions and controllably and relatively positioning a marking beam based on the stored data corresponding to the plurality of positions.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for laser marking of semiconductor wafers having a pattern on a first side of the wafers, and a second side of the wafers to be marked at predetermined locations relative to the pattern and within a marking field substantially smaller than the wafers, the system comprising: means for calibrating a marker means of the system; and means for controllably positioning a marking beam relative to the wafers based on the calibration. 2. The system as in claim 1 further comprising: an X-Y translator for relatively positioning the wafers and the marker means for calibrating; and means for calibrating the translator to the marker means. 3. In a laser based marking system for marking semiconductor substrates and the like, the system having a laser marker with a marking field which is substantially smaller than the substrate, a positioning subsystem having an X-Y stage for relatively positioning the marking field and the substrate, and an alignment vision subsystem separate from the marker for locating a feature on a substrate used to relatively position the substrate and marking field based on a location of the feature, a method for calibrating the system comprising: measuring a plurality of fiducials disposed on an alignment target with the alignment vision subsystem; calibrating the alignment vision subsystem based on the measured fiducials, the fiducials having predetermined locations; positioning the stage relative to the alignment target to calibrate the stage using data recording the movement of the stage and data obtained with the alignment vision subsystem, the calibration of the stage being performed subsequent to the step of calibrating the alignment vision system; positioning a test substrate to be marked; marking the substrate at a plurality of locations within the field to obtain marks; and measuring mark locations with a calibrated optical measurement system to obtain measurements and using the measurements to calibrate the laser marker wherein the system is calibrated. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein the predetermined locations of the fiducials disposed on the alignment target conform to an industry standard for measurement. 5. The method of claim 3 further comprising holding the alignment target stationary, wherein the X-Y stage positions at least one of marker and the alignment vision system. 6. The method of claim 3 wherein the spacing of the fiducials is about 2.5 mm and the alignment target includes a pattern for vision system alignment. 7. The method of claim 3 further comprising removing the calibration target from the system and replacing the calibration target with a test substrate to be marked, wherein the calibration target and the test substrate have a substantially identical dimension and are positioned within a common nest in the system. 8. The method of claim 3 further comprising moving the alignment target with the X-Y stage and holding the marker and alignment vision system stationary during the step of moving. 9. The method of claim 3 wherein the calibrated optical measurement system is the alignment vision subsystem. 10. The method of claim 3 wherein the calibrated optical measurement system is a metrology system having resolution substantially greater than spacing between the marks and greater than resolution of the alignment vision subsystem. 