A system for performing minimally invasive cardiac procedures. The system includes a pair of surgical instruments that are coupled to a pair of robotic arms. The instruments have end effectors that can be manipulated to hold and suture tissue. The robotic arms are coupled to a pair of master handles by a controller. The handles can be moved by the surgeon to produce a corresponding movement of the end effectors. The movement of the handles is scaled so that the end effectors have a corresponding movement that is different, typically smaller, than the movement performed by the hands of the surgeon. The scale factor is adjustable so that the surgeon can control the resolution of the end effector movement. The movement of the end effector can be controlled by an input button, so that the end effector only moves when the button is depressed by the surgeon. The input button allows the surgeon to adjust the position of the handles without moving the end effector, so that the handles can be moved to a more comfortable position. The system may also have a robotically controlled endoscope which allows the surgeon to remotely view the surgical site. A cardiac procedure can be performed by making small incisions in the patient's skin and inserting the instruments and endoscope into the patient. The surgeon manipulates the handles and moves the end effectors to perform a cardiac procedure such as a coronary artery bypass graft.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A medical robotic system, comprising: a robotic arm; a coupler that pivotally attaches to the arm; an endoscope that is held by said coupler; and a controller having a handle, the controller in electrical communication with the robotic arm; and wherein movement at the controller produces a proportional movement of the robotic arm and endoscope. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein said coupler removably attaches said endoscope to said robotic arm. 3. The system of claim 1 wherein a movement at the controller results in corresponding movement of the distal end of the endoscope. 4. The system of claim 1 wherein the coupler has an aperture formed therethrough. 5. A method for operating a surgical robotic system for performing a surgical procedure on a patient, the method comprising: 1) providing a first articulate arm, a controller and an input device which receives input commands, the first articulate arm in electrical communication with the controller and the controller in electrical communication with the input device; 2) cutting at least one incision into the patient; 3) attaching an endoscope to the first articulate arm; 4) inserting said endoscope into the patient through the at least one incision; 5) generating input commands to move said endoscope in accordance with the procedure being performed wherein said robotic arm moves said endoscope in accordance with the input commands; and 6) removing the endoscope from the patient. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein after removing the surgical instrument from the patient further comprises the steps of: 1) replacing the endoscope with a different surgical instrument; 2) inserting said different surgical instrument into the patient; 3) generating input commands to move the different surgical instrument in accordance with the procedure being performed wherein said robotic arm moves the different surgical instrument in accordance with the input commands; and 4) removing the different surgical instrument from the patient. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein said different surgical instrument is a grasper. 8. The method of claim 6 wherein the different surgical instrument is a stapler. 9. The method of claim 6 wherein the different surgical instrument is a cauterizer. 10. The method of claim 6 wherein the step of attaching the endoscope to an articulated arm comprises attaching the endoscope to a collar by passing a tip of the endoscope through the collar. 