A method for filling recessed microstructures at a surface of a microelectronic workpiece, such as a semiconductor wafer, with metallization is set forth. In accordance with the method, a metal layer is deposited into the microstructures with a process, such as an electroplating process, that generates metal grains that are sufficiently small so as to substantially fill the recessed microstructures. The deposited metal is subsequently subjected to an annealing process at a temperature below about 100 degrees Celsius, and may even take place at ambient room temperature to allow grain growth which provides optimal electrical properties. Various novel apparatus for executing unique annealing processes are also set forth.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An electro-chemical deposition system, comprising: a) a wafer transfer apparatus; b) a loading station disposed in connection with the wafer transfer apparatus; c) one or more processing cells disposed in connection with the wafer transfer apparatus; d) an electrolyte supply fluidly connected to the one or more processing cells; e) a wafer cleaner station disposed in connection with the wafer transfer apparatus; and f) a thermal anneal chamber disposed in connection with the wafer transfer apparatus. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the wafer cleaner is a rinse-dry chamber. 3. A system for depositing a layer on a substrate, comprising: at least one electrolyte processing cell; at least one annealing chamber; at least one substrate cleaner; and a substrate transfer apparatus adapted to access the electrolyte processing cell, the annealing chamber, and the substrate cleaner. 4. The system of claim 3, wherein the substrate cleaner is a rinse/dry chamber. 5. The system of claim 3, wherein the substrate transfer apparatus comprises a first robot positioned to access the substrate cleaner and the electrolyte processing cell, and a second robot positioned to access the substrate cleaner and the annealing chamber. 6. An electro-chemical deposition system, comprising: a) a mainframe having a mainframe wafer transfer robot; b) a loading station disposed in connection with the mainframe; c) one or more processing cells disposed in connection with the mainframe; d) an electrolyte supply fluidly connected to the one or more processing cells; e) a rinse-dry (RD) chamber disposed for access to the loading station; and f) a thermal anneal chamber disposed for access to the loading station. 