A packing system for articles. According to one embodiment of the invention, a receiving and dropping assembly comprising one or more doors that are displaceable between a holding configuration and a dropping configuration. The doors define a receptacle while in the holding configuration. The receptacle receives and holds an article, which is received by a leading edge of the article being guided by guide surfaces in the doors. The doors drop the article being held while in the dropping configuration. An output conveyor line receives the articles dropped by the receiving and dropping assembly. A controller controls the dropping and conveyance of the articles to convey the dropped articles along the output conveyor line in predetermined arrays. A pick-and-place robot system picks up the articles or arrays of articles from the output conveyor line and places the picked up articles in receptacles.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A packaging system, comprising: a receiving and dropping assembly comprising one or more doors that are displaceable between a holding configuration and a dropping configuration, the doors defining a receptacle in the holding configuration, the receptacle successively receiving, aligning, and holding each of a plurality of articles, and the doors dropping each of the aligned articles being held in the dropping configuration; an output conveyor line receiving the articles dropped by the receiving and dropping assembly; means for controlling the operation of said one or more doors in conjunction with controlled intermittent running of the output conveyor line to cause the dropped articles to be conveyed along the output conveyor line in predetermined arrays and so that, for each array, the articles in the array contact a conveying surface of the output line conveyor and are adjacently positioned with respect to each other along the conveying surface with adjacent articles in the array contacting each other, and so that arrays are spaced apart from each other; and means for picking up the articles or arrays of articles from the output conveyor line and placing the picked up articles in receptacles. 2. The packaging system of claim 1, wherein the output conveyor line comprises: a first conveyor receiving the articles from the receiving and dropping assembly, a second conveyor receiving articles from the first conveyor, the two conveyors being independently controllable with articles being placed on the second conveyor in predetermined arrays, and said means for controlling controls the intermittent running of the first conveyor to cause the dropped articles to be conveyed along the output conveyor line in the predetermined arrays. 3. The packaging system of claim 1, wherein the means for controlling controls displacement of the doors. 4. The packaging system of claim 1, further comprising a tray conveyor in parallel with, and adjacent to, the output conveyor line. 5. The packaging system of claim 1, wherein the means for picking up the articles or arrays of articles comprises a pick-and-place robot system having a plurality of axes of independent displacement. 6. A packaging system as in claim 1, wherein the arrays are shingled pairs. 7. A packaging system, comprising: a receiving and dropping assembly comprising one or more doors that are displaceable between a holding configuration and a dropping configuration, the doors defining a receptacle while in the holding configuration, the receptacle successively receiving, aligning, and holding each of a plurality of articles, and the doors dropping each of the aligned articles being held while in the dropping configuration; an output conveyor line receiving the articles dropped by the receiving and dropping assembly; a controller controlling dropping and conveyance of the articles to convey the dropped articles along the output conveyor line in predetermined arrays so that, for each array, the articles in the array contact a conveying surface of the output line conveyor and are adjacently positioned with respect to each other along the conveying surface with adjacent articles in the array contacting each other, and so that arrays are spaced apart from each other; and a pick-and-place robot system picking up the articles or arrays of articles from the output conveyor line and placing the picked up articles in receptacles. 8. A packaging system as in claim 7, wherein the arrays are shingled pairs. 9. A packaging system for a plurality of articles, each article having a leading edge and a trailing edge, the packaging system comprising: a receiving and dropping assembly comprising one or more doors that are displaceable between a holding configuration and a dropping configuration, said one or more doors tapering in a downward direction and defining a receptacle with a supporting surface and a pair of opposed guide surfaces in the holding configuration, the receptacle successively receiving each of the articles, each article being guided by the guide surfaces and supported by the supporting surface, and said one or more doors dropping each of the guided articles supported by the supporting surface in the dropping configuration; an output conveyor receiving the articles dropped by the receiving and dropping assembly; a controller controlling dropping and conveyance of the articles to convey the dropped articles along the output conveyor in predetermined arrays so that, for each array, the articles in the array contact a conveying surface of the output line conveyor and are adjacently positioned with respect to each other along the conveying surface with adjacent articles in the array contacting each other, and so that arrays are spaced apart from each other; and a pick-and-place robot system picking up the articles or arrays of articles from the output conveyor and placing the picked up articles in receptacles. 10. A packaging system as in claim 9, wherein the arrays are shingled pairs. 11. An apparatus comprising: a receiving and dropping assembly comprising doors that are displaceable between a holding configuration and a dropping configuration, the doors defining a receptacle while in the holding configuration, the receptacle successively receiving, aligning, and holding each of a plurality of articles, and the doors dropping each of the aligned articles being held while in the dropping configuration; an output conveyor line receiving the articles dropped by the receiving and dropping assembly; and a controller controlling dropping of the articles by the receiving and dropping assembly in conjunction with controlling conveyance of the articles by the output conveyor line to drop and convey the dropped articles along the output conveyor line in predetermined arrays so that, for each array, the articles in the array contact a conveying surface of the output line conveyor and are adjacently positioned with respect to each other along the conveying surface with adjacent articles in the array contacting each other, and so that arrays are spaced apart from each other. 12. An apparatus as in claim 11, wherein the arrays are shingled pairs. 13. An apparatus for use with a plurality of articles, each article having a leading edge and a trailing edge, the apparatus comprising: a receiving and dropping assembly comprising one or more doors that are displaceable between a holding configuration and a dropping configuration, said one or more doors tapering in a downward direction and defining a receptacle with a supporting surface and a pair of opposed guide surfaces in the holding configuration, the receptacle successively receiving each of the articles, each article being guided by the guide surfaces and supported by the supporting surface, and said one or more doors dropping each of the guided articles supported by the supporting surface in the dropping configuration; an output conveyor receiving the articles dropped by the receiving and dropping assembly; and a controller controlling dropping of the articles by the receiving and dropping assembly in conjunction with controlling conveyance of the articles by the output conveyor to drop and convey the dropped articles along the output conveyor in predetermined arrays so that, for each array, the articles in the array contact a conveying surface of the output conveyor and are adjacently positioned with respect to each other along the conveying surface with adjacent articles in the array contacting each other, and so that arrays are spaced apart from each other. 14. An apparatus as in claim 13, wherein the arrays are shingled pairs. 15. An apparatus comprising: a receiving and dropping assembly comprising movable doors which are controllable to be in a closed configuration and an open configuration, wherein, when in the closed configuration, the doors together define a receptacle having an input side through which an article is received in the receptacle, and form a support surface which supports the received article to thereby hold the article in the receptacle, when an article is held in the receptacle and the doors are thereafter controlled to be in the open configuration, the held article is dropped below the receiving and dropping assembly, the doors having a shape so that, when in the closed configuration, the doors taper from the input side in a direction in which the article is received into the receptacle and also taper in a downward direction in which the article is dropped, to thereby cause an article received into the receptacle in an incorrectly aligned position to be in a properly aligned position in the receptacle, and the receiving and dropping assembly receives and drops a plurality of articles in succession; an output conveyor receiving the articles dropped by the receiving and dropping assembly; and a controller controlling the doors of the receiving and dropping assembly to be in the closed configuration and open configuration in conjunction with controlling intermittent running of the output conveyor to convey the dropped articles along the output conveyor in predetermined arrays so that, for each array, the articles in each array contact a conveying surface of the output conveyor and are adjacently positioned with respect to each other along the conveying surface with adjacent articles in the array contacting each other, and so that arrays are spaced apart from each other. 16. An apparatus as in claim 15, wherein the arrays are shingled pairs. 17. An apparatus comprising: a receiving and dropping assembly comprising movable doors which are controllable to be in a closed configuration and an open configuration, wherein, when in the closed configuration, the doors together define a receptacle having an input side through which an article is received in the receptacle, and form a support surface which supports the received article to thereby hold the article in the receptacle, when an article is held in the receptacle and the doors are thereafter controlled to be in the open configuration, the held article is dropped below the receiving and dropping assembly, the doors having a shape so that, when in the closed configuration, the doors taper from the input side in a direction in which the article is received into the receptacle and also taper in a downward direction in which the article is dropped, to thereby cause an article received into the receptacle in an incorrectly aligned position to be in a properly aligned position in the receptacle, and the receiving and dropping assembly receives and drops a plurality of articles in succession; an output conveyor receiving the articles dropped by the receiving and dropping assembly; and means for controlling the doors of the receiving and dropping assembly to be in the closed configuration and open configuration in conjunction with controlling intermittent running of the output conveyor to convey the dropped articles along the output conveyor in predetermined arrays so that, for each array, the articles in the array contact a conveying surface of the output conveyor and are adjacently positioned with respect to each other along the conveying surface with adjacent articles in the array contacting each other, and so that arrays are spaced apart from each other. 18. An apparatus as in claim 17, wherein the arrays are shingled pairs. 19. An apparatus comprising: a receiving and dropping assembly controllable to be in a closed configuration and an open configuration, wherein, when in the closed configuration, the receiving and dropping assembly defines a receptacle having an input side through which an article is received in, and then held in, the receptacle, when an article is held in the receptacle and the receiving and dropping assembly is controlled to be in the open configuration, the held article is dropped below the receiving and dropping assembly, and the receiving and dropping assembly receives and drops a plurality of articles in succession; an output conveyor receiving the articles dropped by the receiving and dropping assembly; and a controller controlling the receiving and dropping assembly to be in the closed configuration and open configuration in conjunction with controlling intermittent running of the output conveyor to convey the dropped articles along the output conveyor in predetermined arrays so that, for each array, the articles in the array contact a conveying surface of the output conveyor and are adjacently positioned with respect to each other along the conveying surface with adjacent articles in the array contacting each other, and so that the arrays are spaced apart from each other. 20. An apparatus as in claim 19, wherein the arrays are shingled pairs. 21. An apparatus comprising: a receiving and dropping assembly controllable to be in a closed configuration and an open configuration, wherein, when in the closed configuration, the receiving and dropping assembly defines a receptacle having an input side through which an article is received in, and then held in the receptacle, when an article is held in the receptacle and the receiving and dropping assembly is controlled to be in the open configuration, the held article is dropped below the receiving and dropping assembly, and the receiving and dropping assembly receives and drops a plurality of articles in succession; an output conveyor receiving the articles dropped by the receiving and dropping assembly; and means for controlling the receiving and dropping assembly to be in the closed configuration and open configuration in conjunction with controlling intermittent running of the output conveyor to convey the dropped articles along the output conveyor in predetermined arrays so that, for each array, the articles in the array contact a conveying surface of the output conveyor and are adjacently positioned with respect to each other along the conveying surface with adjacent articles in the array contacting each other, and so that arrays are spaced apart from each other. 22. An apparatus as in claim 21, wherein the arrays are shingled pairs. 23. An apparatus comprising: a receiving and dropping assembly comprising movable doors which are controllable to be in a closed configuration and an open configuration, wherein, when in the closed configuration, the doors together define a receptacle having an input side through which an article is received in the receptacle, and form a support surface which supports the received article to thereby hold the article in the receptacle, when an article is held in the receptacle and the doors are thereafter controlled to be in the open configuration, the held article is dropped below the assembly, and the doors having a shape so that, when in the closed configuration, the doors taper from the input side in a direction in which the article is received into the receptacle and also taper in a downward direction in which the article is dropped, to thereby cause an article received into the receptacle in an incorrectly aligned position to be in a properly aligned position in the receptacle. 24. An apparatus as in claim 23, wherein the direction in which an article is received into the receptacle is approximately orthogonal to the downward direction in which the article is dropped. 25. An apparatus as in claim 23, further comprising: a conveyor conveying articles to the assembly so that, when the doors are in the closed configuration, the conveyor conveys a respective article into the receptacle to thereby be received into the receptacle, and when the doors are thereafter controlled to be in the open configuration and said respective article is dropped, the doors are subsequently controlled to again be in the closed position to thereby form a receptacle into which the conveyer conveys a next article. 26. An apparatus as in claim 25, wherein the direction in which an article is received into the receptacle is approximately orthogonal to the downward direction in which the article is dropped. 