The invention provides a method for printing wallpaper onto a web of media. The method uses an on-demand printer having a cabinet in which is located a media path. The path extends from a media loading area to a winding area. A printhead is located in the media path. The cabinet houses a processor which accepts operator inputs from one or more input devices that communicate with the processor to capture data from an operator regarding a specification for an operator's requirements. The processor establishes a pattern or a configuration for the printer according to the data.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for printing wallpaper onto a web of media, comprising the steps of: utilizing an on-demand printer comprising a cabinet, in which is located a media path which extends from a media loading area to a winding area, a printhead located in the media path, and a processor which accepts operator inputs from one or more input devices; providing one or more collections of patterns; using one or more input devices which communicate with the processor to capture data from an operator regarding a specification for an operator's requirements including a selection of a pattern from the one or more collections, said selection being communicated by input of a symbol of the selected pattern; using the processor to operatively control the printer according to the data; and printing a single roll of wallpaper, on demand, according to a selected pattern. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of: storing to a storage device accessible to the processor and internal to the cabinet a plurality of selectable files for describing patterns for printing onto the media. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of: providing the printer with a video display for depicting the selected pattern. 4. The method of claim 3, further comprising the step of: using die video display as a touch screen input device to capture operator preferences. 5. The method of claim 3, further comprising the step of: using the video display to display information that relates to a configuration of the printer. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of: providing die printer with a scanner for capturing data that specifics a selected pattern. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein: printing a roil of wallpaper according to a selected pattern and configuration of the printer further comprises inserting a blank core into a winding area, in or on the printer and accessible to an operator; winding the web onto the core after the web has been printed on; and severing the wound core from the web. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein: winding the web is performed by winding a length of a primed web onto the core; to length being determined in advance; the length being part of the configuration of the printer. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein: the specification for an operator's requirements comprises a pattern and a configuration of the printer, the configuration being one or more parameters selected from the group comprising: roll length, a roll slitting arrangement, one or more modifications to the pattern, or a selection of media to be printed on. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein utilizing an on-demand printer further comprises: loading a media cartridge into the printer, the cartridge containing a unprinted web of media; and using a motor in the printer to advance the unprinted web into the path; automatically threading the media from the loading area, to the winding area. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein utilizing an on-demand printer further comprises: loading a media tote into the winding area; winding a printed roll of wallpaper onto a core inside the tote; and severing the printed roll on to core from to web. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein utilizing an on-demand printer further comprises: loading an empty core into the winding area; winding a printed roll of wallpaper onto a core; and severing to printed roll on to core from to web using an automated cutting mechanism inside the printer, the cutting mechanism receiving a signal for commencing cutting from the processor. 13. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein: the printer is a self contained printer for producing rolls of wallpaper; the printhead is a full width digital color printhead; the operator inputs accepted by the processor are used to configure the printer for producing a particular roll; and the winding area is adapted to removably retain a core and wind onto it, wallpaper produced by the printer. 14. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein utilizing an on-demand printer further comprises: loading a media cartridge into the printer, the media cartridge, comprising: a case in which a roll of blank media may be deployed; the case having two halves, hinged together, an area between the two halves, when closed, defining a media supply slot; and the case having internally and adjacent to the slot, a pair of rollers; at least one of the rollers being a driven roller which is supported at each end, by the case, for rotation by an external motor. 15. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the operator inputs accepted by the processor are used to configure the printer for producing a particular roll; and the winding area is adapted to removably retain a core and wind onto it, wallpaper produced by the printer wherein; the length and design of the roll are determined by the operator inputs. 16. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the printer comprises: a frame in which is located a media path which extends from a media loading area to a winding area; a printhead located across the media path; one or more input devices for capturing operator instructions; a processor which accepts operator inputs which are used to configure the printer for producing a particular roll; and the winding area adapted to removably retain a core and wind onto it, wallpaper produced by the printer. 17. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein: the printer is a self threading printer for producing rolls of wallpaper; the media loading area is adapted to support a media cartridge in a position so that a media supply slot of the cartridge is closely adjacent to a pilot guide; the media path extends from the pilot; guide to a printed media dispensing slot; the printhead is located across the media path; the operator inputs accepted by the processor are used to configure the printer for producing a particular roll; a motor is located within the cabinet for advancing a media web out of the media cartridge; and one or more other motors are provided to urge the media along the path and out of the slot. 