A system is provided for calibrating an acoustic hull integrity sensing system by providing a coupon attached to the interior surface of the hull, in which the coupon has a stepped calibration block, with one of the steps approximating the thickness of the hull to be measured at the position of the coupon. The stepped calibration block is made of a material with the same acoustic properties as that of the hull. Acoustic energy is propagated towards the hull and passes through the hull, the interface between the hull and the block and to the interface between the stepped surface and the surrounding material, with reflected acoustic energy having a time of arrival at a sensor measured through the use of zero crossing detectors, in which the thickness of the stepped block that most closely approximates that of the hull is multiplied by a ratio that is the time for energy to propagate through the hull, divided by the time for the energy to propagate through the stepped block.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for calibrating hull thickness measurements in acoustic hull testing, comprising the steps of: locating a stepped calibration block on an interior surface of the hull, the calibrator block having a stepped surface an exact step height from the bottom thereof and being of material acoustically similar to that of the hull; projecting acoustic energy towards the hull from outside the hull; and, from returns from the surface of the hull, the interface between the block and the hull and the stepped surface of the block calculating the precise thickness of the hull using ratiometric calibration. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the ratiometric calibration step includes the steps of multiplying the exact step height of the step by the ratio of the time it takes an acoustic pulse to go through the hull divided by the time it takes an acoustic pulse to go through the calibration block at the step. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein T.sub.x is the time that the acoustic pulse is returned from the outer surface of the hull, T.sub.y is the time that the acoustic pulse is returned from the interface and T.sub.z is the time that the acoustic pulse is returned from the surface of the step and wherein the calibrated hull thickness T=((T.sub.y-T.sub.x)/(T.sub.z-T.sub.y)) x step height. 4. The method of claim 2, wherein the stepped calibration block includes a number of different height steps and wherein the exact step height multiplied by the ratio is that step height most closely approximating the thickness of the hull. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the acoustic energy projected is pulsed resulting in pulsed returns and wherein the pulsed returns are measured in terms of zero crossings. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the stepped calibration block is surrounded on all sides but the interface with acoustic absorbing material. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the location step includes the steps of cleaning the interior surface of the hull at which the block is to be located; providing that the cleaned surface be flat; and bonding the bottom of the calibration block to the cleaned inner surface of the hull using an anaerobic adhesive. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the location step includes locating a template on the interior of the hull at which the block is to be located prior to the bonding of the block; locating the calibration block in the template prior to bonding of the bottom of the block to the flat inner surface of the hull with anaerobic adhesive; mounting a housing about the block after location of the block in the template, and injecting a compound having acoustic absorbing properties into the housing. 9. The method of claim 8, and further including the step of evacuating the housing prior to injecting the compound. 10. The method of claim 7, wherein the hull is metal and wherein the anaerobic adhesive is in the form of a metal ion transfer adhesive. 11. In an acoustic hull thickness measuring system, apparatus for calibrating the measuring system to derive an accurate measurement of the thickness of a portion of a ship hull, comprising: a coupon adapted to be mounted to the interior of the hull, including a stepped calibration block adapted to be adhered to an internal surface of the hull, said coupon including an acoustically readable fiducial point having a bottom adapted to be adhered to an internal surface of the hull. 12. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein said fiducial point includes two opposed sectors of a circle having opposed points. 13. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein said coupon includes a housing surrounding said calibration block on all sides but that mounted to the interior of said hull and further including acoustic absorbing material in said housing. 14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein said acoustic absorbing material includes urethane. 15. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein said coupon includes at least one piezo-electric transducer and power leads thereto for sonically indicating the location of said coupon when said at least one piezo-electric transducer is energized. 16. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein said at least one piezo-electric transducer comprises at least two piezo-electric transducers tuned to different frequencies and further including a second piezo-electric transducer in said coupon tuned to a frequency different from that of said first-mentioned transducer. 17. In an acoustic hull thickness measuring system, apparatus for calibrating the measuring system to derive an accurate measurement of the thickness of a portion of a ship hull, comprising: a coupon adapted to be mounted to the interior of the hull including a stepped calibration block adapted to be adhered to an internal surface of the hull, said coupon including an acoustically readable bar code having bars of heights corresponding to said code, said bars having bottom surfaces adapted to be adhered to an internal surface of said hull and having acoustic absorbing material between said bars. 18. The apparatus of claim 17 wherein the heights of said bars establish a binary code. 