A robot assembly and a method of installing a collar on a robot assembly. The robot assembly comprises a support shaft, an arm extending away from the shaft, a split connecting collar pivotally mounted on the support shaft and connected to the arm to connect the arm to the support shaft, and a tool connected to the arm for engaging the molded items and for removing the molded items from the molding machine. Two embodiments of the split collar are disclosed. The first is a multiple piece component, and the second is a single slotted body. Generally, both of these collars are designed such that installation or removal does not require that the shaft be pushed linearly through the diameter of the collar. Rather, the installation or removal of the collar is performed by moving the collar, or the collar components, away from the shaft, in a direction perpendicular to the shaft centerline instead of along and over the shaft diameter to the endpoint.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot assembly for removing molded items from a molding machine, the robot assembly comprising: a support shaft; an arm extending away from the shaft; a connecting collar pivotally mounted on the support shaft and connected to the arm to connect the arm to the support shaft; and a tool connected to the arm for engaging the molded items and for removing the molded items from the molding machine; wherein the collar includes: i) first and second sections, the first section having an arcuate shape to seat against a first side of the shaft, the second section also having an arcuate shape to seat against a second side of the shaft, opposite the first section, and ii) connecting means to connect together the first and second sections to form a substantially continuous ring extending around the shaft; and wherein, the first collar section includes a pair of end portions defining a pair of end faces and a pair of sockets extending inward from the end faces the second collar section includes a pair of end portions defining a pair of end faces and a pair of sockets extending inward from the end faces of the second collar section; when the collar sections are connected together, the end faces of the first collar section abut against the end faces of the second collar section, with sockets of the first collar section aligned with sockets of the second collar section; and the connecting means includes a pair of pins positioned in the sockets of the first and second collar sections to hold the collar sections together against axial and transverse movement. 2. A robot assembly according to claim 1, wherein: the first collar section further defines an axial socket axially extending adjacent one of the end faces of the first collar section; the second collar section further defines an axial socket axially extending adjacent one of the end faces of the second collar section; and the connecting means further includes a connecting plates extending across said ones of the end faces of the first and second collar sections and defining first and second openings aligned with the axial openings of the first and second collar sections respectively, a first axial pin extending through the first opening of the connecting plate and into the axial socket of the first collar section, and a second axial pin extending through the second opening of the connecting plate and into the axial socket of the second collar section, wherein the connecting plate and the first and second axial pins connect the collar sections together against movement away from each other. 3. A robot assembly according to claim 2, wherein: end portions of the first and second collar sections are stepped downward to define a recess; and the connecting plate is positioned in said recess. 4. A robot assembly for removing molded items from a molding machine, the robot assembly comprising: a support shaft; an arm extending away from the shaft; a connecting collar pivotally mounted on die support shaft and connected to the arm to connect the arm to the support shaft; and a tool connected to the arm for engaging the molded items and for removing the molded items from the molding machine; wherein the collar includes a main arcuate shaped section defining a central opening for receiving the support shaft, said main section extending around a major portion of the central opening and also defining an arcuate slot to enable the support shaft to pass through the arcuate slot and into and out of the central opening wherein the main section of the collar extends around the central opening at least 240 degrees. 5. A method of removing a collar from a support shaft, comprising the step of: removing the collar from the shaft by moving the collar away from the shaft in a direction perpendicular to the shaft centerline; wherein the collar has an open ring shape and defines a circumferentially extending slot, and the removing step includes the step of moving said slot across the shaft; and wherein the support shaft includes a wider portion and a thinner portion, and the collar is mounted on said wider portion, and the removing step includes the step of first moving the collar off the wider portion to an area extending around the thinner portion of the shaft, and then moving the collar away from the shaft in said direction perpendicular to the shaft centerline. 6. A method according to claim 5, wherein the wider portion of the shaft is below the thinner portion of the shaft, and the step of moving the collar off the wider portion includes the step of moving the collar upwards off said wider portion. 7. A method according to claim 5, wherein: the collar includes a body forming a substantially enclosed ring, and including first and second arcuate shaped sections connected together to form said substantially enclosed ring; and the removing step includes the steps of i) disconnecting the first and second sections from each other, ii) moving the first section away from the shaft in a first direction, and iii) moving the second section away from the shaft in a second direction, substantially opposite from the first direction. 8. A method according to claim 7, wherein the first and second sections are disconnected from each other as said sections are moved away from the shaft. 9. A method according to claim 8, wherein the first and second sections are connected together by means of a pair of pins held in and by said first and second sections, and the first and second sections are disconnected from each other by moving said sections away from the shaft along the axis of said pins. 10. A method according to claim 9, wherein the first and second sections are also connected together by means of a connecting plate connected to both of said sections, and the removing step includes the step of removing said connecting plate before moving the first and second sections away from each other. 