An apparatus for processing a workpiece in a micro-environment includes a workpiece housing connected to be rotated by a motor. The workpiece housing forms a substantially closed processing chamber where one or more processing fluids are distributed across at least one face of the workpiece by centrifugal force generated during rotation of the housing. A sump is connected to an inlet and an outlet in the chamber. Rotation of the workpiece housing recirculates fluid into the chamber.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for processing a workpiece comprising: a first rotor engageable to a second rotor, to form a process chamber; a fluid inlet leading into the process chamber; at least one fluid outlet leading out of the process chamber for allowing fluid to exit the process chamber via centrifugal force; and a cup substantially surrounding the process chamber and positioned to collect fluid moving out of the process chamber. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a plurality of workpiece supports on one or both of the first and second rotors for supporting the workpiece. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a motor connected to the first or second rotor. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 with the fluid inlet aligned on an axis of rotation of the process chamber. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the chamber conforms to the shape of the workpiece. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the chamber is substantially closed. 7. An apparatus for processing a workpiece comprising: a first rotor; a second rotor engageable with the first rotor to form a process chamber; a plurality of workpiece supports on at least one of the first and second rotors; at least one inlet in the first rotor; at least one outlet in the chamber; and a sump linked to the inlet, wherein rotation of the rotors draws liquid from the sump, through the inlet, and into the chamber. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 further comprising a motor connected to at least one of the first and second rotors, for rotating the rotors. 9. An apparatus for processing a workpiece comprising: a housing containing a process chamber for substantially enclosing the workpiece on all sides; a motor for rotating the housing; an inlet in the process chamber; an outlet in the process chamber; and recirculation means for supplying fluid collected from the outlet to the inlet via rotation of the housing. 10. The apparatus of claim 1 further including a fluid supply line connecting the cup directly or indirectly to the fluid inlet, and wherein rotation of the rotors draws fluid from the cup, through the inlet, and into the chamber. 11. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the first rotor is a lower rotor and the second rotor is an upper rotor, and wherein the rotors are rotatable about a substantially vertical axis, and further comprising an inlet stem on the first rotor connecting with the fluid inlet, and with the inlet stem extending downwardly from the first rotor into a sump in the cup. 12. The apparatus of claim 1 comprising a plurality of fluid outlets extending through the first rotor at a peripheral region of the first rotor. 13. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the first rotor is a lower rotor and with the fluid inlet in the first rotor at a substantially central location of the first rotor. 14. The apparatus of claim 13 further comprising a second fluid inlet in the second rotor. 15. The apparatus of claim 1 with the cup having an angled bottom surface leading into a sump connecting with the fluid inlet. 16. The apparatus of claim 1 with the cup having a sidewall extending to a position vertically above the fluid outlet. 17. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein the housing comprises an upper rotor engageable with a lower rotor. 18. The apparatus of claim 17 wherein the inlet extends through a central opening in the lower rotor. 19. The apparatus of claim 7 further comprising a cup surrounding the at least the first rotor, and with the cup adapted to divert fluid exiting from the fluid outlet into the sump. 