An autonomous robot, that is for example, suitable for operations such as vacuuming and surface cleaning includes a payload configured for vacuum cleaning, a drive system including a steering system, a navigation system, and a control system for integrating operations of the aforementioned systems.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for autonomous operation over an area comprising: a control system; a line for manipulation by a user; and, a directional detecting member including a sensor, said sensor coupled to said line and said control system, said sensor configured for detecting the directional movement of said line when said line is moved, and for signaling said control system with a signal corresponding to said directional movement of said line. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said control system is configured for signaling a drive system for moving said apparatus in correspondence with said directional movement of said line. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said line includes a wire. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said directional detecting member additionally includes: a take-up roller for receiving said line in a wrap around manner. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein said take-up roller is spring biased. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein an end of said line is received by said take-up roller. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, including at least one system configured for vacuum cleaning. 8. An apparatus for autonomous operation over an area comprising: at least one first transmitter; at least one second transmitter; at least one receiver for receiving signals originally transmitted from both of said at least one first transmitter and said at least one second transmitter; and, said at least one first transmitter offset from said at least one second transmitter at a distance and an angle such that detection of a signal by said at least one receiver from said at least one first transmitter, absent detection of a signal from said at least one second transmitters, corresponds to detection of a door or an entryway. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein said at least one first transmitter and said at least one second transmitter include one infrared transmitter and said at least one receiver includes one infrared receiver. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein said at least one first transmitter is positioned approximately 20 degrees to approximately 30 degrees with respect to said at least one second transmitter. 11. The apparatus of claim 8, including at least one system configured for vacuum cleaning. 12. A system for detecting the presence of an entryway comprising: an apparatus for autonomous operation over an area comprising: at least one first transmitter; at least one second transmitter; at least one receiver for receiving signals originally transmitted from both of said at least one first transmitter and said at least one second transmitter; and, said at least one first transmitter offset from said at least one second transmitter at a distance and an angle such that detection of a signal by said at least one receiver from said at least one first transmitter, absent detection of a signal from said at least one second transmitter, corresponds to detection of said entryway; and, at least one retroreflector for positioning at least proximate to said entryway. 13. The system of claim 12, wherein said at least one first transmitter and said at least one second transmitter include one infrared transmitter and said at least one receiver includes one infrared receiver. 14. The system of claim 13, wherein said at least one first transmitter is positioned approximately 20 degrees to approximately 30 degrees with respect to said at least one second transmitter. 15. The system of claim 12, wherein said apparatus is configured for vacuum cleaning. 16. A system for limiting coverage of an apparatus to a portion of an area comprising: an apparatus for autonomous operation over an area comprising: a drive system; and, at least one sensor in communication with said drive system, said at least one sensor configured for detecting at least one signal for confining said apparatus to operate in a portion of said area; and, a transmitter for sending at least one signal corresponding to at least one boundary of said portion of said area. 17. The system of claim 16, wherein said at least one sensor is configured for detecting two signals for confining said apparatus to operate in said portion of said area. 18. The system of claim 17, wherein said two signals include, a first signal corresponding to inside of said predetermined location within said area, and a second signal corresponding to outside of said predetermined location within said area. 19. The system of claim 16, wherein said at least one sensor is an infrared light sensor and said transmitter is an infrared light transmitter. 20. The system of claim 16, wherein said apparatus is configured for vacuum cleaning. 21. A method for detecting a surface type comprising: providing an apparatus for moving along a surface, said apparatus comprising: at least one rotating member configured for contacting a surface, and a motor in communication with said at least one rotating member; shutting down said motor for a predetermined time period to cease rotation of said at least one rotating member; and, measuring a back electromotive force on said motor provided by the resistance of said surface to said rotation of said at least one rotating member. 22. The method of claim 21, additionally comprising: moving said apparatus along a surface. 23. The method of claim 22, wherein said shutting down said motor includes continuing to move said apparatus along said surface. 24. The method of claim 21 additionally comprising: operating said apparatus for vacuum cleaning. 25. The method of claim 21, additionally comprising: restarting the motor and rotating said at least one rotating member at a speed corresponding to the measured back electromotive force on said motor. 26. The method of claim 21, wherein said predetermined time period for shutting down said motor is approximately 0.5 seconds. 27. An apparatus for surface detection comprising: a control system; a drive system; at least one rotating member configured for contacting a surface; a motor in communication with said at least one rotating member; and, at least one sensor in communication with said motor, said at least one sensor configured for measuring back electromotive force on said motor when rotation of said at least one rotating member is ceased, and, said at least one sensor configured for signaling said control system for restarting said motor and rotating said at least one rotating member at a speed corresponding to the measured back electromotive force on said motor. 28. The apparatus of claim 27, wherein said at least one sensor is a voltage sensor. 29. The apparatus of claim 27, wherein said at least one rotating member and said motor define a portion of a vacuum cleaning system. 30. A vacuum cleaner agitator unit comprising: at least one rotating member substantially cylindrical in shape and of a diameter such the fringes of carpets can not wrap around said at least one rotating member; and, a plurality of ground contacting members extending from said at least one rotating member. 31. The agitator unit of claim 30, additionally comprising: a mechanism in communication with said at least one rotating member for rotating said at least one rotating member. 32. The agitator unit of claim 31, wherein said mechanism for rotating said at least one rotating member includes a motor and a belt, said belt configured for translating rotational motion from said motor to said at least one rotating member. 33. The agitator unit of claim 30, wherein said plurality of ground contacting members include bristles. 34. The agitator unit of claim 30, wherein said plurality of ground contacting members include strips of a resilient material. 35. The agitator unit of claim 30, additionally comprising: a housing for said at least one rotating member, said housing at least partially enveloping said at least one rotating member. 