An improved Bernoulli end effector for holding, handling, and transporting ultra-thin substrates includes edge guides to aid in the positioning of the substrate and may include friction pads that impede motion of the substrate lifted by the end effector. The Bernoulli end effector may be incorporated into an apparatus and method for supinating a substrate so that both surfaces of the substrate can be processed. In addition, the Bernoulli end effector may be used to place ultra-thin substrates on and retrieve substrates from a substrate handling structure that includes weights that prevent the substrates from bowing or flexing during processing and includes guides that prevent the ultra-thin substrates from moving or translating on the surface of the substrate handling structure.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A Bernoulli end effector comprising: a support member defining at least one passage for directing a fluid at a substrate to apply a holding force and a drag force on the substrate, wherein the hold force is first applied and the drag force is applied after a delay of between about 100 ms and 250 ms; at least one edge guide protruding from a first surface of the support member for contacting an edge of the substrate to oppose the drag force applied by the fluid; and at least one friction pad attached to the first surface of the support member for contacting a surface of the substrate to impede a rotational motion of the substrate. 2. A method for handling a substrate with a Bernoulli end effector, the method comprising: directing a fluid at the substrate to apply a holding force and a drag force to the substrate, the holding force creating a low pressure Bernoulli force to lift the substrate, wherein the hold force is first applied and the drag force is applied after a delay; applying a counter force to an edge of the substrate to oppose the drag force; and applying a frictional force to a surface of the substrate adjacent to the edge of the substrate to impede a rotational motion of the substrate. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the delay is between about 100 ms and 250 ms. 4. A method for handling a substrate with a Bernoulli end effector, the method comprising: directing a fluid at the substrate to apply a holding force to the substrate, the holding force creating a low pressure Bernoulli force to lift the substrate; applying a drag force after applying the holding force; and applying a counter force to an edge of the substrate to oppose the drag force. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the drag force is applied between about 100 ms and 250 ms after the holding force is applied. 6. The method of claim 4, further comprising applying a frictional force to a surface of the substrate adjacent to the edge of the substrate to impede a rotational motion of the substrate. 7. A Bernoulli end effector comprising: means for directing a fluid at a substrate to apply a hold force and a drag force to the substrate, the holding force creating a low pressure Bernoulli force to lift the substrate; means for first applying the hold force and then applying the drag force; means for applying a counter force to an edge of the substrate to oppose the drag force; and means for applying a frictional force to a surface of the substrate adjacent to the edge of the substrate to impede a rotational motion of the substrate. 8. The method of claim 2 further comprising contacting the edge of the substrate with an edge guide of the Bernoulli end effector to apply the counter force. 9. The method of claim 2 further comprising using a friction pad of the Bernoulli end effector to apply the frictional force. 10. The method of claim 2 further comprising using a first plurality of passages symmetrically arranged about an axis of a support member of the Bernoulli end effector to apply the hold force. 11. The method of claim 2 further comprising using a second plurality of passages asymmetrically arranged about an axis of a support member of the Bernoulli end effector to apply the drag force. 12. The method of claim 2 further comprising contacting the substrate within 2 mm of the edge of the substrate using a friction pad of the Bernoulli end effector to apply the frictional force. 13. The method of claim 2 further comprising: delivering the substrate using the Bernoulli end effector to a first substrate chuck; and receiving the substrate using the Bernoulli end effector from a second substrate chuck to which the substrate is transferred. 14. The method of claim 4 further comprising contacting the edge of the substrate with an edge guide of the Bernoulli end effector to apply the counter force. 15. The method of claim 4 further comprising using a first plurality of passages symmetrically arranged about an axis of a support member of the Bernoulli end effector to apply the hold force. 16. The method of claim 4 further comprising using a second plurality of passages asymmetrically arranged about an axis of a support member of the Bernoulli end effector to apply the drag force. 17. The method of claim 6 further comprising contacting the substrate within 2 mm of the edge of the substrate using a friction pad of the Bernoulli end effector to apply the frictional force. 18. The method of claim 4 further comprising: delivering the substrate using the Bernoulli end effector to a first substrate chuck; and receiving the substrate using the Bernoulli end effector from a second substrate chuck to which the substrate is transferred. 19. The method of claim 6 further comprising using a friction pad of the Bernoulli end effector to apply the frictional force. 20. The Bernoulli end effector of claim 7 wherein the means for directing the fluid at the substrate comprises a support member defining a first plurality of passages symmetrically arranged about an axis of the support member to apply the hold force. 21. The Bernoulli end effector of claim 7 wherein the means for directing the fluid at the substrate comprises a support member defining a second plurality of passages asymmetrically arranged about an axis of the support member to apply the drag force. 22. The Bernoulli end effector of claim 7 wherein the means for applying the counter force comprises at least one edge guide attached to a first surface of the support member. 23. The Bernoulli end effector of claim 7 wherein the means for applying the frictional force comprises at least one friction pad attached to a first surface of the support member. 24. The Bernoulli end effector of claim 20 wherein the first plurality of passages are arranged in a circular pattern for providing a Bernoulli force perpendicular to a surface of the substrate. 25. The Bernoulli end effector of claim 21 wherein the second plurality of passages are arranged in an arc for providing the drag force on the substrate. 26. The Bernoulli end effector of claim 19 wherein the at least one friction pad contacts the substrate within 2 mm of an edge of the substrate. 27. The Bernoulli end effector of claim 26 wherein the at least one friction pad comprises an elastomer. 28. The Bernoulli end effector of claim 26 wherein the at least one friction pad comprises alumina. 29. The Bernoulli end effector of claim 7 wherein the means for first applying the hold force and then applying the drag force is adapted to apply the drag force after a delay of between about 100 ms and 250 ms. 30. The Bernoulli end effector of claim 1 wherein the at least one passage comprises a first plurality of passages symmetrically arranged about an axis of the support member and a second plurality of passages asymmetrically arranged about the axis of the support member. 31. The Bernoulli end effector of claim 30 wherein the first plurality of passages are arranged in a circular pattern for providing a Bernoulli force perpendicular to a surface of the substrate. 32. The Bernoulli end effector of claim 30 wherein the second plurality of passages are arranged in an arc for providing the drag force on the substrate. 33. The Bernoulli end effector of claim 1 wherein an angle between a direction defined by the at least one passage and a surface of the support member is at least approximately thirty degrees. 34. The Bernoulli end effector of claim 1 wherein the at least one friction pad contacts the substrate within 2 mm of an edge of the substrate. 35. The Bernoulli end effector of claim 1 wherein the at least one friction pad comprises an elastomer. 36. The Bernoulli end effector of claim 1 wherein the at least one friction pad comprises alumina. 37. The Bernoulli end effector of claim 1 wherein the at least one edge guide is beveled. 