A clip placement tool for automatic or manual insertion of a plastic clip workpiece. The tool including a main body having a first feature to affix to an operator handle or affix to a mechanical device as an end-effecter, and a second feature that connects to a vacuum source, a chamber formed within the body, a lip formed at an end of the vacuum chamber and surrounding a static placement post within the chamber. The lip includes two edges that provide a lip-to-clip seal with the workpiece.
Claims I claim: 1. A clip placement tool to nest and fixture plastic clip work pieces for automatic or manual insertion in a hole, the clip placement tool comprising: a main body including a first feature disposed on a surface, a second feature for attachment to a vacuum source, said vacuum source produces a vacuum in a chamber within the main body, a nose portion opposite the first feature, said nose portion including a lip having first and second edges for receiving the work piece, whereas the lip is forward of the chamber, a placement post positioned within the chamber, wherein the placement post and lip provide support on a head of the work piece at all times during the insertion of the work piece in said hole. 2. The clip placement tool as recited in claim 1, wherein the main body is constructed of a lightweight material. 3. The clip placement tool as recited in claim 1, wherein the placement post is stationary. 4. A clip placement tool to fixture a clip for insertion in a hole, the clip placement tool comprising: a main body including an attachment feature, a vacuum source, said vacuum source produces a vacuum in a chamber within the main body, a nose portion opposite the attachment feature, said nose portion including a lip having first and second edges for receiving a clip, whereas the lip is forward of the chamber, a placement post positioned within the chamber, wherein the placement post and lip provides support on the clip at all times during the insertion of the clip in the hole. 5. The clip placement tool as recited in claim 4, where said attachment feature attaches the tool to a pick and place device. 6. The clip placement tool as recited in claim 4, where said first edge is a first circular seal surrounding said post and wherein said second edge is a second circular seal concentric with said first circular seal. 7. The clip placement tool as recited in claim 6, wherein said first and second edges include a face surface matching a surface on a head portion of said clip. 8. The clip placement tool as recited in claim 4, wherein said tool and clip share a common centerline when said clip is mounted on said post and wherein said tool is adapted to drive said clip in a direction along said centerline. 9. The clip placement tool as recited in claim 4, wherein said vacuum is adapted to hold said clip to said lip. 10. The clip placement tool as recited in claim 9, wherein a head portion of said clip forms a seal with said lip first and second edges. 11. A combination clip placement tool and clip for insertion in a hole, the combination comprising: said tool having a main body including an attachment feature, a vacuum source, said vacuum source produces a vacuum in a chamber within the main body, a nose portion opposite the attachment feature, said nose portion including a lip having first and second edges for receiving a head portion of a clip, whereas the lip is forward of the chamber, a placement post positioned within the chamber, wherein the placement post and lip engage the clip during insertion of the clip in the hole and wherein said tool maintains a vacuum on said head portion of said clip at least prior to insertion in said hole. 12. The combination as recited in claim 11, wherein said attachment feature is a machine screw. 13. The combination as recited in claim 11, wherein said lip is a circular seal wherein said first edge is an inner circular edge and wherein said second seal is an outer circular edge and wherein said up includes a face surface that matches a surface on said head portion of said clip. 14. The combination as recited in claim 11, wherein said lip is a circular seal surrounding a portion of said chamber and wherein attachment of said head of said clip to said lip seals the chamber. 15. The combination as recited in claim 14, wherein said placement post is surrounded by said chamber and engages said head of said clip when said head of said clip is attached to said lip. 16. The combination as recited in claim 15, wherein said placement post is at a center of said circular seal. 