In order to be able to ascertain the position of the bone in the body without complicated procedures in a process for the preoperative determination of the positioning data of endoprosthetic parts of a central joint relative to the bones forming the central joint, a respective outer articular point is determined by way or movement of the bones about a respective outer joint which is located at the end of the two bones facing away from the central joint. An articular point is determined for each of the two bones in the area of the central joint, and a direction characteristic for each of these bones is determined by way of a straight-line connection of the two articular points obtained in this manner for the two bones. The orientation of the endoprosthetic parts relative to this characteristic direction is then determined. Apparatus for carrying out the process is also provided.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for the preoperative determination of positioning data of endoprosthetic parts of a knee joint relative to a thigh bone and a lower leg bone forming the knee joint, comprising the steps of: moving the thigh bone of the knee joint relative to a corresponding hip bone, to determine a first articular point for said thigh bone in the area of the hip joint; determining a second articular point for said thigh bone in the area of the knee joint; determining a first characteristic direction for said thigh bone by way of a straight-line connection of the first and second articular points; moving the lower leg bone of the knee joint relative to a corresponding ankle bone, to determine a third articular point in the area of an ankle joint for said lower leg bone; determining a fourth articular point in the area of the knee joint for said lower leg bone; determining a second characteristic direction for said lower leg bone by way of a straight-line connection of the third and fourth articular points; and determining the orientation of endoprosthetic parts relative to the first and second characteristic directions. 2. A method in accordance with claim 1, wherein: said first articular point corresponds to a central point of said hip joint; and said second articular point corresponds to an intersection point of a plurality of curves of maximum invariance generated by movement, relative to one another, of the thigh bone and the lower leg bone at the knee joint. 3. A method in accordance with claim 1, wherein: said third articular point corresponds to an intersection point of pivot axes of the ankle joint about an axis extending transversely in relation to the lower leg bone and about an axis extending longitudinally in relation to the lower leg bone; and said fourth articular point corresponds to an intersection point of a plurality of curves of maximum invariance generated by movement, relative to one another, of the lower leg bone and the thigh bone at the knee joint. 4. A method in accordance with claim 1, wherein said second articular point is determined by way of movement, relative to one another, of the thigh bone and the lower leg bone forming the knee joint. 5. A method in accordance with claim 1, wherein for the orientation of the endoprosthetic parts, sawing planes serving as contact surfaces for the endoprosthetic parts are determined, said planes taking up predetermined orientations relative to the characteristic directions. 6. A method in accordance with claim 5, wherein the sawing planes are at right angles to the characteristic directions. 7. A method in accordance with claim 5, wherein the sawing planes are arranged at a specific distance from the second articular point. 8. A method in accordance with claim 1, wherein movement of the bones for determining the articular points is carried out by means of a drive device. 9. A method in accordance with claim 1, wherein the positions of the thigh bone and hip bone are determined by: securely connecting marking elements to the thigh bone and hip bone; and determining the respective positions of the marking elements by a measuring device generating signals corresponding to the respective positions and supplying the signals to a data processing system. 10. A method in accordance with claim 1, wherein: said moving of the thigh bone of the knee joint relative to the corresponding hip bone is performed while determining the positions of the thigh bone and hip bone, said positions being determined by: securely connecting the thigh bone and the hip bone to marking elements; and determining the respective positions of the marking elements by a measuring device generating signals corresponding to the respective positions and supplying the signals to a data processing system; and said moving of the lower leg bone of the knee joint relative to the corresponding ankle joint is performed while determining the positions of the lower leg bone and an ankle bone, said positions being determined by: securely connecting the lower leg bone and ankle bone to marking elements; and determining the respective positions of the marking elements by a measuring device generating signals corresponding to the respective positions and supplying the signals to a data processing system. 11. A method in accordance with claim 10, wherein: the marking elements comprise one of radiation emitters and reflecting surfaces; and the measuring device comprises several radiation receivers. 12. A method in accordance with claim 1, wherein a sawing jig is aligned relative to the first characteristic direction of the bone for marking a sawing plane. 13. A method in accordance with claim 12, wherein the alignment is carried out by means of a robot. 14. A method in accordance with claim 12, wherein the alignment is carried out manually and the orientation of the sawing jig relative to the first characteristic direction is thereby continuously determined as a result of measurement of the orientation of said jig. 15. A method in accordance with claim 14, wherein: difference signals are generated for observing deviation of the orientation of the sawing jig in relation to the first characteristic direction; and said difference signals are minimal with a correct orientation and are indicated optically or acoustically. 16. A method in accordance with claim 15, wherein the difference signals are indicated by means of lines inclined relative to one another, said lines extending parallel to one another with a correct orientation. 17. A method in accordance with claim 16, wherein the lines intersect. 18. A method in accordance with claim 15, wherein the difference signals are indicated by means of the distance between two parallel lines, the distance between said lines disappearing with a correct orientation. 19. A method in accordance with claim 15, wherein the difference signals are represented by tones having at least one of varying loudness and varying frequency. 20. A method in accordance with claim 15, wherein two separate difference signals are generated for angular deviations in planes extending at right angles to one another. 21. A method in accordance with claim 1, wherein the positioning data determined on the basis of the first characteristic direction is used to control a machining robot. 22. A device for the preoperative determination of positioning data of endoprosthetic parts of a knee joint relative to a thigh bone and a lower leg bone forming the knee joint, comprising: at least one marking element securable to each of the thigh bone and a hip bone, said thigh bone and hip bone being connected at a hip joint; at least one marking element securable to each of the lower leg bone and an ankle bone forming an ankle joint; a measuring device for determining the position of the marking elements in space; a data processing system adapted to receive signals corresponding to positioning data of the marking elements from the measuring device; said data processing system being responsive to the signals during movement of the thigh bone relative to the hip joint to determine the point of greatest invariance at the hip joint as a first articular point; and said data processing system being responsive to the signals during the movement of the lower leg bone relative to the ankle joint to determine the point of greatest invariance at the ankle joint as a third articular point; wherein: a second articular point is determined for said thigh bone in the area of the knee joint; a first characteristic direction is determined for the thigh bone from the positions of the first articular point and the second articular point; a fourth articular point is determined for said lower leg bone in the area of the knee joint; and a second characteristic direction is determined for the lower leg bone from the position of the third articular point and the fourth articular point. 23. A device in accordance with claim 22, wherein: said first articular point corresponds to a central point of the hip joint; and said second articular point is determined by locating an intersection point of a plurality of curves of maximum invariance generated by movement, relative to one another, of the thigh bone and the lower leg bone at the knee joint. 24. A device in accordance with claim 22, wherein: said third articular point corresponds to an intersection point of pivot axes of the ankle joint about an axis extending transversely in relation to the lower leg bone and about an axis extending longitudinally in relation to the lower leg bone; and said fourth articular point is determined by locating an intersection point of a plurality of curves of maximum invariance generated by movement, relative to one another, of the lower leg bone and the thigh bone at the knee joint. 25. A device in accordance with claim 22, wherein a scanning instrument is associated with the data processing system for supplying signals to the data processing system corresponding to the positioning of the scanning instrument. 26. A device in accordance with claim 25, wherein the data processing system generates a set of data describing the course of a joint surface of at least one of the bones adjoining the knee joint from a plurality of signals generated by application of the scanning instrument to the joint surface. 27. A device in accordance with claim 22, wherein the data processing system determines sawing planes for the orientation of the endoprosthetic parts, said sawing planes serving as contact surfaces for the endoprosthetic parts and taking up a predetermined orientation relative to the characteristic direction. 28. A device in accordance with claim 27, wherein the sawing planes are at right angles to the characteristic directions. 29. A device in accordance with claim 27, wherein the sawing planes are arranged at a specific distance from the articular points. 30. A device in accordance with claim 22, further comprising a drive device for moving bones relative to respective joints. 31. A device in accordance with claim 22, wherein: the marking elements comprise one of radiation emitters and reflecting surfaces; and the measuring device comprises several radiation receivers. 32. A device in accordance with claim 22, further comprising a robot, said robot aligning at least one of a tool jig and a tool relative to the first characteristic direction. 33. A device in accordance with claim 22, wherein a marking element with an orientation determined by the measuring device is associated with at least one of a tool and a tool jig, so that signals corresponding to the orientation are transferred to the data processing system. 34. A device in accordance with claim 33, wherein the data processing system determines the orientation of the tool or the tool jig relative to the first characteristic direction. 35. A device in accordance with claim 33, wherein: the tool or the tool jig is a sawing jig; the data processing system generates difference signals for observing deviation in the orientation of the sawing jig in relation to the characteristic direction; the data processing system indicates the difference signals optically or acoustically; and said signals are minimal with a correct orientation. 36. A device in accordance with claim 35, wherein the difference signals are indicated by way of lines inclined relative to one another, said lines extending parallel to one another with a correct orientation. 37. A device in accordance with claim 36, wherein said lines intersect. 38. A device in accordance with claim 35, wherein the difference signals are indicated by means of the distance between two parallel lines, the distance between said lines disappearing with a correct orientation. 39. A device in accordance with claim 35, wherein the difference signals are represented by tones having at least one of varying loudness and varying frequency. 40. A device in accordance with claim 35, wherein two separate difference signals are generated for angular deviations in planes extending at right angles to one another. 41. A device for the preoperative determination of positioning data of endoprosthetic parts of a knee joint relative to a thigh bone and a lower leg bone forming the knee joint, comprising: at least one marking element securable to each of the thigh bone and a hip bone, said thigh bone and hip bone being connected at a hip joint; a measuring device for determining the position of the marking elements in space; a data processing system adapted to receive signals corresponding to positioning data of the marking elements from the measuring device; said data processing system being responsive to the signals during movement of the thigh bone relative to the hip joint to determine the point of greatest invariance at the hip joint as a first articular point; wherein: a second articular point is determined for said thigh bone in the area of the knee joint; and a first characteristic direction is determined for the thigh bone from the positions of the first articular point and the second articular point; a scanning instrument is associated with the data processing system for supplying signals to the data processing system corresponding to the positioning of the scanning instrument; and the data processing system generates a set of data describing the course of a joint surface of at least one of the bones adjoining the knee joint from a plurality of signals generated by application of the scanning instrument to the joint surface. 42. A device for the preoperative determination of positioning data of endoprosthetic parts of a knee joint relative to a thigh bone and a lower leg bone forming the knee joint, comprising: at least one marking element securable to each of the thigh bone and a hip bone, said thigh bone and hip bone being connected at a hip joint; a measuring device for determining the position of the marking elements in space; a data processing system adapted to receive signals corresponding to positioning data of the marking elements from the measuring device; said data processing system being responsive to the signals during movement of the thigh bone relative to the hip joint to determine the point of greatest invariance at the hip joint as a first articular point; wherein: a second articular point is determined for said thigh bone in the area of the knee joint; and a first characteristic direction is determined for the thigh bone from the positions of the first articular point and the second articular point; a marking element with an orientation determined by the measuring device is associated with a sawing jig, so that signals corresponding to the orientation are transferred to the data processing system; the data processing system generates difference signals for observing deviation in the orientation of the sawing jig in relation to the characteristic direction; the data processing system indicates the difference signals optically or acoustically; said signals are minimal with a correct orientation; and two separate difference signals are generated for angular deviations in planes extending at right angles to one another. 