A method and apparatus for fabricating known good semiconductor dice are provided. The method includes the steps of: testing the gross functionality of dice contained on a semiconductor wafer; sawing the wafer to singulate a die; and then testing the die by assembly in a carrier having an interconnect adapted to establish electrical communication between the bond pads on the die and external test circuitry. The interconnect for the carrier can be formed using different contact technologies including: thick film contact members on a rigid substrate; self-limiting contact members on a silicon substrate; or microbump contact members with a textured surface. During assembly of the carrier, the die and interconnect are optically aligned and placed into contact with a predetermined contact force. This establishes an electrical connection between the contact members on the interconnect and the bond pads of the die. In the assembled carrier the die and interconnect are biased together by a force distribution mechanism that includes a bridge clamp, a pressure plate and a spring clip. Following testing of the die, the carrier is disassembled and the tested die is removed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for manufacturing integrated circuits comprising: an automated apparatus adapted to: pick a singulated die from a segmented wafer; and while the singulated die is devoid of any packaging, performing an electrical functionality test on the singulated die to determine whether it is a satisfactorily nondefective die. 2. The apparatus, as set forth in claim 1, wherein the automated apparatus comprises a computer adapted to monitor the singulated die as it is processed by the automated apparatus. 3. The apparatus, as set forth in claim 2, wherein the computer is adapted to trace the singulated die as it is processed by the automated apparatus. 4. The apparatus, as set forth in claim 2, wherein the computer provides feedback specific to the manner in which the singulated die performed in response to the electrical functionality test. 5. An apparatus for manufacturing integrated circuits, comprising: an automated apparatus adapted to: pick a singulated die from a segmented wafer, the segmented wafer being mapped to identify functional die in response to a first electrical functionality test performed on a plurality of die on the wafer prior to singulation, and the singulated die picked by the automated apparatus being identified as functional in response to the first electrical functionality test; and perform a second electrical functionality test on the singulated die while the singulated die is devoid of any packaging. 6. The apparatus, as set forth in claim 5, wherein the automated apparatus comprises a computer adapted to monitor the singulated die as it is processed by the automated apparatus. 7. The apparatus, as set forth in claim 6, wherein the computer is adapted to trace the singulated die as it is processed by the automated apparatus. 8. The apparatus, as set forth in claim 6, wherein the computer provides feedback specific to the manner in which the singulated die performed in response to the second electrical functionality test. 9. The apparatus, as set forth in claim 6, wherein the computer determines whether the singulate die is satisfactorily nondefective in response to the second electrical functionality test. 10. The apparatus, as set forth in claim 5, wherein the automated apparatus is adapted to place the singulated die in a carrier prior to performing the second electrical functionality test. 11. The apparatus, as set forth in claim 10, wherein the automated apparatus performs the second electrical functionality test while the singulated die is in the carrier. 12. The apparatus, as set forth in claim 11, wherein the automated apparatus removes the singulated die from the carrier subsequent to the second electrical functionality test. 13. The apparatus, as set forth in claim 10, wherein the carrier is marked with a bar code to facilitate tracking of the singulated die as it is processed by the automated apparatus. 14. The apparatus, as set forth in claim 5, wherein the automated apparatus performs the second electrical functionality test at ambient temperature. 15. The apparatus, as set forth in claim 5, wherein the automated apparatus performs the second electrical functionality test at a temperature above an ambient temperature. 16. An apparatus for manufacturing integrated circuits comprising: an automated apparatus having a computer adapted to trace a singulated die as the automated apparatus performs an electrical functionality test on the singulated die, while the singulated die is devoid of any packaging, to determine whether the singulated die is a satisfactorily nondefective die. 17. The apparatus, as set forth in claim 16, wherein the computer provides feedback specific to the manner in which the singulated die performed in response to the electrical functionality test. 