A system and method are described that use impulse radio technology to enhance the capabilities of a robot. In one embodiment, a system, a robot and a method are provided that use the communication capabilities of impulse radio technology to help a control station better control the actions of the robot. In another embodiment, a system, a robot and a method are provided that use the communication, position and/or radar capabilities of impulse radio technology to help a control station better control the actions of a robot in order to, for example, monitor and control the environment within a building.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for identifying and locating a physical asset, said method comprising the steps of: associating a first ultra wideband radio with said physical asset; associating a second ultra wideband radio with a robot; obtaining, at said robot, information that identifies said physical asset based upon the interaction of said first ultra wideband radio and said second ultra wideband radio; and locating a position of said physical asset based upon the interaction of said first ultra wideband radio and at least two of a plurality of reference ultra wideband radios. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said physical asset is at least one of a commercial asset, a military asset, a work of art, a computer, and a cash drawer. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said physical asset is located inside a building. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of: interfacing said robot with a control station. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein said control station is used to control said robot. 6. The method of claim 4, further comprising the steps of: determining a position of said robot based upon the interaction of said second ultra wideband radio and at least two of a plurality of reference ultra wideband radios; and controlling the actions of said robot based upon said position of said robot. 7. The method of claim 4, further comprising the step of: conveying said information that identifies said physical asset from said robot to said control station, wherein said control station uses said information that identifies said physical asset to monitor said physical asset. 8. The method of claim 4, wherein said control station is located remotely to said robot. 9. The method of claim 4, wherein said second ultra wideband radio communicates with a third ultra wideband radio associated with said control station. 10. The method of claim 4, further comprising the step of: interfacing said robot with one or more sensors, wherein said control station uses information obtained from said one or more sensors to monitor said physical asset. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the second ultra wideband radio has radar capabilities which are used to detect a person in the vicinity of the robot. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein said first ultra wideband radio periodically wakes-up from a sleep mode to transmit at predetermined intervals the information that identifies the physical asset. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein said first ultra wideband radio listens for a transmission from said second ultra wideband radio for a period of time following the transmission of the information that identifies the physical asset. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein said transmissions comprise at least one of a range request and a status request. 15. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of: determining a range between said first ultra wideband radio and said second ultra wideband radio. 16. A physical asset location system, comprising: a first ultra wideband radio associated with a physical asset; a robot associated with a second ultra wideband radio that interacts with said first ultra wideband radio to determine information that identifies said physical asset; and a plurality of reference ultra wideband radios, at least two of which interact with said first ultra wideband radio to enable a position of said physical asset to be determined. 17. The physical asset location system of claim 16, further comprising: a control station having an interface with said robot. 18. The physical asset location system of claim 17, wherein said control station is associated with a third ultra wideband radio that interacts with said second ultra wideband radio. 19. The physical asset location system of claim 16, wherein at least two of said plurality of reference ultra wideband radios interact with said second ultra wideband radio to enable a position of said robot to be determined, wherein said determined position is used to control one or more actions of said robot. 20. The physical asset location system of claim 16, further comprising: at least one sensor associated with said robot. 