A motion control system comprising a source application program, a target device, a parser, an emitter, a program engine, and a parser interface. The source application program is defined by a source language specification. The target device creates motion under control of application programs defined by a target language specification. The parser component contains logic for converting application programs defined by the source language specification into a generic format. An emitter component containing logic for converting application programs in the generic format into application programs defined by the target language specification. The program engine component directs the parser component to convert the source application program into a generic application program. The program engine component further directs the emitter component to convert the generic application program into a target application program defined by the target language specification. The parser interface defines communications between the parser component and the program engine component.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A motion control system comprising: a source application program defined by a source language specification; a target device that creates motion under control of application programs defined by a target language specification; a parser component containing logic for converting application programs defined by the source language specification into a first format; an emitter component containing logic for converting application programs in the first format into application programs defined by a second format, where the second format is an interpreted language; a program engine component for directing the parser component to convert the source application program into a first application program, and directing the emitter component to convert the first application program into a second application program defined by the second format; and a parser interface that defines communications between the parser component and the program engine component. 2. A motion control system as recited in claim 1, in which the second format conforms to the target language specification, where the target device creates motion based on the second application program in the second format. 3. A motion control system as recited in claim 1, further comprising a motion component for converting application programs in the second format into application programs conforming to the target language specification, where the motion component converts the second application program into a target application program conforming to the target language specification. 4. A motion control system as recited in claim 3, in which the target device creates motion based on the target application program. 5. A motion control system as recited in claim 1, further comprising: a plurality of target language specifications; and a plurality of emit components, where each emit component is associated with one of the target language specifications. 6. A motion control system as recited in claim 5, further comprising an emit engine that performs a first set of emit functions, where the emit components each perform a second set of emit functions specific to the target language specification associated therewith. 7. A motion control system as recited in claim 1, further comprising: a plurality of source language specifications; and a plurality of parser components, where each parser component is associated with one of the source language specifications. 8. A motion control system as recited in claim 7, further comprising a parser engine that performs a first set of parse functions, where the parser components each perform a second set of parse functions specific to the source language specification associated therewith. 9. A motion control system as recited in claim 7, further comprising: a plurality of target language specifications; and a plurality of emit components, where each emit component is associated with one of the target language specifications. 10. A motion control system as recited in claim 9, further comprising a parser engine that performs a first set of parse functions, where the parser components each perform a second set of parse functions specific to the source language specification associated therewith. 11. A motion control system as recited in claim 10, further comprising a emit engine that performs a first set of emit functions, where the emit components each perform a second set of emit functions specific to the target language specification associated therewith. 12. A motion control system as recited in claim 1, further comprising a parser engine that performs a first set of parse functions, where the parser component performs a second set of parse functions specific to the source language specification. 13. A motion control system as recited in claim 12, further comprising an emit engine that performs a first set of emit functions, where the emit component performs a second set of emit functions specific to the target language specification. 14. A motion control system as recited in claim 1, further comprising an emit engine that performs a first set of emit functions, where the emit component performs a second set of emit functions specific to the target language specification. 