A moving magnet actuator for providing haptic feedback. The actuator includes a grounded core member, a coil is wrapped around a central projection of the core member, and a magnet head positioned so as to provide a gap between the core member and the magnet head. The magnet head is moved in a degree of freedom based on an electromagnetic force caused by a current flowed through the coil. An elastic material, such as foam, is positioned in the gap between the magnet head and the core member, where the elastic material is compressed and sheared when the magnet head moves and substantially prevents movement of the magnet head past a range limit that is based on the compressibility and shear factor of the material. Flexible members can also be provided between the magnet head and the ground member, where the flexible members flex to allow the magnet head to move, provide a centering spring force to the magnet head, and limit the motion of the magnet head.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A computer input device comprising an actuator, which comprises: a core member, having a central projection; a coil wrapped around said central projection; a magnet positioned so as to provide a gap between said core member and said magnet and operable to move in a degree of freedom relative to said core member; and an elastic material disposed in said gap and configured to limit a range of motion of said magnet in said degree of freedom, wherein; said core member comprises a first curved surface; said magnet comprises a second curved surface; and said elastic material is disposed in a gap formed between said first curved surface and said second curved surface. 2. A computer input device comprising an actuator, which comprises: a core member having a central projection; a coil wrapped around said central projection; a magnet positioned so as to provide a gap between said core member and said magnet; and a first flexible member attached to said core member and said magnet and configured to limit a range of motion of said magnet. 3. An actuator as recited in claim 2 further comprising an elastic material disposed in said gap. 4. An actuator as recited in claim 3, wherein said elastic material comprises foam. 5. An actuator as recited in claim 2 wherein said first flexible member is attached to said magnet and a grounded surface. 6. An actuator as recited in claim 5 wherein said grounded surface comprises an actuator housing. 7. An actuator as recited in claim 5, further comprising a controller electrically connected to said coil for generating a drive signal. 8. An actuator as recited in claim 5, further comprising a second flexible member attached to said magnet and said core member. 9. An actuator as recited in claim 5, wherein: said core member comprises a first curved surface; said magnet comprises a second curved surface. 10. An actuator as recited in claim 9, further comprising an elastic material positioned in a gap formed between said first curved surface and said second curved surface. 11. An actuator as recited in claim 2 wherein said magnet is configured to move linearly. 12. An actuator as recited in claim 2 wherein said magnet is configured to move rotationally. 13. A device comprising: a manipulandum having a housing; and an actuator as recited in claim 2 coupled to said manipulandum and disposed within said housing. 14. A device as recited in claim 13, wherein said manipulandum comprises a joystick. 15. A computer input device comprising an actuator, which comprises: a core member, having a central projection; a coil wrapped around said central projection; a magnet positioned so as to provide a gap between said core member and said magnet; and a ground member attached to said core member; and a first flexible member attached to said core member and said magnet and configured to limit a range of motion of said magnet. 16. An actuator as recited in claim 15, further comprising a second flexible member attached to said magnet and said ground member. 17. An actuator as recited in claim 15, wherein said ground member comprises a grounded surface. 18. An actuator as recited in claim 17, wherein said grounded surface comprises a surface of a housing. 19. A device comprising: a manipulandum having a housing; and an actuator as recited in claim 15 coupled to said manipulandum and disposed within said housing. 20. A device as recited in claim 19, wherein said manipulandum comprises a joystick. 