A disk dispenser including a spindle having a first end and a second end, the second end having a disk support foot arranged to support a stack of disks, wherein the disk support foot is movable from an extended position at which a portion of the disk support foot is axially extending beyond a diameter of the spindle for supporting a stack of disks and a withdrawn position at which the portion of the disk support foot is not substantially axially extending beyond the diameter of the spindle for loading the stack of disks onto the spindle; and a pusher for separating at least one disk from the stack of disks on the spindle.
Claims I claim: 1. A disk dispenser, comprising: a spindle having a first end and a second end, the second end having a disk support foot arranged to support a stack of disks, wherein the disk support foot is movable from an extended position at which a portion of the disk support foot is axially extending beyond a diameter of the spindle for supporting a stack of disks and a withdrawn position at which the portion of the disk support foot is not substantially axially extending beyond the diameter of the spindle for loading the stack of disks onto the spindle; and a pusher for separating at least one disk from the stack of disks on the spindle, and wherein the pusher horizontally displaces a lower-most disk from the stack of disks. 2. The disk dispenser of claim 1, further comprising a spacer located between the second end of the spindle and the disk support foot. 3. The disk dispenser of claim 2, wherein the spacer has a diameter less than a diameter of the second end of the spindle for ease of separating the at least one disk from the stack of disks on the spindle. 4. The disk dispenser of claim 1, wherein the disk support foot is rotatable. 5. The disk dispenser of claim 1, further comprising an upper plate for positioning the spindle within a disk housing. 6. The disk dispenser of claim 1, further comprising a retainer foot located adjacent to the pusher and contacts an underside of a lower-most disk of the stack of disks. 7. The disk dispenser of claim 6, wherein the pusher separates the lower-most disk from the stack of disks. 8. The disk dispenser of claim 1, further comprising a servomotor for controlling the pusher. 9. The disk dispenser of claim 1, further comprising a printer for printing indicia on the at least one disk. 10. The disk dispenser of claim 1, further comprising a disk writer for writing on the at least one disk. 11. The disk dispenser of claim 1, wherein the disk pusher horizontally displaces the lower-most disk by engaging an outer edge of the lower-most disk. 12. The disk dispenser of claim 1, wherein the pusher is slidably mounted above a retainer foot and the pusher selectively dispenses the lower-most disk from the stack. 13. A disk dispenser comprising: a spindle having a first end and a second end, the second end having a disk support foot arranged to support a stack of disks, wherein the disk support foot is movable from an extended position at which a portion of the disk support foot is axially extending beyond a diameter of the spindle for supporting a stack of disks and a withdrawn position at which the portion of the disk support foot is not substantially axially extending beyond the diameter of the spindle for loading the stack of disks onto the spindle; a pusher for separating at least one disk from the stack of disks on the spindle; and an upper plate for positioning the spindle within a disk housing, and wherein the disk housing includes a top support ring for positioning the spindle and upper plate within the disk housing. 14. An apparatus for writing on a stack of disks, the apparatus comprising: a housing; a disk dispenser, the disk dispenser comprising: a spindle having a first end and a second end, the second end having a disk support foot for supporting a stack of disks, wherein the disk support foot is movable from an extended position arranged to support a stack of disks and a withdrawn position arranged to allow loading of the stack of disks over the disk support foot and onto the spindle; and a pusher for separating at least one disk from the stack of disks on the spindle, wherein the disk pusher horizontally displaces a lower-most disk by engaging an outer edge of the lower-most disk; and a disk writer. 15. The apparatus of claim 14, further comprising a spacer located between the second end of the spindle and the disk support foot. 16. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the disk support foot is rotatable. 17. The apparatus of claim 14, further comprising an upper plate for positioning the spindle within a disk housing. 18. The apparatus of claim 14, further comprising a retainer foot located adjacent to the pusher and contacts an underside of a lower-most disk of the stack of disks. 19. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the pusher separates the lower-most disk from the stack of disks. 20. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the housing includes a disk drive. 21. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the housing includes a copy board. 22. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the pusher is slidably mounted above a retainer foot and the pusher selectively dispenses the lower-most disk from the stack. 23. An apparatus for writing on a stack of disks, the apparatus comprising: a housing; a disk dispenser, the disk dispenser comprising: a spindle having a first end and a second end, the second end having a disk support foot for supporting a stack of disks, wherein the disk support foot is movable from an extended position arranged to support a stack of disks and a withdrawn position arranged to allow loading of the stack of disks over the disk support foot and onto the spindle; and a pusher for separating at least one disk from the stack of disks on the spindle; a disk writer; and a tray for receiving the at least one disk from the stack of disks. 24. The apparatus of claim 23, wherein tray has a pair of support members for supporting the at least one disk in a first position and releasing the at least one disk to a hopper in a second position. 25. The apparatus of claim 24, further comprising a servomotor for controlling the support members of the tray. 