An integrated system is disclosed for workpiece handling and/or inspection at the front end of a tool. The system comprises a rigid member of unitary construction such as a metal plate which mounts to the front of a tool associated with a semiconductor process. The front end components, including the load port assemblies, prealigners and workpiece handling robot, are mounted to the plate to provide precise and repeatable positioning of the front end components with respect to each other.
Claims We claim: 1. A wafer engine for moving semiconductor workpieces, comprising: a linear drive assembly having a carriage, said linear drive assembly for moving said carriage between a first position and a second position along a first linear path, said first linear path defining an x-axis; a support column having a first end a second end, and a longitudinal central axis; a rotational drive housing mounted to said carriage, said rotational drive housing substantially enclosing a rotational drive being adapted to affix to said first end of said support column for rotating said support column about said longitudinal central axis, said longitudinal central axis defining a substantially vertical theta axis that is substantially perpendicular to said x-axis; a vertical drive column extending upward from a support member having a first end and a second end, said first end of said support member mounted to said second end of said support column such that said rotational drive rotates said support member and said vertical drive column about said theta axis; a z-axis drive assembly having a mechanism being adapted to move vertically within said vertical drive column between a first position and a second position along a second linear path; a slide body mounted to said mechanism, said slide body substantially enclosing a radial drive assembly being adapted to move an end effector between a first position and second position along a third linear path, said third linear path defining a radial axis; and wherein said theta axis is offset from a z-axis traveling substantially through the geometric center of said slide body. 2. The wafer engine as recited in claim 1, wherein said rotational drive simultaneously rotates said vertical drive column, said support member and said slide body about said theta axis. 3. The wafer engine as recited in claim 1, further including an exhaust device affixed to said rotational drive housing. 4. The wafer engine as recited in claim 3, wherein said exhaust device draws air located within said vertical drive column and said support member into said support column and vents the air located within said support column out through of said exhaust device. 5. The wafer engine as recited in claim 1, wherein said slide body is removably mounted to said mechanism. 6. The wafer engine as recited in claim 5, wherein said slide body includes at least one component selected from the group consisting of (i) an ID reader, (ii) a metrology tool, (iii) an aligner, (iv) a notch detector, (v) an edge detector, (vi) a wafer marking tool, (vii) a processing module, (viii) a wafer viewing, and (ix) an environmental control device. 7. The wafer engine as recited in claim 1, further including a fan/filter unit mounted to said slide body, said fan/filter unit for drawing air within said slide body into said fan/filter unit and filtering the air before venting the air out of said fan/filter unit. 8. The wafer engine recited in claim 1, further including a fan unit mounted to said rotational drive housing for drawing air in said vertical drive housing through said support column and out of said fan unit. 9. The wafer engine as recited in claim 8, wherein the air blown out of said fan unit comprises unfiltered air. 10. A wafer engine for transporting semiconductor wafers, comprising: a first drive assembly having a mounting element, said first drive assembly being adapted to move said mounting element between a first position and a second position along a first linear path, said first linear path defining an x-axis; a support column having a first end and a second end; a rotational drive housing mounted to said mounting element, said housing substantially enclosing a rotational drive that is and affixed to said first end of said support column, said rotational drive being adapted to rotate said support column about a longitudinal central axis of said support column, said longitudinal central axis defining a theta-axis; a substantially L-shaped z-axis drive housing having a vertical drive column extending from a support member that is affixed to said second end of said support column, said vertical drive column substantially enclosing a z-axis drive assembly having a mechanism being adapted to move vertically between a first position and a second position along a second linear path; a slide body removably mounted to said mechanism, said slide body substantially enclosing a radial drive assembly having a second mechanism being adapted to move between a first position and a second position along a third linear path, said third linear path defining a radial axis; an end effector mounted to said second mechanism; and wherein said theta axis is offset from a z-axis traveling substantially through the geometric center of said slide body. 11. The wafer engine as recited in claim 10, wherein said slide body includes at least one component selected from the group consisting of (i) an ID reader, (ii) a metrology tool, (iii) an aligner, (iv) a notch detector, (v) an edge detector, and (vi) a wafer marking tool. 12. The wafer engine recited in claim 10, further including an exhaust device affixed to said rotational drive housing, said exhaust device for drawing air located within said substantially L-shaped z-axis drive housing through said support column in order to vent the air out of said exhaust device. 13. The wafer engine recited in claim 12, further including a fan/filter device mounted to said slide body, said fan/filter device for drawing within said slide body into said fan/filter unit and filtering the air before the air is vented out of said fan/filter unit. 