A method for preventing an emission head or arm assembly from entering an exclusion zone or for preventing a collision between an object and the emission head and/or arm assembly. The method may include modeling a treatment room using a computer-aided design (CAD) tool, and calculating an exclusion zone for a radiosurgery system in the treatment room using the modeled treatment room.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method, comprising: modeling a treatment room using a computer-aided design (CAD) tool; and calculating an exclusion zone for a radiosurgery system in the treatment room using the modeled treatment room. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein calculating the exclusion zone comprises calculating the exclusion zone using treatment planning software in a controller of the radiosurgery x-ray system. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein calculating the exclusion zone comprises calculating the exclusion zone before treatment of a patient. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the radiosurgery system comprises an x-ray source having an emission head and an arm assembly, and the method further comprises preventing at least one of the emission head or the arm assembly from entering the calculated exclusion zone of the treatment room during treatment of a patient, wherein the calculated exclusion zone is based on the modeled treatment room. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the radiosurgery system comprises an x-ray source having an emission head and an arm assembly, and the method further comprising moving the emission head of the x-ray source, and wherein the exclusion zone travels with the moving emission head. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein calculating the exclusion zone further comprises defining a region surrounding a patient. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein calculating the exclusion zone further comprises defining a region with respect to the emission head. 8. The method of claim 6, wherein defining the region surrounding the patient further comprises using one or more parameters comprising at least one of a size of the patient, expected movements of the patient during treatment, and a location of the patient positioning system. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein calculating the exclusion zone further comprising updating the exclusion zone during treatment. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein updating the exclusion zone during treatment comprises receiving feedback from at least one of a patient positioning system or a controller of a radiosurgery system. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the exclusion zone is a static exclusion zone. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the exclusion zone is a variable dimension exclusion zone. 13. An apparatus, comprising: a controller to model a treatment room using a computer-aided design (CAD) tool, wherein the controller is configured to calculate an exclusion zone for a radiosurgery system in the treatment room using the modeled treatment room. 14. The apparatus of claim 13, further comprising a radiosurgery system coupled to the controller, the radiosurgery system comprising an x-ray source having an emission head and an arm assembly, the controller is configured to prevent at least one of the emission head or the arm assembly from entering the calculated exclusion zone of the treatment room during treatment of a patient, wherein the calculated exclusion zone is based on the modeled treatment room. 15. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein exclusion zone is a region surrounding a patient. 16. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the exclusion zone is a region defined with respect to the emission head by the controller. 17. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the controller is configured to update the exclusion zone during treatment. 18. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the controller is configured to receive feedback from the radiosurgery system. 19. An apparatus, comprising: means for modeling a treatment room; and means for calculating an exclusion zone for an x-ray source in the treatment room using the modeled treatment room. 20. The apparatus of claim 19, further comprising: an x-ray source having an emission head and an arm assembly; and means for preventing at least one of the emission head or the arm assembly from entering the calculated exclusion zone of the treatment room during treatment of a patient, wherein the calculated exclusion zone is based on the modeled treatment room. 