Inkwells adapted for use in direct-write nanolithography and other applications including use of wells, channels, and posts. The wells can possess a geometry which matches the geometry of tips which are dipped into the inkwells. The channels can be open or closed. Hydrophilicity and hydrophobicity can be used to control ink flow. SEM can be used to characterize the inkwells. Ink flow can be monitored with video. Hydrophobic material layers can be used to prevent cross contamination. Microsyringes can be used to fill reservoirs. Satellite reservoirs can be used to prevent bubble formation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An ink delivery device for direct-write nanolithographic printing of inks with use of a tip or tip array comprising: ink reservoirs, microfluidic channels connected to the ink reservoirs; dipping wells connected to the microfluidic channels, wherein the dipping wells have a geometry for dipping the tip or tip array into the dipping wells. 2. The ink delivery device according to claim 1, wherein the dipping wells have a geometry such that evaporation of the ink is minimized. 3. The ink delivery device according to claim 1, wherein the microfluidic channels have a geometry such that evaporation of the ink is minimized. 4. The ink delivery device according to claim 1, wherein the ink reservoirs have a geometry such that evaporation of the ink is minimized. 5. The ink delivery device according to claim 1, wherein the dipping wells, the microfluidic channels, and the ink reservoirs have a geometry such that evaporation of the ink is minimized. 6. The ink delivery device according to claim 1, wherein the surface chemistry of the wells and channels, or their surrounding areas, is modified to guide ink to precise locations. 7. The ink delivery device according to claim 5, wherein the surface chemistry is modified with a hydrophilic modification or a hydrophobic modification. 8. The ink delivery device according to claim 1, wherein the device further includes integrated microelectronics. 9. The ink delivery device according to claim 1, wherein the device further includes alignment marks. 10. The ink delivery device according to claim 1, wherein the device further includes posts. 11. The ink delivery device according to claim 1, wherein the microfluidic channels are open channels. 12. The ink delivery device according to claim 1, wherein the microfluidic channels are closed channels. 13. The ink delivery device according to claim 1, wherein the wells are micromachined wells. 14. The ink delivery device according to claim 1, wherein the microfluidic channels become more narrow with the flow of ink to the wells. 15. The ink delivery device according to claim 1, wherein reservoir, channels, and wells are disposed on a silicon wafer. 16. The ink delivery device according to claim 1, wherein the wells or channels are filled with a filler. 17. The ink delivery device according to claim 1, wherein the wells or channels are filled with a filler capable of retaining ink with minimum evaporation. 18. The ink delivery device according to claim 1, further comprising micromechanical pumps and microvalves. 19. A delivery device for direct-write nanolithographic printing using a tip array comprising: reservoirs, microfluidic channels connected to the reservoirs; an array of dipping wells connected to the microfluidic channels, wherein the array of dipping wells has a geometry which matches the arrangement of the tip array. 20. A microfluidic device comprising: a substrate comprising a surface and a plurality of microchannels which are hydrophilicly surface treated, and at least one hydrophobic barrier layer on the surface between the microchannels which prevents cross contamination between the plurality of microchannels when liquid flows through the microchannels. 