A consumer tote for a roll of wallpaper is disclosed. The tote has a disposable exterior with a main access flap and a pair of core access openings, one at each end. The tote has an interior in which may be located a disposable core. The core aligns with the access openings. In some embodiments there is a gap between the access flap and an adjacent edge of the exterior, when the flap is closed. In preferred embodiments, the core is supported at each end by a molding having a hub which engages the core.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A consumer tote for a roll of wallpaper, the tote comprising: a disposable exterior in which is formed a main access flap and a pair of core access openings; and the tote having an interior in which is located a disposable core which is aligned with the access openings; wherein, the access flap is hinged for rotating between an open position allowing user access to the disposable core and a closed position restricting access to a gap formed between the access flap and an adjacent edge of the exterior; the tote further comprising: a handle which folds flat against the exterior; wherein: the handle is formed by two similar sub-units which told from a flat position to a cooperating position in which a handle opening in each sub-unit align to form a grip, and wherein there is formed a gap between the access flap and an adjacent edge of the exterior when the flap is closed; and each sub-unit has an edge which is affixed to the exterior, adjacent to the gap; the sub-units arranged in a mirror image relationship about the gap. 2. A consumer tote as claimed in claim 1, wherein: the exterior is formed from a non-metallic textile. 3. A consumer tote as claimed in claim 1, wherein: the core is supported at each end by a molding having a hub which engages the core. 4. A consumer tote as claimed in claim 3, wherein: each hub surrounded by a bearing surface which locates the hub in a respective access opening. 5. A consumer tote as claimed in claim 4, wherein: the bearing surface makes contact with an inside bottom surface of the disposable exterior when the hub is located in the openings. 6. A consumer tote as claimed in claim 5, wherein: the bearing surface is circular and connected to the hub by spokes. 7. A consumer tote as claimed in claim 3, wherein: at least one hub has an external coupling for engaging a rotating winding spindle. 8. A consumer tote as claimed in claim 7, wherein; the coupling comprises a ring of teeth. 9. A consumer tote as claimed in claim 1, further comprising: one of the access openings exposes a coupling formed on a hub which carries the core; and a visible marker is located on the exterior for indicating the location of the coupling. 10. A consumer tote as claimed in claim 1, wherein: the exterior is dimensioned to fit between the loading spindles of a wallpaper printing machine. 11. A consumer tote as claimed in claim 1, wherein: the exterior further comprises a viewing window. 12. A consumer tote as claimed in claim 1, wherein: the exterior is adapted to hold about 50 meters of wallpaper wound onto a core. 13. A consumer tote as claimed in claim 1, wherein: the adjacent edge includes a return lip. 14. A consumer tote as claimed in claim 1, wherein: the core is supported at each end by a molding having a hub which engages the core. 15. A consumer tote as claimed in claim 14, wherein: each hub surrounded by a bearing surface which locates the hub in a respective access opening. 