Two independently articulated arms supporting an x-ray tube and x-ray detector, respectively, are mounted offset to the patient and controlled to simulate a wide variety of conventional x-ray positioners. The articulated arms provide for at least two axes of independent motion. An axis controller sends movement signals to each axis, and receives position signals from each axis to coordinate movement of the axes of the articulated arms according to a contained program. A network interface communicates with the axis controller for receiving at least a portion of the program over a network.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A multi-operating mode x-ray machine comprising: an x-ray source producing an x-ray beam directed along a source centerline; an x-ray detector detecting x-rays received along a detector centerline; a first and second articulated arm, the first articulated arm holding the x-ray source, the second articulated arm holding the x-ray detector, the first and second articulated arms providing for at least two axes of independent motion; an axis controller sending movement signals to each axis and receiving position signals from each axis to coordinate movement of the axes of the first and second arms according to a contained program, wherein the program provides a mode of operation, and a network interface communicating with the axis controller for receiving at least a portion of the program over a network. 2. The multi-operating mode x-ray machine of claim 1 wherein the network interface provides an interface to the Internet. 3. The multi-operating mode x-ray machine of claim 1 wherein the program portion is a machine personality defining a virtual mechanical linkage between the x-ray source and x-ray detector implemented by coordinated position signals from the axis controller to the axes of the first and second articulated arms. 4. The multi-operating mode x-ray machine of claim 3 wherein the implemented virtual mechanical linkage holds the source centerline and detector centerline in alignment as the x-ray source and x-ray detector rotate about an isocenter. 5. The multi-operating mode x-ray machine of claim 3 wherein the implemented virtual mechanical linkage holds the source centerline and detector centerline in alignment as the x-ray source and x-ray detector move perpendicular to the source and detector centerline. 6. The multi-operating mode x-ray machine of claim 3 wherein the implemented virtual mechanical linkage moves the x-ray source and x-ray detector in opposite directions at constant distance from a tomographic plane. 7. The multi-operating mode x-ray machine of claim 1 wherein the program portion is a zero configuration defining a starting position of the first and second articulated arms realized by position signals transmitted to the axes of the first and second articulated arms. 8. The multi-operating mode x-ray machine of claim 7 wherein the starting position is with the x-ray source and x-ray detector horizontally opposed at a predetermined separation distance with the source and detector centerline aligned. 9. The multi-operating mode x-ray machine of claim 7 wherein the starting position is with the x-ray source and x-ray detector vertically opposed at a predetermined separation with the source and detector centerline aligned. 10. The multi-operating mode x-ray machine of claim 1 including further a user control device communicating with the axis controller and receiving control inputs from a user to move the first and second articulated arm and wherein the portion of program is a control map translating control inputs to movement signals. 11. The multi-operating mode x-ray machine of claim 10 wherein the user control device is mounted on one of the first and second articulated arms and wherein the control inputs are received by switches activated by pressure in a desired direction of movement of the articulated arm and wherein the axis controller provides a virtual mechanical linkage between the first and second articulated arms to move both the first and second articulated arms in coordination according to the control inputs. 12. The multi-operating mode x-ray machine of claim 11 wherein the user control device is mounted on the second articulated arm. 13. The multi-operating mode x-ray machine of claim 1 wherein program portion is an axis parsing and translation file receiving control inputs and converting the control inputs to movement of the first and second articulated arms according to movement signals. 14. The multi-operating mode x-ray machine of claim 13 wherein the program portion also includes a machine personality file defining a virtual mechanical linkage between the first and second articulated arms implemented by coordinating position signals to the axes of the first and second articulated arms and wherein the axis parsing and translation table converts the control inputs to movements of the first and second articulated arms with reference to the machine personality file to preserve the virtual mechanical linkage. 15. The multi-operating mode x-ray machine of claim 13 wherein the number and type of axes of the first and second articulated arms is variable as stored in a configuration file and wherein the axis parsing and translation table converts the control inputs to movements of the first and second articulated arms to implement motion with reference to the configuration file. 16. The multi-operating mode x-ray machine of claim 13 wherein the portion of the control program received over the network includes the configuration file. 17. The multi-operating mode x-ray machine of claim 13 including further a user control device receiving control inputs from a user. 18. The multi-operating mode x-ray machine of claim 1 wherein the program portion is an x-ray procedure defining operation of the multi-operation mode x-ray machine during acquisition of x-ray data. 19. The multi-operating mode x-ray machine of claim 1 wherein the procedure defines motion over time of the x-ray source and x-ray detector during the procedure. 20. The multi-operating mode x-ray machine of claim 1 wherein the procedure defines exposure over time of the patient. 