This machine is a cell for bulk palletizing a load such as the packaging of containers (bottles). The machine comprises a tier building system, a bulk load and dunnage supply systems. The cell also includes a programmable robot with cantilevered arm including an effector for transferring pallets, tiers of bulk product, tier sheets and top frames to the load build area. The effector includes an inverted drawer, suction means, pallet gripper means and top frame grippers for doing the transferring.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus for bulk palletizing a load comprising: a tier building system; a pallet station; a tier sheet station; a load build area; a top frame station; a dunnage supply line; and a programmable robot, including a single means for transferring pallets, tiers of bulk product, tier sheets and top frames to the load build area wherein the programmable, robot includes a microprocessor and software configured to build a bulk load by sequentially feeding a pallet, a tier of bulk product, a tier sheet, a tier of bulk product and a top frame as necessary to the load building area. 2. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the microprocessor and software are configured to stack multiple, alternating layers of tiers of product and tier sheets sandwiched between the pallet and the top frame. 3. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the single means for transferring is an end effector including an inverted drawer for transferring a tier of bulk product, suction means for transferring a tier sheet, a pallet gripper means for transferring a pallet, top frame grippers for transferring a top frame, a frame for supporting the inverted drawer, the suction means, the pallet gripper means and the top frame grippers wherein the frame of the end effector also is connected to the robotic arm. 4. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the programmable robot is a multi-axis robot including a cantilevered arm with a mounting plate integral to a distal end of the arm. 5. An apparatus according to claim 4 wherein the multi-axis robot has five axes of motion. 6. An apparatus according to claim 3 wherein the inverted drawer includes a gate on one side thereof and at least one crowder on each side of the inverted drawer. 7. An apparatus according to claim 3 including at least one linear guide rail allowing the inverted drawer to move back and forth in a linear direction. 8. An apparatus according to claim 6 including a linear guide rail, a means for opening and closing the gate and a means for moving the crowders in a linear direction perpendicular to the linear guide rail. 9. An apparatus according to claim 3 wherein the suction means is at least one suction cup. 10. An apparatus according to claim 3 including a tier sheet gripper actuated by an air cylinder. 11. An apparatus according to claim 3 wherein the pallet gripper means is at least one pallet gripper tab on each side of the effector. 12. An apparatus according to claim 3 wherein the pallet gripper means is a plurality of pallet gripper tabs circumscribing the perimeter of the frame of the effector. 13. An apparatus according to claim 11 including a means for moving the pallet gripper tabs inwardly and outwardly. 14. An apparatus according to claim 11 wherein the means for moving the pallet gripper tabs are air cylinders. 15. An apparatus according to claim 3 wherein the top frame grippers are on opposite sides of the effector. 16. An apparatus according to claim 15 wherein the top frame grippers circumscribes the perimeter of the frame of the effector. 17. An apparatus according to claim 15 including a means for moving the top frame grippers inwardly and outwardly in a linear direction. 18. An apparatus according to claim 3 wherein a common arm supports a pallet gripper means and a top frame gripper. 19. An apparatus according to claim 18 wherein the pallet gripper means face the interior of the effector and top frame grippers face away from the effector. 20. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the single means for transferring of the programmable, robotic arm also is a means for transferring a bulk product tier to the load building area. 21. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the means for transferring a bulk product tier includes a conveyor for transferring a bulk product tier to the load building area. 22. An apparatus according to claim 1 including a conveyor for moving a bulk product loaded pallet from the load building area to a strapping station. 23. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the dunnage supply line provides the pallets to the pallet station and provides the top frames to the top frame station. 24. An apparatus according to claim 23 wherein pushers transfer the pallets and the top frames to their respective stations. 25. An apparatus according to claim 24 wherein the pushers are chain transfers. 26. An apparatus for bulk palletizing containers comprising a tier building area, a programmable robot with cantilevered arm with end-of-arm tool, a tier sheet station, a pallet station, a top frame station, and a finished product discharge line, wherein the end-of-arm tool incorporates the full tier pickup, tier sheet pickup, pallet pickup and top frame pickup and wherein the single robot performs all functions in sequence. 27. An apparatus according to claim 26 wherein the robot is programmed to gather the tier and carry it to a load build area for stacking of the tiers. 28. An apparatus according to claim 26 wherein the programmable robot with cantilevered arm is a single means for transferring the pallets, the tiers of containers, the tier sheets and the top frames to a load build area. 29. A process for bulk palletizing a load comprising the steps of sequentially: placing a pallet in a load building area; alternatively placing a tier sheet and a tier of bulk product on the pallet; stacking alternate layers of the tiers and tier sheets on the pallet in load build area; stacking a top frame on the load; and carrying out the steps with a single programmable robot including a microprocessor and software configured to build a bulk load by sequentially feeding a pallet, a tier of bulk product, a tier sheet, a tier of bulk product and a top frame as necessary to a load building area. 30. A process according to claim 29 wherein the robot includes a cantilevered arm with an end effector, wherein the end effector carries out the steps of placing and stacking. 