The present invention provides an integrated, fully automated, high-throughput system for two-dimensional electrophoresis comprised of gel-making machines, gel processing machines, gel compositions and geometries, gel handling systems, sample preparation systems, software and methods. The system is capable of continuous operation at high-throughput to allow construction of large quantitative data sets.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A spot cutter for cutting spots from a loose electrophoresis gel, comprising: a support table including a working region capable of receiving and supporting said electrophoresis gel when said electrophoresis gel is laid loose in the absence of any attached backing material onto said working region; an image detector capable of imaging said electrophoresis gel when said electrophoresis gel is in position on said support table; a means for laying onto said working regions said electrophoresis gel loose in the absence of any attached backing material; a spot cutter head including a hollow punch that is capable of moving downward into contact with said support table, thereby passing through said electrophoresis gel, with said hollow punch cutting out an electrophoresis gel region substantially equal in size to an inner dimension of said hollow punch; a positioning mechanism for positioning said spot cutter head relative to said support table, said spot cutter head being affixed to and movable by said positioning mechanism; and a controller communicating with said image detector and receiving an electrophoresis gel image, positioning said positioning mechanism, and activating said spot cutter head. 2. The spot cutter of claim 1, wherein said support table further comprises a transparent plate within said working region. 3. The spot cutter of claim 2, wherein said support table further includes at least one ferromagnetic region disposed under said transparent plate. 4. The spot cutter of claim 2, wherein said support table further includes at least one depression adjacent to said transparent plate, with said at least one depression being adapted to receive an electrophoresis gel clamp affixed to said electrophoresis gel when said electrophoresis gel is in position on said support table. 5. The spot cutter of claim 1, wherein said transparent plate comprises a glass plate and said glass plate includes at least one roughened surface region, said at least one roughened surface region holding said electrophoresis gel in position on said glass plate. 6. The spot cutter of claim 1, wherein said support table further includes a rinse well capable of containing a rinse fluid, wherein a tip of said hollow punch may be immersed in said rinse well and said rinse fluid. 7. The spot cutter of claim 1, wherein said support table further includes a rinse well capable of containing a rinse fluid, wherein a fluid expelled from said spot cutter head is retained in said rinse well. 8. The spot cutter of claim 1, wherein said support table further includes at least one sample well where an excised electrophoresis gel portion is deposited. 9. The spot cutter of claim 8, wherein said controller stores coordinates of said sample well containing said excised electrophoresis gel portion. 10. The spot cutter of claim 9, wherein said at least one pivoting plate further includes a projection that extends at an angle from said at least one pivoting plate, and wherein when said at least one pivoting plate is resting on said electrophoresis gel said projection is depressed in order to pivot said at least one pivoting plate up off of said electrophoresis gel. 11. The spot cutter of claim 1, wherein said support table further includes at least one pivoting plate capable of being pivoted up and away from said electrophoresis gel when said electrophoresis gel is in position on said support table and is further capable of being pivoted down and onto said electrophoresis gel in order to hold said electrophoresis gel through a mass of said at least one pivoting plate. 12. The spot cutter of claim 1, wherein said support table is illuminated from a side opposite said image detector. 13. The spot cutter of claim 1, wherein said controller receives said electrophoresis gel image and determines spot locations in said electrophoresis gel image, with said controller excising electrophoresis gel portions that contain said spot locations. 14. The spot cutter of claim 1, wherein said image detector comprises a camera. 15. The spot cutter of claim 1, wherein said image detector comprises a digital camera. 16. The spot cutter of claim 1, wherein said image detector comprises a charge-coupled device. 17. The spot cutter of claim 1, wherein said positioning mechanism further comprises: a first robotic arm segment rotatably attached to a support structure, with said first robotic arm segment being rotated about a substantially vertical axis by a rotation mechanism; and a second robotic arm segment pivotally attached to said first robotic arm and being pivoted in a substantially horizontal plane by a second pivot drive mechanism, with said spot cutter head being attached to said second robotic arm segment; wherein said rotation mechanism and said second pivot drive mechanism are directed by said controller; and wherein said positioning mechanism enables said spot cutter head to be positioned at any location over said working region. 18. The spot cutter of claim 17, wherein said rotation mechanism and said second pivot drive mechanism are selected from the group consisting of a pneumatic actuator, a hydraulic actuator, and an electric stepper motor, an electric servo motor, and combinations thereof. 19. The spot cutter of claim 17, wherein said support structure is said support table. 20. The spot cutter of claim 1, wherein said positioning mechanism further comprises: a first robotic arm segment pivotally and rotatably attached to a support structure, with said first robotic arm segment being pivoted by a first pivot drive mechanism in a substantially vertical plane and rotated about a substantially vertical axis by a rotation mechanism; and a second robotic arm segment pivotally attached to said first robotic arm and being pivoted in a substantially vertical plane by a second pivot drive mechanism, with said spot cutter head being pivotally attached to said second robotic arm segment and pivoted by a spot cutter head pivot drive mechanism; wherein said first pivot drive mechanism, said rotation mechanism, said second pivot drive mechanism, and said spot cutter head pivot drive mechanism are directed by said controller; and wherein said positioning mechanism enables said spot cutter head to be positioned at any location over said electrophoresis gel. 21. The spot cutter of claim 20, wherein said support structure is said support table. 22. A The spot cutter of claim 20, wherein said first pivot drive mechanism, said rotation mechanism, said second pivot drive mechanism, and said spot cutter head pivot drive mechanism are selected from the group consisting of a pneumatic actuator, a hydraulic actuator; and an electric stepper motor, an electric servo motor, and combinations thereof. 23. The spot cutter of claim 1, wherein said positioning mechanism further comprises: a rail affixed to said support table; and an arm movable on said rail by a first drive mechanism, with said spot cutter head being movable on said arm by a second drive mechanism, with said arm being substantially orthogonal to said rail. 24. The spot cutter of claim 23, wherein said first drive mechanism and said second drive mechanism are selected from the group consisting of a pneumatic actuator, a hydraulic actuator, and an electric stepper motor, an electric servo motor, and combinations thereof. 25. The spot cutter of claim 1, wherein said spot cutter head further includes a punch block and said hollow punch is formed on said punch block. 26. The spot cutter of claim 1, wherein said punch block is hydraulically extended and retracted. 27. The spot cutter of claim 1, wherein said punch block is pneumatically extended and retracted. 28. The spot cutter of claim 1, wherein said spot cutter mechanism further includes a plunger inside said hollow punch, with said plunger being capable of being retracted within said hollow punch by a plunger drive mechanism during excision and further capable of being extended by said plunger drive mechanism so that a tip of said plunger approaches a tip of said hollow punch. 29. The spot cutter of claim 1, wherein said spot cutter mechanism further includes a plunger inside said hollow punch, with said plunger being capable of being retracted within said hollow punch by a plunger drive mechanism during excision and further capable of being extended by said plunger drive mechanism so that a tip of said plunger is substantially flush with a tip of said hollow punch. 30. The spot cutter of claim 1, wherein said spot cutter mechanism further includes a plunger inside said hollow punch, with said plunger being capable of being retracted within said hollow punch by a plunger drive mechanism during excision and further capable of being extended by said plunger drive mechanism so that a tip of said plunger extends beyond a tip of said hollow punch. 31. The spot cutter of claim 1, wherein said plunger drive mechanism is a hydraulic actuator. 32. The spot cutter of claim 1, wherein said plunger drive mechanism is a pneumatic actuator. 33. The spot cutter of claim 1, wherein said plunger drive mechanism is a worm gear drive. 34. The spot cutter of claim 1, wherein said plunger drive mechanism is a solenoid. 35. The spot cutter of claim 1, wherein said spot cutter head further comprises: a fluid inlet port located on said punch block and capable of admitting a fluid into said punch block and said hollow punch; and a clearance between said plunger and an inner surface of said hollow punch, said clearance being sufficient for a fluid flow. 36. A spot cutter for cutting spots from an electrophoresis gel, comprising: a support table including a working region capable of receiving and supporting said electrophoresis gel when said electrophoresis gel is laid onto said working region; an image detector capable of imaging said electrophoresis gel when said electrophoresis gel is in position on said support table; a spot cutter head including a hollow punch that is capable of moving downward into contact with said support table, thereby passing through said electrophoresis gel, with said hollow punch cutting out an electrophoresis gel region substantially equal in size to an inner dimension of said hollow punch; a positioning mechanism for positioning said spot cutter head relative to said support table, said spot cutter head being affixed to and movable by said positioning mechanism, said positioning mechanism having: a first robotic arm segment rotatably attached to a support structure, with said first robotic arm segment being rotated about a substantially vertical axis by a rotation mechanism; a second robotic arm segment pivotally attached to said first robotic arm and being pivoted in a substantially horizontal plane by a second pivot drive mechanism, with said spot cutter head being attached to said second robotic arm segment; wherein said rotation mechanism and said second pivot drive mechanism are directed by said controller, and said positioning mechanism enables said spot cutter head to be positioned at any location over said working region; and a controller communicating with said image detector and receiving an electrophoresis gel image, positioning said positioning mechanism, and activating said spot cutter head. 37. The spot cutter of claim 36, wherein said rotation mechanism and said second pivot drive mechanism are selected from the group consisting of a pneumatic actuator, a hydraulic actuator, and an electric stepper motor, an electric servo motor, and combinations thereof. 38. The spot cutter of claim 36, wherein said support structure is said support table. 39. A spot cutter for cutting spots from an electrophoresis gel having a limited spatial stability, comprising: a support table including a working region capable of receiving and supporting said electrophoresis gel when said electrophoresis gel is laid loose onto said working region; an image detector capable of imaging said electrophoresis gel when said electrophoresis gel is in position on said support table; a spot cutter head including a hollow punch that is capable of moving downward into contact with said support table, thereby passing through said electrophoresis gel, with said hollow punch cutting out an electrophoresis gel region substantially equal in size to an inner dimension of said hollow punch; a positioning mechanism for positioning said spot cutter head relative to said support table, said spot cutter head being affixed to and movable by said positioning mechanism, the positioning mechanism having: a first robotic arm segment pivotally and rotatably attached to a support structure, with said first robotic arm segment being pivoted by a first pivot drive mechanism in a substantially vertical plane and rotated about a substantially vertical axis by a rotation mechanism; and a second robotic arm segment pivotally attached to said first robotic arm and being pivoted in a substantially vertical plane by a second pivot drive mechanism, with said spot cutter head being pivotally attached to said second robotic arm segment and pivoted by a spot cutter head pivot drive mechanism; wherein said first pivot drive mechanism, said rotation mechanism, said second pivot drive mechanism, and said spot cutter head pivot drive mechanism are directed by said controller, and said positioning mechanism enables said spot cutter head to be positioned at any location over said electrophoresis gel; and a controller communicating with said image detector and receiving an electrophoresis gel image, positioning said positioning mechanism, and activating said spot cutter head. 40. The spot cutter of claim 39, wherein said support structure is said support table. 41. The spot cutter of claim 39, wherein said first pivot drive mechanism, said rotation mechanism, said second pivot drive mechanism, and said spot cutter head pivot drive mechanism are selected from the group consisting of a pneumatic actuator, a hydraulic actuator, and an electric stepper motor, an electric servo motor, and combinations thereof. 