A substrate-handling robot comprises an arm drive mechanism with a first arm connected to it. A multiple substrate batch loader is connected to the first arm. The multiple substrate batch loader includes a set of vertically stacked substrate-handling paddles. A control circuit is connected to the arm drive mechanism. A vacuum control system is connected to the multiple substrate batch loader and the control circuit. The vacuum control system includes a set of vacuum control valves corresponding to the set of vertically stacked substrate-handling paddles. The set of vacuum control valves includes a selected vacuum control valve for a selected substrate-handling paddle. A set of vacuum sensors is connected to the set of vacuum control valves. The set of vacuum sensors includes a selected vacuum sensor corresponding to the selected vacuum control valve. The selected vacuum sensor provides a substrate-absent signal when a substrate is not present at the selected substrate-handling paddle. The substrate absent-signal is processed by the control circuit, which generates a shut-valve signal that causes the selected vacuum control valve to shut.
Claims We claim: 1. A robot for handling substrates disposed in a container providing a plurality of storage slots arranged vertically, the robot comprising: a multiple plane substrate holder, comprising: a first arm having a distal and a proximate end, the distal end being moveable in two horizontal dimensions; a first paddle having a proximate end and a distal end, the proximate end affixed to the distal end of the first arm; a second paddle having a proximate end and a distal end, the proximate end affixed to the proximate end of the first paddle, wherein the distal end of the first and second paddles are vertically spaced apart from one another; a third paddle having a proximate end and a distal end, the proximate end affixed to the proximate end of the second paddle, wherein the distal end of the second and third paddles are vertically spaced apart from one another; wherein the first, second, and third paddles are stacked in a vertical arrangement and wherein the distal ends of the first, second, and third paddles are configured and arranged for transporting multiple substrates to and from respective ones of said storage slots; an arm drive mechanism, connected to the first arm to operate the first arm, wherein the arm drive mechanism is configured and arranged to move the distal end of the first arm in two horizontal dimensions, wherein the distal ends of the first, second, and third paddles may be inserted into and removed from the container; a controller coupled to the arm drive mechanism, the controller configured and arranged to provide control signals to the arm drive mechanism to control arm movement; a vacuum control system; the vacuum control system connected to said multiple plane substrate holder and said controller, said vacuum control system including: a plurality of vacuum control valves, each controlling the vacuum from a vacuum source to an associated one of the first, second, and third paddles; and a plurality of vacuum sensors each connected to an associated one of the first, second, and third paddles, each vacuum sensor independently operative to provide a substrate-absent signal when a substrate is not present at the associated paddle, wherein each substrate-absent signal is independently processed by said controller, to generate an associated shut-valve signal that causes the associated vacuum control valve to shut and discontinue vacuum supply to the associated paddle. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said arm drive can move the first arm at a first speed and wherein said controller is configured to control said arm drive mechanism to move at a second speed that is less than said first speed when any associated vacuum control valve is open and to move at said first speed when all said associated vacuum control valves are shut. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said arm drive mechanism includes a harmonic drive mechanism. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: a single plane substrate holder for transporting a single substrate; and a second arm having proximate end and a distal end, the second arm disposed beneath the first arm and the distal end supporting the single plane substrate holder, wherein the first and second arms are configured and arranged to allow the single plane substrate holder to be aligned with the first paddle; wherein the arm drive mechanism is further connected to the second arm and is configured and arranged to further operate the second arm, and wherein the first and second arms are non-interfering and operable independently from each other in either a cooperative or a distinct manner and wherein the controller operates the multiple plane and single plane substrate holders in configurations chosen from the set of only the single plane substrate holder, only the multiple plane substrate holder and both the single plane substrate holder and the multiple plane substrate holder. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said controller is implemented as a general purpose computer. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein each vacuum sensor is connected to said associated paddle at a vacuum aperture positioned therein. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein a vacuum line for a paddle passes through the associated vacuum control valve and the associated vacuum control sensor before supplying vacuum to the associated vacuum aperture. 