An apparatus for feeding animals in quantities, mixtures and at temperatures that are individualized as ideal for each animal, the apparatus being provided with an animal identification device for identifying each animal, a computer with a memory, the memory containing consumption related data for each animal, the computer generating a signal for supplying a quantity of feed to a relevant animal based on data from the animal identification device and data from the memory. The data from the memory includes for each animal data of its feed intake based on the quantity of liquid which is mixed into the feed. The addition of liquid into the feed is controlled by the computer and the quantity of liquid introduced into the feed is based on data from the animal identification device and relevant data from the memory. Alternatively or additionally, the apparatus supplies feed controlled by the computer based on data from its memory for each animal of the relationship of feed intake of the animal and the temperature of the feed provided to the animal.
Claims Having thus disclosed my invention, what I claim as new and to be secured by Letters Patent of the United States of America is: 1. An apparatus for providing feed which comprises a mixture of fodder and a liquid to an animal, which apparatus comprises: an animal identification device for identifying an animal being fed by the apparatus; a computer which includes a memory containing consumption related data of said animal, said computer generating a, signal for providing a quantity of feed to said animal wherein the feed's mixture of fodder and a liquid is based on data from said animal identification device and data from said memory; liquid supply means for supplying liquid which is mixed with fodder to be consumed by said animal, said liquid supply means controlled by said computer based on data in said memory relating to the historic feed intake of said animal and the quantity of said liquid which was mixed with said fodder when it was provided as to feed said animal, the quantity of said liquid being mixed into said feed being recorded and adjusted with the object that said animal's feed intake will be such that said animal will consume substantially all of said adjusted mixture of feed including said liquid introduced into it, said adjusted mixture being based on said animal's history of its feed intake over a range of mixtures of said fodder and liquid. 2. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1 further comprising means for introducing additives into said liquid. 3. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1 wherein said liquid is a syrup. 4. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1 wherein said liquid is treacle. 5. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1 further comprising temperature adjustment means for adjusting the temperature of said liquid. 6. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1 wherein said memory contains data of said animal as identified by said animal identification device of the feed intake of said animal in relation to the temperature of said feed, means for adjusting the temperature of said feed provided to said animal which is controlled by said animal identification device and data from said memory to provide said feed to said animal at a temperature which causes the maximum feed intake by said animal. 7. An apparatus for providing feed to an animal which comprises: an animal identification device for identifying said animal; a computer including a memory, said memory containing consumption related data of said animal, said computer generating a signal for providing a quantity of feed to said animal based on data from said animal identification device and data from said memory; feed supplying means controlled by said computer; temperature control means for controlling the temperature of feed provided to said animal based on data in said memory which indicates the optimum food intake of said animal based on the identity of said animal by said animal identification device and the history of feed intakes of said animal over a range of temperatures recorded as data in said memory. 8. An apparatus in accordance with claim 7, comprising feed temperature adjustment means for adjusting the temperature of said feed provided to said animal. 9. An apparatus in accordance with claim 7, comprising a temperature sensor and means for controlling the quantity of liquid mixed in to said feed supplied to said animal, said temperature sensor sensing the temperature of said mixture. 10. An apparatus in accordance with claim 7, comprising data in said memory of the feed intake of said animal under various environmental conditions and measuring means for measuring atmospheric conditions. 11. An apparatus in accordance with claim 7, comprising measuring means for measuring the quantity of feed consumed at each feeding by said animal. 12. An apparatus in accordance with claim 7, wherein the data in said memory are continuously updated. 13. An apparatus in accordance with claim 7, wherein said animal is a dairy animal and said data in said memory includes data as to the lactation stage of said animal. 14. An apparatus in accordance with claims 7, which is integrated into a milking compartment wherein said animal is milked by a robotic milking means. 15. An apparatus in accordance with claim 7, wherein said animal is a dairy animal and said memory contains data relating to the milk yield of said animal which is taken into consideration for determining the appropriate quantity of liquid which is introduced into said feed for said animal and the temperature of said feed which is provided to said animal. 16. An apparatus for providing feed to a dairy animal while being milked in a milking compartment which comprises means for providing a mixture of substantially dry feed and a liquid to said animal and for controlling the temperature of said mixture as it is being provided to said animal. 