Uniformity of a sputtered conductive barrier layer (50) or seed layer (52) across a semiconductor substrate (18, 42) is improved by incorporating a plurality of electromagnets (26) in or around the sputtering chamber (14) which can be independently powered. In other words, each individual electromagnet can be turned on or off, and/or the amount of power being supplied to each electromagnet (and thus the magnetic field generated by each electromagnet) can be varied independently. Further, the sputtering system (10) includes connection to a computer (30) that is either integral to or connected to a metrology tool (28). The metrology tool measures uniformity of a layer deposited by the sputtering system, analyzes the measurements and feeds back information to the sputtering system as to how to vary the power being supplied to the plurality of electromagnets to improve layer uniformity.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of depositing a layer of material on a first semiconductor substrate comprising: providing a sputtering system having a sputtering chamber, a sputtering target, a wafer chuck, and a plurality of electromagnets disposed about the sputtering chamber and below the wafer chuck, wherein power to each electromagnet of the plurality of electromagnets is individually controllable; placing the first semiconductor substrate on the wafer chuck and within the sputtering chamber; sputtering a target material from the sputtering target onto a surface of the first semiconductor substrate to form the layer of material; and applying power to the plurality of electromagnets during sputtering, wherein applying power comprises applying a first set of power conditions to the plurality of electromagnets, wherein differing amounts of power are applied to each electromagnet of the plurality of electromagnets; removing the first semiconductor substrate from the sputtering chamber; placing a second semiconductor substrate on the wafer chuck and within the sputtering chamber; sputtering the target material on a surface of the second semiconductor substrate; and applying power to the plurality of electromagnets using a second set of power conditions, wherein the second set of power conditions is different from the first set of power conditions and the second set of power conditions is determined by measuring a uniformity in thickness of the layer of material formed on the first semiconductor substrate. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the first set of power conditions included having no power applied to at least one of the electromagnets of the plurality of electromagnets. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the layer of material is selected from a group of metal containing materials consisting of copper, titanium, tantalum, titanium nitride, titanium nitride silicon, and tantalum nitride. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the layer of material is a conductive material which forms part of an inlaid interconnect metallization structure. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein the layer of material is either a seed layer or a barrier layer. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the plurality of electromagnets are provided external to the sputtering chamber. 7. The method of claim 1 further comprising: measuring thickness uniformity of the layer of material to produce uniformity results; supplying the thickness uniformity results to a computer; and using the computer to analyze the thickness uniformity results and to calculate a second set of power conditions to improve the thickness uniformity results. 8. The method of claim 7 further comprising: using the computer to feed back information of the second set of power conditions to the sputtering system; and sputtering target atoms onto a surface of another semiconductor substrate while applying power to the plurality of electromagnets using a second set of power conditions different from the first set of power conditions. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein applying power to the plurality of electromagnets using the second set of power conditions comprises applying different amounts of power to different electromagnets within the plurality of electromagnets. 10. A method for depositing a layer of material onto a semiconductor substrate comprising: providing a sputtering system, the sputtering system having sputtering chamber, a wafer chuck having the semiconductor substrate positioned thereon, a sputtering target above the semiconductor substrate, and a plurality of electromagnets disposed about the sputtering chamber and below the semiconductor substrate, wherein power being supplied to each electromagnet can be independently controlled; and sputtering material from the sputtering target to form the layer of material on the semiconductor substrate, wherein sputtering is performed while applying power variably and selectively to the plurality of electromagnets. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein providing a sputtering system comprises providing an ionized plasma vapor deposition (iPVD) system. 12. The method of claim 10 wherein applying power comprises applying power to some but not all of the plurality of electromagnets. 13. The method of claim 10 wherein applying power comprises applying varying amounts of power to individual electromagnets during sputtering. 14. The method of claim 10 wherein applying power comprises applying a constant power to each electromagnet during sputtering but wherein the constant power being applied to each electromagnet varies among the plurality of electromagnets. 15. The method of claim 10 wherein applying power comprises applying power to the plurality of electromagnets under first power conditions, and further comprising: providing a metrology tool; using the metrology tool to determine measurement results for thickness of the layer of material across the semiconductor substrate; processing the measurement results to determine second power conditions needed to improve thickness uniformity of the layer of material across the semiconductor substrate; feeding back the second power conditions to the sputtering system; and sputtering another layer of material onto another semiconductor substrate while applying power to the plurality of electromagnets under the second power conditions. 16. The method of claim 15 wherein processing and feeding back are done by a computer. 17. A sputtering system with increased deposition uniformity comprising: a sputtering chamber for receiving a substrate; a plurality of electromagnets disposed about the sputtering chamber, a metrology tool for measuring thickness and uniformity of thickness of a deposited layer across the substrate; means for independently controlling power supplied to each electromagnet of the plurality of electromagnets; means, coupled to the metrology tool, for determining a set of power conditions to be supplied to the plurality of electromagnets based on thickness and uniformity measurements of the deposited layer; and means for providing the set of power conditions to the sputtering system; wherein the means for independently controlling power supplied to each electromagnet acts in response to information of the power conditions supplied to each electromagnet of the plurality of electromagnets. 18. The sputtering system of claim 17 wherein the means for independently controlling power supplied to each electromagnet of the plurality of electromagnets, the means for determining a set of power conditions, and the means for providing the set of power conditions are computer means. 19. The sputtering system of claim 18 wherein a computer is used to independently control power supplied to each electromagnet of the plurality of electromagnets, to determine the set of power conditions and to provide the set of power conditions. 20. The sputtering system of claim 17 wherein the plurality of electromagnets are positioned below a substrate receiving chuck of the sputtering system. 