There is described a box or an insert for a box made up of elements, such as cover element (1) and a bottom element (2) both of which are made of molded plastics material and which are hinged to each other means of a hinge (3). According to the features of the invention, there is included a flexible sheet (4) of synthetic material which is fixed to each of the elements (1) and (2) by overmolding so that there is formed an intermediate free zone (40) which, on its own, is the hinge (3). The box can receive various articles, for example compact discs or an insert which can hold and support the disc in the box.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for manufacturing an insert, the insert being adapted to retain a pair of compact discs therein, the insert being dimensioned and shaped so that it is capable to be inserted within a standard box initially intended for storing s single disc, the insert is composed of two thermoplastic elements including a first element comprising a strip member adapted to be secured to the box, and a second element comprising a tray member adapted to support a pair of compact discs, one against each of its two faces, the elements being formed of rigid and brittle plastic material and being hinged to each other by a single hinge, the hinge including a flexible thin sheet having mechanical strength and being compatible on molding with the material forming said elements, the flexible thin sheet being fixed to each of the elements by overmolding during injection molding, the hinge being formed by an area of the flexible material which is free of the rigid plastic material, wherein one uses an injection mold comprising two complementary half mold parts comprising a first part and a second part, which may either be brought together in order to close the mold or separated from each other in order to open the mold, the mold defining in its closed state two adjacent cavities, the first cavity corresponding to the shape of the tray member and the second cavity to the shape of said strip member, the first half mold part being provided with an injection nozzle having a point, the nozzle suitable for introducing hot molten thermoplastic material into the first cavity when the mold is closed, the cavities being separated from each other, when the mold is closed, by a protuberance formed in one of the half mold parts and having substantially a shape with a chamfered linear nose edge which comes very close to a flat area of the other half mold part when the mold is closed, the nose edge being cut by at least a transverse gap situated in the vicinity of the injection nozzle when the mold is closed, the method comprising the following steps: (a) introducing the flexible sheet between the mold parts and positioning the sheet against flat area, in front of said nose; (b) holding said flexible sheet against the flat area; (c) closing the mold, so that said chamfered linear edge of the nose firmly presses the flexible sheet toward the flat area; (d) injecting molten thermoplastic material into the mold through the injection nozzle so that it simultaneously fills directly the first cavity and via the gap, the second cavity, covering a side of the flexible sheet without coating the part that is gripped between the chamfered linear edge and the flat area; (e) allowing the injected material to cool and to become stiff; and (f) ejecting the molded insert, the strip member and the tray member while each remain rigidly connected to each other by at least a frangible tab constituted by the material contained in the gap at the end of the molding process, in such manner that the hinging can only occur later, after breaking of the tab when the user pivots the tray member for the first time, wherein the said injection point and said gap are situated centrally, on a longitudinal symmetry plane X--X of said insert. 2. A method for manufacturing an insert in accordance with claim 1 wherein prior to step (a) the mold is opened to separate the two half mold parts from each other. 3. A method for manufacturing an insert in accordance with claim 1 wherein prior to step (f) the mold is opened. 4. A method for manufacturing an insert in accordance with claim 1 the said sheet is retained by electrostatic charge against said mold part. 5. A method for manufacturing an insert in accordance with claim 1 wherein the said flange of said nose is situated on the same side as said injection point is provided with a channel which opens on said gap. 6. A method for manufacturing an insert in accordance with claim 1 wherein there are two additional frangible areas situated on the lateral sides of said insert. 7. A method for manufacturing an inset in accordance with claim 1 wherein the said standard box has a bottom and a lid hinged on the bottom by means of a pair of projections penetrating partially, from outside towards the inside, in holes formed in the lateral walls of said bottom and other holes are also provided for normally receiving projections formed on the sides of the plate to be inserted in the bottom, said support strip being retained within the bottom by means of two pairs of projections, snapping from inside towards the outside into the holes. 8. A method for manufacturing an insert in accordance with claim 1 wherein the said lateral transverse webs which form integral parts of said support strip member are also connected to the lateral sides of said tray member by thin breakable areas constituted by the material remaining at the basis of a notch. 9. A method for manufacturing an insert in accordance with claim 1 wherein breaking of areas occurs when the insert is placed within the bottom of a standard box, due to the snapping action of said projections before they penetrate in their receiving hole. 