The invention provides methods and reagents for the enhancement of surface plasmon resonance (SPR)-based detection assays. The methods and reagents can be used in any molecular recognition assay that uses a solid support. The invention also provides an SPR instrument that operates in imaging mode.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for conducting a plurality of assays for a plurality of different analytes in a test solution that may contain said different analytes, comprising: providing a surface plasmon resonance active surface; associating a plurality-of different ligands to said different analytes to said surface; contacting said surface with said test solution, wherein the presence or absence of a specific analyte results in a specific type of colloidal metal nanoparticle associating with a specific type of ligand at or near said surface, wherein different ligands associate with different types of colloidal metal nanoparticles; and detecting for said associations between said different ligands and said different types of colloidal metal nanoparticles by measuring the SPR profile, wherein the SPR profile is distinguishable between said different types of colloidal metal nanoparticles. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said different types of colloidal metal nanoparticles are distinguished by their size. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein said different types of colloidal metal nanoparticles are distinguished by their composition. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein said surface plasmon resonance active surface is a thin metal film. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein said thin metal film is selected from the group consisting of Au, Ag, Al and Cu. 6. The method of claim 4 wherein said thin metal film is coated on a glass surface. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein said colloidal metal nanoparticles are comprised of a metal selected from the group consisting of Au, Ag, Al and Cu. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein said colloidal metal nanoparticles are substantially spherical. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein said colloidal metal nanoparticles are 1 nm to 150 nm in diameter. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of said different types of colloidal metal nanoparticles comprises an AuS/Au shell particle. 