A controllable ratcheting apparatus having robotic modules rigidly attached for operation near a mechanical singularity includes a plurality of modular joints and ratcheting means. Each one of the modular joints is capable of locking and unlocking to effect performance of a ratcheting motion as the ratcheting apparatus approaches a mechanical singularity. A plurality of links is connected to the modular joints in such a way as to permit movement of the links while under large external forces as the joint approaches a point of mechanical singularity. A control system directs movement of the modular joints and links.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A controllable ratcheting apparatus having robotic modules rigidly attached for operation near a mechanical singularity, comprising: a plurality of modular joints, wherein each one of said plurality of modular joints alternately locks and unlocks to effect performance of a ratcheting motion as said modular joint approaches a point of mechanical singularity; a plurality of links movably connected to said modular joints, to permit movement of said links while experiencing large external forces as said modular joint approaches a point of mechanical singularity; ratcheting means, wherein said ratcheting means comprises: at least one pawl controllably attached to a first one of said plurality of links; a first set of saw teeth rigidly attached to a second one of said plurality of links, for catching said pawl when said first set of saw teeth are rotated in a first direction; a second pawl controllably attached to said first one of said plurality of links; and a second set of saw teeth rigidly attached to said second one of said plurality of links, for catching said second pawl when said second set of saw teeth are rotated in a second direction opposed to said first direction; and a control system to control movement of said modular joints and said links. 2. The ratcheting apparatus according to claim 1, wherein each said modular joint further comprises: a drive device; a housing; and an output shaft having an axis of rotation. 3. The ratcheting apparatus according to claim 1, wherein at least two said links are rigidly attached to each said modular joint. 4. The ratcheting apparatus according to claim 3, wherein said links comprise: a first structure having at least one connection plate; and a second structure having at least one connection plate. 5. The ratcheting apparatus according to claim 4, wherein said first structure attaches rigidly to said housing. 6. The ratcheting apparatus according to claim 4, wherein said second structure attaches rigidly to said output shaft. 7. The ratcheting apparatus according to claim 4, wherein said links may move rotationally about said axis of said output shaft. 8. The ratcheting apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said ratcheting device comprises a roller clutch ratcheting system. 9. The ratcheting apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said ratcheting device comprises an active brake ratcheting system. 10. The ratcheting apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said plurality of links are connected to form at least one closed end chain. 11. The ratcheting apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising a plurality of sensors for sensing operation of said modular joints. 12. A controllable ratcheting apparatus having robotic modules configured in the form of a connected chain for operation near a mechanical singularity for obtaining large force over a specified distance, comprising: a plurality of modular joints, wherein each one of said plurality of modular joints alternately locks and unlocks to effect performance of a ratcheting motion as said modular joint approaches a point of mechanical singularity; a plurality of links movably connected to said modular joints, wherein said links are connected to form at least one closed end chain, to permit movement of said links while experiencing large external forces as said modular joint approaches a point of mechanical singularity; ratcheting means, wherein said ratcheting means comprises: at least one pawl controllably attached to a first one of said plurality of links; a first set of saw teeth rigidly attached to a second one of said plurality of links, for catching said pawl when said first set of saw teeth are rotated in a first direction; a second pawl controllably attached to said first one of said plurality of links; and a second set of saw teeth rigidly attached to said second one of said plurality of links, for catching said second pawl when said second set of saw teeth are rotated in a second direction opposed to said first direction; and a control system to control movement of said modular joints and said links. 13. The ratcheting apparatus according to claim 12, wherein each said modular joint further comprises: a drive device; a housing; and an output shaft having an axis of rotation. 14. The ratcheting apparatus according to claim 12, wherein at least two said links are rigidly attached to each said modular joint. 15. The ratcheting apparatus according to claim 14, wherein said links comprise: a first structure having at least one connection plate; and a second structure having at least one connection plate. 16. The ratcheting apparatus according to claim 15, wherein said first structure attaches rigidly to said housing. 17. The ratcheting apparatus according to claim 15, wherein said second structure attaches rigidly to said output shaft. 18. The ratcheting apparatus according to claim 15, wherein said links may move rotationally about said axis of said output shaft. 19. The ratcheting apparatus according to claim 12, wherein said ratcheting device comprises a roller clutch ratcheting system. 20. The ratcheting apparatus according to claim 12, wherein said ratcheting device comprises an active brake ratcheting system. 21. The ratcheting apparatus according to claim 12, wherein said plurality of links are connected to form a closed end chain. 22. The ratcheting apparatus according to claim 12, further comprising a plurality of sensors. 