The invention provides a method for contacting at least two chemical species by immobilizing an immobilized chemical species on a fiber, placing the fiber on a support having a channel, and disposing a mobile chemical species into the channel such that the immobilized chemical species contacts the fiber. The invention also provides methods for analyzing the contact between at least two chemical species, detecting the binding of two chemical species, making a microchip, and synthesizing a chemical species on a fiber.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for analyzing the contact between two chemical species comprising: contacting only a first surface portion of an optical fiber with a first mobile chemical species; contacting only a second surface portion of said optical fiber different to said first surface portion, with a second mobile chemical species different from said first mobile chemical species, wherein said optical fiber has an immobilized chemical species immobilized on said first surface portion and said second surface portion; detecting whether binding occurs between said immobilized chemical species and said first mobile chemical species; detecting whether binding occurs between said immobilized chemical species and said second mobile chemical species. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising moving said first mobile chemical species and said second mobile chemical species toward said optical fiber. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein said moving comprises applying a motive force to said first mobile chemical species and said second mobile chemical species. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein said motive force is selected from the group consisting of pumping, aspirating, gravity flow, electrical pulsing, vacuum, suction, capillary action, electro-osmosis, and combinations thereof. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising labeling said first mobile chemical species and said second mobile chemical species with a chemiluminescent moiety. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein said chemiluminescent moiety is selected from the group comprising of radioisotopes, chromophores, fluorophores, lumophores and combinations thereof. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising directing a light at an end of said optical fiber prior to said detecting. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein said detecting comprises detecting excitation light emitted from where said binding occurs. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein said detecting further comprises converting said excitation light into an electrical signal that is proportional to said excitation light. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein said detecting occurs at an optimum temperature. 11. The method of claim 1, further comprising changing a temperature of the optical fiber over a predetermined range of temperatures such that the temperature of said optical fiber will pass through an optimum temperature for binding of said first mobile chemical species with said immobilized chemical species and said second mobile chemical species with said immobilized chemical species. 12. The method of claim 1, further comprising immobilizing said immobilized chemical species along said first surface portion and said second surface portion prior to contacting said first surface portion. 13. The method of claim 1, further comprising positioning said optical fiber on a support having a first channel and a second channel, such that said optical fiber is substantially perpendicular to said first channel and said second channel. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein said positioning exposes said first surface portion to said first channel and exposes said second surface portion to said second channels, where said first channel is configured to receive said first mobile chemical species and said second channel is configured to receive said second mobile chemical species. 15. The method of claim 14, further comprising: disposing said first mobile chemical species into said first channel; and disposing said second mobile chemical species into said second channel. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein said detecting step further comprises directing a laser at a focusing lens that directs light at an end of said optical fiber. 17. A method for analyzing the contact between two chemical species comprising: contacting only a first surface portion of an optical fiber with a first mobile chemical species; contacting only a second surface portion of said optical fiber different to said first surface portion, with a second mobile chemical species different from said first mobile chemical species, wherein said optical fiber has an immobilized chemical species immobilized on said first surface portion and said second surface portion; and directing a light at an end of said optical fiber; detecting excitation light emitted from binding between said immobilized chemical species and said first mobile chemical species; and detecting excitation light emitted from binding between said immobilized chemical species and said second mobile chemical species. 18. The method of claim 17, further comprising moving said first mobile chemical species and said second mobile chemical species toward said optical fiber. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein said moving comprises applying a motive force to each of said first mobile chemical species and said second mobile chemical species. 20. The method of claim 17, further comprising labeling said first mobile chemical species and said second mobile chemical species with a chemiluminescent moiety. 21. The method of claim 17, further comprising changing a temperature of the optical fiber over a predetermined range of temperatures such that the temperature of said optical fiber will pass through an optimum temperature for binding of said first mobile chemical species with said immobilized chemical species and for binding of said second mobile chemical species with said immobilized chemical species. 