The present invention is a disassembly apparatus and method for disassembling a workpiece having at least two layers joined together by welding or other bonding processes at bonding points. The method includes the steps of securing the workpiece into a fixture to prevent movement of one of the layers. The apparatus includes a sonotrode and a holding device. The method further includes moving the sonotrode to contact the workpiece to apply a predetermined amount of contact pressure to the workpiece. The sonotrode in contact with the layer on a side opposite the anvil is then vibrated at a predetermined frequency until the layers become disassembled. An apparatus for performing the method is also disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of disassembling a workpiece having at least two aluminum layers joined together by welding or other bonding processes at a bonding point, the method comprising the steps of: providing a fixture for holding the workpiece; placing the workpiece into the fixture; securing the workpiece into the fixture so as to prevent movement of one of the layers; vibrating the other layer at a predetermined frequency until the layers become disassembled. 2. The method of claim 1, further including a step of proving a disassembly apparatus comprising a sonotrode, a holding device and a power source for vibrating the sonotrode. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the step of placing the workpiece into the fixture further includes the step of moving the sonotrode and the holding device to contact opposite sides of the workpiece so as to apply a predetermined amount of contact pressure therebetween to the workpiece. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the step of vibrating the other layer further includes vibrating the sonotrode in contact with the layer on a side opposite the holding device at a predetermined frequency until the layers become disassembled. 5. The method of claim 4, further including the step of applying vibration through the sonotrode in a direction generally perpendicularly to a line through the bond points and a disassembly contact point. 6. The method of claim 5, further including the step of vibrating the sonotrode at an ultrasonic frequency, at a predetermined power range and at a predetermined amplitude. 7. The method of claim 6, further including vibrating the sonotrode at an ultrasonic frequency range of between 20 kHz to 40 kHz and the predetermined amplitude is between 10 .mu.m to 50 .mu.m. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the predetermined power range is sufficient to cause separation of the layers and is less than an amount of power required to bond the layers. 9. The method of claim 3, wherein the predetermined amount of contact pressure is less than an amount of pressure needed to bond the sonotrode to the layer. 10. The method of claim 5, further including the step of vibrating the sonotrode at a plurality of bond points along the workpiece so as to cause disassembly at each bond point. 11. A method of ultrasonically disassembling a workpiece having at least two layers joined together by welding or other bonding processes at a bonding point, the method comprising the steps of: providing a disassembly apparatus having fixture for holding the workpiece, a sonotrode, an anvil and a transducer for vibrating the sonotrode.; placing the workpiece onto the anvil of the fixture; securing the workpiece into the fixture so as to prevent lateral movement of one of the layers; moving the sonotrode and anvil to contact opposite sides of the workpiece so as to apply a predetermined amount of contact pressure therebetween to the workpiece; vibrating the sonotrode in a direction generally perpendicularly to a line through a plurality of bonding points and a plurality of sonotrode contact points in contact with the layer at an ultrasonic frequency with a predetermined amplitude and at a predetermined power range so as to cause disassembly at each of the plurality of bond points until the layers become disassembled. 12. The method of claim 11, further including vibrating the sonotrode at an ultrasonic frequency range of between 20kHz and 40kHz and a predetermined amplitude between 10 .mu.m and 50 .mu.m. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the predetermined power range is sufficient to cause separation of the layers and is less than an amount of power required to bond the layers. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the predetermined amount of contact pressure is less than an amount of pressure needed to bond the layers. 15. An apparatus for disassembling multiple layers of material bonded together at bond points, comprising: a frame, the frame including a base, a column and a head, the column connecting the base to the head, wherein the column, base and head combine to form a C-shape frame, the C-shape frame including a throat; an anvil attached to the base portion of the C-shape frame; an ultrasonic disassembly tool attached to the head portion of the C-shape frame, the ultrasonic disassembly tool including a sonotrode tip; a power cylinder secured to the head, the power cylinder engaging the sonotrode and operative to drive the sonotrode into engagement with one of the layers of the workpiece and hold the workpiece between the sonotrode tip and the anvil; and a transducer operative to vibrate the sonotrode tip at a predetermined frequency, power range and amplitude to break the bond between the layers at the bond point. 16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the transducer is operative to vibrate the sonotrode at an ultrasonic frequency range of between 20 kHz to 40 kHz and with the predetermined amplitude of between 10 .mu.m to 50 .mu.m. 17. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the predetermined power range is sufficient to cause separation of the layers and is less than an amount of power required to bond the layers. 