Apparatus and method for separating and replacing a cap from a shank of a tip of a welding electrode. The cap and the shank form a peripheral hollow joint that is defined by a recessed end surface of the shank and a back surface of the cap. The apparatus includes a guide frame having a recessed portion sized for receiving the tip of the welding electrode. The apparatus also includes a cap withdrawing tool movably mounted on the guide frame. The tool has two facing wall sections each having a wedge that is inserted in the peripheral hollow joint. The wedge is forced against the back surface of the cap and removes the cap from the shank by means of a driving mechanism that moves the cap withdrawing tool toward the tip of the welding electrode that is engaged in the recessed portion of the guide frame.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for separating a cap from a shank of a tip of a welding electrode, said cap and said shank forming a peripheral hollow joint that is defined by a recessed end surface of the shank and a back surface of the cap, the apparatus comprising: a guide frame having a recessed portion sized for receiving the tip of the welding electrode, said recessed portion extending in a direction perpendicular to said tip and having two facing side walls and an end wall, the side walls having guiding ribs that are inserted in the peripheral hollow joint for guiding the tip of the welding electrode into the recessed portion until the tip of the welding electrode is abutted against the end wall in an engaged position; a cap withdrawing tool movably mounted on the guide frame, said cap withdrawing tool being movable along a crosswise direction that is perpendicular with respect to both the tip and the recessed portion when the tip of the welding electrode is in the engaged position, said tool having two facing wall sections each having a wedge that is inserted in the peripheral hollow joint when the tool is moved toward the tip of the electrode that is in the engaged position, said wedge being forced against the back surface of the cap for removing the cap from the shank when the tool is moved toward the tip of the electrode; and a driving mechanism coupled to the cap withdrawing tool for moving the cap withdrawing tool toward and away from the tip of the welding electrode along the crosswise direction between an open position where the tip of the electrode is inserted into and removed from the recessed portion of the guide frame and a closed position where the wedge removes the cap from the shank. 2. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein each wedge of the facing wall sections of the cap withdrawing tool has a knife edge that is forced into the back surface of the cap for removing the cap from the shank when the tool is moved toward the tip of the electrode that is in the engaged position. 3. The apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the knife edge forms an angle of about 2 degrees with respect to the back surface of the cap when the tip of the electrode is in the engaged position. 4. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the wedge has a flat section and an angled section forming an angle of about 17 degrees with respect to the flat section. 5. The apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the guide frame has two parallel grooved channels extending along the crosswise direction and a grooved portion supporting the cap withdrawing tool, the grooved channels being perpendicular to and intersecting with the recessed portion, and wherein the cap withdrawing tool has a complementary shape fitting into said parallel grooved channels for movement thereof along said crosswise direction. 6. The apparatus according to claim 5, wherein the complementary shape of the cap withdrawing tool has a U-shape comprising a recessed section sized for engaging with the tip of the electrode when in the engaged position. 7. The apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the driving mechanism is coupled to a proximity sensor directed toward the recessed portion of the guide frame for detecting that the tip of the welding electrode is in the engaged position and sending a signal to the driving mechanism for moving the tool toward the tip of the electrode. 8. The apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the apparatus is further for separating a second cap of a tip of an electrode facing said other tip in a closable clamp arrangement, said tips being held by opposite fingers pivotally mounted on an arm of a welding robot, and wherein the guide frame and the cap withdrawing tool both define a first cap withdrawing set mounted on a first end of a support plate, a second end of the support plate further supporting a second cap withdrawing set substantially identical to said first cap withdrawing set, both sets having their recessed portions facing in a same direction and said second set being positioned upside down with respect to the first set, said driving mechanism being coupled to the cap withdrawing tools of each set. 9. The apparatus according to claim 8, wherein each of the cap withdrawing tools of each set has a pin projecting therefrom, and the driving mechanism comprises a push rod that is connected to a pair of drive plates, each drive plate having an angled slot slidably receiving the pin of a corresponding cap withdrawing tool for moving both cap withdrawing tools of each set toward and away from one of said tips being in the engaged position, one of said drive plates having a side slot for indexing a cap supply drum. 10. The apparatus according to claim 9, wherein the cap supply drum comprises a unidirectional indexing mechanism having an indexing tab engaging with the side slot of said one of the drive plates for rotating the cap supply drum by a step movement when moving the push rod in one direction. 11. The apparatus according to claim 10, wherein the cap supply drum comprises a rotatable disk having cap holders extending next to one another around said disk in alternating upside and downside positions, each holder holding a new cap which is positioned in an opposite direction with respect to an adjacent new cap. 12. Method of separating and replacing first and second caps from first and second shanks of first and second tips of welding electrodes, said tips facing each other in a closable clamp arrangement and being held by opposite fingers pivotally mounted on an arm of a welding robot, said caps and said shanks forming first and second peripheral hollow joints that are defined by recessed end surfaces of the shanks and back surfaces of the caps, the method comprising the steps of: a) inserting the first tip of the first welding electrode, by means of the robot welder, in a first recessed portion of a first guide frame, said first recessed portion extending in a direction perpendicular to said first tip and having two first facing side walls provided with first guiding ribs and a first end wall; b) guiding the first tip of the first electrode by means of the first guiding ribs of the first side walls that are inserted in the first peripheral hollow joint until the first tip of the first welding electrode is abutted against the first end wall in a first engaged position; c) detecting that the first tip of the first welding electrode is in the engaged position; d) moving a first cap withdrawing tool in a closed position, said first tool being mounted on the first guide frame along a first crosswise direction that is perpendicular with respect to both the first tip and the first recessed portion, said first tool having two facing wall sections each having a wedge being inserted in the first peripheral hollow joint and forced against the back surface of the first cap, thereby removing the first cap from the first shank; e) moving said first cap withdrawing tool in an open position along the crosswise direction and simultaneously actuating an indexing mechanism that moves a first new cap mounted on a first holder of a cap supply drum in a home position; f) positioning the first and second tips by means of the robot welder in the home position where the first tip is in alignment with the first new cap; g) closing the first tip against the second tip to insert the first new cap into the first shank of the first tip; h) inserting the second tip of the second welding electrode, by means of the robot welder, in a second recessed portion of a second guide frame, said second recessed portion extending in a direction perpendicular to said second tip and having two second facing side walls provided with second guiding ribs and a second end wall, said second guide frame being upside down with respect to the first guide frame; i) guiding the second tip of the electrode by means of the second guiding ribs of the second side walls that are inserted in the second peripheral hollow joint until the second tip of the welding electrode is abutted against the second end wall in a second engaged position; j) detecting that the second tip of the welding electrode is in the engaged position; k) moving a second cap withdrawing tool in a closed position, said second tool being mounted on the second guide frame along a second crosswise direction that is perpendicular with respect to both the second tip and the second recessed portion, said second tool having two facing wall sections each having a wedge being inserted in the second peripheral hollow joint and forced against the back surface of the second cap, thereby removing the second cap from the second shank; l) moving said second cap withdrawing tool in an open position along the crosswise direction and simultaneously actuating the indexing mechanism that moves a second new cap mounted on a second holder of the cap supply drum in the home position; m) positioning the first and second tips by means of the robot welder in the home position where the second tip is in alignment with the second new cap; and n) closing the second tip against the first tip to insert the second new cap into the second shank of the second tip. 13. The method according to claim 12, wherein each wedge of the wall sections of the first and second tools are provided with a knife edge. 14. The method according to claim 13, wherein each said knife edge forms an angle of about 2 degrees with respect to one of said first and second tips that is in the engaged position. 15. The method according to claim 12, wherein each wedge has a flat section and an angled section forming an angle of about 17 degrees with respect to the flat section. 16. The method according to claim 13, wherein each of said guide frames has two parallel grooved channels extending along each of said crosswise directions and a grooved portion supporting each of said cap withdrawing tools, the grooved channels being perpendicular to and intersecting with each of said recessed portions, and wherein each of said cap withdrawing tools has a complementary shape fitting into the parallel grooved channels for movement thereof along each of said crosswise directions. 17. The method according to claim 16, wherein the complementary shape of each of said cap withdrawing tools has a U-shape comprising a recessed section sized for engaging with each of said tips when in the engaged position. 18. The method according to claim 12, wherein steps c) and j) are carried out by means of first and second proximity sensors directed toward each of said recessed portions of the guide frames for detecting that each said tip is in the engaged position. 19. The method according to claim 12, wherein the cap supply drum comprises a rotatable disk having cap holders extending next to one another around said disk in alternating upside and downside positions, said cap holders holding new caps to be inserted in said first and second tips. 20. Apparatus for separating a cap from a shank of a tip of a welding electrode, said cap and said shank forming a peripheral hollow joint that is defined by a recessed end surface of the shank and a back surface of the cap, the apparatus comprising: a guide frame having a recessed portion sized for receiving the tip of the welding electrode, said recessed portion extending in a direction perpendicular to said tip and having two facing side walls and an end wall, the side walls having guiding ribs that are inserted in the peripheral hollow joint for guiding the tip of the welding electrode into the recessed portion until the tip of the welding electrode is abutted against the end wall in an engaged position; a cap withdrawing tool movably mounted on the guide frame, said cap withdrawing tool being movable along a crosswise direction that is perpendicular with respect to both the tip and the recessed portion when the tip of the welding electrode is in the engaged position, said tool having two facing wall sections each having a wedge provided with a knife edge that is inserted in the peripheral hollow joint when the tool is moved toward the tip of the electrode that is in the engaged position, said knife edge of the wedge being forced into the back surface of the cap for removing the cap from the shank when the tool is moved toward the tip of the electrode; and a driving mechanism coupled to the cap withdrawing tool for moving the cap withdrawing tool toward and away from the tip of the welding electrode along the crosswise direction between an open position where the tip of the electrode is inserted into and removed from the recessed portion of the guide frame and a closed position where the wedge removes the cap from the shank. 