The invention is a multifunctional, mobile appliance capable of performing a variety of tasks safely, quietly, without pollution, and out of sight of its owner. Such tasks might include lawn mowing, fertilizing, and edging, floor vacuuming, waxing, and polishing, or rug shampooing. In its preferred implementation, the mobile unit 1 would obtain precise real time and position information using the Real Time Kinematic Global Positioning System. The user initially guides the appliance around the work-area perimeters. The device then uses this information to determine the full working area. Proximity detectors and impact sensors help the appliance avoid unexpected obstacles. The device is quiet enough to perform its task in the middle of the night while its owner is asleep, but can be programmed to work continuously or during any user-specified time interval. The small turning radius of the appliance allows it to follow intricate perimeters.
Claims I claim: 1. A method of selectively controlling a mowing task of a mobile mowing appliance comprising the steps of establishing a wireless communications link between a communications node and the mobile appliance, connecting said communications node to a public communications utility, controlling the direction of movement of the mobile appliance from said public utility via said communications node, and selectively initiating and uninitiating the performance of the mowing task from said public utility via said communications node during movement of the mobile appliance. 2. The method as defined in claim 1 wherein said public communications utility is one of a cable service, a cellular phone service, a telephone line, and the World Wide Web. 3. A method of automating the control of a mobile appliance comprising the steps of establishing a wireless communications link between a communications node and the mobile appliance, connecting said communications node to a public communications utility, moving the mobile appliance over an area, performing a task during said movement, and modifying absent direct user involvement one of the execution of the task, and the type of task performed by the mobile appliance in response to information exchanged between the mobile appliance and one of a database, expert software, and an expert system connected to said public communications utility. 4. The method as defined in claim 3 further comprising the step of controlling the mobile appliance from the public utility via the communications node. 5. The method as defined in claim 3 wherein the database includes one of GIS, weather, and vegetation data. 6. The method as defined in claim 3 wherein the database includes one of work schedule, security, and multi mobile appliance coordination data. 7. The method as defined in claim 3 wherein the public communications utility is one of a cable service, a cellular phone service, a telephone line, and the World Wide Web; and the database includes one of GIS, weather, and vegetation data. 8. The method as defined in claim 3 wherein the public communications utility is one of a cable service, a cellular phone service, a telephone line, and the World Wide Web; and the database includes one of work schedule, security, and multi mobile appliance coordination data. 9. The method as defined in claim 3 wherein the public communications utility is one of a cable service, a cellular phone service, a telephone line, and the World Wide Web; and the area is located outdoors. 10. The method as defined in claim 3 wherein the public communications utility is one of a cable service, a cellular phone service, a telephone line, and the World Wide Web, the area is located outdoors, and the task performed is mowing. 11. The method as defined in claim 3 wherein the public communications utility is one of a cable service, a cellular phone service, a telephone line, and the World Wide Web, the database includes one of GIS, weather, and vegetation data: and the area is located outdoors. 12. The method as defined in claim 3 wherein the database includes one of GIS, weather, and vegetation data: and the area is located outdoors. 13. The method as defined in claim 3 wherein the database includes one of GIS, weather, and vegetation data, the area is located outdoors, and the task performed is mowing. 14. The method as defined in claim 3 wherein the database includes one of work schedule, security, and multi mobile appliance coordination data; and the area is located outdoors. 15. The method as defined in claim 3 wherein the database includes one of work schedule, security, and multi mobile appliance coordination data, the area is located outdoors, and the task performed is moving. 16. The method as defined in claim 3 wherein the public communications utility is one of a cable service, a cellular phone service, a telephone line, and the World Wide Web, the database includes one of work schedule, security, and multi mobile appliance coordination data; and the area is located outdoors. 17. The method as defined in claim 3 wherein the public communications utility is one of a cable service, a cellular phone service, a telephone line, and the World Wide Web, the database includes one of work schedule, security, and multi mobile appliance coordination data, the area is located outdoors, and the task performed is mowing. 18. The method as defined in claim 3 wherein the public communications utility is one of a cable service, a cellular phone service, a telephone line, and the World Wide Web, the database includes one of GIS, weather, and vegetation data, the area is located outdoors, and the task performed is mowing. 