Agricultural operations by applying flexible manufacturing software, robotics and sensing techniques to agriculture. In manufacturing operations utilizing flexible machining and flexible assembly robots, work pieces flow through a fixed set of workstations on an assembly line. At different stations are located machine vision systems, laser based raster devices, radar, touch, photocell, and other methods of sensing; flexible robot armatures and the like are used to operate on them. This flexible agricultural automation turns that concept inside out, moving software programmable workstations through farm fields on mobile robots that can sense their environment and respond to it flexibly. The agricultural automation will make it possible for large scale farming to take up labor intensive farming practices which are currently only practical for small scale farming, improving land utilization efficiency, while lowering manpower costs dramatically.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A flexible agricultural automation for any type of: pruning, harvesting, weeding, trimming, tying, planting, spraying, pollinating or other operations on plants, comprising: (a) a mobile robotic machine mounted on a means of locomotion with controls for guiding the machine by an operator (b) one or more types of sensing apparatus mounted on the machine substantially like machine vision, laser raster scanned three-dimensional mapping, microwave radar, ultrasonic, infrared, chemical and touch sensors (c) robotic arm or a plurality of robotic arms mounted on the machine which are equipped with means for tracking movement of same (d) a means of decision processing substantially like a computer and/or artificial intelligence electronics or simulations of same for and control the movement of robot arm or arms wherein the sensor data are utilized by the computer and/or artificial intelligence electronics to decide how to move the robot arm or arms, as well as guide the machine as a whole when necessary, wherein the robot arm or arms can have varying attachments, and the decision processing may refer ambiguous situations to a human operator for resolution. 2. The flexible agricultural automation of claim 1 may incorporate a GPS in combination with sensing apparatus to provide a means for being self-guiding for part of its operational period. 3. The flexible agricultural automation of claim 1 may incorporate a GPS used in combination with the sensing and computing as a means to determine the location of plants or other agriculturally pertinent items. 4. The flexible agricultural automation of claim 1 may incorporate a component for determining orientation and attitude which component will be used by the machine for maintaining the machine in a specified orientation, which orientation may be changeable by the operator. 5. The flexible agricultural automation of claim 1 may incorporate a communications module for linking the robot to a station located elsewhere which communications module may be used to send and receive information. 6. The flexible agricultural automation of claim 1 can use multiple sensing methods integrated together for sensing environment, wherein the combination of sensing provides a means to achieve robust operation. 7. The flexible agricultural automation of claim 1 can incorporate devices such as head mounted displays, virtual reality glove controls, and similar portable devices for display and control. 8. The flexible agricultural automation of claim 1 can incorporate GPS into the robot armatures to provide a means for locating the arms of the robot. 