A data storage tape cartridge is disclosed including a housing, a single tape reel, a storage tape, and a leader block. The housing includes a front, a back, a first side, a second side, a top, and a bottom. Further, the housing forms a leader block window, a lateral datum pad, and a longitudinal datum pad. The leader block window is formed at a corner defined by the front and the first side. The lateral datum pad is formed in the top. Finally, the longitudinal datum pad is formed in the front. The single tape reel is rotatably maintained within the housing. The storage tape is wrapped about the tape reel. The leader block is coupled to a leading end of the storage tape and is selectively secured to the housing at the leader block window. With this configuration, the lateral datum pad is configured to identify a top-to-bottom position of the tape reel. Similarly, the longitudinal datum pad is configured to identify a front-to-back position of the tape reel. In one preferred embodiment, the housing is formed from a plastic material and the datum pads are molded into the housing. In another preferred embodiment, the housing forms a registration slot for identifying a side-to-side position of the tape reel. Regardless, upon insertion of the data storage tape cartridge into a tape drive, the datum pads are engaged by corresponding registration devices of the tape drive to precisely align the tape reel. In another preferred embodiment, the first side forms a retention tab for selectively securing the leader block, and first and second notches above and below, respectively, the retention tab.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A data storage tape cartridge comprising: an exterior housing including a front, a back, a first side, a second side, a top, a bottom, a leader block window at a corner defined by the front and the first side, a first lateral datum pad formed in the top and a first longitudinal datum pad formed in the front, the first lateral datum pad and the first longitudinal datum pad being positioned in close proximity to the leader block window; a single tape reel rotatably maintained within the housing; a storage tape wrapped about the tape reel; and a leader block coupled to a leading end of the storage tape and selectively secured to the housing at the leader block window; wherein the first lateral datum pad is configured to identify a top-to-bottom position of the tape reel, and further wherein the first longitudinal datum pad is configured to identify a front-to-back position of the tape reel. 2. The data storage tape cartridge of claim 1, wherein the datum pads are formed as impressions in an exterior surface of the housing. 3. The data storage tape cartridge of claim 2, wherein the housing is plastic, and the datum pads are molded into the housing. 4. The data storage tape cartridge of claim 1, wherein the data storage tape cartridge is configured for insertion into a tape drive including a lateral registration device and a longitudinal registration device, the first lateral datum pad being configured for engagement with the lateral registration device and the first longitudinal datum pad being configured for engagement with the longitudinal registration device. 5. The data storage tape cartridge of claim 1, wherein the housing further forms an opening through the bottom for accessing the tape reel, and further wherein the first longitudinal datum pad has a known position relative to a center of the opening. 6. The data storage tape cartridge of claim 1, wherein the housing further includes a second lateral datum pad formed in the top and spaced from the first lateral datum pad, the second lateral datum pad being configured to identify a top-to-bottom position of the tape reel. 7. The data storage tape cartridge of claim 6, wherein the first and second lateral datum pads are aligned relative to the front of the housing. 8. The data storage tape cartridge of claim 6, wherein the first lateral datum pad is spaced from the second lateral datum pad by approximately 3 inches. 9. The data storage tape cartridge of claim 6, wherein the first lateral datum pad is positioned adjacent the leader block window and the second lateral datum pad is positioned adjacent the second side. 10. The data storage tape cartridge of claim 1, wherein the housing further includes a second longitudinal datum pad formed in the front and spaced from the first longitudinal datum pad, the second longitudinal datum pad being configured to identify a front-to-back position of the tape reel. 11. The data storage tape cartridge of claim 10, wherein the first and second longitudinal datum pads are aligned relative to the bottom of the housing. 12. The data storage tape cartridge of claim 10, wherein the first longitudinal datum pad is spaced from the second longitudinal datum pad by a distance in the range of approximately 2-2.5 inches. 13. The data storage tape cartridge of claim 10, wherein the first longitudinal datum pad is positioned adjacent the leader block window and the second longitudinal datum pad is positioned adjacent the second side. 14. The data storage tape cartridge of claim 1, wherein the housing further includes a registration slot formed at the front and extending along the bottom, the registration slot configured to define a side-to-side position of the tape reel. 15. The data storage tape cartridge of claim 14, wherein the registration slot is configured to slidably receive a post of a tape drive. 16. The data storage tape cartridge of claim 14, wherein the registration slot includes an entry section and a retaining section, the entry section being open at the front of the housing. 17. The data storage tape cartridge of claim 16, wherein the entry section tapers in width from the front to the retaining section for guiding the post into the retaining section. 18. The data storage tape cartridge of claim 14, wherein the registration slot is open at the front and along the bottom. 19. The data storage tape cartridge of claim 1, wherein the first side of the housing forms a retention tab adjacent the leader block window for selectively retaining the leader block to the housing, and further wherein a first notch is formed between the retention tab and the top. 20. The data storage tape cartridge of claim 19, wherein a second notch is formed between the retention tab and the bottom. 21. The data storage tape cartridge of claim 20, wherein the housing includes a cover and a base that combine to form the first side upon final assembly, the retention tab being formed by the cover. 22. The data storage tape cartridge of claim 19, wherein the first notch has a length of in the range of approximately 0.1-0.2 inch. 23. A data storage tape cartridge comprising: an exterior housing defined by a front, a back, a first side, a second side, a top, and a bottom, the housing forming: a leader block window at a corner defined by the front and the first side, first and second lateral datum pads impressed into and part of the exterior housing top, first and second longitudinal datum pads formed in the front, a registration slot formed in the front and extending along the bottom; a single tape reel rotatably maintained within the housing; a storage tape wrapped about the tape reel; and a leader block coupled to a leading end of the storage tape and selectively secured to the housing at the leader block window; wherein the lateral datum pads are configured to identify a top-to-bottom position of the tape reel, the longitudinal datum pads are configured to identify a front-to-back position of the tape reel, and the registration slot is configured to define a side-to-side position of the tape reel. 24. The data storage tape cartridge of claim 23, wherein the registration slot is positioned between the longitudinal datum pads. 25. The data storage tape cartridge of claim 24, wherein the first side of the housing forms a retention tab adjacent the leader block window for selectively retaining the leader block to the leader block window, and further forming a first notch between the retention tab and the top. 26. The data storage tape cartridge of claim 25, wherein a second notch is formed between the retention tab on the bottom. 27. A data storage tape drive system comprising: a data storage tape cartridge comprising: an exterior housing defined by a front, a back, a first side, a second side, a top and a bottom, the housing forming: a leader block window at a corner defined by the front and the first side, a first lateral datum pad formed in the top, a first longitudinal datum pad formed in the front, an opening formed through the bottom, a single tape reel rotatably maintained within the housing at the opening in the bottom, a storage tape wrapped about the tape reel, a leader block coupled to a leading end of the storage tape and selectively secured to the housing at the leader block window; and a tape drive including: a receiving frame, a rotatable drive hub configured to engage the tape reel, a first lateral registration device, a first longitudinal registration device; wherein the first lateral datum pad is engaged by the first lateral registration device and the first longitudinal datum pad is engaged by the first longitudinal registration device when the data storage tape cartridge is placed within the receiving frame to align the tape reel with the drive hub. 28. The tape drive system of claim 27, wherein interaction between the first lateral datum pad and the first lateral registration device positions the tape reel a precise distance above the drive hub. 29. The tape drive system of claim 28, wherein the precise distance is 0.1 inch. 30. The tape drive system of claim 27, wherein the tape reel has a front-to-back position relative to the housing, and the drive hub has a front-to-back position relative to the receiving frame, and further wherein the first longitudinal datum pad and the first longitudinal registration device are configured such that engagement therebetween aligns the front-to-back position of the tape reel with the front-to-back position of the drive hub. 31. The tape drive system of claim 27, wherein the housing further forms a registration slot in the front and extending along the bottom, and further wherein the tape drive includes a guide post, the registration slot being configured to receive the guide post upon insertion of the data storage tape cartridge within the receiving frame. 32. The tape drive system of claim 31, wherein the tape reel has a side-to-side position relative to the housing and the drive hub has a side-to-side position relative to the receiving frame, and further wherein the registration slot and the guide post are configured such that engagement therebetween aligns the side-to-side position of the tape reel with the side-to-side position of the drive hub. 33. The tape drive system of claim 27, wherein the housing further includes a second lateral datum pad formed in the top and the tape drive further includes a second lateral registration device, the second lateral datum pad being engaged by the second lateral registration device when the tape cartridge is inserted within the receiving frame. 34. The tape drive system of claim 27, wherein the housing further includes a second longitudinal datum pad formed on the front and the tape drive further includes a second longitudinal registration device, the second longitudinal datum pad being engaged by the second longitudinal registration device when the tape cartridge is inserted within the receiving frame. 