A control system for controlling a plurality of medical devices. The control system includes a controller that receives select and control commands from an input device. The controller compares the select commands and control commands to corresponding lists of commands. The controller provides an output signal to control the medical device if there is a match between the commands and the lists of commands.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A control system for controlling a plurality of medical devices through a single interface, comprising: a plurality of medical devices; an input device; a controller coupled to the input device and the plurality of medical devices, the controller to receive an audible select command and a voice qualifier corresponding to one of the medical devices and an audible control command corresponding to a control of one of the medical devices from the input device, said controller provides an output signal corresponding to the audible control command to said medical device selected by the audible select command only if the voice qualifier accompanies the audible control command. 2. The control system of claim 1 wherein the input device is a speech circuit that receives voice signals, and converts the voice signals to select and control signals. 3. The control system of claim 1, where the plurality of medical device comprise one or more of the following: one or more robotic arms, operating room table, electro-cautery device, laser, insufflator, and lighting system. 4. The control system of claim 1, wherein at system startup, the controller receives signals from each of the plurality of medical devices coupled thereto and stores the select signals corresponding to the plurality of medical devices in a memory. 5. The control system of claim 1, wherein the controller is coupled to the one or more of the plurality of medical devices via wireless communications. 6. The control system of claim 1, wherein the controller transmits one or more packets of information to the medical device for controlling the medical device if there is a match. 7. A device for receiving input commands and controlling a plurality of devices used in an operating room environment, through a single audible interface, comprising: a controller to receive an audible select command and a voice qualifier corresponding to one of the devices and an audible control command corresponding to a control of one of the devices, said controller provides an output signal corresponding to the audible control command to said medical device selected by the audible select command only if the voice qualifier accompanies the audible control command. 8. The device of claim 7, wherein at system startup, the controller to receive signals from each of the plurality of devices coupled thereto and stores the select signals corresponding to the plurality of devices in a memory. 9. The device of claim 7, wherein the controller is coupled to the one or more of the plurality of devices via wireless communications. 10. The device of claim 7, wherein the controller to transmit one or more packets off information to the device for controlling the device if there is a match. 