A printed circuit board (PCB) has at least a first surface. A patterned electrically and thermally conductive layer is disposed on the first surface. A surface mount device (SMD) is disposed on an area of the layer and is attached thereto with solder. Heatsink elements, each including at least one flat surface, are placed by a pick and place assembly robot and permanently attached to the area with solder.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A printed circuit board (PCB), comprising; at least a first surface; a patterned layer disposed on said first surface, said patterned layer being electrically and thermally conductive; a surface mount device (SMD) disposed on said patterned layer and attached thereto with solder; and a plurality of heatsink elements disposed on said patterned layer, each of said heatsink elements including a first flat surface attached to said patterned layer with solder, a second flat surface substantially parallel to the first flat surface, and at least one third flat surface connecting the first and second flat surfaces. 2. The PCB according to claim 1, further comprising: a plurality of heatsink elements disposed on an upper surface of said SMD, each of said heatsink elements including a first flat surface attached to the upper surface of said SMD with solder, a second flat surface substantially parallel to the first flat surface, and at least one third flat surface connecting the first and second flat surfaces. 3. The PCB according to claim 1 wherein said heatsink elements have a thermal conductivity of at least about 200 W/mK. 4. The PCB according to claim 1 wherein each of said heatsink elements includes a pair of the third flat surfaces connecting both sides of the first and second flat surfaces, thereby forming a thermally conductive square tube. 5. The PCB according to claim 1 wherein each of said heatsink elements includes a single third flat surface substantially vertically connecting the first and second flat surfaces along centerlines thereof, thereby forming a elongated thermally conductive beam having an "I" shaped cross section. 6. The PCB according to claim 1, wherein said first pattered layer includes: a first area on which said SMD is disposed; a second area on which said heatsink elements are disposed; and a thermal link coupling said first area to said second area. 7. A printed circuit board (PCB), comprising: a first surface and a second surface; a first patterned layers disposed on said first surface, said first patterned layer being electrically and thermally conductive; a second patterned layer disposed on said second surface, said second patterned layer being electrically and thermally conductive; a surface mount device (SMD) disposed on said first patterned layers and attached thereto with solder; a plurality of thermal vias coupling said first patterned layer through said PCB to said second patterned layers; and a plurality of heatsink elements disposed on said second layer, each of said heatsink elements including a first flat surface, attached to said second patterned layer with solder, a second flat surface substantially parallel to the first flat surface, and at least one third flat surface connecting the first and second flat surfaces. 8. The PCB according to claim 7, further comprising: a plurality of heatsink elements disposed on said first patterned layer, each of said heatsink elements including a first flat surface attached to said first patterned layer with solder, a second flat surface substantially parallel to the first flat surface, and at least one third flat surface connecting the first and second flat surfaces. 9. The PCB according to claim 7, further comprising: a plurality of heatsink elements disposed on an upper surface of said SMD, each of said heatsink elements including a first flat surface attached to the upper surface of said SMD with solder, a second flat surface substantially parallel to the first flat surface, and at least one third flat surface connecting the first and second flat surfaces. 10. The PCB according to claim 7 wherein said heatsink elements has a thermal conductivity of at least about 200 W/mK. 11. The PCB according to claim 8, wherein said first pattered layer includes: a first area on which said SMD is disposed; a second area on which said heatsink elements are disposed; and a thermal link coupling said first area to said second area. 