An improved tube inspection probe delivery system that supports a probe pusher that drives a cable connected to the probe through a flexible conduit into a tube for inspection. The probe pusher is mounted on an elevator that advances the probe pusher toward or retracts the probe pusher from the general direction of the tube as the probe is moved from tube to tube for inspection of a plurality of tubes, to maintain a substantially constant slack in the flexible conduit. The probe drive system includes a containment to control contamination that may be emitted from the tube during the inspection process.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for remotely inspecting a plurality of tubes within a relative proximity of each other, the tubes disposed above a platform, comprising: a probe for sensing a condition of the tubes integrity within the vicinity of the probe; a probe pusher disposed under the platform for pushing the probe through one of the plurality of tubes; a conduit connected at one end to the probe pusher and another end of the conduit adapted to communicate with the one tube; a flexible cable extending from the probe pusher, through the conduit and connected to the probe; and means for vertically translating the probe pusher and thereby to advance and withdraw the probe pusher respectively in and from the general direction of the tubes. 2. Apparatus for remotely inspecting a plurality of tubes within a relative proximity of each other, comprising: a probe for sensing a condition of the tubes integrity within the vicinity of the probe; a probe pusher for pushing the probe through one of the plurality of tubes; a conduit connected at one end to the probe pusher and another end of the conduit adapted to communicate with the one tube; a flexible cable extending from the probe pusher, through the conduit and connected to the probe; means for advancing and withdrawing the probe pusher respectively in and from the general direction of the tubes; and a tent over the probe pusher, having an opening at one end through which the conduit extends and hating a vacuum connection spaced from the one end of the tent for drawing air through the tent and out the vacuum connection. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 including access doors in said tent for accessing the probe pusher from the exterior of the tent. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said means for advancing and withdrawing the probe pusher comprises an elevator on which the probe pusher is supported. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein the elevator comprises a carriage that rides forward and backward on a mast that supports the probe pusher. 6. Apparatus for remotely inspecting a plurality of tubes within a relative proximity of each other, comprising: a probe for sensing a condition of the tubes integrity within the vicinity of the probe; a probe pusher for pushing the probe through one of the plurality of tubes; a conduit connected at one end to the probe pusher and another end of the conduit adapted to communicate with the one tube; a flexible cable extending from the probe pusher, through the conduit and connected to the probe; means for advancing and withdrawing the probe pusher respectively in and from the general direction of the tubes, the means comprising an elevator on which the probe pusher is supported, the elevator comprising a carriage that rides forward and backward on a mast that supports the probe pusher; and a tent over the probe pusher, having an opening at one end through which the conduit extends, the one end of the tent supported on a spar that is in turn supported by the mast. 7. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein the mast is a drive screw that drives the carriage forward. 8. Apparatus for remotely inspecting a plurality of tubes within a relative proximity of each other, comprising: a probe for sensing a condition of the tubes integrity within the vicinity of the probe; a probe pusher for pushing the probe through one of the plurality of tubes; a conduit connected at one end to the probe pusher and another end of the conduit adapted to communicate with the one tube; a flexible cable extending from the probe pusher, through the conduit and connected to the probe; means for advancing and withdrawing the probe pusher respectively in and from the general direction of the tubes, the means comprising an elevator on which the probe pusher is supported, the elevator comprising a carriage that rides forward and backward on a drive screw that drives the carriage forward that supports the probe pusher; and a drive for driving the drive screw and, through the drive screw, the carriage in a forward direction, the drive including a slip clutch for enabling the carriage to move backward under the force of gravity. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein the thread on the drive screw has a sufficient helical angle to permit the carriage to move backward under the force of gravity when the slip clutch is activated. 10. The apparatus of claim 5 including a table supported substantially proximate and substantially horizontal to the mast at a most retracted point of travel of the probe pusher. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the table forms the down limit stop of probe pusher travel. 12. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein the elevator includes a drive that only moves the elevator in the advancing direction. 13. The apparatus of claim 1 including means for changing the angular orientation of the probe pusher relative to the tubes. 14. Apparatus for remotely inspecting a plurality of tubes within a relative proximity of each other, comprising: a probe for sensing a condition of the tubes integrity within the vicinity of the probe; a probe pusher for pushing the probe through one of the plurality of tubes; a conduit connected at one end to the probe pusher and another end of the conduit adapted to communicate with the one tube; a flexible cable extending from the probe pusher, through the conduit and connected to the probe; means for advancing and withdrawing the probe pusher respectively in and from the general direction of the tubes, the means comprising an elevator on which the probe pusher is supported, the elevator comprising a carriage that rides forward and backward on a drive screw that drives the carriage forward and supports the probe pusher; and legs for supporting the apparatus in a stable position while in operation, the legs being retractable to reduce the contour of the apparatus during transport and storage. 15. The apparatus of claim 1 including a probe calibration standard incorporated into a straight section of the conduit. 16. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein the calibration standard is incorporated into the straight section of the conduit at a sufficient distance from the probe pusher so the probe can be retracted from the calibration standard without entering the probe pusher. 17. A method of inspecting a plurality of tubes within a relative proximity of each other and disposed above a platform comprising the steps of: providing a probe pusher below the platform remote from the tubes, with a conduit extending from the probe pusher to the vicinity of the tubes in communication with the interior of at least one of the tubes; providing a probe connected to the probe pusher by a flexible cable extending through the conduit and into the at least one tube that the conduit is in communication with; vertically translating the probe pusher to advance and/or retract the probe pusher to respectively insert or withdraw the probe through the at least one tube; retracting the probe into the conduit; moving the conduit to place the conduit in communication with the interior of a second of said plurality of tubes; and moving the probe pusher forward towards or backwards from the general direction of the tubes when the conduit is moved from the at least one of the tubes to maintain the slack in the conduit substantially the same for each tube. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein the tubes are the heat exchange tubes of the primary side of a nuclear steam generator that is supported above a steam generator platform within the vicinity of a manway of a channelhead of the steam generator, including the step of maintaining the probe pusher below the steam generator platform with the conduit extending past the platform and into the manway. 19. A method of inspecting a plurality of tubes within a relative proximity of each other comprising the steps of: providing a probe pusher remote from the tubes, with a conduit extending from the probe pusher to the vicinity of the tubes in communication with the interior of at least one of the tubes; providing a probe connected to the probe pusher by a flexible cable extending through the conduit and into the at least one tube that the conduit is in communication with; providing a tent over the probe pusher, the tent having a vacuum connection; advancing and/or retracting the probe pusher in the tent to respectively insert or withdraw the probe through the tube; retracting the probe into the conduit; moving the conduit to place the conduit in communication with the interior of a second of said plurality of tubes; and moving the probe pusher forward towards or backwards from the general direction of the tubes when the conduit is moved from the at least one of the tubes to maintain the slack in the conduit substantially the same for each tube; and drawing air through the tent and out the vacuum connection while the flexible cable passes within the conduit. 20. A method of inspecting a plurality of tubes within a relative proximity of each other comprising the steps of: providing an elevator having a carriage that rides forward and backward on a mast the mast being a drive screw that drives the carriage forward, with a drive for driving the drive screw, and through the drive screw, the carriage in a forward direction, and the drive including a slip clutch for enabling the carriage to move backward under the force of gravity; providing a probe pusher supported on the mast remote from the tubes, with a conduit extending from the probe pusher to the vicinity of the tubes in communication with the interior of at least one of the tubes; providing a probe connected to the probe pusher by a flexible cable extending through the conduit and into the at least one tube that the conduit is in communication with; advancing and/or retracting the elevator carriage supporting the probe pusher to respectively insert or withdraw the probe through the at least one tube; retracting the probe into the conduit; moving the conduit to place the conduit in communication with the interior of a second of said plurality of tubes; and moving the carriage supporting the probe pusher forward towards the general direction of the tubes when the conduit is moved from the at least one of the tubes to maintain the slack in the conduit substantially the same for each tube. 21. A method of inspecting a plurality of tubes within a relative proximity of each other comprising the steps of: providing an elevator with legs for supporting the elevator in a stable position while in operation and retracting to reduce the contour of the elevator during transport and storage; providing a probe pusher supported on the elevator remote from the tubes, with a conduit extending from the probe pusher to the vicinity of the tubes in communication with the interior of at least one of the tubes; providing a probe connected to the probe pusher by a flexible cable extending through the conduit and into the at least one tube that the conduit is in communication with; advancing and/or retracting the probe pusher to respectively insert or withdraw the probe through the at least one tube; retracting the probe into the conduit; moving the conduit to place the conduit in communication with the interior of a second of said plurality of tubes; and moving the probe pusher on the elevator forward towards or backwards from the general direction of the tubes when the conduit is moved from the at least one of the tubes to maintain the slack in the conduit substantially the same for each tube. 