A method and apparatus for practicing the method is described for an in-situ wet polymer stripping process following an etching process, the method including, providing at least one solution container disposed outside the wafer cleaning chamber; providing at least one solution bath disposed within the wafer cleaning chamber; providing a solution in the at least one solution container; providing at least one fluidic pathway in communication with the at least one solution container and the at least one solution bath for supplying the solution to the at least one solution bath; controllably supplying the solution from the at least one solution container to the at least one solution bath; immersing the at least one process wafer into the at least one solution bath; and drying the at least one process wafer.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A cleaning module for removing a polymer residue from a process wafer in-situ following an etching process comprising: a chamber with means for controlling an ambient disposed adjacent to a reactive ion etching chamber; a remote handling means whereby a process wafer is transferred from the reactive ion etch chamber to the wafer cleaning chamber under controllable ambient conditions; at least one solution container disposed outside the wafer cleaning chamber; at least one solution bath disposed within the wafer cleaning chamber for containing a solution whereby at least one process wafer is submersible therein for in-situ cleaning; and at least one fluidic pathway in communication with the at least one solution container and one solution bath for supplying and removing a solution to the at least one solution bath. 2. The cleaning module of claim 1, wherein the at least one solution container comprises a solution selected from the group consisting of etchant solution, neutralizing solution, and rinsing solution. 3. The cleaning module of claim 2, wherein: the etchant solution comprises at least one compound selected from the group consisting of Dimethyl-sulphur-oxide, Mono-Ethyl-Amine, catechol and hydroxylamine; the neutralizing solution comprises at least one compound selected from the group consisting of isopropyl alcohol and n-methyl pyrrolidone; and the rinsing solution comprises deionized water. 4. The cleaning module of claim 1, further comprising at least one second fluidic pathway in communication with the at least one solution bath for removing the at least one solution outside the wafer cleaning chamber following a period of use. 5. The cleaning module of claim 4, wherein the at least one second fluidic pathway is in communication with the at least one solution container for recycling at least one solution. 6. The cleaning module of claim 5, wherein the at least one solution is selected from the group consisting of etchant solution, neutralizing solution, and rinsing solution. 7. The cleaning module of claim 6, wherein: the etchant solution comprises at least one compound selected from the group consisting of Dimethyl-sulphur-oxide, Mono-Ethyl-Amine, catechol and hydroxylamine; the neutralizing solution comprises at least one compound selected from the group consisting of isopropyl alcohol and n-methyl pyrrolidone; and the rinsing solution comprises deionized water. 8. The cleaning module of claim 5, wherein the at least one solution bath comprises a means for heating a solution contained the at least one solution bath to a predetermined temperature. 9. The cleaning module of claim 5, wherein the at least one solution bath comprises a means for agitating a solution contained in the at least one solution bath. 10. The cleaning module of claim 1, wherein the at least one solution bath comprises a means for heating a solution contained the at least one solution bath to a predetermined temperature. 11. The cleaning module of claim 1, wherein the at least one solution bath comprises a means for agitating a solution contained in the at least one solution bath. 12. A method for in-situ removal an etching residue to increase a process throughput comprising the steps of: providing a wafer cleaning chamber adjacent to a reactive ion etch chamber; controlling an ambient in the wafer cleaning chamber and reactive ion etch chamber; providing a remote handling means whereby a process wafer is transferred from the reactive ion etch chamber to the wafer cleaning chamber under controllable ambient conditions; transferring by remote handling means at least one process wafer following a reactive ion etch process from the reactive ion etch chamber to the wafer cleaning chamber under controllable ambient conditions; providing at least one solution container disposed outside the wafer cleaning chamber; providing at least one solution bath disposed within the wafer cleaning chamber; providing a solution in the at least one solution container; providing at least one fluidic pathway in communication with the at least one solution container and the at least one solution bath for supplying the solution to the at least one solution bath; controllably supplying the solution from the at least one solution container to the at least one solution bath; immersing the at least one process wafer into the at least one solution bath; and, drying the at least one process wafer. 13. The method claim 12, wherein the solution is selected from the group consisting of etchant solution, neutralizing solution, and rinsing solution. 14. The method claim 13, wherein: the etchant solution comprises at least one compound selected from the group consisting of Dimethyl-sulphur-oxide, Mono-Ethyl-Amine, catechol and hydroxylamine; the neutralizing solution comprises at least one compound selected from the group consisting of isopropyl alcohol and n-methyl pyrrolidone; and the rinsing solution comprises deionized water. 15. The method claim 12, further comprising the steps of: providing at least one second fluidic pathway in communication with the at least one solution bath for removing the at least one solution outside the wafer cleaning chamber; removing the solution outside the wafer cleaning chamber following a period of use. 16. The method claim 15, wherein the at least one second fluidic pathway is in communication with the at least one solution container for recycling the solution. 17. The method claim 16, wherein the solution is selected from the group consisting of etchant solution, neutralizing solution, and rinsing solution. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein: the etchant solution comprises at least one compound selected from the group consisting of Dimethyl-sulphur-oxide, Mono-Ethyl-Amine, catechol and hydroxylamine; the neutralizing solution comprises at least one compound selected from the group consisting of isopropyl alcohol and n-methyl pyrrolidone; and the rinsing solution comprises deionized water. 19. The method claim 12, further comprising the step of heating a solution in the at least one solution bath to a predetermine temperature. 20. The method claim 12, further comprising the step of agitating the solution in the at least one solution bath. 