A robot obstacle detection system including a robot housing which navigates with respect to a surface and a sensor subsystem having a defined relationship with respect to the housing and aimed at the surface for detecting the surface. The sensor subsystem includes an optical emitter which emits a directed beam having a defined field of emission and a photon detector having a defined field of view which intersects the field of emission of the emitter at a region. A circuit in communication with a detector redirects the robot when the surface does not occupy the region to avoid obstacles. A similar system is employed to detect walls.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot obstacle detection system comprising: a robot housing which navigates with respect to a surface; a sensor subsystem having a defined relationship with respect to the housing and aimed at the surface for detecting the surface, the sensor subsystem including: an optical emitter which emits a directed beam having a defined field of emission, and a photon detector having a defined field of view which intersects the field of emission of the emitter at a finite region; and a circuit in communication with the detector for redirecting the robot when the surface does not occupy the region to avoid obstacles. 2. The system of claim 1 further including a plurality of sensor subsystems spaced from each other on the housing of the robot, the circuit including logic for detecting whether any detector of each said sensor subsystem has failed to detect a beam from an emitter. 3. The system of claim 1 in which the robot includes a surface cleaning brush. 4. The system of claim 1 in which the emitter includes an infrared light source and the detector includes an infrared photon detector. 5. The system of claim 4 further including a modulator connected to the infrared light source for modulating the directed infrared light source beam at a predetermined frequency. 6. The system of claim 5 in which the infrared photon detector is tuned to the said predetermined frequency. 7. The system of claim 4 in which the emitter further includes an emitter collimator about the infrared light source for directing the beam and in which the detector further includes a detector collimator about the infrared photon detector to define the field of view. 8. The system of claim 7 in which the emitter collimator and the detector collimator are angled with respect to the surface to define a finite region of intersection. 9. A robot wall detection system comprising: a robot housing which navigates with respect to a wall; a sensor subsystem having a defined relationship with respect to the housing and aimed at the wall for detecting the presence of the wall, the sensor subsystem including: an emitter which emits a directed beam having a defined field of emission, and a detector having a defined field of view which intersects the field of emission of the emitter at a region; and a circuit in communication with the detector for redirecting the robot when the wall occupies the region. 10. The system of claim 9 further including a plurality of sensor subsystems spaced from each other on the housing of the robot, the circuit including logic for detecting whether any detector of any said sensor subsystem has detected a beam from an emitter. 11. The system of claim 9 in which the robot includes a surface cleaning brush. 12. The system of claim 9 in which the emitter includes an infrared light source and the detector includes an infrared photon detector. 13. The system of claim 12 further including a modulator connected to the infrared light source for modulating the directed infrared light beam at a predetermined frequency. 14. The system of claim 13 in which the infrared photon detector is tuned to the predetermined frequency. 15. The system of claim 12 in which the emitter farther includes an emitter collimator about the infrared light source for directing the beam and in which the detector further includes a detector collimator about the infrared photon detector to define the field of view. 16. The system of claim 15 in which the emitter collimator and the detector collimator are angled with respect to surface. 17. The system of claim 9 in which the circuit includes logic which redirects the robot away from the wall when the wall occupies the region and back towards the wall when the wall no longer occupies the region of intersection. 18. The system of claim 9 in which the circuit includes logic which redirects the robot away from the wall when the wall occupies the region and then back towards the wall when the wall no longer occupies the region of intersection at decreasing radiuses of curvature until the wall once again occupies the region of intersection. 19. An autonomous robot comprising: a housing which navigates in at least one direction on a surface; a first sensor subsystem aimed at the surface for detecting obstacles on the surface; and a second sensor subsystem aimed at least proximate the direction of navigation for detecting walls, each said subsystem including: an optical emitter which emits a directed beam having a defined field of emission and a photon detector having a defined field of view which intersects the field of emission of the emitter at a finite, predetermined region. 20. A sensor subsystem for an autonomous robot which rides on a surface, the sensor subsystem comprising: an optical emitter which emits a directed optical beam having a defined field of emission; a photon detector having a defined field of view which intersects the field of emission of the emitter at a region; and a circuit in communication with the detector for providing an output when a wall is not present in the region, wherein the output from the circuit causes the robot to be directed back towards the wall when the wall does not occupy the region of intersection of the defined field of emission of the emitter and the defined field of view of the detector. 