A compliance mechanism (10) is disclosed for maintaining a fluid applicator (47) in contact with the surface of object (71) for fluid application. The compliance mechanism includes an L-shaped bracket (15) having a first leg (17) and a second leg (19), each leg having a tab. A first dual acting fluid operated cylinder (32) is slidably positioned on the first leg (17) of the L-shaped bracket (15). First cylinder (32) has a piston rod that advances during fluid actuation of the first cylinder. A second dual acting fluid operated cylinder (35) is slidably positioned on the second leg (19) of the L-shaped bracket (15). The second cylinder (35) has piston rod that advances during fluid actuation of the second cylinder (35). A fluid applicator (47) is on first cylinder (32) for applying fluid to object (71). The first cylinder (32) allows fluid applicator (47) to move relative to the object in a second direction whereby fluid applicator (47) is maintained in contact with object (71) during fluid application.
Claims We claim: 1. A compliance mechanism to maintain a fluid applicator in contact with the surface of an object to which a fluid is being applied comprising: an L-shaped bracket having a first leg and a second leg; a first tab positioned at a first end of said first leg and a second tab positioned at a first end of said second leg; a first dual acting fluid operated cylinder slidably positioned on said first leg of said L-shaped bracket, said first cylinder having a first piston rod that extends from said first cylinder, said fluid actuation of said cylinder causing said first piston rod to be advanced relative to said first cylinder, said end of said piston rod that extends from said first cylinder being secured to said first tab; a second dual acting fluid operated cylinder slidably positioned on said second leg of said L-shaped bracket, said second cylinder having a second piston rod that extends from said second cylinder, said fluid actuation of said cylinder causing said second piston rod to be advanced relative to said second cylinder, said end of said piston rod that extends from said second cylinder being secured to said second tab; and, a fluid applicator positioned on said first cylinder for applying a fluid to said object, said first cylinder allowing said fluid applicator to move relative to said object in a first direction and said second cylinder allowing said fluid applicator to move relative to said object in a second direction whereby said fluid applicator is maintained in contact with said object during the application of said fluid to said object and whereby said fluid applicator can be advanced or retracted in said first and second directions to accommodate any changes in shape or movement of said object during the application of said fluid to said object. 2. The compliance mechanism of claim 1 wherein said first and second cylinders can be biased towards said object by having a pressure differential present in at least one of said cylinders. 3. The compliance mechanism of claim 2 wherein said pressure differential on said first and second cylinders can be great enough to effectively prevent said cylinders from moving. 4. The compliance mechanism of claim 2 wherein a linear ball bearing is used to position said first and second cylinders on said first and second legs wherein there is very little resistance to movement of said first and second cylinders. 5. The compliance mechanism of claim 2 wherein at least one self-exhausting regulator is used to supply fluid to said first and second cylinders. 6. The compliance mechanism of claim 2 wherein said first and second cylinders create a biasing force from about one (1) ounces per square inch to about twenty five (25) ounces per square inch on said fluid applicator. 7. The compliance mechanism of claim 1 wherein said compliance mechanism is operatively connected to a movable support arm for positioning said compliance mechanism relative to said object. 8. The compliance mechanism of claim 1 wherein said second dual acting cylinder is operatively connected to a movable support arm for positioning said compliance mechanism relative to said object. 9. The compliance mechanism of claim 8 wherein said second dual acting cylinder is operatively connected to a positioning plate that is disposed at an angle with respect to said second dual acting cylinder, said positioning plate being releasably secured to a positioning member on said support arm whereby said positioning plate can be rotated on said positioning member to change the position of said compliance mechanism with respect to said object to be coated. 10. The compliance mechanism of claim 9 wherein a releasable securing means secures said positioning plate to said positioning member. 11. The compliance mechanism of claim 8 wherein said second dual acting cylinder is operatively connected to a rotary actuator that can be caused to rotate to position said compliance mechanism with respect to said object that is to be coated. 12. The compliance mechanism of claim 8 wherein said second dual acting cylinder is operatively connected to a gantry mechanism, said gantry mechanism being designed to position said compliance mechanism in two planes with respect to said object that is to be coated. 13. The compliance mechanism of claim 1, including a means for moving said object relative to said fluid applicator during the application of said fluid to said object. 14. The compliance mechanism of claim 1, wherein a supply of said fluid is applied to said object. 15. A method of maintaining a fluid applicator in contact with the surface of an object to which fluid is being applied comprising: positioning a fluid applicator on a first dual acting fluid operated cylinder, said first dual acting fluid operated cylinder being disposed for moving said fluid applicator in a first direction; positioning said first dual acting fluid operated cylinder on a bracket; positioning said bracket on a second dual acting fluid operated cylinder, said second dual acting fluid operated cylinder being disposed for moving said fluid applicator in a second direction, whereby said first and second dual acting fluid operated cylinders can accommodate movement of said fluid applicator to maintain said fluid applicator in contact with said object; advancing and/or retracting said fluid applicator in said first and said second directions to accommodate any changes in shape or movement of said object during the application of said fluid to said object. 16. The method of claim 15 in which said first and second dual acting fluid operated cylinders are biased towards said object by having a pressure differential present in said first and second cylinders. 17. The method of claim 16 in which said first and second cylinders create a biasing pressure from about one (1) ounces per square inch to about twenty five (25) ounces per square inch on said fluid applicator. 18. The method of claim 15 in which said first and second cylinders are supplied fluid through at least one self-exhausting regulator. 19. The method of claim 15 in which said second dual acting fluid operated cylinder is operatively connected to a rotatable mechanism whereby the position of said fluid applicator with respect to said object can be changed. 20. The method of claim 15 wherein a linear ball bearing positions said first and second cylinders wherein there is very little resistance to movement of said first and second cylinders. 21. The method of claim 15 in which said second dual acting fluid operated cylinder is operatively mounted to a movable support arm for positioning said fluid applicator relative to said object. 22. The method of claim 21 wherein said second dual action cylinder operatively is connected to a positioning plate that is disposed at an angle with respect to said second dual acting cylinder, said positioning plate being releasably secured to a positioning member on said support arm, and rotating said positioning plate on said positioning member to change the position of said compliance mechanism with respect to said object to be coated. 23. The method of claim 22 in which a securing means secures said positioning plate to said positioning member. 24. The method of claim 21 in which said compliance mechanism is operatively connected to a gantry mechanism, and positioning said compliance mechanism with said gantry mechanism in two planes with respect to said object that is to be coated. 25. The method of claim 15, including moving said object relative to said fluid applicator during the application of said fluid to said object. 26. The method of claim 15, including applying a continuous supply of said fluid to said object. 27. A compliance mechanism to maintain a device in contact with the surface of an object comprising: a bracket having a first leg and a second leg; a first dual acting fluid operated cylinder slidably positioned on said first leg of said bracket, said first cylinder having a first piston rod that extends from said first cylinder, said fluid actuation of said cylinder causing said first piston rod to be advanced relative to said first cylinder; said end of said piston rod that extends from said first cylinder being secured to said bracket; a second dual acting fluid operated cylinder slidably positioned on said second leg of said bracket, said second cylinder having a second piston rod that extends from said second cylinder, said fluid actuation of said cylinder causing said second piston rod to be advanced relative to said second cylinder, said end of said piston rod that extends from said second cylinder being secured to said bracket; and, a device positioned on said first cylinder for contacting said object, said first cylinder allowing said device to move in a first direction and said second cylinder allowing said device to move in a second direction whereby said first and second fluid operated cylinders can accommodate movement of said device to maintain said device in contact with said object and whereby said device can be advanced or retracted in said first and said second directions to accommodate any changes in shape or movement of said object. 28. The compliance mechanism of claim 27 wherein said first and second cylinders can be biased towards said object by having a pressure differential present in one of said cylinders. 29. The compliance mechanism of claim 28 wherein a linear ball bearing is used to position said first and second cylinders on said first and second legs wherein there is very little resistance to movement of said first and second cylinders. 30. The compliance mechanism of claim 27 wherein said first and second cylinders create a biasing force from about one (1) ounces per square inch to about twenty five (25) ounces per square inch on said fluid applicator. 31. The compliance mechanism of claim 27 wherein at least one self-exhausting regulator is used to supply fluid to said first and second cylinders. 32. The compliance mechanism of claim 27 wherein said second dual acting cylinder is operatively connected to a movable support arm for positioning said compliance mechanism relative to said object. 33. The compliance mechanism of claim 32 wherein said second dual acting cylinder is operatively connected to a positioning plate that is disposed at an angle with respect to said second dual acting cylinder, said positioning plate being releasably secured to a positioning member on said support arm whereby said positioning plate can be rotated on said positioning member to change the position of said compliance mechanism with respect to said object to be coated. 34. The compliance mechanism of claim 33 wherein a releasable securing means secures said positioning plate to said positioning member. 35. The compliance mechanism of claim 27, including a means for moving said object relative to said device. 36. A compliance mechanism to maintain a device in contact with the surface of an object comprising: a bracket having at least a first leg; a first dual acting fluid operated cylinder slidably positioned on said leg of said bracket, said first cylinder having a first piston rod that extends from said first cylinder, said fluid actuation of said cylinder causing said first piston rod to be advanced relative to said first cylinder; said end of said piston rod that extends from said first cylinder being secured to said bracket; a device positioned on said first cylinder for contacting said object, said first cylinder allowing said device to move in a first direction and in a second direction whereby said first fluid operated cylinder can accommodate movement of said device to maintain said device in contact with said object and whereby said device can be advanced or retracted in said first and said second directions to accommodate any changes in shape or movement of said object. 37. The compliance mechanism of claim 36 wherein said bracket has a first leg and a second leg, said first fluid operated cylinder being slidably positioned on said first leg. 38. The compliance mechanism of claim 37 wherein a second dual acting fluid operated cylinder is slidably positioned on said second leg of said bracket, said second cylinder having a second piston rod that extends from said second cylinder, said fluid actuation of said second cylinder causing said second piston rod to be advanced relative to said second cylinder, said end of said piston rod that extends from said second cylinder being secured to said bracket, whereby said second fluid operated cylinder allows said device to move relative to said object in a second direction. 39. The compliance mechanism of claim 38 wherein at least one of said first and second cylinders can be biased towards said object by having a pressure differential present in at least one of said cylinders. 40. The compliance mechanism of claim 39 wherein at least one self-exhausting regulator is used to supply fluid to said first cylinder. 41. The compliance mechanism of claim 38 wherein a linear ball bearing is used to position said first and second cylinders on said first and second legs wherein there is very little resistance to movement of said first and second cylinders. 42. The compliance mechanism of claim 36, including a means for moving said object relative to said device. 