The invention provides a method and apparatus to process and assemble optical subsystems. In one aspect, the optical subsystems are placed on a carrier apparatus adapted to support a plurality of the optical subsystems in a desired process orientation and with a desired spacing to provide high process throughput. In one aspect of the invention, optical components are assembled and sequentially processed in various steps, such as component installation, optical fiber preparation, component attachment, fiber trim, optical fiber polishing, and optical component testing to produce a finished optical subsystem.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for processing optical subassemblies, comprising: a component installation stage adapted to assemble a plurality of components onto a plurality of fiber optic cables; a fiber preparation stage adapted to remove an outer coating of an optical fiber to expose an optical fiber cladding and a core; a component attachment stage adapted to attach at least one optical component on the optical fiber cladding and the core; an optical surface polishing stage adapted to polish an optical interface surface; and at least one movable optical component carrier adapted to transport the plurality of fiber optic cables and the plurality of components between the component installation stage, the fiber preparation stage, the component attachment stage, and the optical surface polishing stage. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the component installation stage comprises: a plurality of vertically aligned component dispensing tubes adapted to hold the plurality of components; and at least one component transfer tool adapted to transfer at least one of the plurality of components from the plurality of vertically aligned component dispensing tubes to at least one of the plurality of fiber optic cables. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, further comprising a component feeder assembly having a component dispensing tool adapted to dispense the at least one of the plurality of components from the plurality of vertically aligned component dispensing tubes. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the fiber preparation stage comprises a fiber stripping tool having a fiber puller adapted to pull the optical fiber from the at least one movable optical component carrier a desired distance to expose a length of the optical fiber to be stripped. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the fiber stripping tool comprises a first and second clamp member adapted to clamp the optical fiber therebetween, the first clamp member having a first heating element and the second clamp member having a second heating element, wherein the first and second heating elements are adapted to melt the outer coating to expose the fiber optic cladding and the core. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the component attachment stage comprises a fiber gripper assembly having at least one of the plurality of fiber optic cables therein. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the gripper assembly includes a component attachment tool having a first component holding member, wherein the first component holding member having a plurality of recesses adapted to hold one or more of the plurality of components. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the gripper assembly is rotatably mounted to a moveable attachment apparatus adapted to move the gripper assembly between a plurality of attachment positions. 9. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the component attachment tool includes a component rotation assembly adapted to axially rotate one of the one or more plurality of components within one of the plurality of recesses. 10. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the component attachment tool further comprises a second component holding member having a second plurality of recesses adapted to hold a second set of the one or more of the plurality of components therein. 11. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the component attachment tool further comprises an epoxy curing apparatus having a component heating apparatus adapted to heat one or more of the plurality of components. 12. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one movable optical component carrier comprises: a body having a top, a bottom, and a sidewall member that cooperatively define an component storage region; at least one component storage device; and at least one gripper disposed in the sidewall member and adapted to grip one of the plurality of components or one of the plurality of fiber optic cables. 13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein each of the at least one component storage devices comprise an annular component holder and two outer covers disposed about the annular component holder, the two outer covers forming a flexible fiber optic cable clamp therebetween. 14. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a fiber trim stage, wherein the fiber trim stage includes at least one laser cutting tool having at least one laser beam source adapted to burn an excess of the optical fiber cladding and the core extending from the optical interface surface. 15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the laser cutting tool further comprises a laser beam splitter assembly adapted to direct one or more laser beams onto the fiber optic cladding and the core. 16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the laser beam splitter assembly further comprises a first and a second laser beam transmission paths wherein the first laser beam transmission path directs a first laser beam orthogonally to a longitudinal axis of a first of the plurality of fiber optic cables, and wherein the second laser transmission path directs a second laser beam parallel to the longitudinal axis of the first of the plurality of fiber optic cables. 17. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the optical surface polishing stage includes at least one polishing tool comprising: a polishing table and a polishing material supply apparatus adapted to supply a web of polishing material proximate the polishing table; an orbital actuator rotatably coupled to the polishing tool and adapted to actuate the at lest one polishing tool in an orbital motion; and a component support adapted to position the optical interface surface of an optical component in contact with polishing material adjacent the polishing table. 18. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the polishing material supply apparatus is coupled to a polishing material receiver with a web of polishing material. 19. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the polishing material supply apparatus further comprises a drag apparatus adapted to provide drag and tension to the web of polishing material. 20. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the orbital actuator further comprises a motor coupled to an eccentric shaft that is coupled to the polishing tool. 21. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein the eccentric shaft comprises at least one counterbalance positioned on the shaft and sized to offset the centripetal and centrifugal forces generated during the orbital motion of the polishing tool. 22. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a component testing stage having a optical component testing tool having a test equipment module adapted to test at least one optical component. 23. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein the optical component testing tool comprises a component stimulation tool adapted to provide power and stimulation signals to at least one optical component. 24. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a carrier transport system adapted to facilitate movement of the at least one movable optical component carrier between at least two processing stages. 25. The apparatus of claim 24, wherein the carrier transport system comprises a roller assembly driven by a conveyor drive, wherein the roller assembly is adapted to move and support the movable optical component carrier. 26. The apparatus of claim 24, wherein the carrier transport system comprises a positioning apparatus adapted to move and support the at least one movable optical component carrier between a plurality of processing positions with respect to the at least two processing stages. 27. The apparatus of claim 26, wherein the positioning apparatus further comprises a pedestal adapted to move the at least one movable optical component carrier in a three dimensional manner with respect to the at least two processing stages. 28. The apparatus of claim 26, wherein the positioning apparatus includes an indexing transport system comprising at least one indexing stop adapted to stop and position the at least one movable optical component carrier in a plurality of indexed processing positions with respect the at least two processing stages. 29. The apparatus of claim 28, wherein the indexing transport system includes a carrier support member comprising a cam apparatus and shaft member adapted to move the carrier support member and the at least one movable optical component carrier between a component transport position and a component processing position. 30. A system of processing stages for assembling optical interconnections to a plurality of fiber optic cables, comprising: a component installation stage adapted to assemble a plurality of components on the plurality of fiber optic cables; a fiber preparation stage adapted to remove an outer coating of an optical fiber to expose an optical fiber cladding and a core; a component attachment stage adapted to attach at least one optical component on the optical fiber cladding and core; a fiber trim stage adapted to trim a section of the optical fiber cladding and core protruding from the at least one optical component; a polishing stage adapted to polish an optical interface surface; a testing stage adapted to test the at least one optical component; at least one optical component carrier supported by a carrier transport system adapted to move the at least one optical component carrier between a plurality of the processing stages and a plurality of processing positions thereto; and a process controller adapted to control the plurality of processing stages. 31. The system of claim 30, wherein the process controller receives and transmits control signals to and from the plurality of processing stages. 32. The system of claim 30, wherein the component installation stage comprises at least one component transfer tool adapted to transfer at least one of the plurality of components from at least one component dispensing tube to at least one of the plurality of fiber optic cables. 33. The system of claim 30, wherein the fiber preparation stage comprises a stripping tool having at least two heated clamps, wherein the clamps are adapted to clamp around a portion of the optical fiber to be stripped and to heat the outer coating therebetween. 34. The system of claim 30, wherein the component attachment stage comprises a component attachment assembly having a fiber gripper assembly that includes at least one fiber pincher adapted to hold at least one of the plurality of fiber optic cables. 35. The system of claim 34, wherein the component attachment assembly includes a component attachment tool having a first component holding member having a plurality of recesses adapted to hold one or more of the plurality of components. 36. The system of claim 35, wherein the component attachment tool includes a component rotation assembly adapted to axially rotate one of the one or more plurality of components within one of the plurality of recesses. 37. The system of claim 34, wherein the component attachment assembly comprises a first and second set of component holding recess positioned so that when the first set of component holding recesses is in a component attachment position the second set of component holding recesses is in a component loading position. 38. The system of claim 34, wherein the component attachment assembly includes a fiber gripper assembly comprising a plurality of attachment pinchers, wherein each of the plurality of attachment pinchers are adapted to hold one of the plurality of fiber optic cables in axial alignment with the at least one optical component. 39. The system of claim 30, wherein the polishing stage includes at least one polishing tool comprising: a polishing table and a polishing material supply apparatus adapted to supply a web of polishing material proximate the polishing table; an orbital actuator rotatably coupled to the polishing tool and adapted to rotate the polishing tool in an orbital motion; and a component support adapted to position a surface of an optical component in contact with polishing material adjacent the polishing table. 40. The system of claim 39, wherein the polishing material supply apparatus is coupled to a polishing material receiver via a web of polishing material. 41. The system of claim 40, wherein the polishing material supply apparatus further comprises a drag apparatus adapted to provide drag and tension to the web of polishing material. 42. The system of claim 39, wherein the orbital actuator further comprises a motor coupled to an eccentric shaft rotatably coupled to the polishing tool. 43. The system of claim 42, wherein the eccentric shaft comprises at least one counterbalance device positioned on the shaft and sized to offset centripetal and centrifugal forces generated during the orbital motion of the polishing tool. 44. The system of claim 30, wherein the fiber testing stage comprises a component testing tool adapted to test optical subassemblies and being coupled to at least one optical interface front end. 45. The system of claim 44, wherein the component testing tool comprises a component stimulation tool adapted to mate with the at least one optical component carrier such that at least one stimulation signal and bias is transmitted from the component stimulation tool to at least one optical component within the at least one optical component carrier. 46. The system of claim 30, wherein the at least one optical component carrier is adapted to hold at least one component storage apparatuses comprising a component holder and two outer covers disposed about the component holder, wherein the two outer covers form a flexible fiber clamp therebetween. 47. The system of claim 46, wherein the at least one optical component carrier comprises: a body including a top, a bottom, and a sidewall member that cooperatively define a component storage region; at least one storage slot adapted to hold a fiber optic cable and the plurality of components; and a gripper disposed in the sidewall member and adapted to hold one of the plurality of fiber optic cables or plurality of components. 48. A method for assembling optical interconnections using a staged optic component processing system having a plurality of processing stages, comprising: preparing an end of at least one fiber optic cable to accept at least one optical component thereon; attaching the at least one optical component on the end of the at least one fiber optic cable; polishing an optical interface of the at least one optical component; and transporting the at least one optical component and the at least one fiber optic cable on an optical component transport system between a plurality of processing stages configured to conduct the preparing, attaching and polishing steps. 49. The method of claim 48, wherein transporting comprises carrying the at least one optical component within at least one storage apparatus. 50. The method of claim 48, wherein transporting comprises moving the at least one optical component to a preparing stage on the optical component transport system. 51. The method of claim 48, wherein transporting comprises moving the at least one optical component between a preparing stage and an attaching stage on the optical component transport system. 52. The method of claim 48, wherein transporting comprises moving the at least one optical component from an attaching stage to a polishing stage on the optical component transport system. 53. The method of claim 48, further comprising transferring the at least one optical component from one of a plurality of storage apparatuses to the at least one fiber optic cable prior to the preparing step. 54. The method of claim 48, wherein preparing an end of the fiber optic cable comprises heating the at least one fiber optic cable and stripping an outer coating from the at least one fiber optic cable to expose a fiber optic cladding and a core. 55. The method of claim 48, wherein attaching the at least one optical component comprises rotating a component attachment assembly having at least one of the plurality of the components thereon into an attachment position. 56. The method of claim 55, further comprising rotating and inserting an axial opening of the at least one optical component onto an exposed core of the fiber optic cable. 57. The method of claim 48, further comprising after attaching the at least one optical component and trimming a protruding length of the at least one fiber optic cable adjacent an optical interface. 58. The method of claim 57, wherein trimming comprises burning the protruding length of the at least one fiber optic cable by directing at least one laser beam onto the protruding length. 59. The method of claim 58, wherein directing comprises splitting the at least one laser beam into at least a first and second laser beam wherein the first laser beam is directed about orthogonal to the protruding length of the at least one fiber optic cable and the second beam is directed about aligned with a longitudinal axis of the protruding length of the at least one fiber optic cable. 60. The method of claim 48, wherein polishing an optical interface of the at least one optical component comprises: rotating a polishing apparatus comprising a polishing table and a polishing material supply apparatus in an orbital motion; providing from the polishing material apparatus a renewable web of polishing material positioned adjacent the polishing table; and maintaining a polishing pressure of a surface of the at least one optical component against the web of polishing material and against the polishing table to polish the surface. 61. The method of claim 60, further comprising aligning the renewable web of polishing material received from the polishing material apparatus on the polishing table by aligning the polishing table to define a polishing plane generally aligned and about orthogonal to the surface. 62. The method of claim 60, wherein polishing the surface comprises providing a flexible polishing surface on the polishing table and pressing the surface against the web of polishing material supported by the flexible polishing surface. 63. The method of claim 60, wherein maintaining the polishing pressure comprises detecting and adjusting the polishing pressure to a predetermined value. 64. The method of claim 48, further comprising testing a first optical component, wherein testing includes activating a second component attached to the first optical component. 65. The method of claim 64, wherein activating comprises providing bias power and stimulation signals to the second component and determining if the first or second components are defective. 