A automated manufacturing system is provided for performing a manufacturing operation along a contoured surface of a workpiece. The automated manufacturing system includes a movable member; a tool disposed on the movable member for performing a manufacturing operation; a path planning subsystem which is operable to generate path data based on dimensional data for the workpiece, where the path data is indicative of a path for traversing the tool along the surface of the workpiece; and a controller adapted to receive the path data from the path planning subsystem and operable to move the moveable member in accordance with the path data, thereby performing the manufacturing operation along the surface of the workpiece.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automated manufacturing system for performing a manufacturing operation along a contoured surface of a workpiece, comprising: a movable member operable to perform the manufacturing operation along the surface of the workpiece; a path planning subsystem adapted to receive dimensional data for the workpiece and operable to generate path data based on the dimensional data for the workpiece, where the path data is indicative of a path for traversing the movable member along the surface of the workpiece, the path planning subsystem further including a modeling module receiving the dimensional data for the workpiece and operative to generate a plurality of facets, where each facet is a geometric representation of a portion of the surface of the workpiece, and a grouping module connected to the modeling module and operative to group the plurality of facets into one or more groupings of facets, where facets are grouped based on the spatial orientation of a facet in relation to the spatial orientation of one or more neighboring facets; and a controller adapted to receive the path data from the path planning subsystem and operable to move the moveable member in accordance with the path data, thereby performing the manufacturing operation along the surface of the workpiece. 2. The manufacturing system of claim 1 wherein a tool is located on the movable member for performing the manufacturing operation along the surface of the workpiece. 3. The manufacturing system of claim 2 wherein the path planning subsystem is adapted to receive tool data which is indicative of the type of tool to be used in the manufacturing operation, the path planning subsystem being operable to generate the path data for the tool based in part on the tool data. 4. The manufacturing system of claim 2 wherein the path planning subsystem is adapted to receive operational parameter data which provides parameters within which to perform the manufacturing operation, the path planning subsystem being operable to generate the path data for the tool based in part on the operational parameter data. 5. The manufacturing system of claim 1 wherein the path planning subsystem further comprises a path planning module connected to the grouping module and operative to use the groupings of facets to determine a tool path along the contoured surface of the workpiece. 6. A surface inspection system for inspecting a contoured surface of a workpiece, comprising: a movable member; a non-contact sensor located on the movable member for capturing image data representative of the surface of the workpiece; a path planning subsystem adapted to receive dimensional data for the workpiece and operable to generate path data based on the dimensional data for the workpiece, where the path data is indicative of a path for traversing the sensor along the surface of the workpiece, the path planning subsystem further including a modeling module receiving the dimensional data for the workpiece and operative to generate a plurality of facets, where each facet is a geometric representation of a portion of the surface of the workpiece, and a grouping module connected to the modeling module and operative to group the plurality of facets into one or more groupings of facets and use the groups of facets to determine the path data, where facets are grouped based on the spatial orientation of a facet in relation to the spatial orientation of one or more neighboring facets; and a controller adapted to receive the path data from the path planning subsystem and operable to move the moveable member in accordance with the path data, thereby inspecting the surface of the workpiece. 7. The manufacturing system of claim 6 wherein the path planning subsystem is adapted to receive sensor data which is indicative of operational parameters associated with the non-contact sensor, the path planning subsystem being operable to generate the path data for the non-contact sensor based in part on the sensor data. 8. The manufacturing system of claim 6 wherein the path planning subsystem is adapted to receive operational parameter data which provides parameters within which to perform the surface inspection, the path planning subsystem being operable to generate the path data for the non-contact sensor based in part on the operational parameter data. 9. The manufacturing system of claim 6 wherein the path planning subsystem further comprises a path planning module connected to the grouping module and operative to use the groupings of facets to determine a tool path along the contoured surface of the workpiece. 10. An automated manufacturing system for performing a manufacturing operation along a contoured surface of a workpiece, comprising: a modeling module receiving the dimensional data for the workpiece and operative to generate a plurality of facets, where each facet is a geometric representation of a portion of the surface of the workpiece; a grouping module connected to the modeling module and operative to group the plurality of facets into one or more groupings of facets, where facets are grouped based on the spatial orientation of a facet in relation to the spatial orientation of one or more neighboring facets; and a path planning module connected to the grouping module and operative to use the groupings of facets to determine a tool path along the contoured surface of the workpiece. 11. The manufacturing system of claim 10 wherein the path planning module is adapted to receive tool data which is indicative of the type of tool to be used in the manufacturing operation, the path planning module being operable to generate the path data for the tool based in part on the tool data. 12. The manufacturing system of claim 10 wherein the path planning module is adapted to receive operational parameter data which provides parameters within which to perform the manufacturing operation, the path planning module being operable to generate the path data for the tool based in part on the operational parameter data. 13. The manufacturing system of claim 10 further comprising: a movable member; a tool located on the movable member operable to perform the manufacturing operation along the surface of the workpiece; and a controller adapted to receive the tool path data from the path planning module and operable to move the moveable member in accordance with the tool path, thereby performing the manufacturing operation along the surface of the workpiece. 14. The automated manufacturing system of claim 1 wherein the grouping module determines a spatial orientation for each of the plurality of facets by determining an area for each facet, determining a vector for each facet, where the vector is indicative of the normal direction of the facet, and computing an area-weighted average normal for each facet by multiplying the area of a facet with the vector for the corresponding facet. 15. The automated manufacturing system of claim 1 wherein the grouping module groups the plurality of facets by (e) identifying a first facet having the largest area amongst the plurality of facets; (f) identifying a neighboring facet to the first facet; (g) comparing the spatial orientation of the neighboring facet to the spatial orientation of the first facet; and (h) combining the neighboring facet with the first facet when a difference in spatial orientation between the two facets is within a predefined flatness threshold, thereby forming a first grouping of facets. 16. The automated manufacturing system of claim 15 wherein the grouping module further groups the plurality of facets by repeating steps (f) through (h) for a second neighboring facet when the difference in spatial orientation between the two facets exceeds the predefined flatness threshold. 17. The automated manufacturing system of claim 15 wherein the grouping module further groups the plurality of facets by (i) determining a spatial orientation for the first grouping of facets; (j) identifying a neighboring facet to the first grouping of facets; (k) comparing the spatial orientation of the neighboring facet to the spatial orientation of the first grouping of facets; and (l) combining the neighboring facet with the first grouping of facets when the difference in spatial orientation between the neighboring facets and the first grouping of facets is within the predefined flatness threshold. 18. The automated manufacturing system for claim 17 wherein the grouping module further groups the plurality of facets by repeating steps (i) thru (l) until the difference in spatial orientation between each of the neighboring facets and the first grouping of facets exceeds the predefined flatness threshold; identifying a second facet having the largest area amongst the facets not combined into the first grouping of facets; and repeating steps (f) thru (l) for the second facet, thereby forming a second grouping of facets. 19. The automated manufacturing system of claim 10 wherein the grouping module determines a spatial orientation for each of the plurality of facets by determining an area for each facet, determining a vector for each facet, where the vector is indicative of the normal direction of the facet, and computing an area-weighted average normal for each facet by multiplying the area of a facet with the vector for the corresponding facet. 20. The automated manufacturing system of claim 10 wherein the grouping module groups the plurality of facets by (e) identifying a first facet having the largest area amongst the plurality of facets; (f) identifying a neighboring facet to the first facet; (g) comparing the spatial orientation of the neighboring facet to the spatial orientation of the first facet; and (h) combining the neighboring facet with the first facet when a difference in spatial orientation between the two facets is within a predefined flatness threshold, thereby forming a first grouping of facets. 21. The automated manufacturing system of claim 20 wherein the grouping module further groups the plurality of facets by repeating steps (f) through (h) for a second neighboring facet when the difference in spatial orientation between the two facets exceeds the predefined flatness threshold. 22. The automated manufacturing system of claim 20 wherein the grouping module further groups the plurality of facets by (i) determining a spatial orientation for the first grouping of facets; (j) identifying a neighboring facet to the first grouping of facets; (k) comparing the spatial orientation of the neighboring facet to the spatial orientation of the first grouping of facets; and (l) combining the neighboring facet with the first grouping of facets when the difference in spatial orientation between the neighboring facets and the first grouping of facets is within the predefined flatness threshold. 23. The automated manufacturing system for claim 22 wherein the grouping module further groups the plurality of facets by repeating steps (i) thru (l) until the difference in spatial orientation between each of the neighboring facets and the first grouping of facets exceeds the predefined flatness threshold; identifying a second facet having the largest area amongst the facets not combined into the first grouping of facets; and repeating steps (f) thru (l) for the second facet, thereby forming a second grouping of facets. 