An automated process and a system for ordering and manufacturing personalized products over the Internet are provided. This process may apply to a limitless variety of products which are desirable to personalize. A robotic manufacturing machine offers options on multiples physical features of a product. These options are presented to consumers via the Internet. A consumer selects the options using a computer. The selected options are received by a web server and converted to machine instructions. The machine instructions are transmitted to the robotic machine which produces a product according to the instructions received. The end result is a personalized product manufactured specifically to the consumer's selections as a result of a completely automated process.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for automatically manufacturing goods in accordance with a non-expert consumer's order for said goods placed over the Internet comprising: providing a plurality of options over the Internet corresponding to at least one physical feature of a product; electronically receiving said order selecting at least one of said options over the Internet; electronically converting a selected option into at least one machine instruction in an Internet server; transmitting said machine instruction to a robotic machine remote from said non-expert consumer; and automatically producing said product with said selected option according to said at least one machine instruction with said robotic machine; wherein providing a plurality of options over the Internet corresponding to at least one physical feature of a product comprises providing a plurality of options for a chemical composition, an appearance, or a structure of said product. 2. The method in claim 1 wherein providing a plurality of options corresponding to a physical feature comprises conforming said options to manufacturing capabilities of said robotic machine. 3. The method in claim 1 wherein said selecting at least one of said options using a computer comprises viewing said options communicated to said computer via the Internet. 4. The method in claim 1 further comprising transmitting said selected option from said computer to a web server via the Internet. 5. The method in claim 4 wherein said electronically converting a selected option into at least one machine instruction comprises electronically converting said selected option into at least one machine instruction at said web server. 6. The method in claim 5 wherein said transmitting said machine instruction to a robotic machine comprises transmitting said machine instruction from said web server to said robotic machine. 7. The method of claim 1 where providing a plurality of options over the Internet corresponding to at least one physical feature of a product comprises providing a plurality of options for personal hygiene products. 8. The method of claim 7 where providing a plurality of options for personal hygiene products comprises providing a plurality of options for oral hygiene products. 9. The method of claim 7 where providing a plurality of options for personal hygiene products comprises providing a plurality of options for hair care products. 10. The method of claim 7 where providing a plurality of options for personal hygiene products comprises providing a plurality of options for skin care products. 11. The method of claim 1 where providing a plurality of options over the Internet corresponding to at least one physical feature of a product comprises providing a plurality of options for clothing and apparel products. 12. The method of claim 1 where providing a plurality of options over the Internet corresponding to at least one physical feature of a product comprises providing a plurality of options for stationery products. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein: said product is a toothbrush, and said step of providing further comprises providing a plurality of options for said toothbrush, said options including a plurality structures for selective, automatic manufacture of said toothbrush in accordance with at least one of said structures. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein providing a plurality of options comprises providing options for said chemical composition having at least one chemical and a range of quantities for each chemical of said chemical composition. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein providing a plurality of options comprise providing a plurality of packaging options for said product. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein the product comprises stationery and the options include a plurality of stationary products and a plurality customized illustrations with which the stationery may be selectively and automatically manufactured. 17. The method of claim 1 wherein said product is at least one article of apparel and providing a plurality of options over the Internet comprises a plurality of styles and a plurality of sizes of said article available for selective, automatic manufacture. 18. An automatic manufacturing system operating automatically in response to a non-expert consumer's order from a remote computer and received electronically over the Internet comprising: a web server to send to said remote computer options corresponding to physical features of a product and to receive from said non-expert consumers via the Internet selected options from said remote computer; a converter associated with said web server and configured to automatically convert said selected options to at least one machine instruction; and a robotic machine electronically connected to said converter and configured to automatically process said machine instructions and to manufacture said product according to said machine instructions; wherein said web server automatically forwards said at least one machine instruction to a robotic machine and automatically manufactures said product in accordance with said consumer's order; and wherein said web server sends and receives selected options from said remote computer over the Internet corresponding to at least one product feature of at least one of a chemical composition an appearance, or a structure of said product. 19. The system of claim 18 wherein said web server presents options to said consumers via the Internet, said options corresponding to capabilities of said robotic machine in manufacturing said product. 20. The system of claim 18 wherein said web server comprises said converter. 21. The apparatus of claim 18 where said web server sends and receives selected options from said remote computer over the Internet corresponding to at least one product feature of a personal hygiene product. 22. The apparatus of claim 21 where said web server sends and receives selected options from said remote computer over the Internet corresponding to at least one physical feature of a oral hygiene product. 23. The apparatus of claim 21 where said web server sends and receives selected options from said remote computer over the Internet corresponding to at least one physical feature of a hair care product. 24. The apparatus of claim 21 where said web server sends and receives selected options from said remote computer over the Internet corresponding to at least one physical feature of a skin care product. 25. The apparatus of claim 18 where said web server sends and receives selected options from said remote computer over the Internet corresponding to at least one physical feature of clothing and apparel products. 26. The apparatus of claim 18 where said web server sends and receives selected options from said remote computer over the Internet corresponding to at least one physical feature of stationery products. 27. The apparatus of claim 18 wherein: said product is a toothbrush, and said web server sends and receives said selected options comprising a plurality structures for selective automatic manufacture of said toothbrush in accordance with at least one of said structures. 28. The apparatus of claim 18 wherein said product comprises a chemical composition, said web server sends and receives selected options from said remote computer over the Internet corresponding to options for said chemical composition having at least one chemical and a range of quantities for each chemical of said chemical composition. 29. The apparatus of claim 18 wherein said web server sends and receives selected options from said remote computer over the Internet corresponding to a plurality of packaging options for said product. 30. The apparatus of claim 18 wherein said product is stationery, said web server sends and receives selected options from said remote computer over the Internet corresponding to a plurality of stationary products and a plurality customized illustrations with which the stationery may be selectively and automatically manufactured. 31. The apparatus of claim 18 wherein said product is at least one article of apparel, and wherein said web server sends and receives selected options from said remote computer over the Internet corresponding to a plurality of styles and a plurality of sizes of said article of apparel available for selective and automatic manufacture of said article of apparel. 