A system for rinsing and cleaning a wafer carrier and a semiconductor wafer mounted thereon during a polishing process is provided. The system comprises a head spray assembly that includes a spray nozzle and a spray cavity. At least a part of the head spray assembly is moveably positionable between a park position and a spray position. The spray position is proximate to the wafer carrier such that liquid discharged from the spray nozzle is in liquid communication with the wafer carrier and the semiconductor wafer. The liquid as well as the materials rinsed from the wafer carrier and semiconductor wafer may be retained in the spray cavity and channeled out of the head spray assembly.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A head spray assembly for cleaning and rinsing a wafer carrier and a semiconductor wafer mounted thereon within a wafer polishing system, the head spray assembly comprising: a housing; and a spray nozzle operable to discharge liquid in the housing; wherein the housing includes an annular wall and a basin, the annular wall fixed in a second position adjacent a wafer carrier, the basin operable to selectively move between a first position spaced away from the wafer carrier and the second position. 2. The head spray assembly of claim 1, wherein the housing includes a drain outlet, the drain outlet operable to channel liquid discharged from the spray nozzle out of the housing. 3. The head spray assembly of claim 1, wherein the housing includes an inflatable bladder, the bladder selectively inflatable to form a seal to assist in the retention within the housing of fluid discharged from the spray nozzle. 4. The head spray assembly of claim 1, wherein the housing is formed to allow fluid communication between the wafer carrier and fluid discharged by the spray nozzle when the basin is in the second position. 5. The head spray assembly of claim 1, wherein the spray nozzle is positioned within the housing. 6. A head spray assembly for cleaning and rinsing a wafer carrier and a semiconductor wafer mounted thereon within a wafer polishing system, the head spray assembly comprising: a housing forming a spray cavity wherein at least a portion of the housing is operable to move between a first position spaced away from a wafer carrier and a second position adjacent the wafer carrier; a spray nozzle operable to discharge fluid into the spray cavity; and a seal included with the housing, wherein the seal is selectively activated to retain discharged fluid in the spray cavity and wherein the seal is a bladder that is selectively inflatable to retain discharged fluid in the spray cavity. 7. The head spray assembly of claim 6, wherein the housing includes a first part and a second part, the first part is fixed in the second position and the second part is selectively movable between the first and second positions. 8. The head spray assembly of claim 7, wherein the spray nozzle is fixed within the first part of the housing. 9. The head spray assembly of claim 7, wherein the seal forms a liquid tight seal between the first part and the second part of the housing when activated. 10. The head spray assembly of claim 7, wherein the first part of the housing includes an annular wall and the seal, and the second part of the housing includes a basin. 11. The head spray assembly of claim 7, wherein the first part of the housing is formed with a passageway, the wafer carrier capable of being selectively moved through the passageway while the second part of the housing is in the first position. 12. The head spray assembly of claim 6, wherein the seal includes an inflatable bladder operable to inflate and form a seal between the head spray assembly and a surface in close proximity to the head spray assembly. 13. A head spray assembly for cleaning and rinsing a wafer carrier and a semiconductor wafer mounted thereon within a wafer polishing system, the head spray assembly comprising: a housing having an aperture capable of alignment with a wafer carrier and a semiconductor wafer; a spray nozzle disposed within the housing; and a drain outlet formed in the housing, wherein fluid discharged from the spray nozzle that is retained within the housing flows out of the housing through the drain outlets, wherein the housing includes an annular wall and a basin, wherein the drain outlet is included in the basin and a portion of the annular wall forms the aperture in the housing. 14. The head spray assembly of claim 13, wherein at least a portion of the housing is movable by an actuator between a first position spaced away from the wafer carrier and the semiconductor wafer and a second position adjacent the wafer carrier and the semiconductor wafer. 15. The head spray assembly of claim 13, wherein the housing includes a spray cavity to allow liquid communication between the spray nozzle and at least a portion of the wafer carrier and the semiconductor wafer when the wafer carrier is placed in a cleaning position. 16. The head spray assembly of claim 13, further comprising a liquid supply line coupled with a manifold having a passageway, wherein the manifold is fixedly mounted within the housing and the spray nozzle is mounted on the manifold, wherein the liquid supply line penetrates the housing such that liquid supplied via the liquid supply line travels through the passageway and is discharged by the spray nozzle. 17. The head spray assembly of claim 13, wherein the basin is movable between a first position and a second position, and the annular wall is fixed in the second position. 18. The head spray assembly of claim 17, further comprising an inflatable bladder coupled with the housing, wherein the bladder forms a seal between the basin and the annular wall when inflated. 19. The head spray assembly of claim 13, wherein the housing includes a seal to assist in the retention within the housing of fluid discharged from the spray nozzle. 20. A head spray mechanism for cleaning and rinsing a wafer carrier and a semiconductor wafer mounted thereon within a wafer polishing system, the head spray mechanism comprising: a housing; a spray nozzle operable to discharge liquid in the housing; and a rotary actuator, wherein at least a portion of the housing is moveable with the actuator between a first position spaced away from a wafer carrier and a second position adjacent the wafer carrier. 21. The head spray mechanism of claim 20, wherein the housing includes an inflatable seal, the seal selectively inflatable to assist in the retention within the housing of fluid discharged from the spray nozzle. 22. The head spray mechanism of claim 20, wherein the housing includes a first part and a second part, the first part is fixed in the second position, and the second part is selectively movable between the first and second positions. 23. The head spray mechanism of claim 22, wherein the housing includes a first seal and a second seal, the first seal is disposed between the first and second parts, and the second seal is disposed on the housing to assist in the retention within the housing of fluid discharged from the spray nozzle. 24. The head spray mechanism of claim 20, wherein the housing includes a drain outlet configured to allow fluid discharged from the spray nozzle to drain by gravity out of the housing. 25. The head spray mechanism of claim 20, wherein the housing includes a manifold coupled to the spray nozzle, the manifold formed in a ring that allows the wafer carrier to pass through the manifold. 