A power limiting system and method are provided for limiting power delivered to a common bus in a one or multi-frame tape library environment. The system includes one or more frames coupled to a common bus, each of which is capable of delivering power to the common bus. Each frame comprises current limiting circuitry to limit the power delivered by that frame to the common bus. In exemplary embodiments, the current limiting circuitry of each frame includes a current limiting resistor and a blocking diode coupled to a local power source to limit the power delivered by that frame and to prevent feedback respectively. Additionally, each frame of the system includes a relay capable of receiving a limited power from the common bus, being energized, and, consequently, providing for the respective frame to be powered by a main power supply. In exemplary embodiments, each frame includes a switch for taking power from the common bus to power a frame only when a respective local power source is on and a respective frame is energized. The method provided includes a method for coupling additional frames to a power limited common bus by limiting the power delivered by each frame. Specifically, the method provides for only those frames, which are delivering power to the common bus, to be powered by the power available on the common bus.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A power limiting system comprising a common bus; a frame coupled to said common bus, wherein said frame comprising power limiting circuitry for limiting power transmitted from said frame to said common bus; and at least one EPO switch for coupling said common bus to an EPO bus; wherein said frame further comprising a control relay for receiving power from said common bus, and wherein said power received from said common bus causing an energized state of said control relay. 2. A power limiting system as claimed in claim 1, wherein said frame comprising a local power source coupled to said power limiting circuitry for generating said power transmitted from said frame to said common bus. 3. A power limiting system as claimed in claim 1, wherein said control relay further comprising a control relay for receiving power from said EPO bus. 4. A power limiting system as claimed in claim 1, wherein said current limiting circuitry comprising a current limiting resistor. 5. A power limiting system as claimed in claim 4, wherein said current limiting resistor is selectable to cause said power transmitted by said frame to said common bus to be at least equal to a minimum power needed to cause said energized state of said control relay. 6. A power limiting system as claimed in claim 5, wherein said current limiting resistor is selectable to cause said power transmitted by said frame to said common bus to not exceed a power required to cause a first said energized state of a first said control relay of a first said frame and a second said energized state of a second said control relay of a second said frame. 7. A power limiting system as claimed in claim 1, wherein said frame further comprising a blocking diode for reducing feedback from said bus circuitry. 8. A power limiting system as claimed in claim 1, wherein said control relay providing for a main power to be coupled to said frame when said control relay is in said energized state and said frame is transmitting said power to said common bus. 9. A circuit as claimed in claim 8, wherein said frame further comprising a switch for allowing said main power to be coupled to said frame if said control relay is in said energized state and said frame is transmitting said power to said common bus. 10. A power limiting system comprising a common bus; a plurality of frames coupled to said common bus, wherein at least one frame of said plurality of frames comprising a local power source for delivering power to said common bus, and further comprising a control relay for receiving power from said common bus, wherein said power received from said common bus causing an energized state of said control relay; power limiting circuitry, comprised in said at least one frame of said plurality of frames, wherein said power limiting circuitry limits said power delivered by said power supply to said common bus; and at least one EPO switch for coupling said common bus to an EPO bus. 11. A power limiting system as claimed in claim 10, wherein said control relay further comprising a control relay for receiving power from said EPO bus. 12. A power limiting system as claimed in claim 10, wherein said current limiting circuitry comprising a current limiting resistor. 13. A power limiting system as claimed in claim 10, wherein said current limiting resistor is selectable to cause said power transmitted by said frame to said common bus to be at least equal to a minimum power needed to cause said energized state of said control relay. 14. A power limiting system as claimed in claim 13, wherein said current limiting resistor is selectable to cause said power transmitted by said frame to said common bus to not exceed a minimum power needed to cause a first said energized state of a first said control relay of a first said frame and a second said energized state of a second said control relay of a second said frame. 15. A power limiting system as claimed in claim 10, wherein said frame further comprising a blocking diode for reducing feedback from said bus circuitry. 16. A power limiting system as claimed in claim 10, wherein said control relay providing for a main power to be coupled to said frame when said control relay is in said energized state and said frame is transmitting said power to said common bus. 17. A circuit as claimed in claim 16, wherein said frame further comprising a switch for allowing said main power to be coupled to said common bus if said control relay is in said energized state and said frame is transmitting said power to said common bus. 18. A power limiting method comprising the steps of coupling a plurality of frames to a common bus, wherein each frame of said plurality of frames comprises a power source for transmitting power to said common bus and a relay for receiving power from said common bus; limiting power generated by each said power source to generate a limited power generated by each said frame; transmitting said limited power from each said frame to said common bus such that a total power transmitted to said common bus by said plurality of frames does not exceed a power safety limit of said common bus; coupling an EPO switch to said common bus, wherein said EPO switch couples said common bus to an EPO bus; coupling each said relay of each said frame of said plurality of frames to said EPO bus, wherein each said relay receiving power from said EPO bus; utilizing said power receive from said EPO bus to energize each said relay in each said frame of said plurality of frames. 19. A power limiting method as claimed in claim 18, wherein said step of limiting power generated by each said power source to generate a limited power generated by each said frame, farther comprising the steps of coupling a current limiting resistor between each said power source and said common bus; coupling a blocking diode between each said power source and said common bus to prevent feedback from said common bus. 20. A power limiting method as claimed in claim 18, further comprising the steps of coupling a main power supply to each said frame if a control relay in said frame is energized; utilizing a switch in each said frame, when said control relay in said frame is energized and said power source in said frame is on, to couple said main power to said frame. 