A topological panorama camera has a track or other system upon which a linescan camera can move in one, two or three dimensions while recording the image of an object. The path, speed, acceleration, scan rate and direction of the linescan camera can be controlled, as can the path, speed, acceleration and direction of the object. A pattern is projected onto an object of arbitrary shape and is imaged by the topological panorama camera in one or more passes. The image of the pattern received by the camera is analyzed to determine the exterior shape of the object.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of determining the shape of an object, comprising the steps of: scanning the object through an optical slit moving using relative motion between the slit and the object while projecting light on said object in a predetermined sequence to form a pattern on the object and recording an image of a reflection of said pattern received through said optical slit as the object is scanned; and analyzing the geometric properties of the reflection of said pattern to determine the shape of said object. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said pattern includes a plurality of discernable sub-patterns and said step of analyzing said object includes the step of analyzing each of said sub-patterns to determine shape information at a corresponding area of the object. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein said step of analyzing each of said sub-patterns includes the step of determining a curvature at each corresponding area of said object. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein said step of analyzing each of said sub-patterns includes the step of determining an Euler's number at each corresponding area of said object. 5. The method of claim 3 wherein said step of analyzing each of said sub-patterns includes the step of determining an angle corresponding to the curvature at each corresponding area of said object. 6. The method of claim 2 wherein said step of analyzing each of said sub-patterns includes the step of determining a distance to each corresponding area of said object. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein said step of projecting light on said object comprises the step of projecting a plurality of light beams on said object. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein said step of projecting a plurality of light beams comprises the step of projecting a plurality of laser beams on said object. 9. The method of claim 2 and further comprising the step of storing said information in a file. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein said scanning step comprises the steps of: scanning the object through an optical slit relative to a first plane of normal perspective which intersects said object in a first direction using relative motion between the slit and the object; and scanning the object through the optical slit relative to a second plane of normal perspective which intersects said object in a second direction using relative motion between the slit and the object. 11. Apparatus for determining the shape of an object, comprising: an image receiver for scanning the object through an optical slit moving using relative motion between the slit and the object; a light source for projecting light on said object in a predetermined sequence to form a pattern on the object; a memory for recording an image of a reflection of said pattern received through said optical slit as the object is scanned; and circuitry for analyzing the geometric properties of the reflection of said pattern to determine the shape of said object. 12. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein said pattern includes a plurality of discernable sub-patterns and said circuitry for analyzing said object includes the circuitry for analyzing each of said sub-patterns to determine shape information at a corresponding area of the object. 13. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein said circuitry for analyzing each of said sub-patterns includes circuitry for determining a curvature at each corresponding area of said object. 14. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein said circuitry for analyzing each of said sub-patterns includes circuitry for determining an Euler's number at each corresponding area of said object. 15. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein said circuitry for analyzing each of said sub-patterns includes circuitry for determining an angle corresponding to the curvature at each corresponding area of said object. 16. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein said circuitry for analyzing each of said sub-patterns includes circuitry for determining a distance to each corresponding area of said object. 17. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein said circuitry for projecting light on said object comprises circuitry for projecting a plurality of light beams on said object. 18. The apparatus of claim 17 wherein said circuitry for projecting a plurality of light beams comprises circuitry for projecting a plurality of laser beams on said object. 19. The apparatus of claim 12 and further comprising circuitry for storing said information in a file. 20. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein said pattern is a grid. 21. A method of determining the shape of an object, comprising the steps of: scanning the object through an optical slit oriented in a first direction moving using relative motion in a second direction between the slit and the object; projecting a light pattern on said object during said relative motion, said light pattern forming demarcations of known dimension in said first direction on said object, said demarcations received through said optical slit; and analyzing said received demarcations to determine the shape of the object. 22. The method of claim 21 wherein said projecting step comprises the step of projecting a light pattern from a light source adjacent said optical slit. 23. The method of claim 21 wherein said projecting step comprises the step of projecting a light pattern from a light source comprising a plurality of individual light emitters oriented in a line in said first direction, wherein ones of said individual light emitters can be selectively enabled independent of other of said individual light emitters. 24. Apparatus for determining the shape of an object, comprising the steps of: a line scan camera for scanning the object through an optical slit oriented in a first direction moving using relative motion in a second direction between the slit and the object; a light source for projecting a light pattern on said object during said relative motion, said light pattern forming demarcations of known dimension in said first direction on said object, said demarcations received through said optical slit; and circuitry for analyzing said received demarcations to determine the shape of the object. 25. The apparatus of claim 24 wherein said light source is located adjacent to said line scan camera. 26. The apparatus of claim 24 wherein said light source comprises a plurality of individual light emitters oriented in a line in said first direction; and circuitry for selectively enabling ones of said light emitters independent of other of said individual light emitters. 27. The apparatus of claim 26 wherein said light emitters comprise lasers. 28. A method of determining the shape of an object, comprising the steps of: scanning the object through an optical slit moving using relative motion between the slit and the object along a path while generating a pattern on the object from multiple points along the path; recording an image of a reflection of said pattern through said optical slit; and analyzing the geometric properties of the reflection of said pattern to determine the shape of said object. 29. Apparatus for determining the shape of an object, comprising: an image receiver for scanning the object through an optical slit moving using relative motion between the slit and the object along a path while generating a pattern on the object from multiple points along the path; a memory for recording an image of a reflection of said pattern through said optical slit; and circuitry for analyzing the geometric properties of the reflection of said pattern to determine the shape of said object. 30. A method of determining the shape of an object, comprising the steps of: scanning the object through an optical slit moving using relative motion between the slit and the object along a path while generating a pattern on the object from a light source having a substantially fixed relation to the optical slit; recording an image of a reflection of said pattern through said optical slit; and analyzing the geometric properties of the reflection of said pattern to determine the shape of said object. 31. Apparatus for determining the shape of an object, comprising: an image receiver for scanning the object through an optical slit moving using relative motion between the slit and the object along a path while generating a pattern on the object from a light source having a substantially fixed relation to the optical slit; a memory for recording an image of a reflection of said pattern through said optical slit; and circuitry for analyzing the geometric properties of the reflection of said pattern to determine the shape of said object. 32. A method of determining the shape of an object, comprising the steps of: scanning the object through an optical slit moving using relative motion between the slit and the object along a path while generating a pattern of non-divergent segments on the object from a light source; recording an image of a reflection of said pattern through said optical slit; and analyzing the geometric properties of the reflection of said pattern to determine the shape of said object. 33. Apparatus for determining the shape of an object, comprising: an image receiver for scanning the object through an optical slit moving using relative motion between the slit and the object along a path while generating a pattern of non-divergent segments on the object from a light source; a memory for recording an image of a reflection of said pattern through said optical slit; and circuitry for analyzing the geometric properties of the reflection of said pattern to determine the shape of said object. 