A workpiece handling system with dual load locks, a transport chamber and a process chamber. Workpieces may be retrieved from one load lock for processing at vacuum pressure, while workpieces are unloaded from the other load lock at the pressure of the surrounding environment. The transport chamber has a transport robot with two arms. Processed workpieces and new workpieces may be exchanged by a simple under/over motion of the two robot arms. The transport robot rotates about a central shaft to align with the load locks or the process chamber. The robot may also be raised or lowered to align the arms with the desired location to which workpieces are deposited or from which workpieces are retrieved. The two load locks may be positioned one above the other such that a simple vertical motion of the robot can be used to select between the two load locks. The two load locks and transport robot allow almost continuous processing. Additional process chambers may be added to the transport chamber to further increase throughput. Each stage of the workpiece handling system may also be designed to handle multiple workpieces, such as two side by side workpieces. Throughput is increased while allowing shared machinery to be used. Linear and rotational doors may be used for the load locks to provide a simple, compact design.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus for selectively allowing workpieces to enter a chamber having a low contamination environment, the apparatus comprising: a door member comprising an outer frame portion and an inner plate portion, the outer frame portion forming a recessed cavity for receiving the inner plate portion; a connector for coupling the outer frame portion to the chamber, the connector configured to vertically guide the door member to a first position and a second position, the first position substantially covering an aperture formed in the chamber and the second position substantially exposing the aperture; and an extendable connector, coupled between the outer frame portion and the inner plate portion, configured to extend the inner plate portion when the door member is in the first position to form a seal with a peripheral portion of the aperture. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the extendable connector comprises a spring. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the extendable connector compresses the inner plate portion toward the chamber when the door member is in the first position. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the inner plate portion comprises a magnetically responsive material. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the inner plate portion is further compressed toward the aperture via a magnetic force. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the extendable connector is further configured to retract the inner plate portion within the recessed cavity of the outer frame portion when the door member is in the second position. 