A container for creating a microenvironment is disclosed. The container includes a shell, a door and a plurality of supports having a unique design which are used to securely retain items, such as silicon wafers, in a spaced apart parallel relationship. The supports are removable. An electrical path is provided to ground the supports. Kinematic coupling structures are also provided for positioning the container on a surface so as to, for example, properly align the door with the port of a wafer processing tool.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A container for creating a microenvironment which protects items stored therein from damage, said container including: (a) a shell having an opening for insertion and removal of items from said shell, said shell made of a material which inherently possess a slightly negative electrical charge; (b) a pair of supports which cooperate to retain a plurality of items stored in the container in a parallel, spaced apart position with respect to each other; (c) a door for sealing said opening of said shell to prevent contamination of the items stored in said shell; and (d) means for creating an electrical path through which such supports are grounded so that particles within the shell are drawn away from said items and supports and toward the shell of said container. 2. The container of claim 1, wherein said items stored in the container are semiconductor wafers. 3. The container of claim 1 further including a pair of handles located on opposite sides of the container's center of gravity. 4. The container of claim 3 wherein each of said handles has a groove including an alignment notch so that the handle can be securely gripped by a robot. 5. The container of claim 1 further including a kinematic coupling plate secured to the exterior of said shell by a plurality of posts, said kinematic coupling plate having three alignment grooves each of said alignment grooves having a cross section which is generally a Y-shape. 6. The container of claim 5 wherein said alignment grooves of said kinematic coupling plate are used to align the container door with the port of a tool used to process semiconductor wafers so that a seal is created around the shell's opening and the tool's port before the container's door is opened and the wafers are withdrawn from the shell, through the port, and into the tool for processing. 7. The container of claim 1 further including a kinematic coupling plate secured to the exterior of the shell, said kinematic coupling plate being made of an electrically conductive material. 8. The container of claim 7 wherein said means for creating an electrical path through which the supports are grounded includes an electrically conductive connection between each of said supports and said kinematic coupling plate. 9. The container of claim 1 wherein said door includes means on its exterior surface for coupling said door to another surface. 10. The container of claim 1 wherein each of said supports is releasably secured to the shell so that such supports can be removed for cleaning or replacement. 11. The container of claim 2 wherein said supports have a plurality of channels, each of said channels having a backside which is curved in the circumferential direction. 12. The container of claim 11 wherein the radius of curvature of the backside of said channels in the circumferential direction is generally the same as the radius of curvature in the circumferential direction of said wafers. 13. The container of claim 2 wherein each of said pair of supports include a plurality of wafer dividers, each of said wafer dividers having a continuously varying slope to help support one of said semiconductor wafers. 14. A container for creating a microenvironment which protects items stored therein from damage, said container including: (a) a shell having an opening for insertion and removal of items from said shell; (b) a pair of supports which cooperate to retain a plurality of items stored in the container in a parallel, spaced apart position with respect to each other, each of said supports having a plurality of channels, each of said channels having a backside, at least a portion of which is curved in the circumferential direction; (c) a door for sealing said opening of said shell to prevent contamination of the items stored in said shell; and (d) means for kinematically coupling said container to another surface. 15. The container of claim 14 wherein the curved portion of the backside of each channel has a radius of curvature in the circumferential direction which is generally the same as the radius of curvature in the circumferential direction of the items to be stored. 16. The container of claim 14 wherein said supports are releasably secured to said shell. 17. The container of claim 14 further including means for providing an electrical path through which said supports are electrically grounded so that particles within the shell are drawn away from said items and supports and toward the shell of said container. 18. The container of claim 14 wherein said means for kinematically coupling said container to said surface includes at least three grooves on said container which each mate with separate projections on said surface. 19. The container of claim 14 wherein said means for kinematically coupling said container to said surface includes at least three projections on said container with each mating with separate grooves on the surface. 20. The container of claim 14 wherein said door has a cushion on its interior surface which assists said pair of supports to reduce movement and vibration of items stored in the container during transport. 21. The container of claim 14 wherein each of said pair of supports have a plurality of dividers, each divider shaped to have a continuously varying slope to help support a wafer..Iadd. 22. A container for creating a microenvironment which protects items being stored therein from damage, said container comprising: a shell including a shell opening, the shell comprising an inherently negatively charged material; a pair of grounded supports cooperating to retain a plurality of items stored in the container, said supports in a generally parallel, spaced apart position with respect to each other; and a door configured for sealing said shell opening..Iaddend..Iadd. 23. The container of claim 22, further comprising a kinematic coupling plate and a plurality of screws, said plurality of screws forming a conductive path between the supports and the kinematic coupling plate..Iaddend..Iadd. 24. The container of claim 23, the kinematic coupling plate comprising a plurality of receiving members, each of said receiving members receiving one of said plurality of screws..Iaddend..Iadd. 25. The container of claim 22, wherein each of said items stored in the container are semiconductor wafers..Iaddend..Iadd. 26. The container of claim 22, further comprising a kinematic coupling plate secured to the exterior of said shell by a plurality of posts, said kinematic coupling plate comprising three alignment grooves, each of said alignment grooves including a generally Y-shaped cross section..Iaddend..Iadd. 27. The container of claim 22, further comprising a kinematic coupling plate secured to the exterior of the shell, the kinematic coupling plate comprising an electrically conductive material..Iaddend..Iadd. 28. The container of claim 22, said door comprising means for coupling said door to another surface..Iaddend..Iadd. 29. The container of claim 28, wherein said coupling means is disposed on an exterior surface of said door..Iaddend..Iadd. 30. The container of claim 22, each of said supports releasably secured to said shell..Iaddend..Iadd. 31. The container of claim 22, each of said supports defining a plurality of channels, each of said plurality of channels having a backside curved in a circumferential direction..Iaddend..Iadd. 32. The container of claim 31, in which each of said channel backsides is characterized by a channel backside radius, each said channel backside radius generally equal to a radius of curvature of said items being stored in said container..Iaddend..Iadd. 33. The container of claim 22, each of said supports comprising a plurality of dividers, each of said plurality of dividers having a continuously varying slope..Iaddend..Iadd. 34. A method of storing a plurality of items in a container, the container comprising a shell, a pair of grounded supports, and a door, the shell with a shell opening for insertion of the items into the shell and for removal of the items from the shell, the shell comprising an inherently negatively charged material, the supports cooperating to retain the plurality of items stored in the container in a generally parallel, spaced apart position with respect to each other, the door configured for sealing the shell opening, the method comprising: placing a first of the items into the shell; and sealing the shell opening with the door..Iaddend..Iadd. 35. The method of claim 34, further comprising placing a second of the items into the shell, such that the first and second items are in a spaced apart, generally parallel relationship..Iaddend..Iadd. 36. The method of claim 34, wherein sealing the shell opening with the door comprises supporting each of the items in the shell with three areas of support..Iaddend..Iadd. 37. The method of claim 34, wherein placing said first of the items into the shell comprises contacting said first of the items and the pair of supports..Iaddend..Iadd. 38. The method of claim 37, the container further comprising an electrically conductive kinematic plate and at least one screw, said at least one screw providing an electrically conductive pathway between the support and the kinematic plate, and wherein placing said first of the items into the shell comprises grounding the first of said items..Iaddend..Iadd. 39. The method of claim 38, further comprising aligning the shell opening with a processing equipment port..Iaddend..Iadd. 40. The method of claim 39, the kinematic plate having a plurality of kinematic plate grooves and in which aligning the shell opening with the processing equipment port includes mating the kinematic plate grooves with processing equipment posts..Iaddend..Iadd. 41. A method of making a container, comprising: forming a negatively charged shell with a shell opening; disposing a pair of electricly conductive supports in the shell; forming a door configured to seal the shell opening; and grounding the supports..Iaddend..Iadd. 42. The method of claim 41, in which the supports are electrically coupled to a kinematic coupling plate..Iaddend..Iadd. 43. The method of claim 42, in which the supports are electrically coupled to the kinematic coupling plate by at least one screw..Iaddend..Iadd. 44. The method of claim 41, in which grounding the supports comprises electrically connecting the supports to a kinematic coupling plate with a screw..Iaddend..Iadd. 45. The method of claim 41, in which disposing the pair of supports in the shell includes electrically insulating the pair of supports from the shell..Iaddend. 