A guide apparatus comprising a plurality of guide linkages. Each one of the plurality of guide linkages comprises a pair of linkage members, each pair of the linkage members are rotatably connected about a guide pivot axis. The guide pivot axis of each guide linkage is arranged in a direction opposed to the direction of the guide pivot axis of the remainder of the guide linkages. In one aspect, each guide linkage is arranged between a robot platform or a cassette and a base such that extending each of the plurality of guide linkages acts to linearly displace the robot platform relative to the base while limiting tilting of the robot platform or the cassette. In another aspect a robot can extend its end effectors while limiting tilting of the end effectors.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A guide apparatus comprising a plurality of guide linkages, each one of the plurality of guide linkages comprises a pair of linkage members, each pair of the linkage members are rotatably connected about a guide pivot axis, wherein the guide pivot axis of each guide linkage is arranged in a direction opposed to the direction of the guide pivot axis of the remainder of the guide linkages. 2. The guide apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a robot device that is capable of robot motions within an instantaneous robot plane, wherein each guide pivot axis is located in an instantaneous linkage plane that extends substantially parallel to the instantaneous robot plane. 3. The guide apparatus of claim 2, wherein at least one of the plurality of guide linkages has a direction of instantaneous resistance to rotation that extends perpendicular to the instantaneous linkage plane. 4. The guide apparatus of claim 2, wherein the plurality of guide linkages comprises a first guide linkage and a second guide linkage, wherein the guide pivot axis of the first guide linkage is oriented within the instantaneous linkage plane in a direction perpendicular to the direction of the guide pivot axis of the second guide linkages. 5. A guide apparatus comprising: a plurality of guide linkages, wherein each one of the plurality of guide linkages comprises a pair of linkage members, wherein each pair of linkage members is rotatably connected about a guide pivot axis, wherein the guide pivot axis of each guide linkage is arranged in a direction opposed to the direction of the guide pivot axis of the remainder of the guide linkages, wherein the plurality of guide linkages comprises a first guide linkage, a second guide linkage, and a third guide linkage, wherein the guide pivot axis of the first guide linkage, the second guide linkage, and the third guide linkage are each spaced from each other, within the instantaneous linkage-plane, by angles of 120 degrees; and a robot device that is capable of robot motions within an instantaneous robot plane, wherein each guide pivot axis is located in an instantaneous linkage plane that extends substantially parallel to the instantaneous robot plane. 6. A guide apparatus comprising: a plurality of guide linkages, wherein each one of the plurality of guide linkages comprises a pair of linkage members, wherein each pair of linkage members is rotatably connected about a guide pivot axis, wherein the guide pivot axis of each guide linkage is arranged in a direction opposed to the direction of the guide pivot axis of the remainder of the guide linkages, wherein the plurality of guide linkages comprises a first guide linkage, a second guide linkage, a third guide linkage, and a fourth guide linkage, wherein the guide pivot axis of the first guide linkage, the second guide linkage, the third guide linkage, and the fourth guide linkage are each spaced from each other, within the instantaneous linkage plane, by angles of 90 degrees; and a robot device that is capable of robot motions within an instantaneous robot plane, wherein each guide pivot axis is located in an instantaneous linkage plane that extends substantially parallel to the instantaneous robot plane. 7. A guide apparatus comprising: a plurality of guide linkages, wherein each one of the plurality of guide linkages comprises a pair of linkage members, wherein each pair of linkage members is rotatably connected about a guide pivot axis, wherein the guide pivot axis of each guide linkage is arranged in a direction opposed to the direction of the guide pivot axis of the remainder of the guide linkages, wherein the plurality of guide linkages comprises N guide linkage, wherein the guide pivot axis of each one of the N guide linkages are each spaced from each other, within the instantaneous linkage plane, by angles of 360/N degrees; and a robot device that is capable of robot motions within an instantaneous robot plane, wherein each guide pivot axis is located in an instantaneous linkage plane that extends substantially parallel to the instantaneous robot plane. 8. A guide apparatus comprising a plurality of guide linkages, wherein each one of the plurality of guide linkages comprises a pair of linkage members, wherein each pair of linkage members is rotatably connected about a guide pivot axis, wherein the guide pivot axis of each guide linkage is arranged in a direction opposed to the direction of the guide pivot axis of the remainder of the guide linkages, wherein at least one of the plurality of guide linkages is a rotary guide linkage. 9. A guide apparatus comprising: a plurality of guide linkages, wherein each one of the plurality of guide linkages comprises a pair of linkage members, wherein each pair of linkage members is rotatably connected about a guide pivot axis, wherein the guide pivot axis of each guide linkage is arranged in a direction opposed to the direction of the guide pivot axis of the remainder of the guide linkages, wherein a robot is rotationally mounted to the robot platform having an instantaneous robot plane. 10. The guide apparatus of claim 9, wherein the robot is rotationally mounted to the robot platform in a manner to allow travel of the robot within a plane substantially parallel to the instantaneous robot plane. 11. The guide apparatus of claim 9, wherein the guide linkages permit travel of the robot platform in a direction that is substantially perpendicular to the instantaneous robot plane. 12. A robot lift comprising: a plurality of guide linkages, wherein each one of the plurality of guide linkages comprises a pair of linkage members, wherein each pair of linkage members is rotatably connected about a guide pivot axis, wherein the guide pivot axis of each guide linkage is arranged in a direction opposed to the direction of the guide pivot axis of the remainder of the guide linkages. 13. A cassette lift comprising: a plurality of guide linkages, wherein each one of the plurality of guide linkages comprises a pair of linkage members, wherein each pair of linkage members is rotatably connected about a guide pivot axis, wherein the guide pivot axis of each guide linkage is arranged in a direction opposed to the direction of the guide pivot axis of the remainder of the guide linkages. 14. A robot extension device comprising: a plurality of guide linkages, wherein each one of the plurality of guide linkages comprises a pair of linkage members, wherein each pair of linkage members is rotatably connected about a guide pivot axis, wherein the guide pivot axis of each guide linkage is arranged in a direction opposed to the direction of the guide pivot axis of the remainder of the guide linkages. 15. A guide apparatus comprising: a robot platform having an instantaneous robot plane; and a plurality of guide linkages, each one of the plurality of guide linkages comprises a pair of linkage members, each pair of the linkage members are rotatably connected about a guide pivot axis, each guide pivot axis is located in an instantaneous linkage plane that extends substantially parallel to the instantaneous robot plane, wherein the guide pivot axis of each guide linkage is arranged in a direction opposed to the direction of the guide pivot axis of the remainder of the guide linkages. 16. The guide apparatus of claim 15, wherein at least one of the plurality of guide linkages has a direction of instantaneous resistance to rotation that extends perpendicular to the instantaneous linkage plane. 17. The guide apparatus of claim 15, wherein the plurality of guide linkages comprises a first guide linkage and a second guide linkage, wherein the guide pivot axis of the first guide linkage is oriented within the instantaneous linkage plane in a direction perpendicular to the direction of the guide pivot axis of the second guide linkages. 18. The guide apparatus of claim 15, wherein the plurality of guide linkages comprises a first guide linkage, a second guide linkage, and a third guide linkage, wherein the guide pivot axis of the first guide linkage, the second guide linkage, and the third guide linkage are each spaced from each other, within the instantaneous linkage plane, by angles of 120 degrees. 19. The guide apparatus of claim 15, wherein the plurality of guide linkages comprises a first guide linkage, a second guide linkage, a third guide linkage, and a fourth guide linkage, wherein the guide pivot axis of the first guide linkage, the second guide linkage, the third guide linkage, and the fourth guide linkage are each spaced from each other, within the instantaneous linkage plane, by angles of 90 degrees. 20. The guide apparatus of claim 15, wherein the plurality of guide linkages comprises N guide linkage, wherein the guide pivot axis of each one of the N guide linkages are each spaced from each other, within the instantaneous linkage plane, by angles of 360/N degrees. 21. The guide apparatus of claim 15, wherein at least one of the plurality of guide linkages is a rotary guide linkage. 22. The guide apparatus of claim 15, wherein a robot is rotationally mounted to the robot platform. 23. The guide apparatus of claim 22, wherein the robot is rotationally mounted to the robot platform in a manner to allow travel of the robot within a plane parallel to the instantaneous robot plane. 24. The guide apparatus of claim 15, wherein the guide linkages permit travel of the robot platform in a direction that is substantially perpendicular to the instantaneous robot plane. 25. A method of assembling a plurality of guide linkages, each of the guide linkages comprising a pair of linkage members rotatably connected about a guide pivot axis, the method comprising: mounting each guide pivot axis of each guide linkage in a direction that is opposed to the direction of the guide pivot axis of the remainder of the guide linkages. 26. The method of claim 25, wherein each of the guide linkages is secured between a robot platform and a base. 27. The method of claim 26, further comprising extending each of the plurality of guide linkages acts to raise the robot platform relative to the base while maintaining the robot platform in a level orientation. 28. The method of claim 26, further comprising retracting each of the plurality of guide linkages acts to lower the robot platform relative to the base while maintaining the robot platform in a level orientation. 29. The method of claim 25, further comprising positioning the assembled guide linkages in a robot lift. 30. The method of claim 25, further comprising positioning the assembled guide linkages in a cassette lift. 31. The method of claim 25, further comprising positioning the assembled guide linkages in a robot extension device. 