A diffuser comprises a conduit having a cross-sectional area that increases in a direction fluid flow. In one embodiment, the diffuser is used to reduce the incidence and severity of flow fluctuations that occur in an electrostatic deposition apparatus. In some embodiments, the diffuser includes one or more flow control features. A first flow-control feature comprises one or more appropriately-shaped annular slits through which fluid having a greater momentum than a primary fluid moving through the diffuser is injected into the "boundary layer" near the wall of the diffuser. A second flow control feature comprises one or more annular slits or, alternatively, slots or holes that are disposed at appropriate locations around the circumference of the diffuser through which a portion of fluid flowing in the boundary layer is removed. Boundary-layer flow removal is effected, in one embodiment, by creating a pressure differential across such annular slit or slots. Among other benefits, such flow control features reduce any tendencies for flow separation of the primary fluid in the diffuser.
Claims I claim: 1. An article comprising: a conduit that receives a flow of a first fluid, wherein said conduit has a cross-sectional area that is always increasing in a direction of said flow; a boundary-layer gas injector that injects a second fluid into a boundary layer flow of said first fluid within said conduit; and a boundary-layer gas aspirator that removes some of said boundary layer flow from said conduit. 2. The article of claim 1 wherein said boundary-layer gas injector comprises at least a first annular slit in a wall of said conduit through which said second fluid is injected into said boundary layer flow. 3. The article of claim 2 further comprising an annular channel that is in fluid communication with said annular slit, wherein said second fluid is injected into said annular channel. 4. The article of claim 3 further comprising at least two nozzles that inject said second fluid into said annular channel. 5. The article of claim 4 further comprising flow control means for independently controlling flow of said second fluid through said two nozzles. 6. The article of claim 1 wherein said boundary-layer gas aspirator comprises: at least a first annular slit in a wall of said diffuser; and a pressure-differential generating means that creates a pressure differential across said first annular slit. 7. The article of claim 6 wherein said pressure-differential generating means comprises: a pressure-tight enclosure that isolates said first annular slit from an ambient environment; and a suction-flow-generating means that is in fluid communication with said pressure-tight enclosure. 8. The article of claim 1 wherein a cone angle of said conduit is in a range of about 15 to about 30 degrees. 9. The article of claim 1 wherein said conduit comprises: a first section having an inlet and an outlet and characterized by a constant cone angle; and a second section having an inlet that is adjacent to said outlet of said first section, wherein said second section extends to an outlet of said conduit, and wherein said second section is characterized by a variable cone angle that increases from a minimum at said inlet of said second section to a maximum at said outlet of said conduit. 10. The article of claim 9 wherein: said constant cone angle is in a range of about 10 to about 17 degrees; said variable cone angle is in a range of about 10 to about 17 degrees at said inlet of said second section; and said variable cone angle is in a range of about 25 to about 30 degrees at said outlet of the conduit. 11. The article of claim 1 further comprising a flow straightener that delivers said first fluid to an inlet of said conduit, wherein said flow straightener flattens a velocity profile of said first fluid. 12. The article of claim 11 wherein said flow straightener comprises a plurality of tubes. 13. The article of claim 12 wherein said tubes have a length-to-diameter ratio in a range of about 10:1 to about 60:1. 14. The article of claim 12 wherein some of said tubes have a different diameter than other of said tubes. 15. The article of claim 14 wherein a tube aligned with a central longitudinal axis of said straightener has a smaller diameter than a tube located off of said central longitudinal axis. 16. The article of claim 1 wherein a rate of increase of said cross-sectional area of said conduit does not decrease. 17. The article of claim 1 further comprising means for adjusting a rate of injection of said second fluid, wherein the adjustment of said rate is based on a signal that is indicative of a distribution of flow of said first fluid. 18. An article for decreasing the velocity of a particle-laden gas stream, the article comprising: a conduit for receiving a particle-laden gas stream, wherein said conduit has a cross-sectional area that is always increasing in a direction of said flow of said gas stream; means for directing said particle-laden gas stream toward a longitudinal axis of said conduit; and means for flattening a velocity profile of said particle-laden gas stream. 19. The article of claim 18 wherein a rate of increase of said cross-sectional area of said conduit does not decrease. 20. The article of claim 18 wherein said means for directing comprises: at least a first annular slit in a wall of said conduit through which a fluid is injected into a boundary layer flow of said particle-laden gas stream; an annular channel that is in fluid communication with said annular slit, wherein said fluid is injected into said annular channel; and at least two nozzles, wherein said nozzles inject said fluid into said annular channel and further wherein said nozzles are independently controllable. 