The present invention comprises a conveyor assembly for carrying an item that has been painted by over-spray or dipping to a cleaning chamber where a cleaning means, typically a high pressure water cleaning device, is used to remove paint layers from an inadvertently painted item. The cleaning chamber further comprises a pool having an elongated drainage element such that water may be drained off from the top of the surface of the pool while the paint layers are deposited into the pool. The paint layers may subsequently be removed from the pool and disposed of properly. The invention further comprises a method of using the cleaning chamber, high pressure water cleaning device, pool and drainage device to clean items used to hold items to be painted.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A cleaning system, comprising: a conveyor; a cleaning chamber about a portion of said conveyor; a cleaning device within said cleaning chamber, said cleaning device operable to convey fluid towards an item to be cleaned; and a fluid-tight receptacle, beneath said conveyor and within said cleaning chamber, said receptacle having an elevated drainage member, such that fluid conveyed onto an item to be cleaned and substance removed from items to be cleaned, can drop into said receptacle, said fluid subsequently pouring into said elevated drainage member while substance removed from items to be cleaned remains in said receptacle. 2. The cleaning system of claim 1, wherein said cleaning fluid is water. 3. The cleaning system of claim 1, wherein said cleaning device comprises a robotic device which further comprises means to propel water at high speeds towards an item to be cleaned. 4. The cleaning system of claim 1, wherein said cleaning device can spray water under high pressure towards an item to be cleaned. 5. The cleaning system of claim 1, wherein said fluid-tight receptacle is a pool. 6. The cleaning system of claim 1, wherein said conveyor comprises an overhead path having at least one bracket for holding an item to be cleaned and conveying said item to said cleaning chamber. 7. The cleaning system of claim 6, wherein said bracket comprises hanging means for holding said item to be cleaned below said overhead path. 8. The cleaning system of claim 1, wherein said fluid-tight receptacle comprises a floor and walls sealedly attached to said floor so as to form a water-tight container. 9. The cleaning system of claim 8, wherein said elevated drainage member comprises a solid tube, having a first end sealedly connected to the floor of said fluid-tight receptacle and a second end, disposed above the floor of said fluid-tight receptacle, having a segment comprising drain openings. 10. The cleaning system of claim 1, wherein said cleaning system comprises a program which causes said conveyor to convey said item to be cleaned to said cleaning chamber, operates said cleaning device to clean said item to be cleaned, and conveys said item to be cleaned from said cleaning chamber. 11. A high pressure device, for removing paint from items, comprising: a conveyor system; a hanging bracket attached to said conveyor system; a cleaning chamber about a portion of said conveyor system; a directional high water pressure cleaner within said cleaning chamber; and, a pool, beneath said conveyor system, within said cleaning chamber, said pool having an elevated drainage member such that water sprayed, onto an item to be cleaned, and paint removed from items to be cleaned, drops into said pool, said water subsequently pouring into said drainage member while said paint falls to the bottom of said pool. 