A method of polishing and cleaning a glass surface with a single abrasive article. The abrasive article includes ceria abrasive particles dispersed in binder, the abrasive article having a textured, three-dimensional abrasive coating. The method includes contacting the glass surface with the abrasive article at a desired pressure and in the presence of water, and moving the abrasive article and glass in relation to each other under pressure. The water is believed to mediate a chemical reaction involving the ceria and the glass, thereby leaving a haze on the glass surface. With continued motion of the abrasive article in relation to the glass workpiece, without the addition of additional water, the haze is removed.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of cleaning a glass surface to provide optical clarity thereto, the method comprising: (a) contacting the glass surface with a textured surface of an abrasive article, the textured surface comprising a plurality of ceria abrasive particles dispersed in a binder and having recesses therein; (b) moving the abrasive article in relation to the glass surface in the presence of a liquid; (c) allowing the liquid to evaporate to form a haze consisting essentially of silica particles dispersed over the glass surface; and (d) moving the abrasive article in relation to the glass surface in the absence of the liquid to thereby remove the haze from the glass surface and retain the silica particles in the recesses of the textured surface. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the step of contacting the glass surface with the textured surface of an abrasive article comprises contacting the glass surface with a textured surface comprising a plurality of abrasive composites. 3. The method according to claim 2 wherein the abrasive composites are precisely shaped. 4. The method according to claim 2 wherein the abrasive composites are irregularly shaped. 5. The method according to claim 1, wherein the step of moving the abrasive article in relation to the glass surface in the presence of a liquid comprises exposing at least one ceria abrasive particle at the glass surface and moving the abrasive article in relation to the glass surface in the presence of a liquid. 6. The method according to claim 1 wherein the liquid comprises water. 7. The method according to claim 1 wherein the liquid is applied to the glass surface prior to contacting the glass surface with a textured surface of an abrasive article. 8. The method according to claim 7 wherein the liquid is sprayed onto the glass surface. 9. The method according to claim 1 wherein the abrasive article further comprises a compressible backing. 10. A method of cleaning a glass surface, the method comprising: (a) contacting the glass surface with a textured surface of an abrasive article, the textured surface comprising a plurality of ceria abrasive particles dispersed in a binder such that a plurality of ceria surfaces are exposed; (b) moving the abrasive article in relation to the glass surface in the presence of a liquid; (c) allowing the liquid to substantially evaporate to form a haze dispersed over the glass surface, the haze consisting essentially of silica particles; (d) continuing to move the abrasive article relative to and in contact with the glass surface; and (e) moving the abrasive article in relation to the glass surface in the absence of a liquid to remove the haze and provide an optically clear glass surface. 11. The method according to claim 10, wherein the step of contacting the glass surface with a textured surface of an abrasive article comprises contacting the glass surface with a textured surface comprising a plurality of abrasive composites. 12. The method according to claim 11 wherein the abrasive composites are precisely shaped. 13. The method according to claim 11 wherein the abrasive composites are irregularly shaped. 14. The method according to claim 10, wherein the liquid comprises water. 15. The method according to claim 10 wherein the liquid is applied to the glass surface prior to contacting the glass surface with a textured surface of the abrasive article. 16. The method according to claim 15 wherein the liquid is sprayed onto the glass surface. 17. The method according to claim 10 wherein the abrasive article further comprises a compressible backing. 18. A method of cleaning a glass surface, comprising: (a) contacting a ground glass surface with a textured surface of an abrasive article, the textured surface comprising a plurality of abrasive composites and recesses between the abrasive composites; (b) forming a haze on the glass surface by moving the abrasive composites in relation to the glass surface in the presence of a liquid, the haze consisting essentially of silicon oxide; and (c) removing the silicon oxide from the glass surface by moving the abrasive composites in relation to the glass surface in the absence of a liquid and retaining the silicon oxide within the recesses of the textured surface. 19. The method according to claim 18 wherein the abrasive composites are precisely shaped. 20. The method according to claim 18 wherein the abrasive composites are irregularly shaped. 21. The method according to claim 18, wherein the liquid comprises water. 22. The method according to claim 18 wherein the liquid is applied to the glass surface prior to contacting the glass surface with a textured surface of an abrasive article. 23. The method according to claim 22 wherein the liquid is sprayed onto the glass surface. 24. The method according to claim 18 wherein the abrasive article further comprises a compressible backing. 