A device for detecting chemiluminescence from a sample. The device may include a stage for supporting a sample and one or more of the following elements: (1) an optics head, (2) an optical relay structure for transmitting chemiluminescence from the sample to a detector, (3) a drive mechanism, (4) a sensor for detecting proximity of the optical relay structure to the sample, (5) a mask structure for selecting an effective diameter of the optical relay structure, and (6) a baffle for blocking extraneous light from entering the optical relay structure.
Claims We claim: 1. A device for detecting chemiluminescence from a sample, the device comprising: a stage for supporting a sample in a well at an examination site; an optical relay structure having an end directed toward the examination site for transmitting chemiluminescence from the sample to a detector; and a mask structure having plural apertures of different dimensions, moveably mounted relative to the end of the optical relay structure, so that an effective diameter for the optical relay structure can be selected to complement a particular dimension of the well. 2. The device of claim 1, wherein the well has a diameter, the mask structure having an aperture with a diameter approximately equal to the diameter of the well. 3. The device of claim 1, wherein at least some of the apertures are configured to correspond to wells in microplates having one or more of the following well formats: 96, 384, 1536, 3456, and 9600. 4. The device of claim 1, wherein the optical relay structure includes at least one fiber optic cable. 5. The device of claim 1, wherein the detector is a photomultiplier tube, a photodiode, or a charge-coupled device. 6. The device of claim 1, the stage being configured to support the sample at the examination site in one of a plurality of microplate wells, the wells having top edges defining an upper plane, wherein the end of the optical relay structure is spaced a distance G from the upper plane, G being just high enough so that another well can be moved smoothly into alignment with the end of the optical relay structure without altering G. 7. The device of claim 1 further comprising a drive mechanism that adjusts the distance between the end of the optical relay structure and the examination site. 8. The device of claim 1 further comprising a sensor that detects proximity of the end of the optical relay structure relative to the well. 9. The device of claim 1 further comprising a second optical relay structure having an end directed toward the examination site for transmitting luminescence from the examination site to a second detector. 10. The device of claim 1 further comprising a baffle surrounding the end of the optical relay structure that blocks extraneous light from outside the well from entering the optical relay structure. 11. A device for detecting chemiluminescence from a sample, the device comprising: a stage for supporting a sample in a well at an examination site; an optical relay structure having an end directed toward the examination site for transmitting chemiluminescence from the sample to a detector; and a mask structure having an aperture operatively positioned between the examination site and the end of the optical relay structure, the mask structure being configured to permit selection of different aperture sizes, so that an effective diameter for the optical relay structure can be selected to complement a particular dimension of the well. 12. The device of claim 11, the mask structure having plural apertures of different dimensions, the mask structure being moveably mounted relative to the end of the optical relay structure, so that the effective diameter of the optical relay structure can be selected by moving the mask structure relative to the end of the optical relay structure. 13. The device of claim 11, the mask structure having a variable-dimension aperture, so that the effective diameter of the optical relay structure can be selected by varying the size of the variable-dimension aperture. 14. The device of claim 11 further comprising a baffle surrounding the end of the optical relay structure that blocks extraneous light from outside the well from entering the optical relay structure. 15. A device for detecting chemiluminescence from a sample, the device comprising: a stage for supporting a sample in a well at an examination site; an optical relay structure having an end directed toward the examination site for transmitting chemiluminescence from the sample to a detector; and a baffle surrounding the end of the optical relay structure that blocks extraneous light from outside the well from entering the optical relay structure, wherein the baffle has a substantially black surface with rugosities, generally facing the stage, and configured to absorb light. 16. The device of claim 15, wherein the optical relay structure includes a fiber optic cable having a diameter, the baffle having a diameter at least about twice the diameter of the fiber optic cable. 17. The device of claim 15, wherein the baffle further functions as a mask structure having plural apertures of different dimensions, movably mounted relative to the end of the optical relay structure, so that an effective diameter for the optical relay structure can be selected to complement a particular dimension of the well. 18. The device of claim 15, wherein the optical relay structure includes at least one fiber optic cable. 19. The device of claim 15, wherein the detector is a photomultiplier tube, a photodiode, or a charge-coupled device. 20. The device of claim 15, wherein at least a portion of the substantially black surface is covered by an anti-reflective coating. 21. The device of claim 15, the stage being configured to support the sample at the examination site in one of a plurality of microplate wells, the wells having top edges defining an upper plane, wherein the end of the optical relay structure is spaced a distance G from the upper plane, G being just high enough so that another well can be moved smoothly into alignment with the end of the optical relay structure without altering G. 22. The device of claim 15 further comprising a drive mechanism that adjusts the distance between the end of the optical relay structure and the examination site. 23. The device of claim 15 further comprising a sensor that detects proximity of the end of the optical relay structure relative to the well. 24. The device of claim 15 further comprising a second optical relay structure having an end directed toward the examination site for transmitting luminescence from the examination site to a second detector. 25. The device of claim 15, wherein the baffle further functions as a mask structure having a variable-dimension aperture operatively positioned adjacent the end of the optical relay structure, so that an effective diameter for the optical relay structure can be selected to complement a particular dimension of the well. 26. A method for detecting chemiluminescence from a sample, the method comprising: choosing a well for holding the sample; directing an end of an optical relay structure toward the well for transmitting chemiluminescence from the sample to a detector; positioning a mask structure having at least one aperture operatively between the well and the end of the optical relay structure, so that chemiluminescence from the sample may be transmitted through the aperture toward the end, the mask structure being configured to permit selection of different aperture sizes; selecting an aperture size to create an effective diameter for the optical relay structure to complement a particular dimension of the well and detecting chemiluminescence emitted from the sample. 27. The method of claim 26, the mask structure having plural apertures of different dimensions, the mask structure being moveably mounted relative to the end of the optical relay structure, wherein the step of selecting an aperture size includes the step of moving the mask structure relative to the end of the optical relay structure. 28. The method of claim 26, the mask structure having a variable-dimension aperture, wherein the step of selecting an aperture size includes the step of varying the size of the aperture. 29. The method of claim 26 further comprising the step of positioning a baffle around the end of the optical relay structure to block extraneous light from outside the well from entering the optical relay structure. 