The present invention provides a method for measuring diacylglycerol acetyltransferase (DGAT) activity which utilizes a novel solvent system to reduce and/or eliminate the activities of related compounds. The present invention also discloses a method for determining whether a compound is useful for modulating DGAT biological activity. The method is capable of being utilized for mass screening of compounds as modulators of the biological activity of DGAT.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for measuring diacylglycerol acetyltransferase (DGAT) activity, said method comprising the steps of: (a) providing at least one DGAT substrate; (b) combining microsomes having DGAT associated therewith with the DGAT substrate to form a reaction mixture; (c) incubating the mixture of the microsomes and the DGAT substrate for a predetermined time interval; (d) terminating the reaction of DGAT with the DGAT substrate; and (e) detecting triglyceride production as an indicator of DGAT biological activity. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the DGAT substrate comprises oleoyl CoA, 1,2-dioleoyl-sn-glycerol, and radioisotopes thereof. 3. The method according to claim 1, wherein the at least one DGAT substrate is dissolved in acetone:chloroform solvent. 4. The method according to claim 3, wherein the ratio of acetone to chloroform is 8:2. 5. The method according to claim 3, wherein the concentration of acetone ranges from approximately 1.0% to approximately 5.0%, by volume. 6. The method according to claim 3, wherein the concentration of chloroform ranges from approximately 0.1% to approximately 0.8%, by volume. 7. The method according to claim 1, wherein the DGAT substrates are dissolved in ethanol:chloroform solvent. 8. The method according to claim 7, wherein the ratio of ethanol to chloroform is 1:1. 9. The method according to claim 7, wherein the concentration of ethanol ranges from approximately 0.2% to approximately 2.0%, by volume. 10. The method according to claim 7, wherein the concentration of chloroform ranges from approximately 0.1% to approximately 0.6%, by volume. 11. The method according to claim 1, wherein the DGAT substrates are dissolved in ethanol. 12. The method according to claim 11, wherein the concentration of ethanol ranges from approximately 0.5% to approximately 4.0%, by volume. 13. The method according to claim 1, wherein the DGAT substrates are dissolved in acetone. 14. The method according to claim 13, wherein the concentration of acetone ranges from approximately 2.5% to approximately 10.0%, by volume. 15. The method according to claim 1, wherein the DGAT substrates are dissolved in chloroform. 16. The method according to claim 15, wherein the concentration of chloroform ranges from approximately 0.2% to approximately 0.4%, by volume. 17. The method according to claim 1, wherein said terminating step comprises adding a reaction termination agent to the mixture. 18. The method according to claim 17, wherein the termination agent comprises a mixture of ethanol, water, NaOH, and a solution comprising isopropanol, n-heptane, and water. 19. A method according to claim 18, wherein the solution comprises approximately 12.5% of absolute ethanol, approximately 10% deionized water, approximately 2.5% of 1N NaOH, and 75% of a stop solution comprising approximately 78.4% isopropanol, approximately 19.6% n-heptane, and approximately 2.0% deionized water. 20. A method according to claim 1, further including the step of (h) extracting the terminated reaction mixture with n-heptane. 21. A method according to claim 20, wherein said detecting step comprises performing thin layer chromatography on a sample of the extracted reaction mixture. 22. A method according to claim 20, wherein said detecting step further comprises the step of scintigraphically analyzing a sample of the reaction mixture. 23. A method according to claim 1, wherein the biological activity is triglyceride formation. 24. A method for determining whether a compound is useful for modulating diacylglycerol acyltransferase (DGAT) biological activity, said method comprising the steps of: (a) providing DGAT substrates; (b) providing microsomes having DGAT associated therewith; (c) contacting a compound to be analyzed for its ability to modulate DGAT biological activity with the substituents set forth in (a) and (b) to form a reaction mixture; (d) incubating the reaction mixture for a predetermined time interval; (e) terminating any reaction of DGAT with the at least one DGAT substrate in the reaction mixture; and (f) measuring DGAT biological activity, wherein a change in DGAT biological activity, relative to a control not contacted with the compound, indicates that the compound modulates DGAT biological activity. 25. The method according to claim 24, wherein the DGAT substrate comprises oleoyl CoA, 1,2-dioleoyl-sn-glycerol, and radioisotopes thereof. 26. The method according to claim 24, wherein the at least one DGAT substrate is dissolved in acetone:chloroform solvent. 27. The method according to claim 26, wherein the ratio of acetone to chloroform is 8:2. 28. The method according to claim 26, wherein the concentration of acetone ranges from approximately 1.0% to approximately 5.0%, by volume. 29. The method according to claim 26, wherein the concentration of chloroform ranges from approximately 0.1% to approximately 0.8%, by volume. 30. The method according to claim 24, wherein the DGAT substrates are dissolved in ethanol:chloroform solvent. 31. The method according to claim 30, wherein the ratio of ethanol to chloroform is 1:1. 32. The method according to claim 30, wherein the concentration of ethanol ranges from approximately 0.2% to approximately 2.0%, by volume. 33. The method according to claim 30, wherein the concentration of chloroform ranges from approximately 0.1% to approximately 0.6%, by volume. 34. The method according to claim 24, wherein the DGAT substrates are dissolved in ethanol. 35. A method according to claim 34, wherein the concentration of ethanol ranges from approximately 0.5% to approximately 4.0%, by volume. 36. A method according to claim 24, wherein the DGAT substrates are dissolved in acetone. 37. A method according to claim 36, wherein the concentration of acetone ranges from approximately 2.5% to approximately 10.0%, by volume. 38. A method according to claim 24, wherein the DGAT substrates are dissolved in chloroform. 39. A method according to claim 38, wherein the concentration of chloroform ranges from approximately 0.2% to approximately 0.4%, by volume. 40. A method according to claim 24, wherein said terminating step comprises adding a reaction termination agent to the mixture. 41. A method according to claim 40, wherein the termination agent comprises a mixture of ethanol, water, NaOH, and a solution comprising isopropanol, n-heptane, and water. 42. A method according to claim 41, wherein the solution comprises approximately 12.5% of absolute ethanol, approximately 10% deionized water, approximately 2.5% of 1N NaOH, and 75% of a stop solution comprising approximately 78.4% isopropanol, approximately 19.6% n-heptane, and approximately 2.0% deionized water. 43. A method according to claim 41, further including the step of (h) extracting the terminated reaction mixture with n-heptane. 44. A method according to claim 24, wherein said detecting step comprises performing thin layer chromatography on a sample of the extracted reaction mixture. 45. A method according to claim 24, wherein said detecting step further comprises the step of scintigraphically analyzing a sample of the reaction mixture. 46. A method according to claim 23, wherein the compound to be analyzed for its ability to modulate DGAT biological activity is dissolved in dimethyl sulfoxide. 47. A method according to claim 23, wherein steps (a) to (h) are performed by automated devices. 48. A method according to claim 23, wherein the biological activity is triglyceride formation. 