A robot drive assembly for moving a working tool in x, y, z and theta directions comprising three independent, coaxially nested tubes, each tube being driven around a common central axis by drive belts attached to separate drive motors located in a mounting flange associated with the outermost tube. The motors, and the tubes which they drive, provide horizontal rotary motion to a robot arm attached to the upper end of the outer tube and the wrist and elbow of that arm. A fourth motor controls vertical motion of the whole assembly. The robot system also includes motor position adjustment structure and belt tension structure designed for ease of use and to eliminate movement of tensioned components once locked in position.
Claims I claim: 1. A robot system for moving a working tool in x, y, z and theta directions, the movement in any of said directions being independent of movement in any of the other directions, comprising: a jointed, horizontally oriented, moveable arm having forearm and aftarm portions rotationally joined at an elbow joint located there between, said elbow joint providing rotation movement in a horizontal plane, the moveable arm attached to a vertically oriented rotatable first cylinder, rotation of the first cylinder around a central axis being driven by a first drive belt attached to a first drive motor, rotation of said first cylinder causing the moveable arm to rotate in a horizontal plane around said central axis, a vertically oriented rotatable second cylinder coaxially positioned within the first cylinder but rotationally isolated from said first cylinder, rotation of the second cylinder around the central axis being driven by a second drive belt attached to a second drive motor, rotation of said second cylinder causing a wrist joint at the distal end of the forearm, and a tool mounted thereto, to move rotationally in a horizontal plane, a vertically oriented rotatable third cylinder coaxially positioned within the first and second cylinder but rotationally isolated from said second cylinder, rotation of the third cylinder around the central axis being driven by a third drive belt attached to a third drive motor, rotation of said third cylinder causing the forearm to rotate about the elbow joint in a horizontal plane, a motor mounting frame attached to the first cylinder at the first cylinders lower end, in a plane perpendicular to the central axis, with the first cylinder being free to rotate within said motor mounting frame, the first, second and third drive motor being secured in the motor mounting frame, the motor mounting frame being moveably attached to vertically oriented rails such that the motor frame, the first cylinder, along with the second and third cylinders coaxially located therein, and motors attached thereto can ride vertically along said rails, a fourth drive motor attached to said motor mounting frame and operatively attached to the rails by a fourth drive belt so that operation of the fourth motor causes the motor frame, and the first cylinder, along with the second and third cylinders coaxially located therein, and the motors attached thereto to move in a vertical direction. 2. The robot system of claim 1 wherein a first forearm pulley is mounted to the top end of the third cylinder and drive means connects said first forearm pulley to a second forearm pulley within the elbow joint such that rotation of said third cylinder causes a rotation of the elbow joint, a first wrist pulley is mounted to the top end of the second cylinder and drive means connects said first wrist pulley to a second wrist pulley within the elbow joint, a third wrist pulley within the elbow joint is operatively connected to the second wrist pulley, and drive means connects said the third wrist pulley to a fourth wrist pulley located in the distal end of the arm such that rotation of said second cylinder causes a rotation of the wrist joint. 3. The robot system of claim 2 wherein the drive means are three belts forming three continuous 360.degree. loops, the first belt connecting the first elbow pulley and the second elbow pulley, the second belt connecting the first wrist pulley and the second wrist pulley and the third belt connecting the third wrist pulley and the fourth wrist pulley. 4. The robot system of claim 3 further including a first belt tensioner mounted between the first forearm pulley and the second forearm pulley and inside of the first loop, a second belt tensioner mounted between the first wrist pulley and the second wrist pulley and inside of the second loop and a third belt tensioner mounted between the third wrist pulley and the fourth wrist pulley and inside of the third loop each tensioner rotatable on a pivot so as to press the belt it is associated with outward at two points spaced apart on the loop. 5. The robot system of claim 4 wherein the two spaced points on each of the loops are about 180.degree. apart. 6. The robot system of claim 1 wherein the first, second and third drive motors are each mounted in a separate drive motor assembly, each drive motor assembly having a central axis, the motor having a drive shaft extending therefrom with the axis of the drive shaft being parallel to, but spaced from, the axis of the drive motor assembly, each drive motor assembly mounted in a cutout in the motor mounting frame with the axis of each motor shaft parallel to the central axis of the first cylinder such that rotation of each drive motor assembly in the cutout in the motor mounting frame in which it is mounted increases or decreases the distance between the axis of the motor shaft and the central axis of the first cylinder. 7. The robot system of claim 1 wherein a pulley mounted on each motor shaft has a tab extending therefrom and a pulley mounted on the bottom of each cylinder has a tab extending therefrom, each said motor shaft mounted pulley and cylinder mounted pulley constituting a pulley pair with a belt encircling each pulley pair, the diameter of the motor shaft mounted pulley and cylinder mounted pulley each having a different diameter such that the cylinder mounted pulley rotates more than 360.degree. for each 360.degree. rotation of the motor shaft mounted pulley, the tab on the motor shaft contacting the tab on the cylinder to provide a dead stop on each of the extremes of the more than 360.degree. rotation of the cylinder. 8. The robot system of claim 1 wherein the first, second and third drive motors are each mounted in a separate drive motor assembly, each drive motor assembly having a central axis, the motor having a drive shaft extending there from with the axis of the drive shaft being parallel to, but spaced from, the axis of the drive motor assembly and the central axis of the first cylinder, each drive motor assembly mounted in a cutout in the motor mounting frame and held in place by a separate retractable cleat which reversibly locks the drive motor assembly to the motor mounting frame with the axis of each motor shaft parallel to the central axis of the first cylinder such that retraction of the cleat holding a particular drive motor assembly allows rotation of such drive motor assembly in the cutout in the motor mounting frame in which it is mounted to increase or decrease the distance between the axis of the motor shaft and the central axis of the first cylinder, such rotation being accomplished without changing the parallel relationship between the axis of the drive shaft and the central axis of the first cylinder, and subsequent tightening of the cleat locks the motor assembly in its new position. 