A wafer transfer chamber, such as a load-lock chamber used in a cluster processing tool for semiconductor devices that has reduced particle contamination problem is provided. In the wafer transfer chamber, a particle filter is provided to shield or isolate a wafer cassette during a chamber pumping and venting process such that not only particle contamination on the wafers situated in the wafer cassette can be drastically reduced, but also the cycle time or time for pumping and venting the load-lock chamber can be significantly reduced since turbulent flow in the chamber interior can be tolerated when the wafers are isolated from such flow which carries contaminating particles.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A wafer transfer chamber having reduced particle contamination problem comprising: a chamber enclosure having a top wall, a bottom wall and four sidewalls forming vacuum tight cavity therein; a pumping means for evacuating said cavity to a pressure smaller than atmospheric pressure; a venting means for venting said cavity to atmospheric pressure; an elevator means having a platform for holding a wafer cassette thereon and for moving upwardly or downwardly into a pumping/venting or unloading position; and a particle filter means having a top panel and four side panels fabricated of a material for filtering out particles, said top panel being stationarily fastened to an interior surface of said top wall of the chamber enclosure while said four side panels forms an enclosure sealingly engaging a top surface of said platform when said platform being raised to an uppermost position by said elevator mean during either a pumping or a venting operation. 2. A wafer transfer chamber having reduced particle contamination problem according to claim 1, wherein said wafer transfer chamber is a load-lock chamber for a semiconductor processing tool. 3. A wafer transfer chamber having reduced particle contamination problem according to claim 1 further comprising a pumping means for evacuating said cavity to a pressure smaller than 100 mTorr. 4. A wafer transfer chamber having reduced particle contamination problem according to claim 1, wherein said chamber enclosure further comprises an access door through one of said four sidewalls for transporting into/out of said chamber enclosure a wafer cassette. 5. A wafer transfer chamber having reduced particle contamination problem according to claim 1, wherein said particle filter means having a top panel and four side panels fabricated of a material for filtering out particles larger than 0.2 .mu.m diameter. 6. A wafer transfer chamber having reduced particle contamination problem according to claim 1, wherein said particle filter means having a top panel and four side panels fabricated of a material for filtering out particles larger than 0.125 .mu.m diameter. 7. A wafer transfer chamber having reduced particle contamination problem according to claim 1, wherein said platform further comprises a gasket member positioned on top of said platform along a peripheral edge for sealingly engaging a bottom end of said four side panels of the particle filter means. 8. A wafer transfer chamber having reduced particle contamination problem according to claim 1, wherein said top panel and said four side panels of the particle filter means being formed of a material fabricated of polymeric fibers. 9. A method for preventing particle contamination in a wafer transfer chamber comprising the steps of: providing a chamber enclosure having a top wall, a bottom wall and four sidewall forming a vacuum tight cavity therein, a pumping means and a venting means for evacuating and venting said chamber cavity, an elevator means for holding a wafer cassette thereon and for moving upwardly or downwardly into a pumping/venting or unloading position and a particle filter means having a top panel and four side panels fabricated of a material for filtering out particles wherein said top panel being stationarily fastened to an interior surface of said top wall of the chamber enclosure; positioning a wafer cassette on a platform of said elevator means, while said elevator means being positioned at a lowermost position and said chamber cavity at atmospheric pressure; elevating said elevator means to an uppermost position such that a top surface of said platform sealingly engages a bottom surface of said four side panels with said wafer cassette enclosed by said particle filter means; pumping said chamber cavity to a pressure smaller than atmospheric pressure; transferring wafers from said wafer cassette into a process chamber by a wafer transfer robot until all wafers are processed; venting the chamber cavity to atmospheric pressure with said elevator means in said uppermost position and said wafer cassette enclosed in said particle filter means; and lowering said elevator means to a lowermost position for unloading said wafer cassette. 10. A method for reducing particle contamination in a wafer transfer chamber according to claim 9 further comprising the step of pumping said chamber cavity to a pressure of smaller than 100 mtorr. 11. A method for reducing particle contamination in a wafer transfer chamber according to claim 9 further comprising the step of filtering out particles having a diameter larger than 0.2 .mu.m by said particle filter means when said wafer cassette being enclosed by said particle filter means during said pumping step and said venting step. 12. A method for reducing particle contamination in a wafer transfer chamber according to claim 9 further comprising the step of filtering out particles having a diameter larger than 0.125 .mu.m by said particle filter means when said wafer cassette is enclosed by said particle filter means during said pumping and said venting step. 13. A method for reducing particle contamination in a wafer transfer chamber according to claim 9 further comprising the step of mounting said wafer transfer chamber to a semiconductor cluster tool. 14. A method for reducing particle contamination in a wafer transfer chamber according to claim 9 further comprising the step of transporting a wafer cassette into said chamber cavity through an access port provided in one of said four sidewalls of the chamber enclosure. 15. A method for reducing particle contamination in a wafer transfer chamber according to claim 9 further comprising the step of fabricating said particle filter means with a material formed of polymeric fibers. 16. A method for reducing particle contamination in a wafer transfer chamber according to claim 9 further comprising the step of transporting out of said chamber enclosure a wafer cassette after all wafers have been processed through an access door in one of said four sidewalls of said chamber enclosure. 17. A method for reducing particle contamination in a wafer transfer chamber according to claim 9 further comprising the step of providing a gasket member on a top surface of said platform for sealingly engaging a bottom surface of said four side panels of the particle filter means when said elevator means being moved into said uppermost position engaging said particle filter means. 18. A method for reducing particle contamination in a wafer transfer chamber according to claim 9 further comprising the step of mounting said pumping means for evacuating said cavity through said bottom wall of the chamber enclosure. 19. A method for reducing particle contamination in a wafer transfer chamber according to claim 9 further comprising the step of pumping said chamber cavity by said pumping means for a time period of at least 3 min. 20. A method for reducing particle contamination in a wafer transfer chamber according to claim 9 further comprising the step of venting said chamber cavity to atmospheric pressure for a time period of at least 3 min. 