A method sculpts an object expressed as a model. A hierarchical distance field is generated from the model according to generation parameters. The hierarchical distance field is edited according to editing parameters, and the hierarchical distance field is rendered while editing. To generate the hierarchical distance field, the object distance field is enclosed with an object bounding box. The enclosed object distance field is partitioned into a plurality of cells. Each cell has a size corresponding to detail of the object distance field and a location with respect to the object bounding box. A set of values of the enclosed object distance field is sampled for each cell. A method for reconstructing the portion of the distance field enclosed by the cell is specified for each cell. The size, the location, the set of values, and the method for reconstructing for each cell are stored in a memory to enable reconstruction of the object distance field by applying the reconstruction methods of the cells to the values. The hierarchical distance field adapts to detail introduced while editing.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for sculpting an object expressed as a model, comprising the steps of: generating a hierarchical distance field from the model according to generation parameters; editing the hierarchical distance field according to editing parameters; and rendering the hierarchical distance field while editing. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising the steps of: converting the hierarchical distance field to a final model; and rendering the final model. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the model is expressed by polygons. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the model is expressed by parametric patches. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the model is expressed by an implicit function. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the model is expressed by a volume data set. 7. The method of claim 2 wherein the model and the final model are expressed identically. 8. The method of claim 2 wherein the final model is expressed by polygons. 9. The method of claim 2 wherein the final model is expressed by parametric patches. 10. The method of claim 2 wherein the final model is expressed by a volume data set. 11. The method of claim 1 further comprising the steps of: converting the model of the object to an object distance field; enclosing the object distance field with an object bounding box; partitioning the enclosed object distance field into a plurality of cells, each cell having a size corresponding to detail of the object distance field and a location with respect to the object bounding box; sampling, for each cell, a set of values of the enclosed object distance field; specifying, for each cell, a method for reconstructing the distance field enclosed by the cell; and storing, for each cell, the size, the location, the set of values, and the method for reconstructing in a memory to enable reconstruction of the object distance field by applying the reconstruction methods of the cells to the values. 12. The method of claim 8 wherein the editing further comprises the steps of: specifying an editing tool having a surface expressed by a tool distance field and an editing operation, the tool distance field enclosed by a tool bounding box having a position and an orientation relative to the object bounding box; intersecting the tool distance field with the object distance field to determine an editing bounding box; reconstructing the object distance field within the editing bounding box by applying the reconstruction methods to the values of the cells of the object distance field enclosed by the editing bounding box; modifying the object distance field enclosed by the editing bounding box according to the position and orientation of the tool distance field, and the editing operation; generating the detail directed hierarchical representation for the modified object distance field. 13. The method of claim 8 wherein the partioning dynamically adapts to the editing. 