The present invention is shipping and storage container for storing and transporting a plurality of disc shaped objects, such as wafers and the like, while protecting the items from vibration, abrasion, impact, particulation, static electricity, and outgassing. Although the carrier of the present invention may be configured to carry many kinds of thin disc shaped objects, the invention is particularly suited for safely storing and transporting wafers. In its broadest sense, the shipping container of the invention comprises a separable base and cover. The base is configured to hold a plurality of wafers stacked one on top of the other within a cylindrical storage area. The upper wafers are supported by wafers below, and ultimately by the flat bottom of the container. The cover is configured to fit over portions of the base to enclose the stored wafers. The base and cover may include a number of useful features including tamper seals, locking means, data storage devices for readably storing data regarding the contents of the carrier, features for allowing the stable stacking of multiple containers, and features for use by robots or automated equipment to manipulate the container or to load and unload disks.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A shipping and storage container for holding disk shaped objects, the shipping and storage container comprising: a base including a deck with at least one wall having an inner circumference defining a roughly cylindrical storage area with a first selected diameter, an outer surface, and at least one gap formed in the wall, the cylindrical storage area configured to store at least one disc shaped object therein, wherein the at least one wall includes four walls with a gap between adjacent walls, each of said four walls including a chamber formed therein and open to the top of the wall, a desiccant placed in the chamber, a cover including a cylindrical recess configured to fit over and around the wall of the base, and a layer of compressible material positioned between an underside of the cylindrical recess and at least one disc shaped object positioned in the cylindrical storage area, the layer of compressible material inhibiting movement of the at least one disc shaped object within the storage area. 2. The shipping and storage container of claim 1, wherein a protective material is placed between each pair of adjacent disc shaped objects. 3. The shipping and storage container of claim 2, wherein the protective material comprises a flash-spun and heat-bonded high-density polyethylene fabric. 4. The shipping and storage container of claim 1, wherein the cover further comprises a square flange formed around the lower edge of the lid of the cover, and wherein the deck of the base is formed in a corresponding square shape. 5. The shipping and storage container of claim 4, further comprising a tamper guard assembly including an aperture formed in the flange of the cover and a corresponding aperture formed in the deck of the base. 6. The shipping and storage container of claim 1, further comprising a protected area formed on a surface of the cover, the protected area configured to hold a data storage media. 7. The shipping and storage container of claim 1, further comprising a locking assembly to prevent accidental opening of the shipping and storage container. 8. The shipping and storage container of claim 7, wherein the locking assembly comprises at least one guide ridge and riser formed on the outer surface of the at least one wall, and at least one corresponding locking tab formed on an inside surface of the cylindrical recess of the lid. 9. A wafer carrier for holding wafers in vertical stacks with lower wafers supporting an underside of upper wafers, the wafer carrier comprising: a base comprising a deck with at least one wall having an inner circumference defining a roughly cylindrical storage area with a selected diameter, an outer surface, the cylindrical storage area configured to store at least one disc shaped object therein, said at least one wall has a chamber therein, said chamber open to a top of the wall, a desiccant located in said chamber, a cover including a cylindrical recess configured to fit over and around substantially all of the wall of the base, and a layer of compressible material positioned between an underside of the cylindrical recess and at least one disc shaped object positioned in the cylindrical storage area, the layer of compressible material compressing the at least one disc shaped object in the storage area to inhibit movement of the disc shaped object within the storage area, wherein the at least one wall includes four walls with a gap between adjacent walls. 10. The wafer carrier of claim 9, wherein the cylindrical storage area is configured to receive a plurality of disc shaped objects arranged in a vertical stack such that an upper surface of a disc shaped object supports an underside of a disc shaped object positioned thereon. 11. The wafer carrier of claim 10, wherein a protective material is placed between adjacent disc shaped objects. 12. The wafer carrier of claim 9, wherein the layer of compressible material is configurable to fill any void between the underside of the cylindrical recess and the at least one disc shaped object to inhibit movement of disc shaped objects within the cylindrical storage area. 13. The wafer carrier of claim 9, wherein the cover further comprises a square flange formed around a lower edge of the cylindrical recess of the cover, and wherein the deck of the base is formed in a corresponding square shape. 14. The wafer carrier of claim 13, further comprising a tamper guard assembly including an aperture formed in the flange of the cover and a corresponding aperture formed in the deck of the base. 15. The wafer carrier of claim 9, further comprising a locking assembly to inhibit accidental opening of the wafer carrier. 16. The wafer carrier of claim 15, wherein the locking assembly comprises at least one guide ridge and riser formed on the outer surface of the at least one wall, and at least one corresponding locking tab formed on an inside surface of the cylindrical recess of the cover. 17. A shipping and storage container for holding disk shaped objects, the shipping and storage container comprising; a base including a deck with at least one wall having an inner circumference defining a roughly cylindrical storage area with a first selected diameter, an outer surface, and at least one gap formed in the wall, the cylindrical storage area configured to store at least one disc shaped object therein, said base having a first pattern formed of raised ridges extending downward from a bottom surface of said base, a cover including a cylindrical recess configured to fit over and around the wall of the base, said cover having a second pattern formed of raised ridges extending upward from a top surface of said cover, said ridges sized and configured to interlink with said first pattern on said base, and a layer of compressible material positioned between an underside of the cylindrical recess and at least one disc shaped object positioned in the cylindrical storage area, the layer of compressible material inhibiting movement of the at least one disc shaped object within the storage area, wherein each of said first and second patterns have a square center, three narrow arms and one wide arm. 18. The shipping and storage container of claim 17, further comprising a periphery ridge around a periphery of an outside surface of said cylindrical recess of said cover, wherein said wide arm on said base extends beyond an edge of said cylindrical storage area, wherein said three narrow arms on said base extend partway to an edge of said cylindrical storage area, wherein said wide arm and said narrow arms on said cover extend to said periphery ridge, and wherein said periphery ridge has two notches sized an configured to mate with said wide arm on said base. 19. A wafer carrier for holding wafers in vertical stacks, the wafer carrier comprising: a base comprising a deck with at least one wall having an inner circumference defining a roughly cylindrical storage area with a selected diameter, an outer surface, the cylindrical storage area configured to store at least one disc shaped object therein, said at least one wall having a chamber therein, said chamber open to a top of the wall, a desiccant located in said chamber, and a cover including a cylindrical recess configured to fit over and around the wall of the base. 20. A shipping and storage container for holding disk shaped objects, the shipping and storage container comprising: a base comprising a deck with at least one wall having an inner circumference defining a roughly cylindrical storage area with a selected diameter, an outer surface, the cylindrical storage area configured to store at least one disc shaped object therein, said base having a first pattern formed of raised ridges extending downward from a bottom surface of said base, said first pattern having a square center, three narrow arms and one wide arm, a cover including a cylindrical recess configured to fit over and around the wall of the base, said cover having a second pattern formed of raised ridges extending upward from a top surface of said cover, said second pattern having a square center, three narrow arms and one wide arm, said ridges sized and configured to interlink with said first pattern on said base. 