A robotic containerization and palletizing system having a multiple-fingered end effector. The system includes a frame that defines one or more cells. Each cell has one gantry-type robot, which is mounted in a set of tracks on top of the frame. The robot is movable along two axes and has an arm to which the end effector is mounted. The end effector is designed to grasp trays, tubs, and similar items from a conveyor system running through the cell and load them in a cart or on a pallet. The items are gripped by two sets of fingers. One set of fingers may be mounted to a first plate and another set of fingers may be mounted to a carriage that moves in a horizontal direction, either toward or away from the first set of fingers. Each finger has a main shaft and a bent tip. The shafts are rotatable such that the tips can be moved underneath or out from under a load, depending upon whether a pick-up or drop-off operation is being performed. The end effector is designed to carry out top loading of carts and pallets and includes a measurement and containment plate that is used to detect and measure the height of trays and tubs placed in carts and on pallets. The measurement and containment plate also helps prevent loose mail in unsleeved trays or tubs from falling out of the trays or tubs during robotic transportation. The downward force exerted on the top of the mail tray/tub also helps maintain the grip of the fingers. In order to load carts having shelves, the gripper may also include a shelf-lowering assembly.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A containerization and palletizing system comprising: a cell defined by a frame and a surface, the cell having a top and at least one bay defined by a portion of the surface and a portion of the frame, the at least one bay having an assigned location in the cell and configured to accept a container; a robot positioned on top of the cell, mounted to the frame, and movable from a home position to the location of the at least one bay, the robot having an end effector with at least one bearing, a containment plate supported by the at least one bearing such that the plate may travel in a vertical direction, and a sensor positioned to sense movement of the plate; a conveyor having a belt and operable to move trays on the belt, at least a portion of the conveyor positioned in the cell; a controller coupled to the robot and the sensor and operable to determine a distance moved by the containment plate and to control movement of the robot from the home position to a position over the conveyor and then to the assigned location of the at least one bay, wherein the controller controls the end effector to grasp a tray from the conveyor when the robot is at the position over the conveyor and to release the tray when the robot is at the assigned location of the at least one bay. 2. A system as in claim 1, wherein the end effector comprises a plurality of rotatable, offset fingers. 3. A system as in claim 2, wherein the plurality of fingers consists of a first pair of rotatable fingers and a second pair of rotatable fingers. 4. A system as in claim 3, wherein the end effector further comprises a movable carriage and the first pair of fingers is coupled to the movable carriage. 5. A system as in claim 2, wherein the end effector has a shelf lowering device. 6. A system as in claim 1, wherein the cell is defined by a perimeter fence, and the fence has at least one door. 7. A system as in claim 6, wherein the controller is operable to stop movement of the robot when the at least one door is open. 8. A system as in claim 1, further comprising a second cell, a second robot in the second cell, and a second controller for controlling the second robot, wherein at least a portion of the conveyor system is positioned in the second cell. 9. A system as in claim 1, wherein the robot is a gantry robot. 10. A top-loading system for containerizing trays, the system comprising: a cell defined by a frame, the cell having a top and a plurality of bays defined by a portion of a surface and a portion of the frame; at least one container in one of the plurality of bays; an overhead robot positioned within the cell, mounted to the frame, and having an end effector with a plurality of offset fingers, and at least one actuator for moving the fingers; a containment plate coupled to the end effector such that the plate may travel in a vertical direction, and a sensor positioned to sense movement of the plate; a conveyor extending through the cell and operable to move trays; wherein the robot is operable to pick a tray from the conveyor and place it in the at least one container in one of the plurality of bays. 11. A top loading system as in claim 10, wherein the at least one container is a cart. 12. A top loading system as in claim 10, wherein the at least one container is a pallet. 13. A top loading system as in claim 10, wherein the trays include mail trays and mail tubs. 