This invention provides a fabrication process for manufacturing of truly 3-dimensional micromechanisms which takes advantages of SOI (silicon-on-insulator) wafers each of which is processed to create a respective structural element of the 3-dimensional micromechanisms by DRIE (deep reactive ion etching) of the wafer and thermal oxidation of the trenches opened during the DRIE etching. The wafers are sequentially bonded into a multistack structure from which the 3-D micromechanism. is released by XeF.sub.2 etching. Thermally grown SiO.sub.2 is used as structural material for the 3-D micromechanism.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of fabrication of 3-dimensional micromechanisms having at least a first and a second structural elements operatively coupled therebetween in a predetermined structural arrangement, the method comprising the steps of: (a) providing a first wafer, (b) etching said first wafer to form first trenches defining said first structural element of the 3-dimensional micromechanism, (c) oxidizing surfaces of said first trenches, (d) providing a second wafer, (e) bonding said second wafer to a respective surface of the processed said first wafer thereby forming a multi-layer formation, (f) etching said second wafer to form second trenches defining said second structural element of the 3-dimensional micromechanism, said second structural element being in predetermined mutual disposition with respect to said first structural element, (g) oxidizing surfaces of said second trenches, and (h) etching said multi-layer formation to release said 3-dimensional micromechanism therefrom. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of said first and second structural elements is formed from. material including SiO.sub.2. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said 3-dimensional micromechanism includes a plurality of the structural elements operatively coupled therebetween, said method further comprising the steps of: providing a plurality of wafers, and after the step (c), repeating the steps (e)-(g) for said plurality of the wafers in a predetermined sequence thereby creating said multi-layer formation with each of said plurality of structural elements defined in a respective layer of said multi-layer formation. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said first wafer includes a silicon-on-insulation substrate. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said second wafer includes a silicon-on-insulation wafer. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein said second wafer includes a silicon wafer. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein in said steps (b) and (f), said etching is performed by means of deep reactive ion etching (DRIE) techniques. 8. The method of claim 7, further comprising the steps of multi-stage deep reactive ion etching forming said first and second trenches of different depths. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the width of said first and second trenches varies in the approximate range of 2-4 .mu.m. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein said trenches are spaced approximately 2 .mu.m-4 mm apart each from the other. 11. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of thermal oxidation of the surfaces of said first and second trenches thereby growing SiO.sub.2 therewithin. 12. The method of claim 4, wherein in said steps (c) and (g), said first and second trenches are substantially filled with SiO.sub.2 thereby forming a continuous SiO.sub.2 block defining said first and second structural elements of said 3-dimensional micromechanism, said SiO.sub.2 block holding said first and second structural elements in said predetermined structural disposition therebetween. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein in said steps (b) and (f), said wafers are etched through a Si bulk portion thereof. 14. The method of claim 1, further comprising the steps of: after said steps (c) and (g), planarizing an open surface of the processed wafer. 15. The method of claim 14, further comprising the step of planarizing said open surface of the processed wafer by means of chemical-mechanical polishing technique. 16. The method of claim 1, further comprising the steps of: subsequent to step (e), thinning said second wafer to a predetermined thickness thereof. 17. The method of claim 1, further comprising the steps of: in said step (h) etching said multi-layer formulation in gas-phase XeF.sub.2 to remove unwanted areas thereof and leaving selected Si and SiO.sub.2 structures forming said 3-dimensional micromechanism. 18. The method of claim 3, wherein said structural elements of said 3-dimensional micromechanism include elements chosen from the groups consisting of: actuators, actuatable structures, links therebetween, embedded kinematic pairs, and compliant and non-compliant joints. 19. The method of claim 1, wherein in said step (e), said bonding is a hydrophobic bonding. 20. The method of claim 1, wherein in said step (e), said bonding is a hydrophilic bonding. 