A method and system for selecting a robotic mechanism best suited to perform a job from different types of robotic mechanisms in an automated storage library includes gathering variables in a criteria database to form a decision algorithm. The robotic mechanisms are operable for performing the same types of tasks. The variables include attributes of each robotic mechanism type and attributes of each of the robotic mechanisms, media objects, and media object players. In response to attributes of a job request being transferred into the decision algorithm, the decision algorithm selects a robotic mechanism best suited for performing the job request based on the attributes of each robotic mechanism type and the attributes of the robotic mechanisms, media objects, media object players, and the job request.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automated storage library for the storage and retrieval of media objects, the storage library comprising: a frame having a plurality of media object storage cells for storing media objects and at least one media object player for playing the media objects; a plurality of different types of robotic mechanisms for performing the same type of tasks with each robotic mechanism being movable within the frame to mount a media object from a media object storage cell into the at least one media object player and to dismount a media object from the at least one media object player into a media object storage cell; and a controller for gathering variables in a criteria database to form a decision algorithm, the variables including attributes of each robotic mechanism type and attributes of each of the robotic mechanisms, the media objects, and the at least one media object player, the controller operable for transferring attributes of a job request into the decision algorithm, and then using the decision algorithm to select a robotic mechanism best suited for performing the job request based on the attributes of each robotic mechanism type and the attributes of the robotic mechanisms, the media objects, the at least one media object player, and the job request. 2. The storage library of claim 1 wherein: the controller is operable for controlling the selected robotic mechanism to perform the job request. 3. The storage library of claim 1 wherein: the controller gathers variables from a host connected to the storage library. 4. The storage library of claim 3 wherein: the host variables include information regarding at least one of job priority, job data set size, and job multi-cartridge data set size. 5. The storage library of claim 1 wherein: the controller gathers variables preset internal to the storage library. 6. The storage library of claim 5 wherein: the internal storage library variables include information regarding at least one of media object type, media object quantity, and media object position. 7. The storage library of claim 5 wherein: the internal storage library variables include information regarding at least one of media object player type, media object player quantity, and media object player position. 8. The storage library of claim 5 wherein: the internal storage library variables include information regarding at least one of robotic mechanism availability, and robotic mechanism proximity to media objects, media object players, and other robotic mechanisms. 9. The storage library of claim 5 wherein: the internal storage library variables include information regarding robotic mechanism time required to complete the job request. 10. The storage library of claim 5 wherein: the internal storage library variables include information regarding at least one of robotic mechanism age, robotic mechanism reliability, robotic mechanism condition, and robotic mechanism identification number. 11. The storage library of claim 5 wherein: the internal storage library variables include information regarding at least one of storage library guide track conditions, storage library environmental conditions, and storage library maintenance. 12. The storage library of claim 1 wherein: the controller gathers variables from an operator of the storage library. 13. The storage library of claim 12 wherein: the operator variables include information regarding time of operation of the storage library. 14. The storage library of claim 1 wherein: the controller gathers variables from a manufacturer of the storage library. 15. The storage library of claim 14 wherein: the manufacturer variables include information regarding storage library performance upgrades, marketing requirements, and special operator requirements. 16. The storage library of claim 1 wherein: the frame is a rectangular frame. 17. The storage library of claim 1 wherein: the frame is a round frame. 