A "hot spare" method for facilitating the seamless transition from a failed robotic mechanism to backup unit is provided. A spare robot is located inside a storage library on a section of rail (robotic track) from which it can be utilized on any rail layer in a multi-layer architecture. In one embodiment of the present invention, a motorized elevator assembly is used to transport the spare robot to the proper library level, which allows a single redundant robot to support multiple robots on multiple library rail levels. In another embodiment, a hot spare robot is used on each rail level and is utilized if needed on that particular level. In both embodiments, the spare robots are available for immediate backup without direct user intervention.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for providing backup support for failed robotic mechanisms in a system comprising at east one robot on at least one rail, and at least one redundant robot that can move between multiple rails, the method comprising: if a robot on any rail fails, automatically moving the redundant robot to the rail where the failed robot is located; and instructing the redundant robot to take over the functions of the failed robot. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the backup support is for a media storage library. 3. The method according to claim 1, wherein the at least one robot on at least one rail is a plurality of robots on a single rail. 4. The method according to claim 1, wherein the at least one robot on at least one rail is a plurality of robots on a plurality of rails. 5. The method according to claim 1, wherein the at least one redundant robot is a plurality of redundant robots. 6. The method according to claim 1, wherein the redundant robot performs tasks that are of lower priority than the tasks of the other robots, and wherein the lower priority tasks of the redundant robot are suspended if the redundant robot takes over the functions of a failed robot. 7. The method according to claim 1, wherein the redundant robot remains inactive as long as all other robots are functioning properly. 8. The method according to claim 1, wherein the redundant robot moves between rails by means of an elevator mechanism. 9. A system for providing backup support for failed robotic mechanisms in an apparatus comprising at east one robot on at least one rail, and at least one redundant robot that can move between multiple rails, the backup system comprising: an error detection component which, if a robot on any rail fails, automatically moves the redundant robot to the rail where the failed robot is located; and an intervention component which instructs the redundant robot to take over the functions of the failed robot. 10. The system according to claim 9, wherein the backup support is for a media storage library. 11. The system according to claim 9, wherein the at least one robot on at least one rail is a plurality of robots on a single rail. 12. The system according to claim 9, wherein the at least one robot on at least one rail is a plurality of robots on a plurality of rails. 13. The system according to claim 9, wherein the at least one redundant robot is further comprising a plurality of redundant robots. 14. The system according to claim 9, wherein the redundant robot performs tasks that are of lower priority than the tasks of the other robots, and wherein the lower priority tasks of the redundant robot are suspended if the redundant robot takes over the functions of a failed robot. 15. The system according to claim 9, wherein the redundant robot remains inactive as long as all other robots are functioning properly. 16. The system according to claim 9, wherein the redundant robot moves between rails by means of an elevator mechanism. 17. A computer program product in a computer readable medium for use in a data processor, for providing backup support for failed robotic mechanisms in a system comprising at east one robot on at least one rail, and at least one redundant robot that can move between multiple rails, the computer program product comprising: if a robot on any rail fails, instructions for automatically moving the redundant robot to the rail where the failed robot is located; and instructions for the redundant robot to take over the functions of the failed robot. 18. The computer program product according to claim 17, wherein the backup support is for a media storage library. 