The present invention relates to a method and apparatus for depositing metal on a substrate. More particularly, one embodiment of the metal deposition cell comprising a cell base, an anode, and a cell top. The cell base at least partially defines an interior recess. The anode mounted within the interior recess to the cell base. The cell top is removably mounted to the cell base. In one embodiment, a method of removing a modular metal deposition cell from a deposition cell mount is provided. The modular metal deposition cell comprises a cell top and a cell bottom. The method comprises: unfastening a fastener that secures the cell top to the cell bottom, and also fastens the cell top and the cell bottom to the deposition cell mount. The cell top or the cell bottom are then removed from the deposition cell mount.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A modular metal deposition cell comprising: a cell base at least partially defining an interior recess; an anode mounted within the cell base; and a cell top removably secured to the cell base. 2. The modular metal deposition cell of claim 1, wherein the cell top further defines said interior recess. 3. The modular metal deposition cell of claim 1, wherein the interior recess is adapted to contain electrolyte solution. 4. The modular metal deposition cell of claim 1, wherein an opening is formed in the cell top. 5. The modular metal deposition cell of claim 4, wherein a substrate support can be displaced through, or retracted from, said opening. 6. The modular metal deposition cell of claim 1, further comprising a removable fastener that connects the cell base to the cell top. 7. The modular metal deposition cell of claim 6, wherein the removable fastener is a bolted joint. 8. The modular metal deposition cell of claim 6, wherein the modular metal deposition cell is removably mounted to a deposition cell mount. 9. The modular metal deposition cell of claim 8, wherein the removable fastener secures the cell base and the cell top to the deposition cell mount. 10. The modular deposition cell of claim 1, wherein the cell top is comprised of a material selected from the group consisting essentially of ceramic, plastic, acrylic, lexane, PVC, CPVC and PVDF. 11. The modular deposition cell of claim 1, wherein the anode is supported within the cell base by electrical contacts that extend through a bottom portion of the cell base. 12. The modular deposition cell of claim 11, wherein the electrical contacts comprise threaded joints to provide for removal of the anode from the cell base. 13. A method for removing at least a portion of a modular metal deposition cell from a deposition cell mount, the modular metal deposition cell comprising a cell top, a cell bottom and an anode mounted within the cell bottom, the method comprising: unfastening a fastener that secures the cell top to the cell bottom, and also fastens the cell top and the cell bottom to the deposition cell mount; and removing the cell top, the cell bottom, or both the cell top and the cell bottom from the deposition cell mount. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the fastener is a bolted connection, and the unfastening step involves unscrewing the bolted connection. 15. The method of claim 13, wherein the method further comprises replacing or repairing the anode. 16. The method of claim 13, further comprising: replacing the cell top, the cell bottom, or both the cell top and the cell bottom with a corresponding second cell top and second cell bottom; and fastening the fastener to secure the second cell top to the second cell bottom, and also fasten the second cell top and the second cell bottom to the deposition cell mount. 17. A plating system comprising: a deposition cell mount; a deposition cell removably mounted to the deposition cell mount, the deposition cell comprising: a cell base at least partially defining an interior recess; an anode mounted within the cell base; and a cell top removably secured to the cell base, the cell top defining an opening through the cell top into the interior recess; and a head assembly that can be displaced through, or retracted from, said opening. 18. The plating system of claim 17, wherein the cell top further defines said interior recess. 19. A plating system of claim 17, wherein the interior recess is adapted to contain electrolyte solution. 20. The plating system of claim 17, further comprising a removable fastener that connects the cell base to the cell top. 21. The plating system of claim 17, wherein the removable fastener is a bolted joint. 22. The plating system of claim 21, wherein the removable fastener secures the cell base and the cell top to the deposition cell mount. 23. A modular deposition cell, comprising: a cell base at least partially defining an interior recess; an anode mounted within the cell base; and a cell top at least partially defining the interior recess removably secured to the cell base by a removable fastener. 24. The modular deposition cell of claim 23, wherein the interior recess is adapted to contain electrolyte solution. 25. The modular deposition cell of claim 23, wherein the cell top defines an opening through the cell top into the interior recess. 26. The modular deposition cell of claim 23, wherein the opening in the cell top provides access to a substrate support. 27. The modular deposition cell of claim 23, wherein the removable fastener is a bolted joint. 28. The modular deposition cell of claim 23, wherein the modular deposition cell is removably mounted to a deposition cell mount by the removable fastener. 29. The modular deposition cell of claim 23, wherein the cell top comprises an upper flange and the cell base comprises a lower flange. 30. The modular deposition cell of claim 29, wherein the removable fastener is secured to a deposition cell mount. 31. The modular deposition cell of claim 30, wherein the removable fastener connects the cell top and the cell base via the upper flange and the lower flange. 32. The modular deposition cell of claim 31, further comprising a sealing member disposed between the upper flange and the lower flange. 33. A modular deposition cell, comprising: a cell base; a cell top removably secured to the cell base, wherein the cell base and the cell top define an electrolyte containment region; a diffuser disposed between the cell base and the cell top; and an anode mounted within the cell base. 34. The modular deposition cell of claim 33, wherein the cell top is removably secured to the cell base to enable partial replacement of the deposition cell. 35. The modular deposition cell of claim 33, wherein the anode and the cell base define regions for fluid flow therebetween. 36. The modular deposition cell of claim 35, wherein the anode is supported in the cell bottom to enable fluid flow around the anode. 37. The modular deposition cell of claim 33, wherein the diffuser is configured to be removable when the cell top is removed from the cell base. 38. The modular deposition cell of claim 33, wherein the diffuser is secured to the cell base when the cell top is secured to the cell base. 