A spray head assembly for attaching to an industrial robot having an overload protection device coupled to a changer with an attached spray head body with a common nozzle supply and a plurality of nozzles selectively attached to the common nozzle supply. Each of the plurality of nozzles is selectively rotated into position and may provide a different spray pattern depending upon the application. The spray head assembly is compact and suited to working in tight spaces, and in particular spraying the interior of cavities. The present invention is particularly applicable to applying an anticorrosion wax to the inside of automobile or car body cavities.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A spray head assembly comprising: an overload protection device adapted to be coupled to an industrial robot; a hand exchange device coupled to said overload protection device; a spray head removablely attached to said hand exchange device; a nozzle attached to said spray head; a mixing valve coupled so said nozzle; a cleaner supply port formed within said mixing valve, whereby cleaner fluid may be provided to said nozzle; a wax supply coupled to said mixing valve; an air supply coupled to said mixing valve; and whereby cavities are sprayed and damage due to a collision a cleaner supply coupled to said cleaner supply port, is avoided. 2. A spray head assembly comprising: an overload protection device adapted to be coupled to an industrial robot; a hand exchange device coupled to said overload protection device; a spray head body attached to said hand exchange device; a common nozzle supply coupled to said spray head body; and a plurality of rotatable spray nozzles rotatably attached to said spray head body, each of said plurality of rotatable spray nozzles adapted to be rotated into position and received by said common nozzle supply, whereby different spray patterns may be quickly obtained by selecting one of said plurality of rotatable spray nozzles. 3. A spray head assembly as in claim 2 further comprising: a bayonet coupling placed on each of said plurality of rotatable spray nozzles. 4. A spray head assembly as in claim 2 further comprising: a mixing valve body coupled to said common nozzle supply. 5. A spray head assembly as in claim 4 further comprising: a cleaner valve formed within said mixing valve body, whereby a cleaning fluid may be selectively supplied to said common nozzle supply. 6. A spray head assembly for use with an industrial robot used to coat cavities in automobile manufacturing comprising: an overload protection device adapted to be coupled to an industrial robot; a hand exchange device coupled to said overload protection device; a spray head body attached to said hand exchange device; a mixing chamber formed in said spray head body; an air supply coupled to said mixing chamber; an anticorrosion wax supply coupled to said mixing chamber; a common nozzle supply coupled to said mixing chamber; a plurality of rotatable spray nozzles adapted to be received by said common nozzle supply; and a drive coupled to each of said plurality of nozzles and said spray head body, whereby one of said plurality of rotatable spray nozzles is selectively rotated into position and coupled to said common nozzle supply for providing a different spray pattern suited for a particular application. 7. A spray head assembly for use with an industrial robot used to coat cavities in automobile manufacturing as in claim 6 further comprising: a bayonet coupling associated with each of said plurality of nozzles. 8. A spray head assembly for use with an industrial robot used to coat cavities in automobile manufacturing as in claim 6 further comprising: a cleaner valve coupled to said mixing chamber, whereby a cleaning fluid may be selectively supplied to said common nozzle supply. 9. A spray head assembly for use with an industrial robot used to coat cavities in automobile manufacturing as in claim 6 wherein: said plurality of nozzles are radially positioned around said common nozzle supply. 10. A spray head assembly comprising: an overload protection device adapted to be coupled to an industrial robot; a hand exchange device coupled to said overload protection device, whereby damage due to a collision is avoided; a spray head removablely attached to said hand exchange device; a mixing valve body associated with said spray head, said mixing valve having an air supply port, a wax supply port, and a cleaner supply port; a wax valve formed within said mixing valve body coupled to the wax supply port and the air supply port; a cleaner valve formed within said mixing valve body coupled to the cleaner supply port and the air supply port; a common nozzle supply attached to said mixing valve body; and at least one spray nozzle attached to said common nozzle supply, whereby cavities are sprayed and said nozzle can be selectively cleaned with a cleaner. 11. A spray head assembly as in claim 10 wherein: said at least one spray nozzle comprises a plurality of nozzles rotatablely attached to said spray head, whereby one of said plurality of nozzles may be selectively rotated into a spraying position onto said common nozzle supply. 12. A spray head assembly as in claim 11 wherein: said plurality of nozzles are radially positioned around said common nozzle supply. 13. A spray head assembly as in claim 11 further comprising: a bayonet coupling associated with each of said plurality of nozzles. 14. A spray head assembly for use with an industrial robot used to apply an anticorrosion wax treatment to cavities in automobile manufacturing comprising: an overload cylinder housing adapted to be coupled to an industrial robot; an overload cylinder formed within said overload cylinder housing; an overload piston placed in said overload cylinder; a locator extending through said overload cylinder housing and positioned to contact said overload piston; a hand exchange device coupled to said overload piston, said hand exchange device comprising a hand locking piston and hand locking air supply; a spray head body; a hand locking receiver attached to said spray head body, whereby said spray head body is attached to said hand exchange device; a mixing chamber formed in said spray head body; an air supply coupled to said mixing chamber; an anticorrosion wax supply coupled to said mixing chamber; a nozzle sealing cylinder formed in said spray head body adjacent said mixing chamber; a common nozzle supply coupled to said mixing chamber; a nozzle sealing piston attached to said common nozzle supply and reciprocating in said nozzle sealing chamber; a nozzle lock supply formed in said spray head body and coupled to said nozzle sealing cylinder; a nozzle bayonet lock attached to said spray head body; a nozzle lock drive coupled to said nozzle lock; a plurality of rotatable arms attached to said spray head body; a plurality of arm drives, one of said plurality of arm drives coupled to one of said plurality of rotatable arms, whereby said arm is selectively rotated into a spray position; a plurality of spray nozzles each adapted to produce a different spray pattern, one of said plurality of spray nozzles attached to each of said plurality of rotatable arms; and a bayonet attached to each of said plurality of spray nozzles and adapted to be received by said nozzle bayonet lock; whereby one of said plurality of spray nozzles is selectively rotated into the spray position and coupled to said common nozzle supply for providing a different spray pattern suited for a particular application. 15. A spray head assembly for use with an industrial robot used to coat cavities in automobile manufacturing comprising: a hand exchange device adapted to be coupled to an industrial robot; a spray head body attached to said hand exchange device; a mixing chamber formed in said spray head body; a common nozzle supply coupled to said spray head body and said mixing chamber; and a plurality of rotatable spray nozzles rotatably attached to said spray head body, each of said plurality of rotatable spray nozzles adapted to be rotated into position and received by said common nozzle supply; and a drive coupled to each of said plurality of rotatable spray nozzles and said spray head body, whereby different spray patterns may be quickly obtained by selecting and rotating into position one of said plurality of rotatable spray nozzles onto said common nozzle. 