A radio controlled robotic toy having a main body chassis with at least two middle legs and at least two corner legs attached to the chassis, the legs being interconnected and driven by a linkage drive arm which is, in turn, operated by a radio-controlled electric motor which has computer electronics and software to control and cause movement of the legs for propelling the toy forward and backward. A six-legged walking animatronic robot toy is one of the preferred embodiments, including a moving head with jaw pincers, six moving legs, which yields a versatile, durable, speedy robot toy.
Claims What is claim is: 1. A robotic toy to be operated by a radio-controlled transmitter, comprising: a main robot body chassis including at least one radio-controlled electric motor mounted in the chassis; at least two middle legs attached to the main robot body mid-chassis for movement, wherein the middle legs are moved by a drive wheel assembly through a transmission after receiving signals from a radio-controlled transmitter; at least two corner legs attached elsewhere on the robot body chassis; a drive gear attached to a drive shaft; a linkage drive arm in communication with the drive gear extending between one of the at least two middle legs and one of the at least two corner legs on the same side of the body chassis, such that when the electric motor is engaged, the drive wheel assembly translates motion through the drive shaft and the linkage drive arm to the middle legs and corner legs on either side; control electronics for receiving output from the radio-controlled transmitter, including a receiver output section and inputs to a printed circuit board, said electronics including a micro-control unit, a voltage regulator, a microprocessor and at least two H-bridge driver circuits for operating at least one of the middle legs attached to the body chassis and at least one of the corner legs attached to the same side of the body chassis; and computer software for operating the control electronics which then controls the movement of the legs attached to the chassis giving movement to the robotic toy. 2. The robotic toy of claim 1, further comprising: a movable head with servo motors to move the head side to side and up and down, in addition to jaw pincers which can move in and out in response to servo motor communication with the control electronics which also further includes driver circuits for each of the servo motors. 3. The robotic toy of claim 1, further comprising: at least six legs attached to the main robot body chassis, wherein at least two of the legs are middle legs which are moved by the drive wheel assembly through the transmission after receiving signals from the radio-controlled transmitter. 4. The robotic toy of claim 1, wherein the drive wheel assembly includes an electric motor and a 48 diametral pitch worm drive gear at a 50:1 ratio. 5. The robotic toy of claim 1, wherein the drive wheel assembly includes a spur gear drive train. 6. The robotic toy of claim 1, further comprising eyes attached to the head by an eye mount bracket. 7. The robotic toy of claim 1, wherein the toy includes a dinosaur-shaped toy. 8. The robotic toy of claim 1, further comprising a tail section adapted for moving from side to side and up and down. 9. The robotic toy of claim 1, further comprising interchangeable body shell components shaped as various animals, dinosaurs and insects. 10. The robotic toy of claim 1, wherein the legs on one side of the toy operate to move forward, while the legs on the opposite side of the toy remain stationary, thereby propelling the robotic toy forward on one side, followed by a forward motion on the other side. 11. The robotic toy of claim 1, wherein the legs on one side of the toy may propel forward, while the legs on the opposite side of the toy may be in reverse, allowing a spinning action to take place so that the robotic toy is extremely maneuverable. 12. A robotic toy to be operated by a radio-controlled transmitter, further comprising: a main robot body chassis including at least one radio-controlled electric motor mounted in the chassis; at least two middle legs attached to the main robot body mid-chassis for movement, wherein the middle legs are moved by a drive wheel assembly through a transmission after receiving signals from a radio-controlled transmitter; at least two corner legs attached elsewhere on the robot body chassis; a drive gear attached to a drive shaft; a linkage drive arm in communication with the drive gear extending between one of the at least two middle legs and one of the at least two corner legs on the same side of the body chassis, such that when the electric motor is engaged, the drive wheel assembly translates motion through the drive shaft and the linkage drive arm to the middle legs and corner legs on either side; hard wired programs as an output section to the printed circuit board, including a hard wired driver circuit, voltage regulator, and as many circuits as needed for operating the at least one of the middle legs attached to the body chassis and at least one of the corner legs attached to the same side of the body chassis; and computer software for operating the control electronics which then controls the movement of the legs attached to the chassis giving movement to the robotic toy. 13. An animatronic robot toy to be operated by a radio-controlled transmitter, comprising: a main robot body chassis including a body shell covering the main body chassis, wherein said body shell may be a share selected from the group consisting of insects, robots dinosaurs, rodents, and animals; at least one radio-controlled electric motor mounted in the chassis; at least two middle legs attached to the main robot body mid-chassis for movement, wherein the middle legs are moved by a drive wheel assembly through a transmission after receiving signals from a radio-controlled transmitter; at least two corner legs attached elsewhere on the robot body chassis; a drive gear attached to a drive shaft; and at least one linkage drive arm in communication with the drive gear extending between one of the at least two middle legs and one of the at least two corner legs on the same side of the body chassis, and another linkage drive arm in similar mechanical communication between the middle and corner legs on the opposite side of the chassis such that when the electric motor is engaged, the drive wheel assembly translates motion through the drive shaft and the linkage drive arm to the middle legs and corner legs on either side. 14. The robotic toy of claim 13, wherein the legs on one side of the toy operate to move forward, while the legs on the opposite side of the toy remain stationary, thereby propelling the robotic toy forward on one side, followed by a forward motion on the other side. 15. The robotic toy of claim 13, wherein the legs on one side of the toy may propel forward, while the legs on the opposite side of the toy may be in reverse, allowing a spinning action to take place so that the robotic toy is extremely maneuverable. 16. The animatronic toy of claim 13, further comprising interchangeable body shells to change the appearance of the toy. 17. The robotic toy of claim 13, wherein the drive wheel assembly includes an electric motor and a 48 diametral pitch worm drive gear at a 50:1 ratio. 18. The robotic toy of claim 13, wherein the drive wheel assembly includes a spur gear drive train. 19. The robotic toy of claim 13, further comprising eyes attached to the head by an eye mount bracket. 20. An insectazoid robotic toy to be operated by a radio-controlled transmitter, comprising: a main robot body chassis including a body shell covering the main body chassis, wherein said body shell may be a shape selected from the group consisting of insects, robots, dinosaurs, rodents, and animals; a body shell covering the main body chassis, said body shell being interchangeable and designed to be insect-shaped; at least one radio-controlled electric motor mounted in the chassis; at least two middle legs attached to the main robot body mid-chassis for movement, wherein the middle legs are moved by a drive wheel assembly through a transmission after receiving signals from a radio-controlled transmitter; at least four corner legs attached elsewhere on the robot body chassis; a drive gear attached to a drive shaft; at least one linkage drive arm in communication with the drive gear extending between one of the at least two middle legs and one of the at least two corner legs on the same side of the body chassis, and another linkage drive arm in similar mechanical communication between the middle and corner legs on the opposite side of the chassis such that when the electric motor is engaged, the drive wheel assembly translates motion through the drive shaft and the linkage drive arm to the middle legs and corner legs on either side; control electronics for receiving output from the radio-controlled transmitter, including a receiver output section and inputs to a printed circuit board, said electronics including a micro-control unit, a voltage regulator, a microprocessor and at least two H-bridge driver circuits for operating at least one of the middle legs attached to the body chassis and at least one of the corner legs attached to the same side of the body chassis; and computer software for operating the control electronics which then controls the movement of the legs attached to the chassis giving movement to the robotic toy. 