This invention is an apparatus for imaging metrology, which in particular embodiments may be integrated with a processor station such that a metrology station is apart from but coupled to a process station. The metrology station is provided with a first imaging camera with a first field of view containing the measurement region. Alternate embodiments include a second imaging camera with a second field of view. Preferred embodiments comprise a broadband ultraviolet light source, although other embodiments may have a visible or near infrared light source of broad or narrow optical bandwidth. Embodiments including a broad bandwidth source typically include a spectrograph, or an imaging spectrograph. Particular embodiments may include curved, reflective optics or a measurement region wetted by a liquid. In a typical embodiment, the metrology station and the measurement region are configured to have 4 degrees of freedom of movement relative to each other.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus, comprising: a metrology unit receiving information from a measurement region of a surface; a first imaging camera with a first field-of-view with a known spatial relationship to the measurement region, and a second imaging camera with a second field-of-view larger than the first field of view to aid in positioning of the metrology unit with respect to the measurement region. 2. An apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein the area of the first field of view is more than one hundred times greater than the area of the second field of view. 3. An apparatus for inspecting a sample comprising: a light source for generating a measurement beam which is directed to reflect off the surface of the sample; a detector for monitoring reflected energy from the measurement beam; a first camera for obtaining a large field of view of the sample to determine the relative orientation and position of the sample with respect to the apparatus; and a second camera for obtaining a small field of view of the sample to permit the measurement beam to be accurately positioned at a selected measurement site. 4. An apparatus as recited in claim 3, wherein the area of the large field of view is more than one hundred times greater than the area of the small field of view. 5. An apparatus as recited in claim 3, wherein the light source for generating the measurement beam provides the illumination for the small field of view camera. 6. An apparatus as recited in 5, wherein a separate light source is provided for the large field of view camera. 7. An apparatus as recited in 5, wherein the reflected measurement beam is directed to a pinhole mirror, and wherein the light transmitted through the pinhole mirror is monitored by the detector and the light reflected by the pinhole is imaged by the small field of view camera. 8. An apparatus as recited in claim 3, wherein the light source comprises a fiber and wherein the apparatus further includes a second optical assembly located between the end of the fiber and the first optical assembly, the second optical assembly for imaging the fiber exit aperture at a point nearly the entrance to the first optical assembly images so uniformity of the light on the sample is improved. 9. An apparatus as recited in claim 8, wherein the second optical assembly includes a ball lens at the exit end of the fiber. 10. An apparatus for inspecting a sample comprising: a light source for generating a measurement beam; an optical assembly for focusing the measurement beam to a spot on the surface of the sample such that the beam is reflected therefrom; a detector for monitoring reflected energy from the measurement beam; means for translating the sample with respect to the focused measurement beam; a first camera for obtaining a large field of view of the sample to determine the relative orientation and position of the sample with respect to the apparatus; and a second camera for obtaining a small field of view of the sample, said small field of view being substantially aligned with measurement beam spot on the sample to permit the measurement beam to be accurately positioned at the selected measurement site using said translating means. 11. An apparatus as recited in claim 10, wherein the area of the large field of view is more than one hundred times greater than the area of the small field of view. 12. An apparatus as recited in claim 10, wherein said means for translating the sample with respect to the focused measurement beam includes a rotatable chuck for supporting the sample. 13. An apparatus as recited in claim 10, wherein said means for translating the sample with respect to the focused measurement beam includes a translatable optical breadboard carrying the focusing optical assembly. 14. An apparatus as recited in claim 10, wherein the light source for generating the measurement beam provides the illumination for the small field of view camera. 15. An apparatus as recited in 14, wherein a separate light source is provided for the large field of view camera. 16. An apparatus as recited in 14, wherein the reflected measurement beam is directed to a pinhole mirror, and wherein the light transmitted through the pinhole mirror is monitored by the detector and the light reflected by the pinhole is imaged by the small field of view camera. 17. An apparatus as recited in claim 10, wherein the light source comprises a fiber and wherein the apparatus further includes a second optical assembly located between the end of the fiber and the first optical assembly, the second optical assembly for imaging the fiber exit aperture at a point nearly the entrance to the first optical assembly images so uniformity of the light on the sample is improved. 18. An apparatus as recited in claim 17, wherein the second optical assembly includes a ball lens at the exit end of the fiber. 19. A method of measuring light reflected from a sample with an inspection device, said inspection device having a light source for illuminating the sample with a measurement beam and a detector for detecting light energy reflected from the sample, said method for facilitating the positioning of the measurement beam with respect to the sample comprising the steps of: capturing a first image of the sample with a first camera over a relatively large field of view; determining the relative orientation and position of the wafer with respect to the inspection device based on the first image; moving the sample with respect to the measurement beam so that the measurement beam is near the desired measurement site; capturing a second image of the sample with a second camera, said second image having a field of view much smaller than the first field a view; determining the relative orientation and position of the wafer with respect to the inspection device based on the second image; moving the sample with respect to the measurement beam so that measurement beam is coincident with the measurement site; and measuring the light reflected from the sample at the measurement site. 20. A method as recited in claim 19, wherein the area of the large field of view is more than one hundred times greater than the area of the small field of view. 21. A method of measuring light reflected from a sample with an inspection device, said inspection device having a light source for illuminating the sample with a measurement beam and a detector for detecting light energy reflected from the sample, said method for facilitating the positioning of the measurement beam with respect to the sample comprising the steps of: capturing a first image of the sample with a first camera over a relatively large field of view; determining the relative orientation and position of the sample with respect to the inspection device based on the first image; moving the sample with respect to a second camera; capturing a second image of the sample with a second camera, said second image having a field of view much smaller than the first field a view; determining the relative orientation and position of the sample with respect to the inspection device based on the second image; moving the sample with respect to the measurement beam so that measurement beam is coincident with a measurement site; and measuring the light reflected from the sample at the measurement site. 22. A method as recited in claim 21, wherein the area of the large field of view is more than one hundred times greater than the area of the small field of view. 23. A method for fabricating a wafer in a process tool, said method comprising: altering the state of the wafer within the process station; transferring the wafer to a metrology device coupled to but spaced from the process station; capturing a first image of the sample over a relatively large first field of view; determining the relative orientation and position of the wafer with respect to the first field of view; capturing a second image of the sample over a second, smaller field of view; determining the relative orientation and position of a feature with respect to the second field of view; moving the sample with respect to the second field of view; and measuring the light reflected from the region of interest. 24. A method as recited in claim 23, wherein the area of the large field of view is more than one hundred times greater than the area of the small field of view. 25. A method as recited in claim 23, wherein after the orientation and position of the wafer is determined based on the first field of view, the wafer is moved with respect to the second field of view. 