A weld gun includes internal, external and structural devices that dissipate heat generated at electrode tips without requiring a continuous external source coolant. The internal devices utilize heat pipes within the electrodes to transfer heat to secondary heat removal features. A heat capacity on the weld gun contacts external heat sinks to directly conduct heat away from the weld gun after a completed weld cycle. Alternatively, the heat sink, the heat pipe and the secondary heat removal features are combined structurally on the weld gun arm by forming the arm from a plurality of plates separated by an air gap.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An all electric welding system, comprising: an electric welding gun, said gun having opposed electrodes, each of said electrodes terminating in an electrode tip; said electrode tip including an internal reservoir containing a predetermined amount of coolant for cooling said tip; and said electrode including an internal pipe for connecting said electrode tip to a secondary heat removal system. 2. The welding system of claim 1, wherein said gun further includes at least one fin for dissipating heat to ambient air by convection cooling. 3. The welding system of claim 1, wherein said secondary heat removal system is a series of fins attached to said electrode. 4. The welding system of claim 1, wherein sad internal pipe is a heat pipe. 5. The welding system of claim 4, wherein said heat pipe allows bi-directional coolant flow. 6. The welding system of claim 5, wherein heated, vaporized coolant moves from said electrode tip to said secondary heat removal system through said heat pipe and wherein condensed liquid coolant moves from said secondary heat removal system through said heat pipe to replenish said reservoir. 7. The welding system of claim 4, further including a holding tank and a pump for injecting a predetermined dose of coolant into said reservoir in response to predetermined conditions. 8. The welding system of claim 7, wherein heated, vaporized coolant moves from said electrode tip to said secondary heat removal system through said heat pipe and wherein condensed liquid coolant moves from said secondary heat removal system to said holding tank. 9. The welding system of claim 1, further including a second pipe interconnecting said secondary heat removal system to said reservoir to allow condensed liquid coolant to return to said reservoir. 10. The welding system of claim 5, wherein heated liquid coolant moves from said electrode tip to said secondary heat removal system through said heat pipe and wherein cooled liquid coolant moves from said secondary heat removal system through said heat pipe to replenish said reservoir. 11. The welding system of claim 7, wherein heated liquid coolant moves from said electrode tip to said secondary heat removal system through said heat pipe and wherein cooled liquid coolant moves from said secondary heat removal system to said holding tank. 12. The welding system of claim 1, further including a second pipe interconnecting said secondary heat removal system to said reservoir to allow cooled liquid coolant to return to said reservoir. 13. An all electric welding system, comprising: an electric welding gun, said gun having opposed electrodes, each of said electrodes terminating in an electrode tip; and wherein said electrode tip further includes a heat capacity capable of storing heat generated during a weld cycle having a predetermined time duration. 14. The welding system of claim 13, wherein said weld gun is movable from an operational position to a resting position, and wherein said heat capacity directly contacts a heat sink when said weld gun is in said resting position to conduct heat away from said heat capacity and into said heat sink. 15. The welding system of claim 14, wherein said electrodes are inserted into at least a portion of said heat sink to achieve positive contact with said heat sink. 16. The welding system of claim 15, wherein said heat sink includes cavities sized and shaped to receive said electrode tips. 17. The welding system of claim 15, wherein said electrodes are inserted into a collet, said collet defined by resilient fingers separated by gaps for gripping said electrodes. 18. The welding system of claim 15, wherein said heat sink is interconnected with a secondary heat removal system. 19. The welding system of claim 14, wherein said heat sink is movable to conform with and directly contact at least a portion of an exterior surface of said electrodes when said weld gun is in said resting position. 20. The welding system of claim 19, wherein said heat sink is a clamshell style. 21. An all electric welding system, comprising: an electric welding gun, having at least one fin for dissipating heat to ambient air by convection cooling said gun having opposed electrodes, each of said electrodes terminating in an electrode tip; and at least one weld gun arm connected to one of said electrodes, said arm formed of a plurality of thin plates separated by air gaps to increase the surface area to mass ratio of said arm for convection cooling, and wherein said thin plates are operably interconnected by a plurality of slotted bars. 22. The welding system of claim 21 wherein a thickness of said air gaps is between three and six times the thickness of each of said plates. 23. The welding system of claim 24, wherein a thickness of said air gaps is about four times the thickness of each of said plates. 24. The welding system of claim 21 further comprising a system for forcing air flow over said plates. 25. The welding system of claim 21, wherein said plates having a plurality of apertures therethrough to increase surface area to mass ratio for convection cooling. 26. An electric welding system, comprising: an electric welding gun, said gun having opposed electrodes, each of said electrode terminating at a first end in an electrode tip that is continuously separable through a predetermined range for providing welding current through a work piece; said welding gun capable of movement between an operating and a resting position wherein said gun moves to said resting position after completing a weld cycle; and an external heat sink adjacent said weld gun in said resting position, at least a portion of said heat sink in direct contact with an external surface of said gun to conduct heat away from said weld gun to a secondary heat removal mechanism. 