An adjustable end arm effector alignment system and process is provided. The system includes an arm having a working end and an alignment support in a known location relative to said arm. An adjustable end arm effector including at least two alignment members is attached to one of said working end of said arm and said alignment support. A control system is also provided that is operable to move the working end of the arm into a first and a second alignment position, each permitting appropriate adjustment of the adjustable end arm effector with respect thereto.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An adjustable end arm effector alignment system comprising: an arm having a working end; an alignment support in a known location relative to said arm; an adjustable end arm effector attached to one of said working end of said arm and said alignment support, said adjustable end arm effector including at least two alignment members; at least one cooperating alignment member attached to the other of said working end of said arm and said alignment support, said at least one cooperating alignment member being adapted to cooperate with said at least two alignment members; and a control system operable to move said working end of said arm into a first alignment position where one of said at least two alignment members cooperates with said at least one cooperating alignment member to identify when said adjustable end arm effector is appropriately adjusted with respect thereto, and operable to subsequently move said working end into a second alignment position where another of said at least two alignment members cooperates with said at least one cooperating alignment member to identify when said adjustable end arm effector is appropriately adjusted with respect thereto. 2. An adjustable end arm effector alignment system according to claim 1, wherein the arm is an articulated arm of an industrial robot. 3. An adjustable end arm effector alignment system according to claim 1, wherein the at least one cooperating alignment member is at least two cooperating alignment members and wherein all of said cooperating members are attached to said alignment support and located within a space of about 1 cubic meter or less. 4. An adjustable end arm effector alignment system according to claim 1, wherein said at least two alignment members are workpiece interfacing tool supports. 5. An adjustable end arm effector alignment system according to claim 1, wherein said at least two alignment members are workpiece interfacing tools. 6. An adjustable end arm effector alignment system according to claim 5, wherein each of said at least two alignment members are attached to one of said workpiece interfacing tools. 7. An adjustable end arm effector alignment system according to claim 6, wherein said workpiece interfacing tools are at least two grippers having jaws and each of said at least two alignment members is held within said jaws of one of said grippers. 8. An adjustable end arm effector alignment system according to claim 1, wherein said at least two alignment members each member include a mechanical alignment feature and wherein said at least one cooperating alignment member includes a cooperating mechanical alignment feature adapted to provide mechanically cooperating engagement with said mechanical alignment feature. 9. An adjustable end arm effector alignment system comprising: an arm having a working end an alignment support in a known location relative to said arm; an adjustable end arm effector attached to one of said working end of said arm and said alignment support, the adjustable end arm effector including at least two workpiece interfacing tools each having a workpiece interfacing feature; an alignment member attached to the other of said working end of said arm and said alignment support; and a cooperating alignment member attached to at least one of said at least two workpiece interfacing tools, said cooperating alignment member including a feature other than the workpiece interfacing feature of the workpiece interfacing tool, said feature of said cooperating alignment member being adapted to cooperate with said alignment member, the cooperating alignment member being independently moveable relative to another of said at least two workpiece interfacing tools to enable said alignment member to cooperate with said cooperating alignment member to identify when said adjustable end arm effector is appropriately adjusted with respect thereto. 10. An adjustable end arm effector alignment system according to claim 9, wherein the arm is an articulated arm of an industrial robot. 11. An adjustable end arm effector alignment system according to claim 9, wherein the cooperating alignment member is a plurality of cooperating alignment members and wherein all of said plurality of cooperating members are attached to said alignment support and located within a space of about 1 cubic meter or less. 12. An adjustable end arm effector alignment system according to claim 9, wherein at least one of said at least two workpiece interfacing tools is a fluid powered gripper having jaws. 13. An adjustable end arm effector alignment system according to claim 12, wherein said cooperating alignment member is held within said jaws of said gripper. 14. An adjustable end arm effector alignment system according to claim 9, wherein said alignment member includes a mechanical alignment feature and wherein said cooperating alignment feature includes a cooperating mechanical alignment feature adapted to provide mechanically cooperating engagement with said mechanical alignment feature. 15. An adjustable end arm effector alignment system comprising: two alignment members each with a mechanical alignment feature attached to said adjustable end arm effector; and a cooperating alignment member having a cooperating mechanical alignment feature in a known location relative to an adjustable end arm effector, said mechanical alignment features and said cooperating mechanical alignment feature being adapted to provide mechanically cooperating engagement which, when cooperatively engaged, operates to accurately locate the first alignment member in a specific aligned position when the adjustable end arm effector is appropriately adjusted with respect thereto. 16. An adjustable end arm effector alignment system according to claim 15, wherein at least one of said at least two said mechanical alignment features and said cooperating mechanical alignment feature includes a protrusion and the other of said mechanical alignment feature and said cooperating mechanical alignment feature includes a recess cooperating with said protrusion. 17. An adjustable end arm effector alignment system according to claim 15, wherein at least one of said at least two mechanical alignment features includes a gripper having jaws with side walls and an end wall and said cooperating alignment feature includes a channel having side walls and an end wall sized and shaped to contact against the side walls and end wall of said g ripper. 18. An adjustable end arm effector alignment system according to claim 15, wherein said cooperating alignment member is at least two cooperating alignment members and wherein all of said at least two cooperating alignment members are located within a space of about 1 cubic meter or less. 19. An adjustable end arm effector alignment system according to claim 15, wherein at least one of said at least two alignment members is a workpiece interfacing tool support. 20. An adjustable end arm effector alignment system according to claim 18, wherein at least one of said at least two alignment members is a workpiece interfacing tool. 21. An adjustable end arm effector alignment system according to claim 20, wherein at least one of said at least two mechanical alignment features is attached to said workpiece interfacing tool. 