A grapple device for grasping, holding and releasing an object having a deformable cover material such as sacks and bags, has a mounting bracket and two rollers. The rollers are pushed toward each other by the force of at least one spring. When the rollers are powered to spin, the inward spinning of the rollers causes the sack material to be dragged in between the rollers due to friction between the surfaces of the rollers and the sack material. The spring pushes the rollers toward each other with sufficient force to hold the sack material in place between the rollers. The grapple device also includes a holding mechanism to engage at least one of the rollers and prevent rotation of the roller when engaged, so that when sack material is located in the inter-roller region and the holding mechanism is engaged, the contact between the sack material and rollers causes the sack to be held by the grapple device. When the rollers are powered to spin outwardly, the sack material passes out of inter-roller region causing the sack to be released. Using the invention described here, in conjunction with a robot or a material handling device, a sack can be lifted by grasping any point on the sack. The device includes a control system for operating the device in three phases to: grasp, hold and release sacks.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A device mountable on a transport mechanism for contacting, grasping, holding and releasing an object having a deformable surface, comprising: a mounting bracket mountable to said transport mechanism; a first and a second roller, each roller having a roller axis, and each being rotatably supported on said mounting bracket and rotatable about its axis; further each of said rollers having a roller surface being a dragging surface for engaging and drawing said deformable surface of said object; a drive means for rotating at least one of the said rollers; a holding means selectively operable to releaseably engage at least one of the said rollers, and prevent rotation of the roller when engaged; wherein when said holding means is not engaged, said drive means turns said first roller along a first direction, and said roller surface of said first roller is placed into contact with said deformable surface of said object, said first roller surface draws said deformable surface of said object into an inter-roller region between said first and second rollers, thereby grasping said object; and wherein when said holding means is engaged and said deformable surface of said object is located in said inter-roller region, the contact between said deformable surface of said object and said first and second rollers causes said object to be held by said device. 2. The device of claim 1 wherein the holding means for preventing the rotation of said rollers is a friction brake. 3. The device of claim 1 wherein the holding means for preventing the rotation of said rollers is a ratchet mechanism. 4. The device of claim 1, further comprising a releasing means operatively connected to at least one of the said rollers and selectively operable to allow said deformable surface of said object to pass out of said inter-roller region causing said object to be released. 5. The device of claim 4, wherein said releasing means comprises said drive means being selectively operable to rotate said first roller in a second direction to draw said deformable surface of the said object out of said inter-roller region, causing said object to be released. 6. The device of claim 4, wherein said releasing means comprises a roller separator operatively connected to at least one of the said rollers and selectively operable to move said rollers sufficiently apart to allow said deformable surface of said object to pass out of said inter-roller region, causing said object to be released. 7. The device of claim 1 where said axes of said first roller and said second roller are substantially parallel to each other. 8. The device of claim 1 further including a biasing means to bias said rollers toward each other with sufficient force to facilitate holding the deformable surface of said object in place when said deformable surface is between said rollers. 9. The device of claim 1 wherein said rollers are forced toward each other by force of a spring. 10. The device of claim 1 wherein said drive means is an electrically powered actuator. 11. The device of claim 1 wherein said drive means is an air-powered actuator. 12. The device of claim 1 wherein said first and second rollers are of cylindrical shape. 13. The device of claim 1 wherein said rollers are covered by rubber. 14. The device of claim 1 wherein said rollers are knurled. 15. The device of claim 1 wherein said object with said deformable surface is a sack that contains an interior object. 16. The device of claim 1, further comprising a controller which controls said device three operational phases: grab, hold, and release. 17. The device of claim 1, further comprising a proximity signal generating element that generates a proximity signal when the device is in close proximity of an object. 18. The device of claim 17, wherein said proximity signal generating element is a proximity switch, which issues said proximity signal when the device is close to the object. 19. The device of claim 17, wherein said proximity signal generating element is an electromechanical switch, which issues said proximity signal when said electromechanical switch contacts the object. 20. The device of claim 17, further comprising: a holding signal generating element that generates a holding signal when sufficient portion of said deformable surface of said object is collected between said rollers; and a releasing signal generating element that generates a releasing signal to release said object, wherein said drive means turns said rollers inwardly in response to said proximity signal when said holding signal generating element has not generated any holding signal and said releasing signal generating element has not enerated any releasing signal. 21. The device of claim 1, further comprising a holding signal generating element that generates a holding signal when sufficient portion of said deformable surface of the object is collected between said rollers. 22. The device of claim 21, wherein said holding signal generating element is an electromechanical switch. 23. The device of claim 22, where said deformable surface of the object collected between said rollers causes said electromechanical switch to issue said holding signal. 24. The device of claim 1, further comprising a releasing signal generating element that generates a releasing signal to release said object. 25. The device of claim 24, wherein said releasing signal generating element is a momentary switch pressed by an operator. 26. The device of claim 24, wherein said releasing signal generating element generates a releasing signal to release said object based on a command from a computer. 27. The device of claim 24, wherein a releasing means causes said deformable surface of said object to pass out of said inter-roller region causing said object to be released in response to said releasing signal. 28. The device of claim 24 further comprising a holding signal generating element that generates a holding signal when sufficient portion of said deformable surface of said object is collected between said rollers, wherein if said holding signal generating element generates a holding signal, as long as said releasing signal generating element has not generated any releasing signal, said holding means is engaged. 29. A device mountable on a transport mechanism for contacting, grasping and holding an object having a deformable surface, comprising: a mounting bracket mountable to said transport mechanism; a first and a second holding brackets, movable relative to each other and held by said mounting bracket wherein said first holding bracket is fixedly attached to said mounting bracket and said second holding bracket is pivotably attached to said mounting bracket and moves relative to said first holding bracket; a first roller, rotatable about a first roller axis and rotatably supported on said first holding bracket, said first roller further including a dragging surface for engaging and drawing said deformable surface when contacting said deformable surface of said object; a second roller, rotatable about a second roller axis and rotatably supported on said second holding bracket, said second roller further including a dragging surface for engaging and drawing said deformable surface when contacting said deformable surface of said object; and a drive means for rotating at least one of the said rollers; wherein when said first roller turns along a first direction, and said roller surface of said first roller is placed into contact with said deformable surface of said object, said first roller surface draws said deformable surface of said object into an inter-roller region between said first and second rollers, thereby grasping said object. 30. The device of claim 29 further including a biasing means to bias said holding brackets toward each other with sufficient force to facilitate holding the deformable surface of said object in place when said deformable surface is between said rollers. 31. The device of claim 29 wherein said holding brackets are forced toward each other by force of at least one spring. 32. The device of claim 29, further comprising a holding means selectively operable to releaseably engage at least one of the said rollers, and prevent rotation of the roller when engaged, so that when said deformable surface of said object is located in said inter-roller region and said holding means is engaged, the contact between said deformable surface of said object and said first and second rollers causes said object to be held by said device. 33. The device of claim 32 wherein the holding means for preventing the rotation of said rollers is a friction brake. 34. The device of claim 32 wherein the holding means for preventing the rotation of said rollers is a ratchet mechanism. 35. The device of claim 29, further comprising a releasing means operatively connected to at least one of the said rollers and selectively operable to allow said deformable surface of said object to pass out of said inter-roller region causing said object to be released. 36. The device of claim 35, wherein said releasing means comprises said drive means being selectively operable to rotate said first roller in a second direction to draw said deformable surface of the said object out of said inter-roller region, causing said object to be released. 37. The device of claim 35, wherein said releasing means comprises a roller separator operatively connected to at least one of the said rollers and selectively operable to move said rollers sufficiently apart to allow said deformable surface of said object to pass out of said inter-roller region, causing said object to be released. 38. The device of claim 29 where said axes of said first roller and said second roller are substantially parallel to each other. 39. The device of claim 29 further including a biasing means to bias said rollers toward each other with sufficient force to facilitate holding the deformable surface of said object in place when said deformable surface is between said rollers. 40. The device of claim 29 wherein said rollers are forced toward each other by force of a spring. 41. The device of claim 29 wherein said drive means is an electrically powered actuator. 42. The device of claim 29 wherein said drive means is an air-powered actuator. 43. The device of claim 29 wherein said first and second rollers are of cylindrical shape. 44. The device of claim 29 wherein said rollers are covered by rubber. 45. The device of claim 29 wherein said rollers are knurled. 46. The device of claim 29 wherein said object with said deformable surface is a sack that contains an interior object. 47. A method of manipulating an object; mounting a grapple device to a transport mechanism, wherein said grapple device comprises (i) a supporting bracket assembly (ii) a first roller, having a roller axis, said roller rotatably mounted on said supporting bracket assembly, and said first roller being rotatable about its axis, wherein said first roller further comprises a gripping surface for engaging the graspable portion of the object, (iii) a second roller, having a roller axis, and said second roller being rotatable about its axis, wherein said second roller further comprises a gripping surface for engaging the graspable portion of said object, (iv) a biasing means to bias said rollers toward each other with sufficient force to facilitate holding said graspable portion of said object in place between said rollers, (v) a driving means for rotating said rollers, and (vi) a holding means selectively operable to releaseably engage at least one of said rollers, and prevent rotation of said roller when engaged; positioning said grapple device close to said object; activating a grabbing operation of said grapple device, wherein said driving means rotates said first roller in a first direction, such that said first roller and said second roller rotate in opposite directions inwardly, and when said roller surface of said first roller contacts said object, a graspable portion of said object is drawn between said first and the second rollers, thereby grasping said object; stopping the rotation of said rollers by said holding means when a sufficient portion of said object is grabbed between said rollers, thereby holding said object; maneuvering said grapple device and object, via said transport mechanism, to a desired location; and releasing said object from said grapple wherein said driving means rotates said first roller in a second direction, said first roller and said second roller turn outwardly in opposing rotations. 