A workstation having multiple robots and multiple fixtures for processing multiple workpieces along two processing paths. A first fixture can be positioned on the first processing path and a second fixture can be positioned on the second processing path. The multiple robots are positioned between the two paths and are moveable to process workpieces moving along both the first and second paths. The robots can be welding robots. The robots can be independently moveable with respect to each other to enhance the efficiency of the workstation. The robots can have overlapping ranges of movement so that every portion of the workpiece can be processed by at least two of the robots.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A workstation for processing a plurality of workpieces comprising: a first fixture positionable along a first processing path for supporting a first workpiece moveable along the first processing path; a second fixture positionable along a second processing path for supporting a second workpiece moveable along the second processing path; and a plurality of robots positionable between the first and second fixtures, each robot moveable to selectively engage each of the first and second workpieces, wherein at least one robot can process the first workpiece while at least one other robot can process the second workpiece. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein at least two of the robots have overlapping ranges of movement. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the plurality of robots further comprises: at least three robots, a first robot operable to engage a first portion of the first workpiece, a second robot operable to engage a second portion of the first workpiece, and a third robot operable to engage the first and second portions of the first workpiece. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein each robot is independently moveable with respect to at least one other robot. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein each robot is operable to perform a plurality of different processing operations. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the plurality of robots can concurrently engage one of the first and second workpieces. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: a third fixture adjacent the first fixture along the first processing path, and a fourth fixture adjacent the second fixture along the second processing path, each of the third and fourth fixtures for supporting at least one workpiece during a processing operation with respect to the workpiece. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 further comprising: a transfer robot for moving workpieces between the fixtures positioned along at least one of the first and second processing paths. 9. A workstation for processing a plurality of workpieces comprising: a first fixture positionable along a first processing path for supporting a first workpiece moveable along the first processing path; a second fixture positionable along a second processing path for supporting a second workpiece moveable alone the second processing path; a plurality of robots positionable between the first and second fixtures, each robot moveable to selectively engage each of the first and second workpieces; a third fixture adjacent the first fixture along the first processing path; a fourth fixture adjacent the second fixture alone the second processing path, each of the third and fourth fixtures for supporting at least one workpiece during a processing operation with respect to the workpiece; a transfer robot for moving workpieces between the fixtures positioned along at least one of the first and second processing paths; and a processing robot for processing a workpiece while the workpiece is engaged by the transfer robot. 10. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: control means for controlling each of the plurality of robots. 11. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: means for determining the next workpiece to be supported by at least one of the first and second fixtures. 12. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: at least one of the fixtures operable to selectively support a plurality of differently configured workpieces. 13. A method for processing a plurality of workpieces moveable along first and second processing paths comprising the steps of: selectively supporting at least two workpieces with first and second fixtures, the first fixture positionable along the first processing path and the second fixture positionable along the second processing path; and engaging each workpiece with a plurality of robots positionable between the first and second processing paths, each robot operable to selectively engage each workpiece supported by the first and second fixtures, wherein at least one robot can process the first workpiece while at least one other robot can process the second workpiece. 14. The method of claim 13 further comprising the step of: moving each of the plurality of robots independently with respect to at least one other robot. 15. The method of claim 13 further comprising the step of: moving each of the plurality of robots to concurrently engage one of the first and second workpieces. 16. The method of claim 13 further comprising the steps of: moving a first workpiece along the first processing path; and moving a second workpiece along the second processing path, the first workpiece and second workpiece having different configurations with respect to each other. 17. An apparatus for processing a plurality of workpieces comprising: a first fixture positionable along a first processing path for supporting a first workpiece; a second fixture positionable along a first processing path for supporting a second workpiece; and a plurality of robots positionable between the first and second processing paths, each robot independently moveable with respect to each other to selectively engage each of the first and second workpieces, wherein at least one robot can process the first workpiece while at least one other robot can process the second workpiece. 18. The apparatus of claim 17 wherein the plurality of robots are welding robots. 19. The apparatus of claim 17 wherein at least one of the first and second fixtures is operable to selectively receive one of a plurality of differently configured automotive body components. 20. The apparatus of claim 17 wherein the plurality of robots can engage one of the first and second workpieces while the other of the first and second workpieces is being replaced in the corresponding fixture. 