The present invention provides an apparatus for vacuum processing generally comprising an enclosure having a plurality of isolated chambers formed therein, a gas distribution assembly disposed in each processing chamber, a gas source connected to the plurality of isolated chambers, and a power supply connected to each gas distribution assembly.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A processing apparatus for simultaneously manufacturing multiple wafers, comprising: an enclosure defining at least two isolated single wafer processing regions that are fluidly separated from each other by a common interior wall; an annular pumping channel positioned in an interior annular wall of each of the isolated single wafer processing regions; a gas showerhead assembly positioned in an upper portion of each of the isolated single wafer processing regions; and a wafer support assembly positioned in each of the isolated single wafer processing regions, wherein a perimeter of the wafer support assembly is symmetric about the annular interior wall of the respective isolated single wafer processing region. 2. The processing apparatus of claim 1, wherein the common interior wall forms a portion of the interior annular wall of each of the isolated single wafer processing regions. 3. The processing apparatus of claim 1, wherein the wafer support assembly further comprises: an elongated shaft extending into the wafer processing region from an exterior region, the elongated shaft having a substantially hollow interior portion; and a wafer support member attached to a distal end of the elongated shaft. 4. The processing apparatus of claim 3, wherein the wafer support member further comprises a resistive heating element positioned in an interior portion of the wafer support member, the resistive heating element being in communication with electrical energy through the substantially hollow interior portion of the elongated shaft. 5. The processing apparatus of claim 1, wherein a vertical position of the wafer support assembly is selectively adjustable within the processing region via a drive system. 6. The processing apparatus of claim 1, wherein the gas shower head assembly further comprises: a base plate in communication with the gas input manifold; a blocker plate in communication with the base plate; and a face plate having a plurality of bores formed therein, the face plate being in communication with the blocker plate. 