This patent describes an invention providing electronically-induced drive environments for one or more mechanically-vibrating physical elements, including those environments applicable to musical instrument application. One aspect of the invention provides for visual indication of one or more drive levels in very general electronically-driven vibrating-elements environments. Other aspects of the invention provide for loop signal processing and the use of external drive sources applicable to a variety of types of sense transducers, drive transducers, and vibrating elements in isolated or grouped configurations. Additional aspects of the invention provide for pluralities of drive transducers and drive signals as applied to individual or groups of vibrating elements within the invention's environments. Yet further aspects of the invention provide for advantageous use of piezo drive transducers and hall-effect sense transducers within the invention's environment as alternatives to electromagnetic transducers.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for creating a vibrating element feedback environment within an instrument, wherein said vibrating element feedback environment includes a feedback loop, the system comprising: at least one vibrating element; at least one vibration-sensing transducer which when stimulated by the at least one vibrating element, produces at least one electrical signal; at least one amplifier for amplifying the at least one electrical signal to produce an amplified drive signal; at least one drive transducer, configured to be driven by at least one of the at least one amplified drive signal to stimulate at least one of the at least one vibrating element at audio frequencies; wherein said at least one amplifier is driven by a signal from a source external to the instrument; and wherein said external source applies signal processing to the at least one electrical signal in the feedback loop prior to said amplification and subsequent stimulation with the at least one drive transducer. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein one of the at least one vibration-sensing and drive transducers is configured on said instrument and is in a permanent spatial relationship with one of said at least one vibrating element. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein a guitar pickup is used for at least one of the at least one vibration-sensing or drive transducers. 4. The system of claim 1, further comprising: a plurality of drive transducers that are each uniquely driven by a separate amplified signal, wherein said amplified signal is external to the instrument. 5. The system of claim 1 wherein the at least one drive transducer is a piezo transducer. 6. The system of claim 1 wherein the at least one vibration-sensing transducer is a Hall-effect transducer. 7. The system of claim 1, said system further comprising: at least one light-emitting indicator that is configured on said instrument, wherein said at least one light-emitting indicator indicates the actual signal activity applied to the stimulating at least one drive transducer. 8. A method for the creation of a vibrating element feedback environment that is configured within an instrument, wherein said vibrating element feedback environment includes a feedback loop, the method comprising: producing at least one electrical signal using at least one vibration-sensing transducer stimulated by at least one vibrating element, amplifying said at least one electrical signal to produce an amplified drive signal; applying said amplified drive signal to at least one drive transducer for stimulating at least one of said at least one vibrating element at audio frequencies; wherein said at least one amplifier is driven by said amplified drive signal that is from a source external the instrument; and wherein said external source applies signal processing to the at least one electrical signal in the feedback loop prior to said amplification and subsequent drive stimulation with said at least one drive transducer. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein one of the at least one vibration-sensing and drive transducers is configured on said instrument and is in a permanent spatial relationship with one of said at least one vibrating element. 10. The method of claim 8, wherein a guitar pickups is used for one of the at least one vibration-sensing or drive transducers. 11. The method of claim 8, wherein a plurality of drive transducers are each uniquely driven by a signal derived from a specific one of a plurality of vibration-sensing transducers. 12. The method of claim 8 wherein the drive transducer is a piezo transducer. 13. The method of claim 8 wherein the vibration-sensing transducer is a Hall-effect transducer. 14. The method of claim 8, said method further comprising: indicating signal activity applied to the drive transducer using a light-emitting indicator that is configured on said instrument. 15. A system for creating a vibrating element feedback environment that is configured within an instrument, wherein said vibrating element feedback environment includes a feedback loop, the system comprising: at least one vibrating element; at least one vibration-sensing transducer which when stimulated by the at least one vibrating element, produces at least one electrical signal; at least one amplifier for amplifying the at least one electrical signal to produce an amplified drive signal; and at least one drive transducer, configured to be driven by the amplified drive signal to stimulate at least one of the at least one vibrating element, wherein the system further comprises at least one light-emitting indicator that is configured on said instrument, and wherein said at least one light-emitting indicator indicates the actual signal activity applied to the stimulating drive transducer. 16. The system of claim 15, said system further comprising: a plurality of drive transducers, each configured to be driven by an amplified drive signal to stimulate the at least one vibrating element; a separate light-emitting indicator that is associated with each of said plurality of drive transducers, wherein each of said plurality of light-emitting indicators indicate actual signal activity applied to an associated stimulating drive transducer; and wherein each of said plurality of light-emitting indicators are configured on said instrument. 17. A method for the creation of a vibrating element feedback environment within an instrument, wherein said vibrating element feedback environment includes a feedback loop, the method comprising: producing an electrical signal using a vibration-sensing transducer stimulated by at least one vibrating element, amplifying said electrical signal to produce an amplified drive signal; applying said amplified drive signal to a drive transducer for stimulating said at least one vibrating element; and indicating signal activity applied to the drive transducer using a light-emitting indicator that is configured on said instrument. 18. The method of claim 17, said method further comprising: applying said amplified drive signal to a plurality of drive transducers to stimulate said at least one vibrating element; and indicating signal activity applied to each of said plurality of drive transducers by using a separate light-emitting indicator for each of said plurality of drive transducers, wherein each of said plurality of light-emitting indicators are configured on said instrument. 19. A system for creating a vibrating element feedback environment within an instrument, wherein said vibrating element feedback environment includes a feedback loop, the system comprising: a plurality of vibrating elements; a plurality of vibration-sensing transducers, each configured to produce at least one electrical signal when stimulated by at least one of said plurality of vibrating elements; an amplifier for amplifying at least one of the at least one electrical signal to produce an amplified drive signal; at least one drive transducer, configured to be driven by the amplified drive signal so as to stimulate said plurality of vibrating elements at audio frequencies; wherein at least one electrical signal is adapted to drive said at least one drive transducer; at least one light-emitting indicator that is configured on said instrument, wherein said at least one light-emitting indicator indicates the actual signal activity for the stimulated at least one vibration-sensing transducer; and wherein signal processing is applied to the at least one electrical signal in the feedback loop prior to said amplification and subsequent stimulation with the at least one drive transducer. 20. A method for the creation of a vibrating element feedback environment within an instrument, wherein said vibrating element feedback environment includes a feedback loop, the method comprising: producing separate electrical signals using a plurality of piezo vibration-sensing transducers, each stimulated by at least one vibrating element, amplifying at least one signal derived from at least one of said separate electrical signals to produce at least one corresponding amplified drive signal; applying said at least one amplified drive signal to a drive transducer for stimulating said at least one vibrating element at audio frequencies; applying signal processing to the electrical signals in the feedback loop prior to said amplification and subsequent stimulation with the drive transducer; indicating signal activity applied to the drive transducer using a light-emitting indicator that is configured on said instrument; and wherein said separate electrical signals provides a signal used to drive at least one drive transducer. 