A parallel kinematics mechanism is provided for uses such as robotics or machining. The mechanism has various limbs, at least some of which are actuatable, for moving an end component with multiple degrees of freedom. The mechanism advantageously facilitates a closed-form solution for the forward kinematics. A joint assembly is provided for use in the parallel kinematics mechanism, the joint assembly having a plurality of revolute joints for connecting to at least three limbs, the joints having non-parallel axes, which intersect at a common point. In various embodiments of the invention, the end component has three, four, five and six degrees of freedom.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A mechanism for positioning and orienting a joint body in space with at least three degrees of freedom, the mechanism comprising: a base; at least first, second, and third actuator limbs, each of the actuator limbs including a first limb member pivotably mounted to said base, a second limb member movably connected to the first limb member, and an elbow connected to the second limb member, wherein the elbow has at least four degrees of freedom relative to said base, at least one of said degrees of freedom of the elbow being actuatable relative to the base, and wherein at least three of the degrees of freedom of the elbow are free, including one free rotational degree of freedom about a respective limb axis; a joint body, the elbows of said first, second, and third actuator limbs each being mounted to said joint body such that the first, second, and third actuator limbs are each movable relative to said joint body about a respective joint axis which is non-parallel to the limb axis of the respective actuator limb, wherein the joint axes of said joint body and the limb axes of the first, second, and third actuator limbs intersect at a common point; and at least one ball-and-socket joint pivotably connecting the first member of at least one of said actuator limbs to the base. 2. A mechanism for positioning and orienting a joint body in space with at least three degrees of freedom, the mechanism comprising: a base; at least first, second, and third actuator limbs, each of the actuator limbs including a first limb member pivotably mounted to said base, a second limb member movably connected to the first limb member, and an elbow movably connected to the second limb member, wherein the elbow has at least four degrees of freedom relative to said base, at least one of said degrees of freedom of the elbow being actuatable relative to the base, and wherein at least three of the degrees of freedom of the elbow are free, including one free rotational degree of freedom about a respective limb axis; and a joint body, the elbows of said first, second, and third actuator limbs each being mounted to said joint body such that the first, second, and third actuator limbs are each movable relative to said joint body about a respective joint axis which is non-parallel to the limb axis of the respective actuator limb, wherein the joint axes of said joint body and the limb axes of the first second, and third actuator limbs intersect at a common point; wherein at least one of said actuator limbs is an elbow linkage device comprising said first limb member rotatably connected to the base by an actuated revolute joint, the first limb member pivotably connected to a second limb member by a universal joint, and the second limb member rotatably connected to the elbow by a revolute joint allowing rotation about said limb axis. 3. A mechanism for positioning and orienting a joint body in space with at least three degrees of freedom, the mechanism comprising: a base; at least first, second, and third actuator limbs, each of the actuator limbs including a first limb member movably mounted to said base, a second limb member movably connected to the first limb member, and an elbow movably connected to the second limb member, wherein the elbow has at least four degrees of freedom relative to said base, at least one of said degrees of freedom of the elbow being actuatable relative to the base, and wherein at least three of the degrees of freedom of the elbow are free, including one free rotational degree of freedom about a respective limb axis; and a joint body, the elbows of said first, second, and third actuator limbs each being mounted to said joint body such that the first, second, and third actuator limbs are each movable relative to said joint body about a respective joint axis which is non-parallel to the limb axis of the respective actuator limb, wherein the joint axes of said joint body and the limb axes of the first, second, and third actuator limbs intersect at a common point; wherein at least one of said actuator limbs is a track-and-slider mechanism, comprising said first limb member movably connected to the base by an actuated prismatic joint, the first limb member pivotably connected to a second limb member by a universal joint, the second limb member rotatably connected to the elbow by a revolute joint allowing rotation about said limb axis. 4. A mechanism according to claim 3, further comprising a work tool rotatably mounted to said joint body for actuatable movement relative thereto. 5. A mechanism according to claim 4, further comprising a motor mounted to said base and a shaft assembly operably linking said motor to said work tool, the motor driving said work tool to rotate. 6. A mechanism according to claim 4, further comprising a motor mounted to said joint body and operably linked to said work tool, the motor driving said work tool to rotate. 7. A mechanism according to claim 1, further comprising a work tool rotatably mounted to said joint body for actuatable movement relative thereto. 8. A mechanism according to claim 7, further comprising a motor mounted to said base and a shaft assembly operably linking said motor to said work tool, the motor driving said work tool to rotate. 9. A mechanism according to claim 7, further comprising a motor mounted to said joint body and operably linked to said work tool, the motor driving said work tool to rotate. 10. A mechanism according to claim 2, further comprising a work tool rotatably mounted to said joint body for actuatable movement relative thereto. 11. A mechanism according to claim 10, further comprising a motor mounted to said base and a shaft assembly operably linking said motor to said work tool, the motor driving said work tool to rotate. 12. A mechanism according to claim 10, further comprising a motor mounted to said joint body and operably linked to said work tool, the motor driving said work tool to rotate. 