A method and system to monitor characteristics of films by sensing the spectral emissions of a plasma to which the films are exposed. As a result, the method includes sensing optical energy produced by the plasma. The optical energy has a plurality of spectral bands associated therewith, a subset of which is identified as including information corresponding to the film characteristics. The film characteristics are then measured as a function of this information. To increase the accuracy of the measurements, in one embodiment of the present invention a subgroup of the plurality of spectral bands is observed that has data associated that is substantially independent of the characteristics of interest. The characteristics are then measured as a function of both the information and the data.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for monitoring characteristics of films exposed to a source of light in a semiconductor processing chamber, said method comprising: sensing optical energy produced by said source of light, said optical energy having a plurality of spectral bands associated therewith; identifying a plurality of subsets, of said plurality of spectral bands, including information corresponding to the characteristics; measuring the characteristics as a function of said information, defining measured characteristics by sensing an intensity associated with each of said plurality of subsets, quantizing said intensity to produce a set of multiple quantizations, and summing said multiple quantizations, with each of said multiple quanitzations corresponding to one of said plurality of subsets. 2. The method as recited in claim 1 wherein identifying further includes identifying said plurality of subsets so that each of said plurality of subsets has an intensity associated therewith that varies as a function of said characteristics, defining a correlated intensity; and identifying a subgroup of said plurality of spectral bands that has an intensity associated therewith that varies independent of said characteristics, defining a disjunctive intensity; and measuring said characteristics further includes quantizing said disjunctive intensity, defining a disjunctive quantization, and quantizing the correlated intensity associated with each of said plurality of subsets, forming multiple correlated quantizations, with each of said multiple quantizations corresponding to one of said plurality of subsets and obtaining a ratio of said disjunctive quantization and each of said multiple correlated quantizations forming a set of multiple ratios and summing said multiple ratios in said set. 3. The method as recited in claim 2 wherein identifying said subset of said plurality of spectral bands further includes, for one of said plurality of subsets, defining a linear function to establish a linear relationship between said correlated quantizations and a subgroup of said multiple ratios and multiplying a subset of said multiple ratios by said linear function. 4. The method as recited in claim 1 further including varying said characteristics in response to said measured characteristics. 5. The method as recited in claim 1 wherein identifying said plurality of subsets further includes comparing said plurality of spectral bands with a baseline spectra and locating ranges of frequencies within said plurality of spectral bands that demonstrate a maximum variation with respect to said baseline spectra. 6.The method as recited in claim 1 wherein said characteristics are selected from a group consisting of film thickness, film stress, deposition rate and etch rate. 7. The method as recited in claim 1 wherein identifying said plurality of subsets further includes comparing said plurality of spectral bands with intensity information of a baseline spectra and including in said plurality of subsets ranges of frequencies of said spectral bands that demonstrate a maximum variation in intensity information with respect to said baseline spectra. 8. A method for monitoring characteristics of films exposed to a plasma in a semiconductor processing chamber: sensing optical energy produced by said plasma, said optical energy having a plurality of spectral bands associated therewith; identifying a plurality of subsets of said plurality of spectral bands each of which has an intensity associated therewith that varies in response to variations of said characteristics, defining a correlated intensity; identifying a subgroup of said plurality of spectral bands that has an intensity associated therewith that varies minimally in response to variations of said characteristics, defining a disjunctive intensity; and measuring said characteristics, defining measured characteristics, by quantizing said disjunctive intensity, defining a disjunctive quantization, and quantizing the correlated intensity associated with each of said plurality of subsets, forming multiple correlated quantizations, with each of said multiple quantizations corresponding to one of said plurality of subsets and obtaining a ratio of said disjunctive quantization and each of said multiple correlated quantizations forming a set of multiple ratios and summing said multiple ratios in said set. 9. The method as recited in claim 8 wherein identifying said plurality of subsets further includes comparing said plurality of spectral bands with intensity information of a baseline spectra and including in said plurality of subsets ranges of frequencies of said spectral bands that demonstrateda maximum variation in intensity information with respect to said baseline spectra. 10. The method as recited in claim 9 wherein identifying said plurality of subsets further includes, for one of said plurality of subsets, defining a linear function to establish a linear relationship between said correlated quantizations and a subgroup of said multiple ratios, and multiplying a subset of said multiple ratios by said linear function. 11. The method as recited in claim 10 further including varying said characteristics in response to said measured characteristics. 12. The method as recited in claim 11 wherein said characteristics are selected from a group consisting of film thickness, film stress, deposition rate and etch rate. 13. A system for monitoring characteristics of films exposed to a plasma in a semiconductor processing chamber, said system comprising: a detector in optical communication with said processing chamber to sense optical energy generated by said plasma, said optical energy having a plurality of spectral bands associated therewith; a spectrum analyzer, in electrical communication with said optical detector, to resolve said spectral bands and produce information corresponding thereto; a processor in electrical communication with said spectrum analyzer; and a memory in electrical communication with said processor, said memory comprising a computer-readable medium having a computer-readable program embodied therein, said computer-readable program including a first set of instructions to cause said processor to operate on said information and identify a plurality of subsets of said plurality of spectral bands having data corresponding to said characteristics; and a second set of instructions to control said processor to measure said characteristics as a function of said information by sensing an intensity associated with each of said plurality of subsets, quantizing said intensity to produce a set of multiple quantizations, and summing said multiple quantizations, with each of said multiple quantizations corresponding to one of said plurality of subsets. 14. The system as recited in claim 13 wherein said memory further includes a third set said of instructions to identify a subgroup of said plurality of spectral bands having data associated therewith, with substantially all of the data associated with the spectral bands of said subgroup being independent of said characteristics, and a fourth set of instructions to measure said characteristics as a function of both said information and said data. 15. The system as recited in claim 13 wherein said first set of instructions includes a subroutine to identify a subgroup of said plurality of spectral bands having an intensity associated therewith that varies as a function of said characteristics. 16. The system as recited in claim 13 wherein said first set of instructions includes a first subroutine to identify a first portion of said plurality of spectral bands having a first intensity associated therewith that varies as a function of said characteristics and identify a second portion of said plurality of spectral bands having a second intensity associated therewith that is substantially independent of said characteristics, wherein said second set of instruction further includes a second subroutine to measure said characteristics as a function of both said information and data by quantizing said first and second intensity, defining first and second quantizations and obtaining a ratio of said first and second quantizations. 17. The system as recited in claim 13 wherein said first set of instructions further includes a subroutine to compare said plurality of spectral bands with a baseline spectra and locating a subset of said plurality of spectral bands that demonstrate a maximum variation with respect to said baseline spectra. 18. A method for monitoring characteristics of films exposed to a source of light in a semiconductor processing chamber, said method comprising: sensing optical energy produced by said source of light, said optical energy having a plurality of spectral bands associated therewith; identifying a subset of said plurality of spectral bands, including information corresponding to said characteristics; obtaining a sequence of measurements of said subset at differing intervals of time, defining a sequence of measured intensity data; normalizing said sequence of measured intensity data to produce a normalized sequence of intensity data; obtaining a linear function from said normalized sequence of intensity data and said sequence of measured data; and measuring said characteristics as a function of a product of said linear function and a sum of the data in said normalized sequence of intensity data. 19. The method as recited in claim 18 wherein identifying said subset further includes identifying first and second sub-bands of said plurality of spectral bands, with said first sub-band having an intensity associated therewith that varies in response to variations in said characteristics, defining said measured intensity data and said second subset having an intensity associated therewith that varies substantially independently of variations in said characteristics, defining disjunctive intensity data; and normalizing said sequence of measured intensity data further includes obtaining, for each of said differing intervals of time, a ratio of said measured intensity data and said disjunctive intensity data, to define said normalized sequence of intensity data. 20. The method as recited in claim 18 wherein obtaining said linear function further includes mapping said measured intensity data and said normalized sequence of intensity data to a graph and fitting a curve to said graph that most closely fits a linear function. 