A reticle protection and transport system and method for a lithography tool. The system includes an indexer that stores a plurality of reticles and a removable reticle cassette. The removable reticle cassette is comprised of an inner chamber and an outer chamber. The system further includes an end effector coupled to a robotic arm. The end effector engages one of the plurality of reticles to enable the reticle to be positioned within the removable reticle cassette and thereafter transported. The system further includes a seal, coupled to the end effector and the robotic arm. To transport the reticle, the reticle is first loaded onto the end effector. Next, the end effector is used to create an arrangement wherein the reticle is loaded into the removable reticle cassette. Importantly, the reticle and removable reticle cassette do not come into contact with one another. The reticle and removable reticle cassette arrangement is then sealed and transported from the indexer to a mount for performing lithographic exposure. Once lithographic exposure is completed, the arrangement is returned to the indexer and the reticle is withdrawn from the removable reticle cassette.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A reticle transport system for a lithography tool having a robotic arm, comprising: (a) an indexer that stores a plurality of reticles and a removable reticle cassette; (b) an end effector, coupled to the robotic arm, that engages one of said plurality of reticles to enable said one of said plurality of reticles to be positioned within said removable reticle cassette and thereafter transported; and (c) a seal that seals said one of said plurality of reticles inside said removable reticle cassette. 2. The reticle transport system of claim 1, wherein said removable reticle cassette comprises an inner chamber and an outer chamber. 3. The reticle transport system of claim 1 wherein said seal is coupled to said end effector. 4. The reticle transport system of claim 1, wherein said seal is coupled to said robotic arm. 5. The reticle transport system of claim 1, wherein said seal includes a vacuum system to attach said removable reticle cassette to the robotic arm. 6. The reticle transport system of claim 1, wherein said seal includes a magnet system to attach said removable reticle cassette to the robotic arm. 7. A method of transporting a reticle from a indexer to a mount in a lithography tool, comprising the steps of: (a) loading the reticle, stored in the indexer, onto an end effector; (b) loading the reticle into a removable reticle cassette, stored in the indexer, to create an arrangement wherein said removable reticle cassette does not come into contact with said reticle; and (c) transporting said arrangement from the indexer to the mount for performing lithographic exposure. 8. The method of claim 7, further comprising a step of returning said arrangement to the indexer after performing lithographic exposure. 9. A method of transporting a reticle in a lithography tool, comprising the steps of: (a) storing a plurality of reticles and a removable reticle cassette in an indexer; (b) coupling an end effector to a robotic arm that engages one of the plurality of reticles, to enable the one of said plurality of reticles to be positioned within the removable reticle cassette; (c) sealing said one of the plurality of reticles inside the removable reticle cassette with a seal that is coupled to the end effector to produce a sealed arrangement; and (d) transporting the sealed arrangement. 