The detection of a processing deviation in a multiple stage wafer processing system is achieved by assigning individual wafers a set of positional coordinates each time the wafer moves within the wafer processing system. In an example embodiment, a wafer is placed into a first processing stage and it is rotated to a certain angle of rotation. As the wafer moves from one processing stage to another the wafer is given a different angle of rotation; both the rotation angle and the wafer location are then recorded as a set of positional coordinates. The processed wafer is examined for surface deviations arising from variations in the processing parameters. The positional coordinates are used to develop a wafer movement map that aids in identifying the processing stage location where the deviation in the processing parameters occurred. An important advantage is the increased processing deviation traceability that the method brings to wafer processing.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for detecting a processing deviation in a multiple stage wafer processing system having at least two processing parameters, the method comprising: determining an angle of rotation of a wafer as it is presented to a plurality of stages of wafer processing; recording the angle of rotation of the wafer and a corresponding processing location of the wafer as the wafer moves through each stage of wafer processing; analyzing the wafer for any deviations; and correlating the wafer deviation to at least one of the processing parameters and at least one of the processing locations within the wafer processing system. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of recording rotation angles includes using a computer arrangement to develop a historical wafer movement map composed of a plurality of sets of coordinates, each set of coordinates including the angle of rotation and the corresponding processing location of the wafer. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the step of recording includes recording an identification code disposed on the wafer. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of determining rotation angles includes rotating the wafer to an angle of rotation that is selected from the group consisting of incoming, translation and outgoing angles of rotation. 5. The method of claim 1, further including the step of tracking and recording angles of rotation wafer data in connection with the wafer moving through a multiple chamber part of the processing system. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of determining a rotation angle includes: determining an incoming angle of rotation of a wafer as the wafer is moving into a first processing stages; and determining an angle of translation of the wafer as the wafer is being processed in the first stage. 7. The method of claim 6, further including the step of rotating the wafer to an outgoing angle of rotation as the wafer is exiting the first processing stages. 8. The method of claim 1, further comprising rotating the wafer to a predefined incoming angle of rotation. 9. The method of claim 1, further comprising randomly rotating the wafer to an angle of rotation as it is presented to a plurality of stages of wafer processing. 10. A method for detecting a processing deviation in a multiple stage wafer processing system having at least two processing parameters, the method comprising: determining an angle of rotation of a wafer as it is presented to a plurality of stages of wafer processing; recording the angle of rotation of the wafer and a corresponding processing location of the wafer as the wafer moves through each stage of wafer processing including using a computer arrangement to develop a historical wafer movement map composed of a plurality of sets of coordinates, each set of coordinates including the angle of rotation and the corresponding processing location of the wafer; analyzing the wafer for any deviations; and correlating the wafer deviation to at least one of the processing parameters and at least one of the processing locations within the wafer processing system including subtracting the sets of coordinates to arrive at the processing location where the deviation occurred. 11. A method for detecting a processing deviation in a multiple stage wafer processing system having at least two processing parameters, the method comprising: determining an angle of rotation of a wafer as it is presented to a plurality of stages of wafer processing; recording the angle of rotation of the wafer and a corresponding processing location of the wafer as the wafer moves through each stage of wafer processing; analyzing the wafer for any deviations; correlating the wafer deviation to at least one of the processing parameters and at least one of the processing locations within the wafer processing system; generating data on the deviation from the processing parameters after the wafer exits a first processing stage; using the deviation data to adjust the processing parameters of a second processing stage before the wafer is moved into the second stage; and using the deviation data to adjust the processing parameters of the first processing stage before another wafer is moved into the first stage. 12. A method for detecting a processing deviation in a multiple stage wafer processing system having at least two processing parameters, the method comprising: determining an angle of rotation of a wafer as it is presented to a plurality of stages of wafer processing; recording the angle of rotation of the wafer and a corresponding processing location of the wafer as the wafer moves through each stage of wafer processing; analyzing the wafer for any deviations; and correlating the wafer deviation to at least one of the processing parameters and at least one of the processing locations within the wafer processing system including the steps of: conducting wafer deviation analysis to determine the portion of the wafer structure that has the deviation; and correlating the wafer structure portion to the processing stage location that caused deviation. 13. A method for detecting a processing deviation in a multiple stage wafer processing system having at least two processing parameters, the method comprising: determining an angle of rotation of a wafer as it is presented to a plurality of stages of wafer processing; recording the angle of rotation of the wafer and a corresponding processing location of the wafer as the wafer moves through each stage of wafer processing; analyzing the wafer for any deviations; correlating the wafer deviation to at least one of the processing parameters and at least one of the processing locations within the wafer processing system; applying a processing recipe to the wafer; and analyzing the wafer in relation to the processing recipe to determine the existence of a deviation from the recipe. 14. The method of claim 13, further including the steps of: generating data on any wafer deviation from the recipe after the wafer exits a first processing stage; using the data to adjust the processing recipe of a second processing stage before the wafer is moved into the second stage; and using the data to adjust the processing recipe of the first processing stage before another wafer is moved into the first stage. 15. A system for detecting a processing deviation in a multiple stage wafer processing system having at least two processing parameters, the system comprising: means for determining an angle of rotation on a wafer as the wafer is presented to a plurality of processing stages; means for recording the angle of rotation and a corresponding processing location of the wafer in the wafer processing system; means for analyzing the wafer for a deviation; and means for correlating the wafer deviation to at least one of the processing parameters and at least one of the processing locations within the wafer processing system. 16. A system for detecting a processing deviation in a multiple stage wafer processing system having at least two processing parameters, the system comprising: a scanning device for determining an incoming angle of rotation of a wafer as the wafer is moving into a first processing stage and determining a translation angle of the wafer as the wafer is within the first processing stage; a rotating device for rotating the wafer to an outgoing angle of rotation as the wafer is exiting the first stage and moving into a second processing stage; a computer arrangement for recording the angles of rotation and a corresponding processing location of the wafer as the wafer moves through each stage of wafer processing; and an analyzer arrangement that detects deviations in the processed wafer; wherein the computer arrangement performs a correlation analysis of the wafer data to correlate the wafer deviations to at least one of the processing parameters and to at least one of the processing location within the processing system. 17. The system of claim 16, wherein the computer arrangement is adapted to develop a historical wafer movement map composed of a plurality of sets of coordinates, each set of coordinates including the angle of rotation and the corresponding processing location of the wafer. 18. The system of claim 16, further including a wafer carrier movement detector for determining the rate of rotation of the carrier moving within the processing system, the rate of rotation being recorded and incorporated into correlation analysis performed by the computer arrangement. 19. The system of claim 16, further including a multiple chamber subsystem that imparts additional angles of rotation on the wafer that are recorded in the computer arrangement. 20. The system of claim 16, further including a sorting apparatus for identifying the wafer and placing the wafer in a carrier slot with an incoming angle of rotation. 21. The system of claim 16, further including a control system coupled to the computer arrangement and adapted to share wafer processing data generated from prior production runs for use in correlation analysis. 22. A system for detecting a processing deviation in a multiple stage wafer processing system having at least two processing parameters, the system comprising: a scanning device for determining an incoming angle of rotation of a wafer as the wafer is moving into a first processing stage and determining a translation angle of the wafer as the wafer is within the first processing stage; a rotating device for rotating the wafer to an outgoing angle of rotation as the wafer is exiting the first stage and moving into a second processing stage; a computer arrangement for recording the angles of rotation and a corresponding processing location of the wafer as the wafer moves through each stage of wafer processing adapted to develop a historical wafer movement map composed of a plurality of sets of coordinates, each set of coordinates including the angle of rotation and the corresponding processing location of the wafer and further adapted to subtract the sets of coordinates to arrive at the processing location where the deviation occurred in performing the correlation analysis; and an analyzer arrangement that detects deviations in the processed wafer, wherein the computer arrangement performs a correlation analysis of the wafer data to correlate the wafer deviations to at least one of the processing parameters and to at least one of the processing locations within the processing system. 23. A system for detecting a processing deviation in a multiple stage wafer processing system having at least two processing parameters, the system comprising: a scanning device for determining an incoming angle of rotation of a wafer as the wafer is moving into a first processing stage and determining a translation angle of the wafer as the wafer is within the first processing stage; a rotating device for rotating the wafer to an outgoing angle of rotation as the wafer is exiting the first stage and moving into a second processing stage; a computer arrangement for recording the angles of rotation and a corresponding processing location of the wafer as the wafer moves through each stage of wafer processing adapted to develop a historical wafer movement map composed of a plurality of sets of coordinates, each set of coordinates including the angle of rotation and the corresponding processing location of the wafer, further adapted to subtract the sets of coordinates to arrive at the processing location where the deviation occurred in performing the correlation analysis and further adapted to process wafer deviation analysis data to determine the portion of the wafer structure that has the deviation and to correlate the deviation to the processing parameter and location causing the deviation; and an analyzer arrangement that detects deviations in the processed wafer, wherein the computer arrangement performs a correlation analysis of the wafer data to correlate the wafer deviations to at least one of the processing parameters and to at least one of the processing locations within the processing system. 24. A system for detecting a processing deviation in a multiple stage wafer processing system having at least two processing parameters, the system comprising: a scanning device for determining an incoming angle of rotation of a wafer as the wafer is moving into a first processing stage and determining a translation angle of the wafer as the wafer is within the first processing stage; a rotating device for rotating the wafer to an outgoing angle of rotation as the wafer is exiting the first stage and moving into a second processing stage; a computer arrangement for recording the angles of rotation and a corresponding processing location of the wafer as the wafer moves through each stage of wafer processing; an analyzer arrangement that detects deviations in the processed wafer, wherein the computer arrangement performs a correlation analysis of the wafer data to correlate the wafer deviations to at least one of the processing parameters and to at least one of the processing locations within the processing system; and a robotic mechanism for placing the wafer within one of the processing stages, the robotic mechanism imparting the translation angle on the wafer. 25. A system for detecting a processing deviation in a multiple stage wafer processing system having at least two processing parameters, the system comprising: a scanning device for determining an incoming angle of rotation of a wafer as the wafer is moving into a first processing stage and determining a translation angle of the wafer as the wafer is within the first processing stage; a rotating device for rotating the wafer to an outgoing angle of rotation as the wafer is exiting the first stage and moving into a second processing stage; a computer arrangement for recording the angles of rotation and a corresponding processing location of the wafer as the wafer moves through each stage of wafer processing and adapted to analyze the wafer deviation in relation to a processing recipe to determine the existence of a deviation from the recipe; and an analyzer arrangement that detects deviations in the processed wafer, wherein the computer arrangement performs a correlation analysis of the wafer data to correlate the wafer deviations to at least one of the processing parameters and to at least one of the processing locations within the processing system. 26. A method for detecting a processing deviation in a multiple stage wafer processing system having at least two processing parameters, the method comprising: determining an angle of rotation on a wafer as it is presented to a plurality of processing stages; applying a processing recipe to the wafer; recording the angle of rotation of the wafer and a corresponding processing location of the wafer in the wafer processing system; analyzing the wafer for any deviations in relation to the processing recipe to determine the existence of a deviation from the recipe; and correlating the wafer deviation to at least one of the processing parameters and at least one of the processing locations within the wafer processing system. 27. The method of claim 26, further including the steps of: generating data on any wafer deviation from the recipe after the wafer exits a first processing stage; using the data to adjust the processing recipe of a second processing stage before the wafer is moved into the second stage; and using the data to adjust the processing recipe of the first processing stage before another wafer is moved into the first stage. 28. A method for detecting a processing deviation in a multiple stage wafer processing system having at least two processing parameters, the method comprising: determining an angle of rotation of a wafer as it is presented to a plurality of stages of wafer processing including scanning the wafer for the orientation of a reference point on the wafer; recording the angle of rotation of the wafer and a corresponding processing location of the wafer as the wafer moves through each stage of wafer processing; analyzing the wafer for any deviations; and correlating the wafer deviation to at least one of the processing parameters and at least one of the processing locations within the wafer processing system. 29. A system for detecting a processing deviation in a multiple stage wafer processing system having at least two processing parameters, the system comprising: a scanning device for determining an incoming angle of rotation of each of a plurality of wafers of a carrier as the carrier is moving into a first processing stage; a rotating device adapted to rotate each wafer to a predefined incoming angle of rotation as the carrier is moving into a first processing stage, the rotating device being further adapted to rotate each wafer to an outgoing angle of rotation as the carrier is exiting the first stage; a computer arrangement for recording the angles of rotation and a corresponding processing location of the wafers as the wafers move through each stage of wafer processing; and an analyzer arrangement that detects deviations in the processed wafers; wherein the computer arrangement performs a correlation analysis of the wafer data to correlate respective wafer deviations to at least one of the processing parameters and to at least one of the processing location within the processing system. 30. The system of claim 29, wherein the rotating device is further adapted to rotate each wafer of the carrier to a predefined incoming angle of rotation distinct from the incoming angle of rotation of other wafers, the outgoing angle of rotation being a predetermined increment from the incoming angle of rotation for each wafer. 31. The system of claim 29, wherein the rotating device is further adapted to rotate each wafer of the carrier to the same predefined incoming angle of rotation, the outgoing angle of rotation for each respective wafer being selected randomly. 32. A system for detecting a processing deviation in a multiple stage wafer processing system having at least two processing parameters, the system comprising: a scanning device for determining an incoming angle of rotation of each of a plurality of wafers of a carrier as the carrier is moving into a first processing stage; a rotating device adapted to rotate each wafer to a predefined incoming angle of rotation as the carrier is moving into a first processing stage the rotating device being further adapted to rotate each wafer to an outgoing angle of rotation as the carrier is exiting the first stage and further adapted to rotate each wafer to a predefined incoming angle of rotation distinct from the incoming angle of rotation of other wafers of the carrier, the outgoing angle of rotation for each respective wafer being selected randomly; a computer arrangement for recording the angles of rotation and a corresponding processing location of the wafers as the wafers move through each stage of wafer processing; and an analyzer arrangement that detects deviations in the processed wafers, wherein the computer arrangement performs a correlation analysis of the wafer data to correlate respective wafer deviations to at least one of the processing parameters and to at least one of the processing locations within the processing system. 