A workpiece handling system with dual load locks, a transport chamber and a process chamber. Workpieces may be retrieved from one load lock for processing at vacuum pressure, while workpieces are unloaded from the other load lock at the pressure of the surrounding environment. The transport chamber has a transport robot with two arms. Processed workpieces and new workpieces may be exchanged by a simple under/over motion of the two robot arms. The transport robot rotates about a central shaft to align with the load locks or the process chamber. The robot may also be raised or lowered to align the arms with the desired location to which workpieces are deposited or from which workpieces are retrieved. The two load locks may be positioned one above the other such that a simple vertical motion of the robot can be used to select between the two load locks. The two load locks and transport robot allow almost continuous processing. Additional process chambers may be added to the transport chamber to further increase throughput. Each stage of the workpiece handling system may also be designed to handle multiple workpieces, such as two side by side workpieces. Throughput is increased while allowing shared machinery to be used. Linear and rotational doors may be used for the load locks to provide a simple, compact design.
Claims We claim: 1. A door system for sealing a doorway between two chambers in a workpiece processing system, the door system comprising: a door sized to seal the doorway; means for moving the door against the doorway to seal the doorway; means for retracting the door from the doorway to unseal the doorway; and means for rotating the door in a vertical direction around an axis substantially parallel to the orientation of the doorway such that workpieces may pass through the doorway, wherein the means for rotating the door comprises: a shaft coupled to the door; a rotation gear coupled to the shaft; and a linear gear operatively engaged with the rotation gear such that linear motion of the linear gear relative to the rotation gear causes rotation of the rotational gear. 2. The door system of claim 1, wherein the means for moving comprises: a housing configured to support the shaft via an aperture formed through the housing and to slidedly move in a linear direction toward the doorway and away from the doorway; a rotary stop block coupled to the housing; and a rotary stop coupled to the shaft, the rotary stop configured to stop rotation of the shaft in response to the rotary stop impinging the rotary stop block, whereby further linear motion of the linear gear relative to the rotation gear causes the housing to move in a linear direction toward the doorway. 3. The door system of claim 1, wherein the means for retracting comprises: a housing configured to support the shaft via an aperture formed through the housing and to slidedly move in a linear direction toward the doorway and away from the doorway; and a spring configured to apply a force to the housing to slidedly move the housing in a linear direction away from the doorway. 4. A door system for sealing a doorway between two chambers in a workpiece processing system, the door system comprising: a door sized to seal the doorway; means for moving the door against the doorway to seal the doorway; means for retracting the door from the doorway to unseal the doorway; and means for rotating the door in a vertical direction around an axis substantially parallel to the orientation of the doorway such that workpieces may pass through the doorway, wherein the means for rotating comprises: a shaft coupled to the door; a linkage member coupled to the shaft; and a piston coupled to the linkage such that actuation of the piston causes rotation of the shaft. 5. The door system of claim 4, wherein the means for moving comprises a wedge member configured to move the shaft in a linear direction toward the doorway in response to actuation of the wedge member. 6. A door system for sealing a doorway between two chambers in a workpiece processing system, the door system comprising: a door sized to seal the doorway, the door having an open position that allows workpieces to pass through the doorway and a sealing position that orients the door to seal the doorway; a housing having an open position rotation stop and a sealing position rotation stop; a shaft coupled to the door and rotationally coupled to the housing; a rotation gear coupled to the shaft wherein the rotation gear includes a rotary stop which contacts the open position rotation stop when the door is in the open position and which contacts the sealing position rotation stop when the door is in the sealing position; a linear gear operatively engaged with the rotation gear such that linear motion of the linear gear relative to the rotation gear causes rotation of the door in a vertical direction between the open position and the sealed position. 7. The door system of claim 6, further comprising a spring coupled to the housing wherein the spring pushes the housing in a direction substantially parallel to the direction of linear motion of the linear gear. 8. The door system of claim 6, wherein the housing is configured to slidedly move between a first position and a second position in response to movement of the linear gear, the first position compressing the door against the doorway when the door is in the sealing position and the second position providing a space between the door and the doorway when the door is not in the sealing position. 9. The door system of claim 6, wherein the linear gear is coupled to a piston to provide the linear motion. 10. The door system of claim 6, wherein the linear gear is coupled to a lead screw to provide the linear motion. 11. The door system of claim 6, further comprising a sealing member coupled to a peripheral portion of the doorway to seal the doorway when the door is in the sealing position. 12. A door system for sealing a doorway between a first chamber and a second chamber, the door system comprising: a door having an area larger than the doorway; a shaft coupled to the door, the shaft configured to rotate the door in a vertical direction between an open position that allows workpieces to pass through the doorway and a closed position that orients the door to seal the doorway; and a rotable drive, coupled to the shaft, configured to rotatably actuate the shaft to rotate the door between the open position and the closed position and to linearly translate the door between a sealed position and an unsealed position, the sealed position compressing the door against the doorway when the door is in a closed position and the unsealed position allowing the door to move between the closed position and the open position. 13. The door system of claim 12, wherein the rotable drive comprises: a rotation gear coupled to the shaft; and a linear gear operatively engaged with the rotation gear such that linear motion of the linear gear relative to the rotation gear causes rotation of the rotation gear and the door between the open position and the sealed position. 14. The door system of claim 13, wherein the rotable drive further comprises a housing for supporting the shaft, the housing configured to slidedly move the shaft between the sealed position and the unsealed position in response to actuation of the linear gear. 15. The door system of claim 13, wherein the rotation gear includes a rotary stop which contacts an open position rotation stop when the door is in the open position and which contacts a sealing position rotation stop when the door is in the sealing position. 16. The door system of claim 12, wherein the rotable drive comprises: a linkage coupled to the shaft; a piston coupled to the linkage such that actuation of the piston causes rotation of the door between the open position and the closed position; and a wedge member configured to linearly translate the rotable drive to move door between the sealed position and the unsealed position in response to actuation of the wedge member. 17. The door system of claim 16, further comprising sensors for sensing a position of the door and coordinating actuation of the piston and the wedge member such that the door is moved to the unsealed position before the door is moved between the open position and the closed position. 18. The door system of claim 16, wherein the rotable drive further comprises a housing for supporting the shaft, the housing configured to slidedly move the shaft between the sealed position and the unsealed position in response to actuation of the wedge member. 