A method and apparatus for reacting a plurality of different mixtures in parallel in a semi-batch or continuous mode is provided. Each reaction is contained within a reactor vessel, the reactor vessels combined into a reactor block. Reactant(s) to be added during the reaction are kept in a header barrel, which has a plunger to feed reactant(s) from the header barrel through a transfer line into the reactor vessel. The plunger is moved using a drive system. The header barrels are optionally combined in a header block. The header block is sealed to a plate containing the transfer lines, which in turn is sealed to the reactor block. A latch mechanism is provided for easy sealing of the reactor and header blocks to the plate. The entire apparatus may be placed on a rocker or rotating plate for mixture as the reaction is proceeding.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for effecting multiple reactions in parallel, the method comprising providing a parallel semi-continuous or continuous reactor, the reactor comprising (i) a reactor block having a plurality of semi-continuous or continuous sealed reactor vessels, and (ii) at least one header barrel for containing one or more liquid feed components, the at least one header barrel being in fluid communication with each of the plurality of reactor vessels, initiating a reaction in each of the plurality of sealed reactor vessels, and feeding the one or more feed components into each of the plurality of sealed reactor vessels under reaction conditions, the one or more feed components being serially fed into each of the plurality of sealed reactor vessels. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the reactor comprises a header block having a plurality of header barrels corresponding to said plurality of reactor vessels. 3. A method for effecting multiple reactions in parallel, the method comprising providing a parallel semi-continuous or continuous reactor, the reactor comprising (i) a reactor block having a plurality of semi-continuous or continuous reactor vessels, (ii) a header block having at least one header barrel for containing one or more liquid feed components, the at least one header barrel being in fluid communication with each of the plurality of reactor vessels, (iii) a transfer plate between the reactor block and the header block, the transfer plate comprising a plurality of transfer lines corresponding to the plurality of reactor vessels, the plurality of transfer lines providing fluid communication between the plurality of reactor vessels and the at least one header barrel, (iv) a reactor seal between the reactor block and the transfer plate for sealing the plurality of reactors, and (v) a header seal between the header block and the transfer plate for sealing the at least one header barrel, initiating a reaction in each of the plurality of reactor vessels, and feeding the one or more feed components into each of the plurality of reactor vessels under reaction conditions. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein the one or more feed components are simultaneously fed into each of the plurality of reactor vessels. 5. The method of claim 3 wherein the header block comprises a plurality of header barrels corresponding to the plurality of reactor vessels. 6. A method for effecting multiple reactions in parallel, the method comprising providing a parallel semi-continuous or continuous reactor, the reactor comprising (i) a reactor block having a plurality of semi-continuous or continuous reactor vessels, the plurality of reaction vessels having a variable volume, and (ii) at least one header barrel for containing one or more liquid feed components, the at least one header barrel being in fluid communication with each of the plurality of reactor vessels, initiating a reaction in each of the plurality of reactor vessels, and feeding the one or more feed components into each of the plurality of reactor vessels under reaction conditions. 7. A method for effecting multiple reactions in parallel, the method comprising providing a parallel semi-continuous or continuous reactor, the reactor comprising (i) a reactor block having a plurality of semi-continuous or continuous sealed reactor vessels, and (ii) multiple header barrels for containing liquid feed components, each of the multiple header barrels being in fluid communication with each of the plurality of sealed reactor vessels through a transfer system comprising, for each of the multiple header barrels: (i) a pump, (ii) a feed line providing fluid communication between the header barrel and the pump, and (iii) transfer lines providing fluid communication between the pump and each of the plurality of sealed reactor vessels, initiating a reaction in each of the plurality of sealed reactor vessels, and feeding the feed components from each of the multiple header barrels through the transfer lines into each of the plurality of sealed reactor vessels under reaction conditions. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein the one or more feed components are fed simultaneously from at least one of the multiple header barrels into each of the plurality of reactor vessels. 9. A method for effecting multiple reactions in parallel, the method comprising providing a parallel semi-continuous or continuous reactor, the reactor comprising (i) a reactor block having a plurality of semi-continuous or continuous reactor vessels, and (ii) multiple header barrels for containing liquid feed components, each of the multiple header barrels being in fluid communication with each of the plurality of reactor vessels, initiating a reaction in each of the plurality of reactor vessels, and feeding the feed components from each of the multiple header barrels into each of the plurality of reactor vessels under reaction conditions, the feed components being fed serially from at least one of the multiple header barrels into each of the plurality of reactor vessels. 10. A method for effecting multiple reactions in parallel, the method comprising providing a parallel semi-continuous or continuous reactor, the reactor comprising (i) a reactor block having a plurality of semi-continuous or continuous reactor vessels, and (ii) multiple header barrels for containing liquid feed components, each of the multiple header barrels being in fluid communication with each of the plurality of reactor vessels, initiating a reaction in each of the plurality of reactor vessels, and feeding the feed components from each of the multiple header barrels into each of the plurality of reactor vessels under reaction conditions, the one or more feed components being fed from each of the multiple header barrels to each of the plurality of reactor vessels through a transfer system that comprises, for each of the multiple header barrels: a pump, a feed line providing fluid communication between the header barrel and the pump, and a transfer line providing selective fluid communication between the pump and each of the plurality of reactor vessels, the transfer line including a valve for serially directing flow into each of the plurality of reactor vessels. 11. The method of claim 7 wherein the reactor comprises a header block having the multiple header barrels. 12. The method of claims 1, 3, 6, 7, 9 or 10 wherein the reactor vessels are removable reactor vessels, and the reactor block further comprises a plurality of wells sized to receive the removable reactor vessels. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein the removable reactor vessels are glass vials. 14. A method for effecting multiple reactions in parallel, the method comprising providing a parallel semi-continuous or continuous reactor, the reactor comprising (i) a reactor block comprising a plurality of semi-continuous or continuous removable reactor vessels, and a plurality of wells sized to receive the removable reactor vessels, (ii) at least one header barrel for containing one or more liquid feed components, the at least one header barrel being in fluid communication with each of the plurality of reactor vessels, and (iii) a plate secured to the reactor block, the plurality of wells of the reactor block comprising a spring loaded bottom such that the removable reactor vessels contact the spring-loaded bottoms so that the reactor vessels are forced against the plate to seal the reactor vessels, initiating a reaction in each of the plurality of reactor vessels, and feeding the one or more feed components into each of the plurality of reactor vessels under reaction conditions. 15. A method for effecting multiple reactions in parallel, the method comprising providing a parallel semi-continuous or continuous reactor, the reactor comprising (i) a plurality of semi-continuous or continuous reactor vessels, (ii) multiple header barrels for containing one or more liquid feed components, and (iii) a transfer system for feeding the one or more feed components from each of the multiple header barrels to each of the plurality of reactor vessels, the transfer system comprising, for each of the multiple header barrels: a pump, a feed line providing fluid communication between the header barrel and the pump, and a transfer line providing selective fluid communication between the pump and each of the plurality of reactor vessels, the transfer line including a valve for serially directing flow to each of the plurality of reactor vessels, initiating a reaction in each of the plurality of reactor vessels, and feeding the one or more feed components from the multiple header barrels into the plurality of reactor vessels under reaction conditions, the feed components being fed from each header barrel through its associated feed line, pump, valve and transfer line. 16. The method of claim 15 wherein the transfer system comprises a single pump for each of the multiple header barrels. 17. The method of claim 15 wherein the reactor comprises a reactor block having the plurality of reactor vessels. 18. The method of claim 15 wherein the reactor comprises a header block having the multiple header barrels. 19. The method of claim 15 wherein the reactor comprises at least six reactor vessels. 20. The method of claim 15 wherein the reactor comprises at least 48 reactor vessels. 21. The method of claim 15 wherein the reactor comprises at least 96 reactor vessels. 22. The method of claim 15 wherein the one or more feed components are fed simultaneously from the multiple header barrels into one of the plurality of reactor vessels. 23. The method of claims 7, 10 or 15 further comprising varying the reaction conditions between each of the plurality of reactor vessels. 24. The method of claims 7, 10 or 15 further comprising varying the temperature or pressure between each of the plurality of reactor vessels. 25. The method of claims 7, 10 or 15 further comprising varying the reaction mixture compositions between each of the plurality of reactor vessels. 26. The method of claims 7, 10 or 15 further comprising varying the feed composition of the one or more feed components between each of the plurality of reactor vessels. 27. The method of claims 7, 10 or 15 further comprising varying the feed rate of the one or more feed components between each of the plurality of reactor vessels. 28. The method of claims 7, 10 or 15 further comprising mixing the reaction mixture of each of the plurality of reactor vessels while feeding the one or more feed components into the reactor vessels. 29. The method of claim 28 wherein the mixing step comprises adding a mixing ball to each of the plurality of reactor vessels, and rocking or rotating each of the plurality of reactor vessels. 30. The method of claim 28 wherein the mixing step comprises stirring the contents of each of the plurality of reactor vessels. 31. The method of claims 7, 10 or 17 wherein the reactor block comprises at least six reactor vessels. 32. The method of claims 7, 10 or 17 wherein the reactor block comprises at least forty-eight reactor vessels. 33. The method of claims 7, 10 or 17 wherein the reactor block comprises at least ninety-six reactor vessels. 34. The method of claims 7, 10 or 15 wherein the reaction initiated in each of the plurality of reaction vessels is a polymerization reaction. 35. The method of claim 34 wherein the reaction is initiated in each of the plurality of reactor vessels with starting materials selected from the group consisting of solvents, monomers, comonomers, catalysts, co-catalysts, initiators, co-initiators, scavengers and combinations thereof. 36. The method of claim 34 wherein the one or more feed components are selected from the group consisting of solvents, monomers, comonomers, catalysts, co-catalysts, initiators, co-initiators, scavengers and combinations thereof. 37. The method of claims 7, 10 or 15 wherein the plurality of reactor vessels are a plurality of semi-continuous reactor vessels. 38. The method of claims 7, 10 or 15 wherein the plurality of reactor vessels are a plurality of continuous reactor vessels, the method further comprising removing reaction product from the reactors as feed components are fed to the reactors. 39. A method for combinatorial research of chemical reactions, the method comprising providing a parallel semi-continuous or continuous reactor, the reactor comprising six or more semi-continuous or continuous reactor vessels, and at least one header barrel for containing one or more liquid feed components, the at least one header barrel being in fluid communication with each of the six or more reactor vessels, the at least one header barrel containing one or more feed components selected from the group consisting of solvents, monomers, comonomers, catalysts, co-catalysts, initiators, co-initiators, scavengers and combinations thereof, initiating a polymerization reaction in each of the six or more reactor vessels to effect six or more parallel reactions, the polymerization reaction being initiated in each of the six or more reactor vessels with starting materials selected from the group consisting of solvents, monomers, comonomers, catalysts, co-catalysts, initiators, co-initiators, scavengers and combinations thereof, feeding the one or more feed components into each of the plurality of reactor vessels under reaction conditions, and varying the reaction mixture compositions or reaction conditions between each of the six or more reactor vessels. 40. The method of claim 39 wherein the polymerization reaction is a free radical polymerization reaction or cationic polymerization reaction. 41. The method of claim 39 wherein the polymerization reaction is an emulsion polymerization reaction. 42. The method of claim 39 wherein the reactor comprises a reactor block having the six or more reactor vessels. 43. The method of claim 39 wherein the reactor comprises a header block having the multiple header barrels. 44. The method of claim 39 wherein the reactor comprises multiple header barrels, each of the multiple header barrels being in fluid communication with each of the plurality of reactor vessels, and wherein the one or more feed components are fed from each of the multiple header barrels into each of the plurality of reactor vessels under reaction conditions. 45. The method of claim 40 wherein the reactor comprises at least 48 reactor vessels. 46. The method of claim 40 wherein the reactor comprises at least 96 reactor vessels. 47. The method of claim 40 wherein the reaction conditions between each of the six or more reactor vessels are varied. 48. The method of claim 40 wherein the temperature or pressure between each of the six or more reactor vessels are varied. 49. The method of claim 40 wherein the reaction mixture compositions between each of the six or more reactor vessels are varied. 50. The method of claim 40 further comprising varying the feed composition of the one or more feed components between each of the six or more reactor vessels. 51. The method of claims 40 further comprising varying the feed rate of the one or more feed components between each of the six or more reactor vessels. 52. The method of claim 40 further comprising mixing the reaction mixture of each of the six or more reactor vessels while feeding the one or more feed components into the reactor vessels. 53. The method of claims 14 wherein the reactor block further comprises one or more spring pre-tensioners, the spring pretensioners comprising one or more springs for providing a force to the spring loaded bottoms of the wells such that the reactor vessels are forced against the plate to seal the reactor vessels, the spring pretensioners being adapted to allow different spring tensions. 54. The method of claim 14 wherein the reactor block further comprises a plurality of spring pre-tensioriers corresponding to the plurality of spring-loaded bottoms of the plurality of wells, the spring pretensioners comprising one or more springs for providing a force to the spring loaded bottoms of the wells such that the reactor vessels are forced against the plate to seal the reactor vessels, the spring pretensioners being adapted to allow different spring tensions. 55. The method of claims 6, 9, 10, 15, 39, 53 or 54 wherein the reactor vessels are sealed reactor vessels. 56. The method of claim 14 wherein the reactor further comprises a seal associated with the plate, and the top of the reactor vessels contact the seal to form sealed reactor vessels. 