A coupling apparatus for adjustably mounting modular tooling members having a base member releasably connectable to a slide mount wherein said base member is adjustably located along a predetermined path of travel defined by the slide mount. The base member is rotatably adjustable with respect to a midportion via a pair of matingly engaging contoured surfaces. In a preferred embodiment, the midportion may also be rotatably adjustable with respect to an end member along a second rotational axis. The midportion and the end member may be adjustably rotated through a pair of contoured surfaces substantially similar to that provided between the midportion and the base member. The end member provides an aperture for releasably connecting a boom rod to the end member. In an alternative embodiment, the midportion is integrally connected to the end member wherein the end member provides an aperture for matingly engaging a first spline rod. The first spline rod may be rotatably adjusted about a second rotational axis. A spline bracket may be adjustably connected to the opposite end of the first spline rod while also engaging one end of a second spline rod. The spline bracket provides rotational adjustment of the two spline rods wherein the axes of the spline rods are substantially perpendicular and axially spaced from one another. A workpiece mounting bracket having a base member, midportion, and end member, may then be used to matingly engage and adjustably connect the second spline rod to a workpiece handling device.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A coupling apparatus for adjustably mounting modular tooling members comprising: a base member releasably connectable to a slide mount and having a first contoured surface; a midportion having a second contoured surface that matingly engages and is adjustably connected to said first contoured surface of said base member for rotatably adjusting said midportion about a first axis; and an end member integrally connected to said midportion and having a third contoured surface that matingly engages and is adjustably connected to a first spline rod for rotatably adjusting said spline rod about a second axis. 2. The coupling apparatus stated in claim 1, further comprising: indicia formed on at least one pair of said base member and said midportion and of said end member and said first spline rod to indicate at least one of the relative positions of said midportion relative to said base member and of said first spline rod relative to said end member. 3. The coupling apparatus stated in claim 1, further comprising: said first and second contoured surfaces having complementary V-shaped serrated teeth formed therein. 4. The coupling apparatus stated in claim 1, further comprising: said third contoured surface of said end member having at least one spline tooth formed therein for matingly engaging said first spline rod. 5. The coupling apparatus stated in claim 1, further comprising: said first spline rod having a first end and a second end wherein said first end is adjustably connected to said end member; a spline bracket adjustably connected to said second end of said first spline rod for rotatably adjusting said spline bracket relative to said first spline rod about said second axis; and said spline bracket adjustably connected to a second spline rod for rotatably adjusting said second spline rod about a third axis. 6. The coupling apparatus stated in claim 5, further comprising: said second spline rod having a first end and a second end wherein said first end is adjustably connected to said spline bracket; and a workpiece mounting bracket adjustably connected to said second end of said second spline rod for rotational adjustment of said second spline rod relative to said workpiece mounting bracket about said third axis wherein said workpiece mounting bracket is connectable to a workpiece handling device. 7. A coupling apparatus for adjustably mounting modular tooling members comprising: a base member releasably connectable and adjustable along a predetermined path of travel of a slide mount, and said base member having a first contoured surface; a midportion having a second contoured surface that matingly engages and is adjustably connected to said first contoured surface of said base member for rotatably adjusting said midportion about a first rotational axis; and an end member integrally connected to said midportion and having an aperture extending therethrough for receiving a first spline rod, and said end member having at least one spline formed therein and extending into said aperture for matingly engaging said first spline rod wherein said first spline rod may be rotatably adjusted relative to said end member about a second rotational axis. 8. The coupling apparatus stated in claim 7, further comprising: a position indicator having indicia formed on said midportion and said base member adjacent said first and second contoured surfaces, respectively, to indicate the relative rotational position of said midportion relative to said base member about said first rotational axis. 9. The coupling apparatus stated in claim 7, further comprising: a position indicator having indicia formed on said end member and said first spline rod to indicate the rotational position of said spline rod relative to said end member about said second rotational axis. 10. The coupling apparatus stated in claim 7, further comprising: said first and second contoured surfaces having complementary V-shaped serrated teeth formed therein. 11. The coupling apparatus stated in claim 7, further comprising: said contoured surfaces being substantially circular and having V-shaped teeth extending radially outward. 12. The coupling apparatus stated in claim 7, further comprising: said first spline rod having a first end and a second end wherein said first end is adjustably connected to said end member; a spline bracket adjustably connected to said second end of said first spline rod for rotatably adjusting said spline bracket relative to said first spline rod about said second axis; and said spline bracket adjustably connected to a second spline rod for rotational adjustment of said second spline rod about a third axis. 13. The coupling apparatus stated in claim 7, further comprising: said second spline rod having a first end and a second end wherein said first end is adjustably connected to said spline bracket; and a workpiece mounting bracket adjustably connected to said second end of said second spline rod for rotational adjustment of said second spline rod relative to said workpiece mounting bracket wherein said workpiece mounting bracket is connectable to a workpiece handling device. 14. A coupling apparatus for adjustably mounting modular tooling members comprising: a base member releasably connectable to a slide mount for adjustable movement along a substantially horizontal axis, and said base member having a plurality of V-shaped serrated teeth formed therein; a midportion bracket having a plurality of V-shaped serrated teeth formed therein that matingly engage and are adjustably connected to said serrated teeth of said base member for rotatably adjusting said midportion 360.degree. with respect to said base member about a first rotational axis; and an end member integrally connected to said midportion and having an aperture extending therethrough for adjustably receiving a first spline rod, and said end member having at least one spline formed therein and extending into said aperture for matingly engaging and adjustably connecting said first spline rod to said end member wherein said first spline rod may be rotatably adjusted 360.degree. about a second rotational axis. 15. The coupling apparatus as stated in claim 14, further comprising: a position indicator having indicia formed on said midportion and said base member adjacent said serrated teeth to indicate the relative rotational position of said midportion relative to said base member about said first rotational axis wherein the indicia formed on one of said midportion and said base member indicate angles of rotation in degrees, and the indicia formed on the other of said midportion and said base member provides a marker by which to reference the angles indicated by the other indicia. 16. The coupling apparatus as stated in claim 14, further comprising: a position indicator having indicia formed on said end member and said first spline rod to indicate the rotational position of said first spline rod relative to said end member about said second rotational axis wherein said indicia formed on said end member provides numerals relating to the angles of rotation of said first spline rod relative to said end member, and said indicia formed on said first spline rod providing a marker formed on an individual spline of said spline rod to reference angles of rotation indicated by said indicia on said end member. 17. The coupling apparatus as stated in claim 14, further comprising: said V-shaped serrated teeth being substantially circular and extending radially outward from said second rotational axis. 18. The coupling apparatus as stated in claim 14, further comprising: said first spline rod having a first end and a second end wherein said first end is adjustably connected to said end member; a spline bracket adjustably connected to said second end of said first spline rod for rotatably adjusting said spline bracket relative to said first spline rod about said second rotational axis; and said spline bracket adjustably connected to a second spline rod for rotational adjustment of said spline bracket relative to said second spline rod about a third rotational axis. 19. The coupling apparatus stated in claim 14, further comprising: said second spline rod having a first end and a second end wherein said first end is adjustably connected to said spline bracket; and a workpiece mounting bracket adjustably connected to said second end of said second spline rod for rotational adjustment of said second spline rod relative to said workpiece mounting bracket wherein said workpiece mounting bracket is connectable to a workpiece handling device. 20. The coupling apparatus stated in claim 14, further comprising: said first rotational axis being substantially perpendicular to said second rotational axis. 21. The coupling apparatus stated in claim 14, further comprising: said first rotational axis being substantially parallel to said second rotational axis. 22. The coupling apparatus stated in claim 19, wherein said workpiece mounting bracket further comprises: a second end member for matingly engaging and adjustably connecting said second end of said second spline rod to said second end member; a second midportion integrally connected to said second end member and having a plurality of V-shaped serrated teeth formed therein; a second base member having a plurality of V-shaped serrated teeth formed therein for matingly engaging and adjustably connecting said second base member to said second midportion; and said second base member releasably connected to said workpiece handling device. 