There is disclosed a composition for forming a protective coating upon a substrate. The composition has been found particularly useful for forming a protective coating upon components of automotive vehicles, such as a bedliner for a pick-up truck. The composition may include, without limitation, an isocyanate component and an amine component and optionally includes one or more of a catalyst, stabilizer, pigment, fire retardant or other additives.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A process for coating a surface of an automotive vehicle, comprising: a) providing a surface of an automotive vehicle; b) contacting the surface with a composition comprising: i) an isocyanate in an amount up to about 75% by volume of the composition, the isocyanate being at least 75% aliphatic by weight; and ii) an amine in an amount up to about 75% by volume of the composition, the amine including between greater than 0% and about 40% by volume of an aliphatic primary amine and between about 40% and about 80% by volume of an aliphatic secondary amine; wherein the ratio of the isocyanate to the amine within the composition is between 1:3 and 3:1. 2. A process as in claim 1 wherein the isocyanate is present in the composition from about 30% to about 70% by volume and is at least 90% aliphatic by weight. 3. A process as in claim 1 wherein the isocyanate is present in the composition from about 40% to about 60% by volume and is at least 99% aliphatic by weight. 4. A process as in claim 1 wherein the isocyanate component includes less that 1% isocyanate monomer and is selected from the group consisting of dimerized, trimerized and biureted hexamethylene diisocyanate, a prepolymer thereof and mixtures thereof. 5. A process as in claim 1 wherein the amine includes at least 40% of an aspartic acid ester by weight. 6. A process as in claim 1 wherein the amine is maintained separate from the isocyanate until a time that is less than 60 seconds prior to contacting the composition with the substrate. 7. A process as in claim 1 wherein the composition is contacted with the substrate using an apparatus having a first metering container for receiving the amine a second metering container for receiving the isocyanate and a nozzle in fluid communication with the first and second containers for spraying the composition. 8. A process as in claim 1 further comprising adding into the composition a light stabilizer for assisting the coating in resisting degradation due to exposure to light. 9. A process as in claim 1 further comprising adding into the composition an effective amount of a metal salt for controlling static. 10. A process as in claim 1 further comprising adding into the composition a thixotropic agent. 11. A process for coating a surface of an automotive vehicle with a composition, comprising: a) providing a painted surface of a truck bed; b) providing at a temperature of no greater than about 90.degree.C. an isocyanate component in an amount up to about 75% by volume of the composition, the isocyanate component being at least 75% aliphatic by weight; c) providing at a temperature of no greater than about 90.degree. C. an amine component in an amount up to about 75% by volume of the composition, the amine component including between greater than 0% and about 40% by volume of an aliphatic primary amine and between about 40% and about 80% by volume of an aliphatic secondary amine; d) intermixing the isocyanate component and the amine component to form an admixture of the components; e) spraying the admixture onto the truck bed; and f) curing the admixture at about room temperature; wherein the ratio of the isocyanate to the amine within the composition is between 1:3 and 3:1. 12. A process as in claim 11 wherein the isocyanate component is present in the composition from about 30% to about 70% by volume and is at least 90% aliphatic by weight. 13. A process as in claim 11 wherein the isocyanate component is present in the composition from about 40% to about 60% by volume and is at least 99% aliphatic by weight. 14. A process as in claim 11 wherein at least a portion of the isocyanate component is selected from the group consisting of dicyclohexylmethane 4,4'-diisocyanate, isophorone diisocyanate, tetramethyl-1,3-xylylene diisocyanate, hexamethylene diisocyanate. 15. A process as in claim 11 wherein the amine component includes at least 65% aspartic acid ester by weight. 16. A process as in claim 11 wherein the amine component is maintained separate from the isocyanate component until no greater than 60 seconds prior to contacting the composition with the substrate. 17. A process as in claim 16 wherein the composition is contacted with the substrate using an apparatus having a first metering container for receiving the amine component, a second metering container for receiving the isocyanate component and a nozzle in fluid communication with the first and second containers for spraying the resulting composition. 18. A process as in claim 11 further comprising adding into the admixture a light stabilizer for assisting the coating in resisting degradation due to exposure to light. 19. A process as in claim 11 further comprising adding into the admixture an effective amount of a potassium salt for controlling static. 20. A process for coating a surface of an automotive vehicle with a composition, comprising: a) providing a painted surface of a truck bed; b) providing at a temperature of no greater than about 90.degree. C. an isocyanate component in an amount up to about 75% by volume of the composition, the isocyanate component being at least 75% aliphatic by weight; c) providing at a temperature of no greater than about 90.degree. C. an amine component in an amount up to about 75% by volume of the composition, the amine component being at least partially an aspartic ester of polyoxyalkyleneamine having a mole ratio of amine functionality to the ester of no more than 1:1; d) providing an effective amount of a metal salt for controlling static; e) providing a thixotropic agent; f) intermixing the isocyanate component and the amine component, the metal salt and the thixotropic agent to form an admixture of the components wherein the admixture is substantially free of any catalysts; g) spraying the admixture onto the truck bed; and h) curing the admixture at about room temperature. 21. A process as in claim 1 wherein the isocyanate has a residual monomer level that is less than about 1% by weight for assisting in lowering any volatile emissions of the composition. 22. A process as in claim 1 wherein the isocyanate has a residual monomer level that is less than about 0.2% by weight for assisting in lowering any volatile emissions of the composition. 23. A process as in claim 11 wherein the isocyanate has a residual monomer level that is less than about 1% by weight for assisting in lowering any volatile emissions of the composition. 24. A process as in claim 11 wherein the isocyanate has a residual monomer level that is less than about 0.2% by weight for assisting in lowering any volatile emissions of the composition. 25. A process as in claim 11, further comprising adding into the admixture a thixotropic agent. 26. A process as in claim 1 further comprising adding into the composition a stannous catalyst wherein the stannous catalyst assists in catalyzing formation of a polyurethane linkage for enhancing bonding of the composition to the surface. 27. A process as in claim 11 further comprising adding into the admixture a stannous catalyst wherein the stannous catalyst assists in catalyzing formation of a polyurethane linkage for enhancing bonding of the composition to the surface. 28. A process as in claim 1 wherein the aliphatic primary amine includes one or more polyoxyalkyleneamines having a molecular weight greater than about 200 for assisting in lowering volatile emissions. 29. A process as in claim 28 wherein the aliphatic secondary amine includes one or more aspartic esters having a molecular weight greater than about 190 for assisting in lowering volatile emissions. 30. A process as in claim 11 wherein the aliphatic primary amine includes one or more polyoxyalkyleneamines having a molecular weight greater than about 200 for assisting in lowering volatile emissions. 31. A process as in claim 30 wherein the aliphatic secondary amine includes one or more aspartic esters having a molecular weight greater than about 190 for assisting in lowering volatile emissions. 