Techniques for analyzing an array of compounds utilizing a high throughput microfluidic system are provided. The system can translate a plurality of multiwell plates through various stations for analysis. Effects to sample compounds can be identified according to deviations in a steady state signal. Also, a user can enter the dwell times for sample compounds and a buffer solution so that the system will alternatingly inject the sample compounds and buffer solution into a microfluidic device according to the specified dwell times.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A computer implemented method of analyzing an array of sample compounds utilizing a microfluidic device, comprising: receiving a signal corresponding to sample compounds being driven through the microfluidic device; analyzing the signal to detect a deviation from a steady state signal, wherein analyzing the signal includes determining if the signal exceeds a threshold deviation, wherein the threshold deviation is 10%; and identifying a sample compound that caused the threshold deviation. 2. A computer implemented method of analyzing an array of sample compounds utilizing a microfluidic device, comprising: receiving a signal corresponding to sample compounds being driven through the microfluidic device; analyzing the signal to detect a deviation from a steady state signal, wherein analyzing the signal includes determining if the signal exceeds a threshold deviation and wherein the expected signal profile is based on a signal from a control experiment for obtaining the expected signal profile; and identifying a sample compound that caused the threshold deviation. 3. A computer implemented method of analyzing an array of sample compounds utilizing a microfluidic device, comprising: receiving a signal corresponding to sample compounds being driven through the microfluidic device, wherein the sample compounds are stored in multiple wells in which markers are stored in known wells; analyzing the signal to detect a deviation from a steady state signal, wherein analyzing the signal includes determining if the signal exceeds a threshold deviation; and identifying a sample compound that caused the threshold deviation. 4. The computer implemented method of claim 3, wherein the markers are stored at regular well intervals. 5. The computer implemented method of claim 3, wherein identifying a sample compound includes determining relative position of the well of the sample compound in relation to a well of a marker. 6. A computer implemented method of analyzing an array of sample compounds utilizing a microfluidic device, comprising: receiving a signal corresponding to sample compounds being driven through the microfluidic device; analyzing the signal to detect a deviation from a steady state signal, wherein analyzing the signal includes determining if the signal exceeds a threshold deviation; identifying a sample compound that caused the threshold deviation; identifying sample compounds in the signal that are near in time being driven through the microfluidic device to the identified sample compound; and directing the identified sample compounds to be driven through the microfluidic device again for analysis. 7. A computer implemented method of analyzing an array of sample compounds utilizing a microfluidic device, comprising: receiving user input specifying a dwell time for the sample compounds; receiving user input specifying a dwell time for a buffer solution; receiving user input specifying at least one of an initial delay time before the sample compounds and buffer solution are injected into the microfluidic device and a final delay time after the sample compounds and buffer solution are injected into the microfluidic device; and alternatingly injecting the sample compounds and buffer solution into the microfluidic device for the specified dwell times for the sample compounds and buffer solution. 8. The computer implemented method of claim 7, further comprising receiving user input specifying that a dye be injected into the microfluidic device before the sample compounds. 9. The computer implemented method of claim 8, further comprising receiving user input specifying a dwell time for the dye. 10. The computer implemented method of claim 8, further comprising receiving user input specifying a number of injections for the dye. 11. The computer implemented method of claim 7, further comprising receiving user input specifying that guard fluid should be injected into the microfluidic device before and after each of the sample compounds. 12. The computer implemented method of claim 11, further comprising receiving user input specifying a dwell time for the guard fluid. 13. The computer implemented method of claim 11, further comprising receiving user input specifying a first dwell time for the guard fluid before each of the sample compounds is injected and a second dwell time for the guard fluid after each of the sample compounds is injected. 14. The computer implemented method of claim 7, further comprising receiving user input specifying that pressure should be utilized to drive the sample compounds and buffer solution through the microfluidic device. 15. The computer implemented method of claim 14, further comprising receiving user input specifying a pressure to be applied to the sample compounds and buffer solution. 16. The computer implemented method of claim 15, further comprising receiving user input specifying a number of wells for the sample compounds on the array. 17. The computer implemented method of claim 7, further comprising receiving user input specifying a number of times each sample compound should be analyzed. 18. The computer implemented method of claim 7, further comprising receiving user input specifying a number of wells on the array. 19. The computer implemented method of claim 7, wherein the microfluidic device includes at least two intersecting channels. 20. The computer implemented method of claim 7, wherein the microfluidic device includes at least two intersecting channels with a cross sectional dimension in a range of about 0.1 .mu.m to about 500 .mu.m. 21. A computer program product that analyzes an array of sample compounds utilizing a microfluidic device, comprising: computer code that receives user input specifying a dwell time for the sample compounds; computer code that receives user input specifying a dwell time for a buffer solution; computer code that directs the sample compounds and buffer solution to be alternatingly injected into the microfluidic device for the specified dwell times for the sample compounds and buffer solution; computer code that receives user input specifying at least one of an initial delay time before the sample compounds and buffer solution are injected into the microfluidic device and a final delay time after the sample compounds and buffer solution are injected into the microfluidic device; and a computer readable medium that stores the computer codes. 22. The computer program product of claim 21, wherein the computer readable medium is selected from the group consisting of CD-ROM, floppy disk, tape, flash memory, system memory, hard drive, and data signal embodied in a carrier wave. 23. The computer program product of claim 21, further comprising computer code that receives user input specifying that a dye be injected into the microfluidic device before the sample compounds. 24. The computer program product of claim 23, further comprising computer code that receives user input specifying a dwell time for the dye. 25. The computer program product of claim 23, further comprising computer code that receives user input specifying a number of injections for the dye. 26. The computer program product of claim 21, further comprising computer code that receives user input specifying that guard fluid should be injected into the microfluidic device before and after each of the sample compounds. 27. The computer program product of claim 26, further comprising computer code that receives user input specifying a dwell time for the guard fluid. 28. The computer program product of claim 26, further comprising computer code that receives user input specifying a first dwell time for the guard fluid before each of the sample compounds is injected and a second dwell time for the guard fluid after each of the sample compounds is injected. 29. The computer program product of claim 21, further comprising computer code that receives user input specifying that pressure should be utilized to drive the sample compounds and buffer solution through the microfluidic device. 30. The computer program product of claim 29, further comprising computer code that receives user input specifying a pressure to be applied to the sample compounds and buffer solution. 31. The computer program product of claim 30, further comprising computer code that receives user input specifying a number of wells for the sample compounds on the array. 32. The computer program product of claim 21, further comprising computer code that receives user input specifying a number of times each sample compound should be analyzed. 33. The computer program product of claim 21, further comprising computer code that receives user input specifying a number of wells on the array. 34. The computer program product of claim 21, wherein the microfluidic device includes at least two intersecting channels. 35. The computer program product of claim 21, wherein the microfluidic device includes at least two intersecting channels with a cross sectional dimension in a range of about 0.1 .mu.m to about 500 .mu.m. 36. A computer program product that analyzes an array of sample compounds utilizing a microfluidic device, comprising: computer code that receives a signal corresponding to sample compounds being driven through the microfluidic device; computer code that analyzes the signal to detect a deviation from a steady state signal, wherein the computer code that analyzes the signal includes computer code that determines if the signal exceeds a threshold deviation, wherein the threshold deviation is 10%; computer code that identifies a sample compound that caused the threshold deviation; and a computer readable medium that stores the computer codes. 37. A computer program product that analyzes an array of sample compounds utilizing a microfluidic device, comprising: computer code that receives a signal corresponding to sample compounds being driven through the microfluidic device; computer code that analyzes the signal to detect a deviation from a steady state signal, wherein the computer code that analyzes the signal includes computer code that determines if the signal exceeds a threshold deviation and wherein the expected signal profile is based on a signal from a control experiment for obtaining the expected signal profile; computer code that identifies a sample compound that caused the threshold deviation; and a computer readable medium that stores the computer codes. 38. A computer program product that analyzes an array of sample compounds utilizing a microfluidic device, comprising: computer code that receives a signal corresponding to sample compounds being driven through the microfluidic device, wherein the sample compounds are stored in multiple wells in which markers are stored in known wells; computer code that analyzes the signal to detect a deviation from a steady state signal, wherein the computer code that analyzes the signal includes computer code that determines if the signal exceeds a threshold deviation; computer code that identifies a sample compound that caused the threshold deviation; and a computer readable medium that stores the computer codes. 39. The computer program product of claim 38, wherein the markers are stored at regular well intervals. 40. The computer program product of claim 38, wherein the computer code that identifies a sample compound includes computer code that determines relative position of the well of the sample compound in relation to a well of a marker. 41. A computer program product that analyzes an array of sample compounds utilizing a microfluidic device, comprising: computer code that receives a signal corresponding to sample compounds being driven through the microfluidic device; computer code that analyzes the signal to detect a deviation from a steady state signal, wherein the computer code that analyzes the signal includes computer code that determines if the signal exceeds a threshold deviation; computer code that identifies a sample compound that caused the threshold deviation; computer code that identifies sample compounds in the signal that are near in time being driven through the microfluidic device to the identified sample compound; computer code that directs the identified sample compounds to be driven through the microfluidic device again for analysis; and a computer readable medium that stores the computer codes. 