A controlling apparatus for a robot of the type formed by a plurality of joint actuators and operating in accordance with a behavioral schedule comprises a behavior scheduling unit for setting a robot's behavioral schedule, an operation controller for implementing an operational pattern corresponding to the behavioral schedule as determined by the behavior scheduling unit by driving each joint actuator, a detector for detecting the state of operation implementation by the operation controller and a recording unit for recording a log including the behavioral schedule by the behavior scheduling unit and the state of operation implementation by the detector. A user issuing a command for the robot is authenticated and the contents of the command supplied from the user are recorded in combination with the behavior taken by the robot responsive to the command and the time point of implementation of the behavior.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A controlling apparatus for a robot of a type formed by a plurality of joint actuators and operating in accordance with a behavioral schedule, comprising: a behavior scheduling unit for setting the behavioral schedule of the robot; an operation controller for implementing an operational pattern corresponding to the behavioral schedule determined by said behavior scheduling unit by driving each of the joint actuator; a detector for detecting a state of operation implementation by said operation controller; and a recording unit for recording a log including the behavioral schedule by said behavior scheduling unit and the state of operation implementation by said detector. 2. The controlling apparatus for the robot according to claim 1 further comprising: a user input unit for receiving a command or data from a user, and a dialog management unit for supervising a dialog with the user based on user input command or data from said user input unit, wherein said behavior scheduling unit sets the behavioral schedule in accordance with contents of the dialog in said dialog management unit, and said recording unit takes a log of the dialog contents. 3. The controlling apparatus for the robot according to claim 1 further comprising a self-diagnosis unit for diagnosing each part of the robot, wherein said recording unit takes the log of results of a self-diagnosis. 4. The controlling apparatus for the robot according to claim 1 further comprising a user authentication unit for authenticating a user lying in a vicinity of the robot, wherein said recording unit takes a log of results of user authentication. 5. The controlling apparatus for the robot according to claim 1, wherein said behavior scheduling unit sets the behavioral schedule based on a feeling model as determined in response to external changes. 6. The controlling apparatus for the robot according to claim 1, wherein said behavior scheduling unit is operable in accordance with a first operating system of setting the behavioral schedule based on the dialog with the user or in accordance with a second operating system of setting the behavioral schedule based on the feeling model as determined in response to the external changes, and said recording unit takes a log of the operating systems in said behavior scheduling unit. 7. A controlling method for a robot of a type formed by a plurality of joint actuators and operating in accordance with a behavioral schedule, comprising: a behavior scheduling step of setting the behavioral schedule of the robot; an operation controlling step of implementing an operational pattern corresponding to the behavioral schedule determined by said behavior scheduling step by driving each joint actuator; a detecting step of detecting a state of operation implementation by said operation controlling step; and a recording step of recording a log including the behavioral schedule by said behavior scheduling step and the state of operation implementation detected by said detecting step. 8. The controlling method for the robot according to claim 7 further comprising: a user input step of receiving a command or data from a user, and a dialog management step of supervising a dialog with the user based on the user input command or data from said user input step, wherein said behavior scheduling step comprises a step of setting the behavioral schedule in accordance with contents of the dialog in said dialog management step, and said recording step comprise a step of taking a log of the dialog contents. 9. The controlling method for the robot according to claim 7 further comprising a self-diagnosis step of diagnosing each part of the robot, wherein said recording step comprise a step of taking the log of results of the self-diagnosis. 10. The controlling method for the robot according to claim 7 further comprising a user authentication step of authenticating a user lying in a vicinity of the robot, wherein said recording step comprise a step of taking a log of the results of user authentication. 11. The controlling method for the robot according to claim 7 wherein said behavior scheduling step comprise a step of setting the behavioral schedule based on a feeling model determined in response to external changes. 12. The controlling method for the robot according to claim 7 wherein said behavior scheduling step is operable in accordance with a first operating system of setting the behavioral schedule based on the dialog with the user or in accordance with a second operating system of setting the behavioral schedule based on the feeling model determined in response to the external changes, and said recording step comprises a step of taking a log of the operating systems in said behavior scheduling step. 