A system and method for delivering a laser beam from a remote laser source through a gantry positioning system for performing ultrasonic testing on a test object. The invention provides for closed-loop error correction of a laser beam delivered through the gantry members of a gantry positioning system (GPS) to ensure unobstructed transmission of the laser beam as the GPS changes operates and changes shape. The invention provides for ultrasonic testing of a test object for identifying material defects by moving the end gantry member of the GPS thereby permitting data acquisition of the test object from various fields of view. The invention also provides for controlling the divergence of the laser beam used for ultrasonic testing.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A gantry positioning and laser ultrasonic testing system with an integral laser beam delivery system, comprising: a gantry positioning system comprising a plurality of gantry members pivotally connected at each end and powered by a plurality of gantry actuators for positioning an end gantry member at any location within a predetermined volume wherein each gantry member comprises an optical transmission channel comprising at least two alignment fixtures and at least one position feedback sensor for providing an alignment signal; an integral laser beam delivery system for delivering a laser beam emitted from a remote laser source to a test object first from a first field of view and subsequently from at least one additional field of view within said predetermined volume for acquiring test object data, comprising: a remote laser source for emitting said laser beam, said laser beam being inserted into a first gantry member's optical transmission channel and exiting through an end gantry member's optical transmission channel; a plurality of mirror actuators for controlling the angular alignment of a plurality of mirrors wherein at least one mirror being located at each pivotal connection of said gantry members in response to at least one of said alignment signals from said position feedback sensors for providing closed-loop error correction for unobstructed transmission of said laser beam through said optical transmission channels of said plurality of gantry members for directing said laser beam through said gantry positioning system; and a laser beam conditioning system for minimizing divergence of said laser beam; and an ultrasonic testing system for identifying material defects of said test object using said test object data. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein said plurality of mirrors comprise dual axis mirrors. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein said remote laser source comprises a CO.sub.2 laser having a center wavelength of approximately 10.6 micro-meters. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein said test object comprises composite material. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein said plurality of mirror actuators provide at least 10 milli-radians positioning sensitivity of said plurality of mirrors. 6. The system of claim 1, further comprising an optical table for supporting said laser source wherein said optical table being attached to a vertical support column of said gantry positioning system. 7. The system of claim 1, further comprising: an optical table for supporting said laser source wherein said optical table being attached to a vertical support column of said gantry positioning system; and a laser beam expander for inserting said laser beam into said first gantry member's optical transmission channel. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein said end gantry member comprises a rotation attachment platform. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein said laser beam conditioning system for minimizing divergence of said laser beam comprises an exit laser beam focusing system for focusing said laser beam onto said test object. 10. The system of claim 1, wherein said optical transmission channels of said plurality of gantry members comprise bellows-type enclosure for providing free space propagation of said laser beam and for providing air tight sealing for minimizing particulate contaminants within said optical transmission channels. 11. A gantry positioning and laser ultrasonic testing system with an integral laser beam delivery system, comprising: a gantry positioning system, comprising: a plurality of vertical support columns for supporting two runway beams; a carriage mounted on a bridge beam spanning between said two runway beams comprising a carriage actuator for providing a first range of motion by translating said carriage across said bridge beam; a bridge beam actuator for providing a second range of motion by translating said bridge beam along said two runway beams, said first and said second ranges of motion being orthogonal; and a Z-mast extending downward from said carriage assembly comprising an end gantry member and a Z-mast actuator for providing a third range of motion by adjusting the length of said Z-mast, said first, second, and third ranges of motion being orthogonal wherein said gantry positioning system positions said end gantry member at any location within a predetermined volume; an integral laser beam delivery system comprising a plurality of enclosure segments pivotally interconnected at mirror assemblies for directing a laser beam emitted from a remote laser source along one of said vertical support columns, one of said two runway beams, said bridge beam, and said Z-mast and for directing said laser beam from said end gantry member at a test object from a first field of view and subsequently from at least one additional field of view within said predetermined volume for acquiring test object data, wherein; each of said enclosure segments is enclosed for providing air tight sealing and comprise at least two alignment apertures and a position feedback sensor; each mirror assembly comprises a mirror and a mirror actuator for controlling the alignment angle of said mirror in response to an alignment signal from said position feedback sensor for providing closed-loop error correction for unobstructed transmission of said laser beam through said optical transmission of said laser beam through said gantry positioning system; and a laser beam conditioning system for minimizing divergence of said laser beam; and a laser ultrasonic testing system for identifying material defects of said test object using said test object data. 12. A method for delivering a laser beam to a test object through a gantry positioning and laser ultrasonic testing system, comprising: utilizing a gantry positioning system comprising a plurality of gantry members pivotally connected at each end and powered by a plurality of gantry actuators for positioning an end gantry member at any location within a predetermined volume wherein each gantry member comprises an optical transmission channel comprising at least two alignment fixtures and at least one position feedback sensor for providing an alignment signal for positioning an end gantry member at any location within a predetermined volume; inserting a laser beam emitted from a remote laser source into a first gantry member's optical transmission channel; controlling the angular alignment of a plurality of mirrors wherein at least one mirror being located at each pivotal connection of said gantry members in response to at least one alignment signal from a position feedback sensor for providing closed-loop error correction for unobstructed transmission of said laser beam through said optical transmission channels of said plurality of gantry members for directing said laser beam through said gantry positioning system; directing said laser beam from an end gantry member at a test object first from a first field of view and subsequently from at least one additional field of view within said predetermined volume for acquiring test object data; minimizing divergence of said laser beam using a laser beam conditioning system; and identifying material defects of said test object using a laser ultrasonic testing system using said test object data. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein said plurality of mirrors comprise dual axis mirrors. 14. The method of claim 12, wherein said remote laser source comprises a CO.sub.2 laser having a center wavelength of approximately 10.6 micro-meters. 15. The method of claim 12, wherein said test object comprises composite material. 16. The method of claim 12, wherein controlling the angular alignment of a plurality of mirrors comprises providing at least 10 milli-radians positioning sensitivity of said plurality of mirrors. 17. The method of claim 12, further comprising supporting said laser source using an optical table wherein said optical table being attached to a vertical support column of said gantry positioning system. 18. The method of claim 12, further comprising: supporting said laser source using an optical table wherein said optical table being attached to a vertical support column of said gantry positioning system, and inserting said laser beam into said first gantry member's optical transmission channel using a laser beam expander. 19. The method of claim 12, wherein said end gantry member comprises a rotation attachment platform and said laser beam conditioning system for minimizing divergence of said laser beam comprises an exit laser beam focusing system for focusing said laser beam onto said test object. 20. The method of claim 12, wherein said optical transmission channels of said plurality of gantry members comprise bellows-type enclosure for providing free space propagation of said laser beam and for providing air tight sealing for minimizing particulate contaminants within said optical transmission channels. 