A probe for touch sensing to determine the position of a workpiece in a robot welding system using a robot driven welding gun for advancing a welding wire in a given direction toward a workpiece. The gun is movable by a robot controlled arm in a selected weld path and the probe comprises a rigid, elongated feeler with a touch tip which feeler is carried by a mechanism fixed with respect to the gun and movable by the mechanism between a retracted position and a known extended position wherein the feeler extends from the mechanism a fixed distance having an outermost contact point for the touch tip where the point has a known spatial relation to the gun. A detector detects when the contact point touches the workpiece to locate the workpiece. Several touches are used to determine the orientation of the workpiece for automatic welding.
Claims Having thus defined the invention, the following is claimed: 1. A probe for touch sensing to determine the position of a workpiece in a robot welding system using a robot driven welding gun for advancing a welding wire in a given direction toward said workpiece, said gun being movable by a robot controlled arm in a selected weld path, said probe comprising a rigid, elongated feeler with a touch tip, said feeler being carried by a mechanism fixed with respect to said gun and movable by said mechanism between a retracted position and a known extended position wherein said feeler extends from said mechanism a fixed distance having an outermost contact point for said touch tip, said point having a known spatial relation to said gun, and a detector for detecting when said contact point touches said workpiece to locate the workpiece, including a switch to connect a voltage source to said feeler and said detector detects a drop in said voltage, and including a stop associated with said mechanism defining said fixed distance, said gun has an extended end and said point is a fixed distance from extended end, and wherein said feeler is in said retracted position when said gun is being moved in said selected weld path. 2. A probe as defined in claim 1 wherein said feeler extends parallel to said given direction. 3. A probe as defined in claim 2 wherein said mechanism is a cylinder mounted on said gun and said feeler is carried by a piston movable in said cylinder when said feeler moves between said two positions. 4. A probe as defined in claim 3 wherein said mechanism includes a lower closed chamber in said cylinder and below said piston, a source of pressurized fluid and a valve for introducing aid fluid from said source into said lower chamber to move said feeler from said extended position to said retracted position. 5. A probe as defined in claim 4 including a chamber above said piston and a valve for introducing said fluid from said source into said upper chamber to move said feeler from said extended to said retracted position. 6. A probe as defined in claim 2 including a switch to connect a voltage source to said feeler and said detector detects a drop in said voltage. 7. A probe as defined in claim 6 including a stop associated with said mechanism defining said fixed distance. 8. A probe as defined in claim 2 including a stop associated with said mechanism defining said fixed distance. 9. A probe as defined in claim 2 wherein said gun has an extended end and said point is a fixed distance from extended end. 10. A probe as defined in claim 9 wherein said fixed distance is in the general range of 1/2-1 inch. 11. A probe as defined in claim 1 wherein said mechanism includes a lower closed chamber in said cylinder and below said piston, a source of pressurized fluid and a valve for introducing said fluid from said source into said lower chamber to move said feeler from said extended position to said retracted position, including a chamber above said piston and a valve for introducing said fluid from said source into said upper chamber to move said feeler from said extended to said retracted position. 12. A touch sensing system for a computer controlled robot welding system wherein a robot driven welding gun advances a welding wire in a given direction toward a workpiece, said gun being movable by a robot controlled arm in a selected weld path controlled by said computer, said system comprising a computer program to output a touch sensing signal, a probe including a rigid, elongated feeler with a touch tip, said feeler having an extended position with said tip at a known location with respect to said gun and a retracted position, an electromagnetic device for closing a first switch and a second switch upon creation of said touch sensing signal, a fluid cylinder to shift said feeler into said extended position upon closing of said first switch, a voltage source connected to said feeler upon closing of said second switch and a detector for detecting a reduction in said voltage to indicate touching of said feeler against said workpiece, including program created movement steps to sequentially move said feeler against said workpiece at diverse locations and a program to process said detections at said steps to orient said gun with respect to said workpiece, said feeler extends parallel to said given direction, and including deactivating said electromagnetic device and retracting said feeler after said steps have been completed. 13. A system as defined in claim 12 wherein said electromagnetic device is a relay. 14. A system as defined in claim 12 wherein said switches are operated optically. 15. A probe as defined in claim 12 wherein said gun has an extended end and said point is a fixed distance from extended end. 16. A system as defined in claim 12 wherein said fixed distance is in the general range of 1/2-1 inch. 