The present invention is part of a system and method for creating products of varying characteristics on an automated production line. The system includes one or more production line devices, for example robots and machines. Specifically, the present invention provides a system and method for automating a laser cutting device. The method comprises receiving a data file to the laser cutting device, converting the data file to an instruction file, and operating the laser cutting device with the instruction file. The instruction file may be a computer numeric control computer program, for example. The data file includes characteristics to be created on a workpiece by the laser cutting device. In one embodiment, the method may further comprise programming the laser cutting device with a parametric computer program, such that the parametric computer program receives the data file. In another embodiment, the method may further comprise automatically connecting a power source to the laser cutting device, when the laser cutting device receives the data file.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for automating a laser cutting device, comprising: receiving a data file to said laser cutting device; converting said data file to an instruction file; operating said laser cutting device with said instruction file; programming said laser cutting device with a parametric computer program, wherein said parametric computer program receives said data file; and automatically connecting a power source to said laser cutting device, when said laser cutting device receives said data file. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said instruction file is a computer numeric control computer program. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said data file includes characteristics to be created on a workpiece by said laser cutting device. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising receiving the data file from a location remote from the laser cutting device. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the data file is received via the Internet. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the data file includes individually identified characteristics of a product. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising sequencing the data files. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the parametric computer program integrates the functionality of the laser cutting device. 9. An automated laser cutting system, comprising: a laser cutter; a computer coupled to said laser cutter, wherein said computer is programmed with a parametric computer program; one or more data sources coupled to said computer, wherein said computer converts a data file from said data source to an instruction file that operates said laser cutter; and a controller coupled to said computer, said laser cutter and to a power source, wherein said controller automatically connects said power source to said laser cutter when said computer receives said data file. 10. The system of claim 9, wherein said instruction file is a computer numeric control computer program. 11. The system of claim 9, wherein said data file includes characteristics to be created on a workpiece by said laser cutter. 12. The system of claim 9, wherein the data file is received from a location remote from the laser cutting device. 13. The system of claim 12, wherein the data file is received via the Internet. 14. The system of claim 9, wherein the data file includes individually identified characteristics of a product. 15. The system of claim 9, wherein the data files are sequenced by the computer. 16. The system of claim 9, wherein the parametric computer program integrates the functionality of the laser cutter. 17. An automated laser cutting system, comprising a laser cutter, a computer coupled to said laser cutter, and one or more data sources coupled to said computer, a controller coupled to said computer, said laser cutter and to a power source, wherein said controller automatically connects said power source to said laser cutter when said computer receives said data file, wherein said computer is programmed with a parametric computer program, and wherein said computer converts a data file from said data source to a computer numeric control computer program that operates said laser cutter. 