Portable threshold locators (32B, 32C, 32D) are placed in a room (120) at locations to define at least part of a boundary within which an autonomous vehicular appliance is to be confined. Typically, the threshold locator is placed in a doorway (32B) or at the top of a staircase (32D). The vehicle has a detection system which allows the autonomous vehicular appliance to detect the presence of the portable threshold locator. The detection system receives a signal from the threshold locator and the autonomous vehicular appliance uses the received signal to avoid the threshold marked by the locator (32B, 32C, 32D). The autonomous vehicular appliance is preferably a robotic floor cleaning appliance, such as a robotic vacuum cleaner.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An autonomous vehicular appliance, comprising at least two types of threshold locators having differing transmitting signals and being capable of defining at least part of a boundary of an area within which the autonomous vehicular appliance is to be confined at least temporarily, a navigation system for navigating the appliance around the area and a detection system to allow the appliance to detect the presence of the threshold locators, the detection system comprising means for receiving a signal from at least one each of the two types of threshold locators, and wherein the appliance is configured to use a received signal to detect parts of the boundary defined by the threshold locators, and upon detecting a first type of threshold locator, to prevent itself from crossing the part of the boundary marked by the first type of threshold locator and, upon detecting a second type of threshold locator, to prevent itself from crossing the part of the boundary marked by the second type of threshold locator until a certain condition has been met. 2. The appliance according to claim 1, wherein the appliance is configured, upon detecting the second type of threshold locator, to prevent itself from crossing the part of the boundary marked by the threshold locator until the area has been completely traversed by the appliance. 3. The appliance according to claim 2, wherein the second type of threshold locator transmits a signal which is indicative of marking a threshold to another area. 4. The appliance according to claim 1, wherein the autonomous vehicular appliance includes a signal transmitter and a signal receiver and the threshold locator includes means for modifying a signal received from the signal transmitter and for transmitting the modified signal to the signal receiver. 5. The appliance according to claim 4, wherein the modifying means includes a passive circuit. 6. The appliance according to claim 5, wherein the passive circuit is a loop resonator circuit and the signal transmitter is arranged to transmit a signal at or close to the resonant frequency of the loop resonator circuit. 7. The appliance according to claim 6, wherein the threshold locator is elongate and the resonant circuit is distributed along the length of the locator. 8. The appliance according to claim 4, wherein the transmitter generates a magnetic signal and the modifying means includes a metal alloy. 9. The appliance according to claim 1, wherein the threshold detector includes a signal transmitter and the autonomous vehicular appliance includes a signal receiver. 10. The appliance according to claim 1 wherein the navigation system includes a light detector for detecting the level of ambient light, memory means for storing information representative of the level of ambient light when the autonomous vehicular appliance changes direction and means for comparing the level of ambient light with previously stored information so that the autonomous vehicular appliance can identify when the level of ambient light is the same or substantially the same as a level previously stored. 11. The appliance according to claim 1, wherein the navigation system also comprises a plurality of sensors for detecting obstacles and features of the room. 12. The appliance according to claim 1, wherein the detection system comprises means for detecting when a parameter of the received signal meets a required condition. 13. The appliance according to claim 1, wherein detection system comprises means for detecting when the field strength of the received signals exceeds a predetermined limit. 14. The appliance according to claim 13, wherein, upon detecting that the field strength of the received signals exceeds a predetermined limit, the navigation system is configured to navigate the appliance in a direction to follow a path of substantially equal field strength. 15. An autonomous vehicular appliance, comprising a navigation system for navigating the appliance around an area and a detection system to allow the appliance to detect the presence of at least two types of portable threshold locators having different transmitting signals and capable of defining at least part of a boundary of an area within which the autonomous vehicular appliance is to be confined at least temporarily, the detection system comprising means for receiving signals from at least two types of threshold locator and wherein the appliance is configured to use the received signals to detect the parts of the boundary defined by the threshold locators, and upon detecting a first type of threshold locator, to prevent itself from crossing the part of the boundary marked by the first type of threshold locator and, upon detecting a second type of threshold locator, to prevent itself from crossing the part of the boundary marked by the second type of threshold locator until a certain condition has been met. 16. An autonomous vehicular appliance according to claim 15, which is configured to prevent itself from crossing the part of the boundary marked by the second type of threshold locator until the area has been completely traversed by the appliance. 17. An autonomous vehicular appliance according to claim 15, further comprising a signal transmitter for transmitting signals to the threshold locators and a signal receiver for receiving signals from the threshold locators. 18. An autonomous vehicular appliance according to claim 17 wherein, upon detecting that the received signal exceeds a predetermined limit, the navigation system is arranged to navigate the appliance in a direction to follow a path of substantially equal field strength. 19. An autonomous vehicular appliance according to claim 15, wherein the navigation system includes a light detector for detecting the level of ambient light, memory means for storing information representative of the level of ambient light when the autonomous vehicular appliance changes direction and means for comparing the level of ambient light with previously stored information so that the autonomous vehicular appliance can identify when the level of ambient light is the same or substantially the same as level previously stored. 20. An autonomous vehicular appliance according to claim 15, wherein the navigation system also comprises a plurality of sensors for detecting obstacles and features of the room. 21. An autonomous vehicular appliance according to claim 15, wherein the detection system comprises means for detecting when a parameter of the received signals meets a required condition. 22. A method according to claim 21 wherein the appliance is arranged, upon detecting the second type of threshold locator, to prevent itself from crossing the part of the boundary marked by the threshold locator until the area has been completely traversed by the appliance. 23. The appliance of claim 1 or 15, wherein the autonomous vehicular appliance is a robotic floor cleaning device. 24. The appliance according to claim 23, wherein the robotic floor cleaning device is a robotic vacuum cleaner. 25. A method of cleaning an area using an autonomous vehicular appliance, the method comprising placing at least one each of at least two types of portable threshold locator at locations to define at least part of a boundary of an area within which the autonomous vehicular appliance is to be confined at least temporarily and operating the appliance to clean the area, wherein the appliance in operation uses a navigation system to navigate around the area and a detection system to allow the appliance to detect the presence of the portable threshold locators, the detection system receiving signals from the threshold locators and the appliance using the received locators to detect the parts of the boundary defined by the threshold locators, and upon detecting a first type of threshold locator, prevents itself from crossing the part of the boundary worked by the first type of threshold locator and, upon detecting a second type of threshold locator, prevents itself from crossing the part of the boundary marked by the second type of threshold location until a certain condition has been met. 26. A method according to claim 25, wherein the appliance is configured to prevent itself from crossing the part of the boundary marked by the second type of threshold locator until the area has been completely traversed by the appliance. 