The present invention is directed to an improved electroplating method, chemistry, and apparatus for selectively depositing tin/lead solder bumps and other structures at a high deposition rate pursuant to manufacturing a microelectronic device from a workpiece, such as a semiconductor wafer. An apparatus for plating solder on a microelectronic workpiece in accordance with one aspect of the present invention comprises a reactor chamber containing an electroplating solution having free ions of tin and lead for plating onto the workpiece. A chemical delivery system is used to deliver the electroplating solution to the reactor chamber at a high flow rate. A workpiece support is used that includes a contact assembly for providing electroplating power to a surface at a side of the workpiece that is to be plated. The contact contacts the workpiece at a large plurality of discrete contact points that isolated from exposure to the electroplating solution. An anode, preferably a consumable anode, is spaced from the workpiece support within the reaction chamber and is in contact with the electroplating solution. In accordance with one embodiment the electroplating solution comprises a concentration of a lead compound, a concentration of a tin compound, water and methane sulfonic acid.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for electroplating a tin/lead solder onto a surface of a microelectronic workpiece, comprising: exposing the surface of the microelectronic workpiece to a plating solution including a source of tin ions and a source of lead ions; placing an electrode in contact with the plating solution; and applying current between the workpiece and the electrode to electrolytically deposit a tin/lead solder on the surface of the workpiece at a deposition rate of at least 2 microns per minute. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the tin/lead solder is deposited at a rate of at least 2 to 8 microns per minute. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the tin/lead solder is deposited at a rate of 4 to 8 microns per minute. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the tin/lead solder that is deposited on the surface of the workpiece is a eutectic solder having an approximate composition of 63% tin and 37% lead. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the eutectic solder is deposited at a rate of 2 to 4 microns per minute. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the tin/lead solder deposited on the surface of the workpiece is a high lead solder having a lead concentration of at least 95%. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the plating solution has a combined lead and tin metal concentration of approximately 55 grams per liter to 205 grams per liter. 8. The solution of claim 6, wherein the tin/lead solder is deposited at the rate of 4 to 8 microns per minute. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the current is applied at a density of from 50 to 200 mA/cm.sup.2 during deposition. 10. The method of claim 1, further comprising controlling the temperature of the plating solution during deposition to a temperature of between 20.degree. C. to 50.degree. C. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the temperature of the solution is controlled at a temperature of 25.degree. C. to 35.degree. C. during deposition. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the tin/lead solder is deposited on the microelectronic workpiece to form solder bumps. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the electrode comprises a consumable anode. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the electrode comprises a consumable tin/lead anode. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein the plating solution comprises 120 to 180 g/liter of methane sulfonic acid, 50 to 100 g/liter of a lead compound, and 3 to 7 g/liter of a tin compound, in water. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein the plating solution comprises 120 to 180 g/liter of methane sulfonic acid, 130 to 170 g/liter of a lead compound, and 15 to 35 g/liter of a tin compound, in water. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein the plating solution comprises 20 to 30% by volume methane sulfonic acid, 8% to 10% by volume of a lead compound, and 3 to 5% by volume of a tin compound, in water. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein the plating solution comprises approximately 15% by volume of an acid, approximately 5% by volume of a lead compound, and approximately 13% by volume of a tin compound, in water. 19. The method of claim 1, wherein the tin/lead solder that is deposited is a eutectic solder and the plating solution comprises 120 to 180 g/liter of methane sulfonic acid, about 10 g/liter of a lead compound and about 23 g/liter of a tin compound, in water. 20. The method of claim 1, wherein the plating solution comprises methane sulfonic acid, a lead compound, and a tin compound, in water. 21. A method for electroplating a tin/lead solder onto a surface of a microelectronic workpiece, comprising: exposing the surface of the microelectronic workpiece to a plating solution including a source of tin ions and a source of lead ions; placing an electrode in contact with the plating solution; and applying current between the workpiece and the electrode to electrolytically deposit a tin/lead solder on the surface of the workpiece at a deposition rate of at least 2 microns per minute, wherein current is applied to the workpiece by contacting the surface of the workpiece with a contact assembly that contacts a peripheral edge surface of the workpiece at a plurality of discrete points and applies current thereto. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein the contact points of the contact assembly are sealed from the plating solution. 23. A method for electroplating a tin/lead solder onto the surface of a microelectronic workpiece, comprising: exposing the surface of the workpiece to a plating solution including a source of tin ions and a source of lead ions; placing an electrode in contact with the plating solution; maintaining the plating solution at a temperature of from 20.degree. C. to 50.degree. C.; and applying current between the surface of the workpiece and the electrode at a surface current density of from 50 to 200 mA/cm.sup.2 to electrolytically deposit tin/lead solder on the surface of the workpiece at a deposition rate of at least 2 microns per minute. 24. A method for electroplating a tin/lead solder onto a surface of a microelectronic workpiece, comprising: exposing the surface of the microelectronic workpiece to a plating solution including a source of tin ions and a source of lead ions; placing an electrode in contact with the plating solution; and applying current between the workpiece and the electrode to electrolytically deposit a tin/lead solder having a lead content of at least 95% at a deposition rate of at least 2 to 8 microns per minute. 25. A method for electroplating a tin/lead solder onto a surface of a microelectronic workpiece, comprising: exposing the surface of the microelectronic workpiece to a plating solution including a source of tin ions and a source of lead ions; placing an electrode in contact with the plating solution; and applying current between the workpiece and the electrode to electrolytically deposit a eutectic tin/lead solder having about 63% tin and 37% lead at a deposition rate of at least 2 to 4 microns per minute. 26. A method as claimed in claim 25, wherein the solution further comprises methane sulfonic acid. 27. The method as claimed in claim 25, wherein the consumable anode is comprised of lead. 28. The method as claimed in claim 25, wherein the consumable anode is comprised of tin. 29. The method as claimed in claim 28, including contacting a peripheral edge of the surface of the workpiece with a plurality of discrete flexure contacts so as to execute a wiping action against the surface of the workpiece as the workpiece is brought into engagement therewith, and engaging the surface of the workpiece with a barrier member disposed interior of the plurality of contacts to effectively isolate the plurality of contacts from the electroplating solution. 30. The method as claimed in claim 28, including contacting a peripheral edge of the surface of the workpiece with a plurality of contacts in the form of a Belleville ring contact so as to execute a wiping action against the surface of the workpiece as the workpiece is brought into engagement therewith, and engaging the surface of the workpiece with a barrier member disposed interior of the plurality of contacts to effectively isolate the plurality of contacts from the electroplating solution. 31. The method as claimed in claim 28, and further comprising providing a purging gas to the plurality of contacts and the peripheral edge of the workpiece along a flow path disposed in the contact assembly. 32. The method as claimed in claim 25, including contacting a peripheral edge of the surface of the workpiece with a plurality of contacts so as to execute a wiping action against the surface of the workpiece as the workpiece is brought into engagement therewith, and engaging the surface of the workpiece with a barrier member disposed interior of the plurality of contacts to effectively isolate the plurality of contacts from the electroplating solution. 33. The method defined in claim 25, including delivering the electroplating solution at a high flow rate sufficient to achieve a solder deposition rate of at least 2 microns per minute. 34. The method defined in claim 25, including delivering the electroplating solution at a high flow rate sufficient to achieve a solder deposition rate of at least 8 microns per minute. 35. The method as claimed in claim 34, wherein the electroplating solution further comprises methane sulfonic acid. 36. The method as claimed in claim 34, wherein the anode is comprised of lead. 37. The method as claimed in claim 34, wherein the anode is comprised of tin. 38. The method as claimed in claim 37, including using discrete flexure contacts to perform the wiping action. 39. The method as claimed in claim 37, including using a plurality of contacts forming a Belleville ring contact to perform the wiping action. 40. The method as claimed in claim 39, including assisting in isolating the plurality of contacts from the electroplating solution by use of the purging gas. 41. The method as claimed in claim 37, and further comprising providing a purging gas to the plurality of contacts and the peripheral edge of the workpiece along a flow path disposed in the contact assembly. 42. The method as claimed in claim 34, including delivering the aqueous electroplating solution to the processing base at a high flow rate sufficient to achieve a solder deposition rate of at least 2 microns per minute. 43. The method as claimed in claim 34, including executing a wiping action against the surface of the workpiece as the workpiece is brought into engagement with the contacts engaging the surface of the workpiece with a barrier disposed interior of the plurality of contacts to effectively isolate the plurality of contacts from the electroplating solution when the workpiece is moved to the processing position. 44. The method as claimed in claim 34, including delivering the aqueous electroplating solution to the processing base at a high flow rate sufficient to achieve a solder deposition rate of at least 8 microns per minute. 45. The method defined in claim 44, including delivering the electroplating solution at a high flow rate sufficient to achieve a solder deposition rate of at least 8 microns per minute. 46. A method as claimed in claim 44, wherein the solution further comprises methane sulfonic acid. 47. The method as claimed in claim 44, wherein the consumable anode is comprised of lead. 48. The method as claimed in claim 44, wherein the consumable anode is comprised of tin. 49. A method as claimed in claim 44, including maintaining the temperature of the electroplating solution at about 30.degree. C..+-.5.degree. C. 50. A method of plating solder on a microelectronic workpiece which method comprises: delivering an electroplating solution comprising an aqueous solution including a lead compound as a source of lead ions and a tin compound as a source of tin ions into a reactor chamber adapted to hold a microelectronic workpiece and the solution; providing electroplating power by way of a workpiece support in contact with a surface at a side of the workpiece that is to be plated at a large plurality of discrete contact points, while isolating the contact points from exposure to the solution; and positioning a consumable anode comprised of a metal selected from the group consisting of tin and lead, so as to be spaced from the workpiece support within the reactor chamber for contact with the electroplating solution to achieve the plating of solder on the workpiece. 51. A method for plating solder on a microelectronic workpiece, which method comprises: delivering an aqueous electroplating solution including a concentration of lead ions and a concentration of tin ions to a processing base adapted to hold a microelectronic workpiece and the aqueous electroplating solution; mounting the microelectronic workpiece in a moveable head of a moveable actuator into engagement with a contact assembly contacting the workpiece at a large plurality of discrete contact points, in which the moveable head is in a loading position with the microelectronic workpiece removed from the aqueous electroplating solution; moving the moveable head from the loading position to a processing position in which a surface of the workpiece that is to be electroplated is brought into contact with the electroplating solution with the side of such surface that is to be processed in a face down orientation, and providing electroplating power to a peripheral edge surface of the side of the workpiece that is to be plated by way of the contact assembly, while sealing the contact points from exposure to the electroplating solution; rotating the workpiece in the aqueous electroplating solution; and positioning a consumable anode in the processing base for contact with the electroplating solution, such anode comprising a metal selected from the group consisting of lead and tin, to achieve the plating of solder on the workpiece. 52. A method of plating solder on a microelectronic workpiece which method comprises: providing electroplating power to the workpiece; positioning a consumable anode comprised of a metal selected from the group consisting of tin and lead adjacent to the workpiece; and delivering an electroplating solution comprising an aqueous solution including a lead compound as a source of lead ions and a tin compound as a source of tin ions into contact with the consumable anode and a surface of a microelectronic workpiece to be plated at a high flow rate sufficient to achieve a solder deposition rate of at least two microns per minute. 