Methods for operating a laser scanning system. The laser scanning system can be used in construction projects to generate a field survey. An architect or engineer can use the field survey to create construction drawings. In addition, relevant points from the construction drawings can be identified at the construction site with the scanning system. Further, earth moving equipment can be controlled using the same information. The laser scanning system can also be used to determine if two parts can be mated together by scanning and comparing the parts that are to be mated. The laser scanning system can further be used to determine if an object can be moved through an opening in a structure by comparing scan points of the structure with scan points from the object. The laser scanning system can additionally be used to identifying objects within the site, to build databases that have relevant information about the objects, and to guide reproducing machines.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for grading a tract of land with a programmable earth mover, the tract of land having a natural surface, the method comprising the steps of: positioning a laser scanner on the tract of land to scan the tract of land, the laser scanner having a position in a coordinate system; scanning the tract of land with the laser scanner to define a plurality of first points on the natural surface of the tract of land, the first points having positions in the coordinate system and elevation measures of a project; generating a grading plan for the tract of land, the grading plan defining a to-be-constructed surface that differs from the natural surface; defining a plurality of second points on the to-be-constructed surface, the second points having positions in the coordinate system and elevation measures of the project, the to-be-constructed surface described by the second points having a corresponding surface described by the first points; comparing the elevation measures of specific points on the to-be-constructed surface described by the second points with the elevation measures of points on the corresponding surface described by the first points to define cut points and fill points in the coordinate system, a cut point being defined when the elevation measure of a second point is less than the elevation measure of the corresponding first point, a fill point being defined when the elevation measure of a second point is greater than the elevation measure of the corresponding first point; determining a position of the earth mover in the coordinate system; and operating the earth mover to form the constructed surface by removing earth from the cut points and adding earth to the fill points in response to the information derived from the comparison. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein a number of the first points are targets with defined geometric relationships. 