An apparatus for processing a workpiece in a micro-environment includes a workpiece housing connected to a motor for rotation. The workpiece housing defines a substantially closed processing chamber therein in which one or more processing fluids are distributed across at least one face of the workpiece by centrifugal force generated during rotation of the housing. A dividing member at the edge of the spinning workpiece separates flow of fluids off of the top and bottom surfaces of the workpiece.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for processing a workpiece, comprising: a first rotor; a second rotor engageable with the first rotor to form a chamber for holding a workpiece and rotating the workpiece about a rotation axis; a dividing member on one of the first and second rotors, extending radially inwardly towards the axis of rotation, and with the dividing member aligned with the workpiece. 2. An apparatus for processing a workpiece, comprising: a first rotor; a second rotor engageable with the first rotor to form a chamber; at least one workpiece support on at least one of the first and second rotors, for holding a workpiece at a workpiece position within the chamber; a motor linked to at least one of the first and second rotors, for rotating the rotors about a rotation axis; and a dividing member on one of the first and second rotors, extending radially inwardly towards the axis of rotation, and with the dividing member located at the workpiece position. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 further comprising a first outlet extending out of the chamber, on a first side of the dividing member, and a second outlet extending out of the chamber, on a second side of the dividing member opposite to the first side. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 further comprising a fluid collector extending around the first rotor and having a first collection region aligned with the first outlet and a second collection region aligned with the second outlet. 5. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein when a workpiece having a circular edge, a first surface and a second surface, is placed into the chamber, the dividing member is close enough to the circular edge so that fluid moving outwardly from the rotation axis via centrifugal force on the first surface flows onto a first side of the dividing member, and so that fluid moving outwardly from the rotation axis via centrifugal force on the second surface flows onto a second side of the dividing member. 6. The apparatus of claim 2 where the dividing member comprises an annular wedge-shaped element. 7. An apparatus for processing a workpiece comprising: a first rotor; a second rotor moveable to contact the first rotor and to form a chamber between them; a first fluid inlet in the first rotor, for supplying a first fluid onto a first side of the workpiece in the chamber; a second fluid inlet in the second rotor, for supplying a second fluid onto a second side of the workpiece in the chamber a dividing structure aligned with a peripheral edge of the workpiece to maintain separation of fluids flowing off of first and second surfaces of the workpiece. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein the dividing structure extends in a circle around the chamber. 9. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein the dividing structure in on the first rotor. 10. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein the dividing structure comprises an edge having an acute angle adjacent to the peripheral edge of the workpiece. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the first side of the workpiece is above the edge of the dividing structure and wherein the second side of the workpiece is below the edge of the dividing structure. 12. The apparatus of claim 7 further comprising a first fluid supply connected to the first inlet and a second fluid supply connected to the second inlet, and with the first fluid different from the second fluid. 13. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein the fluid collector comprises a first collection region for guiding fluid escaping through a first fluid outlet above the dividing structure to a first drain, and a second collection region for guiding fluid escaping through a second fluid outlet below the dividing structure to a second drain. 14. The apparatus of claim 7 further comprising a fluid collector around the dividing member for separately collecting fluid from opposite sides of the dividing member. 15. The apparatus of claim 7 further comprising a motor attached to at least one of the first and second rotors, for rotating the rotors and a workpiece. 16. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein, when a workpiece is in the chamber, the dividing structure is close enough to the peripheral edge of the workpiece so that fluid flowing off of the first side of the workpiece via centrifugal force created by rotating the workpiece with the motor, moves exclusively onto a first side of the dividing member, and so that fluid flowing off of the second side of the workpiece via centrifugal force created by rotating the workpiece, moves exclusively onto a second side of the dividing member. 17. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein the first drain leads to a first collection reservoir where fluid is disposed of or re-circulated, and the second drain leads to a second collection reservoir where fluid is disposed of or re-circulated. 18. The apparatus of claim 17 wherein the first collection region comprises a first splatter stop and a first fluid trench to guide fluid from the first fluid outlet to the first drain, and the second collection region comprises a second splatter stop and a second fluid trench to guide fluid from the second fluid outlet to the second drain. 19. An apparatus for processing a workpiece comprising: a chamber; an upper chamber inlet for supplying a first fluid into an upper region of the chamber for distribution of the first fluid across an upper surface of a workpiece by centrifugal force, and a lower chamber inlet for supplying a second fluid into a lower region of the chamber for distribution of the second fluid across a lower surface of the workpiece by centrifugal force; at least one workpiece support adapted to support a workpiece in the chamber; a fluid supply system in communication with the upper and lower chamber inlets; a dividing structure in the chamber aligned with a peripheral edge of the workpiece; a first fluid outlet at a first peripheral region of the chamber above the dividing structure to allow removal of the first fluid flow from the chamber; and a second fluid outlet at a second peripheral region of the chamber below the dividing structure to allow removal of the second fluid flow from the chamber. 20. The apparatus of claim 19 wherein the dividing structure extends about a circumference of the chamber. 21. The apparatus of claim 19 wherein the dividing structure extends from an inner wall of the chamber to a peripheral edge of the workpiece. 22. The apparatus of claim 19 wherein the dividing structure is tapered from an inner wall of the chamber to a position adjacent to the peripheral edge of the workpiece. 23. The apparatus of claim 19 further comprising a fluid collector disposed about an exterior periphery of the rinser/dryer chamber for collecting fluid escaping through the first and second fluid outlets. 24. The apparatus of claim 23 wherein the fluid collector comprises a first collection region for guiding fluid escaping through the first fluid outlet to a first drain, and a second collection region for guiding fluid escaping through the second fluid outlet to a second drain. 25. An apparatus for processing a workpiece comprising: a chamber substantially conforming to the workpiece, a first chamber inlet for supplying a first fluid flow into a first region of the chamber for distribution of the first fluid across a first surface of a workpiece by centrifugal force; a second chamber inlet for supplying a second fluid into a second region of the chamber for distribution of the second fluid across a second surface of the workpiece by centrifugal force; a first fluid supply system connected to the first chamber inlet; a second fluid supply system connected to the second chamber inlet; and an edge structure aligned with a peripheral edge of the workpiece to maintain separation of first and second fluids flowing off of the first and second surfaces of the workpiece. 