A method and an apparatus system feature detecting faults in process conditions of a plasma-based semiconductor processing system by sensing the spectral emissions of the plasma. As a result, the method includes sensing optical energy produced by the plasma and identifying the fault in the process conditions as a function of one or more of the plurality of spectral bands. To that end, the apparatus includes a detector in optical communication with the processing chamber to sense optical energy generated by the plasma, and a spectrum analyzer, in electrical communication with the optical detector. The spectrum analyzer resolves the spectral bands and produces information corresponding thereto. A processor is in electrical communication with the spectrum analyzer, and a memory is in electrical communication with the processor. The memory includes a computer-readable medium having a computer-readable program embodied therein that controls the system to carry-out the method.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for detecting one of a plurality of faults in processing conditions of a semiconductor processing system employing a plasma, said method comprising: sensing optical energy produced by said plasma, said optical energy having a plurality of spectral bands associated therewith; identifying a first subset of said plurality of spectral bands that has a first intensity associated therewith that varies in response to said plurality of faults, and a second subset of said plurality of spectral bands that has a second intensity associated therewith that varies substantially independently of the presence of said one of said plurality of faults and a third subset of spectral bands having a third intensity associated therewith that varies substantially independently of said plurality of faults; and detecting said one of said plurality of faults as a function of said first, second and third subsets. 2. The method as recited in claim 1 wherein detecting further includes ascertaining said one of said plurality of faults as a function of a ratio of said first and second subsets. 3. The method as recited in claim 1 wherein detecting said one of said plurality of faults further includes quantizing said first, second and third subsets, defining first, second and third quantizations and obtaining a ratio of said first and second quantizations, defining a parameter ratio, and obtaining a ratio of said first and third quantizations, defining a normalized ratio and ascertaining said one of said plurality of faults based upon a match between said parameter ratio and said normalized ratio. 4. The method as recited in claim 1 further including exposing a plurality of substrates, sequentially, to said plasma, producing a sequence of emissions of said optical energy, with each of said emissions of said sequence including said first, second and third subsets that have intensity levels associated therewith that correspond to one of said plurality of substrates, wherein detecting further includes identifying said one of said plurality of faults as a function of variations among the intensity levels of said emissions of said sequence. 5. The method as recited in claim 2 further including exposing a plurality of substrates, sequentially, to said plasma, producing a sequence of said ratio, with each ratio in said sequence corresponding to one of said plurality of substrates and having a value associated therewith, with the values of the ratios of said sequence defining a set of values, wherein detecting further includes identifying said one of said plurality of faults as a function of variations in said set of values. 6. The method as recited in claim 1 wherein determining said one of said plurality of faults further includes quantizing said first, second and third subsets, defining first, second and third quantizations and obtaining a ratio of said first and second quantizations, defining a parameter ratio, and obtaining a ratio of said first and third quantizations, defining a normalized ratio and ascertaining said fault based upon a comparison between said parameter ratio and said normalized ratio. 7. A method for detecting one of a plurality of processing conditions of a semiconductor processing system employing a plasma, said method comprising: providing said semiconductor processing system with a plurality of subsystems; sensing optical energy produced by said plasma, said optical energy having a plurality of spectral bands associated therewith; identifying first, second and third subsets of said plurality of spectral bands, with said first subset having a first intensity associated therewith that varies in response to said one of said plurality of processing conditions, said second subset having a second intensity associated therewith that varies substantially independently of the presence of said one of said plurality of processing conditions, and said third subset having a third intensity associated therewith that varies substantially independently of substantially all of said plurality of processing conditions; and detecting said one of said plurality of processing conditions as a function of said first, second and third subsets. 8. The method as recited in claim 2 wherein detecting said one of said plurality of processing conditions further includes quantizing said first and second intensities, defining first and second quantizations and obtaining a ratio of said first and second quantizations. 9. The method as recited in claim 7 further including quantizing said first, second and third subsets, defining first, second and third quantizations, respectively, and obtaining a ratio of said first and second quantizations, and obtaining a ratio of said first and third quantizations, defining a normalized ratio, with said ratio of said first and second quantizations defining a parameter ratio, with detecting said one of said plurality of processing conditions further including correlating said one of said plurality of processing conditions to said one of said plurality of subsystems based upon a match between said parameter ratio and said normalized ratio. 10. The method as recited in claim 9 further including exposing a plurality of substrates, sequentially, to said plasma, producing a sequence of said ratio, with each ratio of said sequence corresponding to one of said plurality of substrates and having a value associated therewith, with the values of the ratios of said sequence defining a set of values, wherein detecting said one of said plurality of processing conditions further includes identifying said one of said plurality of processing conditions as a function of variations in said set of values. 11. The method as recited in claim 8 wherein quantizing further includes quantizing said third subset, wherein first, second and third quantizations are defined from quantizing said first, second and third subsets, and obtaining a ratio of said first and second quantizations, further includes obtaining a ratio of said first and third quantizations, defining a normalized ratio, with said ratio of said first and second quantizations defining a parameter ratio, with determining said one of said plurality of processing conditions further including ascertaining said one of said plurality of processing conditions based upon a comparison between said parameter and said normalized ratio. 12. An apparatus for characterizing processing conditions of a semiconductor processing system employing a source of light in a processing chamber, said apparatus comprising: a detector in optical communication with said processing chamber to sense optical energy generated by said source of light, said optical energy having a plurality of spectral bands associated therewith; a spectral analyzer, in electrical communication with said optical detector, to resolve said spectral bands and produce information corresponding thereto; a processor in electrical communication with said spectrum analyzer; and a memory in electrical communication with said processor, said memory comprising a computer-readable medium having a computer-readable program embodied therein, said computer-readable program including a set of instructions to cause said processor to operate on said information to identify a first subset of said plurality of spectral bands that has a first intensity associated therewith that varies in response to one of said processing conditions, and a second subset of said plurality of spectral bands that has a second intensity associated therewith that varies substantially independently of said one of said processing conditions and a second set of instructions to cause said processor to operate on said information to identify a third subset of spectral bands having an intensity associated therewith that varies substantially independently of said processing conditions and a third set of instructions to cause said processor to characterize said one of said processing conditions as a function of said first, second and third intensities. 13. The apparatus as recited in claim 12 wherein said computer-readable program further includes a subroutine to quantize said first and second intensities, defining first and second quantizations and obtain a ratio of said first and second quantizations. 14. The apparatus as recited in claim 13 wherein said computer-readable program further includes a supplementary set of instructions to produce a plurality of said ratios, defining a sequence, with each of the ratios in said sequence corresponding to one of a plurality of substrates, sequentially exposed to said source of light, with said third set of instructions further including a subroutine to characterize said one of said processing conditions as a function of variations among the ratios of said sequence. 15. The apparatus as recited in claim 12 wherein said third set of instructions further includes a subroutine to characterize said one of said processing conditions as being in one of two states selected from a set of states consisting of a fault state and an acceptable operation state. 16. The apparatus as recited in claim 12 wherein said source of light further includes a system to produce a plasma within said processing chamber. 17. A method for monitoring processing conditions of a semiconductor processing system employing a source of light, said method comprising: sensing optical energy produced by said source of light, said optical energy having a plurality of spectral bands associated therewith; ascertaining a first subset of said plurality of spectral bands having first and second sets of frequencies associated therewith, with said first and second sets of frequencies having an intensity associated therewith, defining first and second intensities, respectively, with said first intensity varying a first magnitude in response to changes in multiple processing conditions and said second intensity varying a second magnitude in response to said multiple processing conditions, with said second magnitude being less than said first magnitude; identifying a second subset of said spectral bands having an intensity associated therewith that varies a third magnitude in response to changes in a subset of said multiple processing conditions, with said third magnitude being less than said first and second magnitudes; obtaining a first ratio of intensities of said second subset and said first set of frequencies; obtaining a second ratio of said second subset and said second set of frequencies; and determining a state of one of said multiple processing conditions by comparing said first and second ratios. 18. The method as recited in claim 17 wherein said state is selected from a set of states consisting essentially of a fault state and an acceptable operation state. 19. The method as recited in claim 17 further including providing said processing system with a plurality of subsystems wherein said processing conditions include operational characteristics of said subsystems. 20. The method as recited in claim 17 further including quantizing said first and second ratios, with said first ratio defining a normalized ratio and said second ratio defining a parameter ratio, with determining further including determining said state based upon a comparison between said parameter ratio and said normalized ratio. 21. The method as recited in claim 17 further including providing said processing system with a plurality of subsystems wherein said one of said processing conditions include optional characteristics of one of said plurality of subsystems, with said one of said plurality of subsystems selected from a set of subsystems consisting of a power source for said source of light, a light transmissive body in optical communication with said processing chamber, an optical fiber in optical communication with said light transmissive body, a pump system in fluid communication with said processing chamber, lifting system disposed in said processing chamber to support a substrate and a fluid delivery system to deliver processing fluids to said processing chamber. 