A reticle adapter that is capable of supporting a reticle in a conventional reactive ion etch chamber that is designed for etching circular silicon wafers. The adapter has a lower portion that is milled to cover the upper portion of a pedestal within a reactive ion etch chamber. A top portion of the adapter has an opening that is sized and shaped to hold a reticle.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A reactive ion etch chamber comprising: a pedestal having a support surface; and an adapter having a first side that covers said support surface of said pedestal and a second side to support a photolithography reticle within the chamber. 2. The reactive ion etch chamber of claim 1 wherein said first side and said second side are separated by a support region that supports said reticle in a spaced apart relation with respect to said support surface to form a space therebetween. 3. The reactive ion etch chamber of claim 2 wherein said second side further comprises a seal between said reticle and said second side. 4. The reactive ion etch chamber of claim 3 wherein said seal retains a gas within said space between said reticle and said support surface. 5. The reactive ion etch chamber of claim 4 wherein said seal is an O-ring that is located in a channel that circumscribes an opening within which the reticle resides. 6. A reactive ion etch chamber, comprising: a pedestal having a support surface; and an adapter having a first portion on a first side that matches the size and shape of the support surface of the pedestal and a second portion on a second side that is adapted to support a photolithography reticle. 7. The reactive ion etch chamber of claim 6, wherein the first portion defines a first opening. 8. The reactive ion etch chamber of claim 7, wherein the first opening is adapted to rest upon the support surface of the pedestal. 9. The reactive ion etch chamber of claim 8, wherein the first opening is adapted to rest upon the support surface of the pedestal by being milled to conformally fit over the support surface of the pedestal. 10. The reactive ion etch chamber of claim 8, wherein the first opening is adapted to rest upon the support surface of the pedestal by mating to a modified collar. 11. The reactive ion etch chamber of claim 7, wherein the adapter is aligned with the pedestal. 12. The reactive ion etch chamber of claim 11, wherein the adapter is aligned with the pedestal by a flat in the adapter which matches a flat on the pedestal. 13. The reactive ion etch chamber of claim 11, wherein the adapter is aligned with the pedestal by a detent in the adapter which mates with an alignment member in a modified collar. 14. The reactive ion etch chamber of claim 7, wherein the first opening is adapted to rest upon the support surface of the pedestal and the adapter is aligned with the pedestal. 15. The reactive ion etch chamber of claim 6, wherein the second portion defines a second opening. 16. The reactive ion etch chamber of claim 15, further comprising a reticle retainer located within the second opening. 17. The reactive ion etch chamber of claim 16, wherein the reticle retainer comprises: at least one plate, having a longitudinal axis parallel with an edge of the second opening, where said at least one plate extends from the peripheral edge of the second opening into the second opening. 18. The reactive ion etch chamber of claim 17, wherein the reticle retainer further comprises at least one resilient member for biasing the at least one plate into the second opening. 19. The reactive ion etch chamber of claim 16, wherein the reticle retainer comprises: four plates, where each plate has a longitudinal axis aligned with an edge of the second opening; and at least one spring for each plate, disposed between each plate and an edge of the second opening to bias each of the four plates into the second opening. 20. The reactive ion etch chamber of claim 16, wherein the reticle retainer further comprises a seal between the reticle and the second side, whereby a gas is retained within the space between the reticle and the support surface. 21. The reactive ion etch chamber of claim 20, wherein the seal is an O-ring that is located in a channel circumscribing the second opening. 22. The reactive ion etch chamber of claim 20, wherein the adapter further comprises a securing element to maintain contact between the first side of the adapter and the support surface of the pedestal. 23. The reactive ion etch chamber of claim 22, wherein the securing element is either a clamp or a weight. 24. The reactive ion etch chamber of claim 15, further comprising a plurality of reticle support members located within the second opening. 25. The reactive ion etch chamber of claim 24, wherein the second opening is substantially square having four corners and the reticle support members are located in each corner. 26. The reactive ion etch chamber of claim 6, wherein the first side and the second side of the adapter are separated by a support region which supports the reticle in a spaced apart relation with respect to the support surface of the pedestal to form a space therebetween. 27. A reactive ion etch chamber, comprising: a pedestal having a support surface; and adapting means for supporting a photolithography reticle on the support surface of the pedestal. 28. The reactive ion etch chamber of claim 27, wherein the adapting means further comprises a first portion on a first side that matches the size and shape of the support surface of the pedestal and a second portion on a second side that is adapted to support a photolithography reticle. 29. The reactive ion etch chamber of claim 28, wherein the first side and second side are separated by a support region that maintains the reticle in a spaced apart relation with respect to the support surface of the pedestal to form a space therebetween. 30. The reactive ion etch chamber of claim 28, wherein the first portion defines a first opening. 31. The reactive ion etch chamber of claim 30, wherein the first opening is adapted to rest upon the pedestal. 32. The reactive ion etch chamber of claim 31, wherein the first opening is adapted to rest upon the pedestal by being milled to conformally fit over the support surface of the pedestal. 33. The reactive ion etch chamber of claim 31, wherein the first opening is adapted to rest upon the pedestal by mating to a modified collar. 34. The reactive ion etch chamber of claim 28, wherein the adapting means further comprises means for aligning the reticle with the pedestal. 35. The reactive ion etch chamber of claim 34, wherein the aligning is a flat which matches a flat the pedestal. 36. The reactive ion etch chamber of claim 34, wherein the aligning means is a detent on the adapting means which mates with an alignment member on a modified collar which is attached to the support surface of the pedestal. 37. The reactive ion etch chamber of claim 28, wherein the adapting means further comprises for aligning the reticle with the pedestal and is adapted to rest upon the support surface of the pedestal. 38. The reactive ion etch chamber of claim 28, wherein the second portion defines a second opening. 39. The reactive ion etch chamber of claim 38, wherein the adapting means further comprises a plurality of reticle support members located within the second opening. 40. The reactive ion etch chamber of claim 39, wherein the second opening is substantially square having four corners and the reticle support members are located in each corner. 41. The reactive ion etch chamber of claim 38, wherein the adapting means further comprises means for retaining the reticle located within the second opening. 42. The reactive ion etch chamber of claim 41, wherein the retaining means further comprises at least one plate, having a longitudinal axis parallel with an edge of the second opening, where said at least one plate extends from the peripheral edge of the second opening into the second opening. 43. The reactive ion etch chamber of claim 42, wherein the retaining means further comprises at least one resilient member for biasing the at least one plate into the second opening. 44. The reactive ion etch chamber of claim 41, wherein the retaining means further comprises four plates, where each plate has a longitudinal axis aligned with an edge of the second opening, and, at least one spring for each plate, disposed between each plate and an edge of the second opening to bias each of the four plates into the second opening. 45. The reactive ion etch chamber of claim 41, wherein the retaining means further comprises means for sealing the gap between the reticle and the adapting means, whereby a gas may be retained within the space between the reticle and the support surface. 46. The reactive ion etch chamber of claim 45, wherein the retaining means and the sealing means is an O-ring that is located in a channel circumscribing the second opening. 47. The reactive ion etch chamber of claim 45, wherein the adapting means further comprises means for securing the adapting means to the pedestal. 48. The reactive ion etch chamber of claim 47, wherein the securing means is either a weight or a clamp. 