A haptic feedback control device coupled to a host computer and outputting forces to a user of the control device. The control device includes a housing, a direction pad capable of being contacted by the user in at least two different locations to provide two different directional signals to the host computer, and a computer-controlled actuator that outputs a force directly on the direction pad. A sensor, such as one or more contact switches, can detects when the locations of the direction pad have been contacted or pressed by the user. The actuator can be a linear or rotary actuator that outputs a force on the direction pad, e.g. approximately perpendicular to the top surface of the direction pad. The actuator can output a vibration or a pulse tactile sensation on the direction pad in coordination with interactions or events in a computer graphical environment or functions of a controlled electronic device. The control device can be a game controller, a mouse, a remote control device, or other type of device.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A tactile feedback control device for inputting control signals to a computer and for outputting forces to a user of the control device, the control device comprising: a housing, said housing capable of being held and operated by a user in one or more hands of said user; a direction pad coupled to said housing, said direction pad capable of being contacted by said user in at least two different locations to provide two different directional signals to said host computer, each directional signal corresponding to one of said locations on said direction pad; and a computer-controlled actuator coupled to said direction pad, said actuator outputting a force directly on said direction pad to cause said direction pad to move with respect to said housing. 2. A control device as recited in claim 1 further comprising a microprocessor separate from said computer and providing control signals to control said actuator. 3. A control device as recited in claim 1 wherein each of said locations on said direction pad is an extension of said direction pad, said extensions being part of a unitary member, wherein said unitary member tilts approximately about a pivot point when said user presses one of said locations. 4. A control device as recited in claim 1 wherein each of said locations on said direction pad is a button separate from a central portion of said direction pad. 5. A control device as recited in claim 1 further comprising a sensor that detects when said locations of said direction pad have been contacted by said user. 6. A control device as recited in claim 5 wherein said sensor includes a plurality of contact switches. 7. A control device as recited in claim 6 further comprising an elastometric layer positioned under said direction pad, said elastomeric layer providing conductive portions to engage said contact switches. 8. A control device as recited in claim 1 wherein said direction pad is capable of being contacted by said user in four different locations, each location providing a different directional signal to said host computer. 9. A control device as recited in claim 1 wherein said force is a linear force output approximately perpendicularly to a plane of a top surface of said direction pad. 10. A control device as recited in claim 9 wherein said actuator is a linear actuator that provides an output force in a linear degree of freedom. 11. A control device as recited in claim 1 wherein said actuator is a rotary actuator that provides an output force in a rotary degree of freedom. 12. A control device as recited in claim 11 further comprising at least one member coupling said actuator to said directional pad which converts said rotary output force to an approximately linear output force imparted on said direction, said linear output force being approximately perpendicular to a top surface of said direction pad. 13. A control device as recited in claim 1 wherein said actuator includes a voice coil actuator. 14. A control device as recited in claim 1 wherein said actuator includes a piezo-electric actuator. 15. A control device as recited in claim 1 wherein said actuator includes a pager motor. 16. A control device as recited in claim 1 wherein said actuator includes a solenoid. 17. A control device as recited in claim 1 wherein said actuator outputs a vibration or a pulse tactile sensation on said direction pad. 18. A control device as recited in claim 1 wherein said computer displays a graphical environment which with said user interacts using said control device. 19. A control device as recited in claim 18 wherein said control device is a game controller and said computer displays a game. 20. A control device as recited in claim 1 further comprising a sensor for detecting motion or position of said direction pad approximately perpendicularly to a top surface of said direction pad, wherein an input signal based on said detected motion or position is sent to said computer. 21. A control device as recited in claim 9 wherein said linear force can be output on said direction pad to provide a tactile sensation when said direction pad is held at a limit to its travel. 22. A tactile feedback control device for inputting control signals to a host computer and for outputting forces to a user of the control device, the control device comprising: a housing; a direction pad coupled to said housing, said direction pad capable of being contacted by said user in at least two different locations to provide two different directional signals to said host computer, each directional signal corresponding to one of said locations on said direction pad; and a computer-controlled actuator coupled to said direction pad, said actuator outputting a linear force directly on said direction pad, wherein said linear force is provided along a z-axis approximately perpendicularly to a plane of a top surface of said direction pad. 23. A control device as recited in claim 22 further comprising a local microprocessor separate from said host computer, said microprocessor receiving force information from said host computer and providing control signals based on said force information to control said actuator. 24. A control device as recited in claim 22 further comprising a sensor that detects when said locations of said direction pad have been contacted by said user. 25. A control device as recited in claim 24 wherein said sensor includes a plurality of contact switches. 26. A control device as recited in claim 22 wherein said direction pad is capable of being contacted by said user in four different locations, each location providing a different directional signal to said host computer. 27. A control device as recited in claim 22 wherein said actuator outputs a vibration or pulse tactile sensation on said direction pad. 28. A control device as recited in claim 22 further comprising a sensor for detecting motion or position of said direction pad approximately perpendicularly to a top surface of said direction pad, wherein an input signal based on said detected motion or position is sent to said host computer. 29. A control device as recited in claim 22 wherein said computer displays a graphical environment which with said user interacts using said control device, and wherein said direction pad is moved to different positions on an axis approximately perpendicular to a top surface of said direction pad, said different positions based on a desired 3-D elevation of an object or area displayed in said graphical environment. 30. A control device as recited in claim 22 wherein said direction pad is caused to move to a lower position when a user-controlled graphical object is moved over a selectable graphical object displayed in a graphical environment implemented by said host computer. 31. A control device as recited in claim 22 wherein said host computer implements and displays a graphical environment, and wherein said direction pad controls a cursor in said graphical environment. 32. A control device as recited in claim 31 wherein a menu is displayed in said graphical environment, wherein when said cursor is moved between menu elements in said menu, a pulse is output on said direction pad, said pulse causing said direction pad to move along said z-axis. 33. A control device as recited in claim 31 wherein an icon is displayed in said graphical environment, wherein when said cursor is moved over said icon, a pulse is output on said direction pad, said pulse causing said direction pad to move along said z-axis. 34. A control device as recited in claim 31 wherein a web page is displayed in said graphical environment and a hyperlink is displayed on said web page, wherein when said cursor is moved over said hyperlink, a pulse is output on said direction pad, said pulse causing said direction pad to move along said z-axis. 35. A control device as recited in claim 22 wherein said device is a gamepad controller. 36. A control device as recited in claim 22 wherein said device is a mouse. 37. A control device as recited in claim 22 wherein said device is a remote control device for controlling functions of an electronic device or appliance. 38. A control device as recited in claim 22 wherein said device is a handheld device operated with at least one hand of a user. 39. A control device as recited in claim 22 wherein said force on said direction pad causes said direction pad to vibrate along said z-axis with respect to said housing. 40. A method for providing haptic feedback to a direction pad of an interface device, said interface device coupled to a host processor implementing a graphical environment, the method comprising: providing a housing; providing at least one sensor operative to sense manipulation of a direction pad provided on said housing by a user, said direction pad including a plurality of locations, wherein said manipulation includes the pressing of at least one of said locations on said direction pad by said user, wherein said at least one sensor provides a different sensor signal for each of said pressed locations; and providing an actuator coupled to said housing, said actuator receiving control signals derived from force information from said host processor, wherein said force information causes said actuator to output a force on said direction pad to cause said direction pad to move with respect to said housing, said force being correlated with an interaction occurring in said graphical environment between a user-controlled graphical object or entity and a different graphical object. 41. A method as recited in claim 40 wherein said force output on said direction pad is a linear force approximately perpendicular to a top surface of said direction pad. 42. A method as recited in claim 41 wherein said direction pad includes four locations, each location spaced about a center point ninety degrees from adjacent locations. 43. A method as recited in claim 42 wherein each of said locations is coupled to an associated actuator for providing a force on said associated location. 44. A method as recited in claim 41 wherein said direction pad is moveable along an axis approximately perpendicular to a top surface of said direction pad, wherein said movement along said axis is sensed and information representative of said movement is sent to said host microprocessor. 45. A method as recited in claim 40 wherein a local microprocessor separate from said host processor receives said force information from said host processor and causes said control signals to be sent to said actuator. 46. A method as recited in claim 40 wherein said interaction occurring in said graphical environment includes a collision between said user-controlled graphical object or entity and said different graphical object. 47. A method as recited in claim 40 wherein said interaction occurring in said graphical environment includes a selection of said different graphical object by said user-controlled graphical object or entity, wherein said different graphical object is one of an icon, a window, and a menu item. 48. A method as recited in claim 40 wherein said direction pad is moveable along an axis approximately perpendicular to a top surface of said direction pad, wherein said movement along said axis is sensed and information representative of said movement is sent to said host microprocessor. 49. A tactile feedback control device for inputting control signals to a computer and for outputting forces to a user of the control device, the control device comprising: a housing, said housing capable of being held and operated by a user in one or more hands of said user; a direction pad which is capable of being contacted by said user in one or more of a plurality of different locations to provide signals to said host computer corresponding to said locations contacted, wherein each of said signals corresponds to one of said locations on said direction pad; and a computer-controlled actuator coupled to said member, said actuator outputting a force on said member to cause said member to move with respect to said housing such that said user contacting any of said plurality of different locations can feel said force. 50. A control device as recited in claim 49 wherein said direction pad provides a plurality of location signals to said host computer. 51. A control device as recited in claim 50 wherein each of said locations on said direction pad is an extension of said direction pad, said extensions being part of said direction pad, wherein said direction pad tilts approximately about a pivot point when said user presses one of said extensions. 52. A control device as recited in claim 50 wherein said direction pad is capable of being contacted by said user in four different locations, each location providing a different directional signal to said host computer. 53. A control device as recited in claim 50 further comprising a sensor for detecting motion or position of said direction pad approximately perpendicularly to a top surface of said direction pad, wherein an input signal based on said detected motion or position is sent to said computer. 54. A control device as recited in claim 49 further comprising a sensor that detects when said locations have been contacted by said user. 55. A control device as recited in claim 54 wherein said sensor includes a plurality of contact switches, and further comprising an elastometric layer positioned under said direction pad, said elastomeric layer providing conductive portions to engage said contact switches. 56. A control device as recited in claim 49 wherein said force moves said direction pad approximately perpendicularly to a plane of a top surface of said direction pad. 57. A control device as recited in claim 56 wherein said actuator is a linear actuator that provides an output force in a linear degree of freedom. 58. A control device as recited in claim 49 wherein said actuator includes one of a voice coil actuator and a piezo-electric actuator. 59. A control device as recited in claim 49 further comprising a computer-controlled housing actuator that outputs a force on said housing of said control device independently of said actuator outputting said force on said direction pad. 60. A control device as recited in claim 49 wherein said movement of said direction pad caused by said force with respect of said housing is just large enough to be able to convey a vibration to said user contacting one or more of said locations on said direction pad. 