A method of robotic assembly, for manufacturing plastic components from parts mounted upon a plastic shell, using an integrated system of material handling and robots following a programmed series of operations. The robot cells carry out the following steps: (a) scanning the pallet and identifying that the pallet is locked in the docked position of the cell; (b) scanning an assembly area of the shell and communicating location and planarity data to the robot of the cell; (c) selecting a plastic part from a part supply device with the robot; (d) welding the part to the assembly surface of the plastic shell using the robot to perform a spin or fusion welding process. (e) determining the performance status of the foregoing cell steps and identifying the status as: good; scrap or rework. Good status results in conveyance of the loaded pallet for processing at any succeeding cell, but rework and scrap status result in conveyance of the loaded pallet to the unload station without processing at any succeeding cell.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of robotic assembly, for manufacturing plastic components from a plurality of parts mounted upon a plastic shell, using an integrated system of material handling and a plurality of robots following a programmed series of operations, wherein shells are progressively conveyed between a loading station and an unloading station through a plurality of robot work cells, the method comprising the steps of: loading and securing each shell into a fixture mounted on an associated pallet at the loading station; moving each loaded pallet sequentially on a conveyor to a stationary docked position at each successive robot work cell; moving each loaded pallet from said docked position to the unload station; determining the quality of each completed plastic component from system data accumulated from each robot cell and qualifying each completed component as having a quality selected from the group consisting of: good; scrap; and rework; unloading each completed component from the associated pallet; and conveying empty pallets to the loading station; wherein at least one robot cell performs the following cell steps: scanning the pallet and identifying that the pallet is locked in the docked position of the cell; scanning an assembly area of the shell and communicating location and planarity data to the robot of the cell; selecting a plastic part from a part supply device with the robot; welding the part to the assembly surface of the plastic shell using the robot to perform a welding process selected from the group consisting of: spin welding; and fusion welding, wherein spin welding comprises: engaging a mounting surface of the part with the assembly surface of the shell; rotating the part until the mounting and assembly surfaces are heated; and applying pressure to the part sufficient to fuse the mounting and assembly surfaces together; and wherein fusion welding comprises: simultaneously heating the mounting and assembly surfaces with heaters; and applying pressure to the part sufficient to fuse the mounting and assembly surfaces together; and determining the performance status of the foregoing cell steps and identifying the status as one of: good; scrap and rework, whereas good status results in conveyance of the loaded pallet for processing at any succeeding cell, and whereas rework and scrap status result in conveyance of the loaded pallet to the unload station without processing at any succeeding cell. 2. A method of robotic assembly according to claim 1, wherein the cell steps further include: cutting an opening in the shell using a cutting tool mounted to the robot. 3. A method of robotic assembly according to claim 2, wherein the cutting tool comprises at least two knives mounted to a turret for rotation about a common axis of said opening. 4. A method of robotic assembly according to claim 1, wherein during fusion welding, a first heater heats the mounting surface of the part while a second heater heats the assembly surface of the shell. 5. A method of robotic assembly according to claim 1, wherein the conveyor comprises: an upper track upon which the cell steps are performed; and a lower track upon which empty pallets are conveyed from the unloading station to the loading station, and wherein the loading and unloading stations include pallet elevators adapted to convey empty pallets between the upper and lower tracks of the conveyor. 6. A method of robotic assembly according to claim 1, wherein the scanning step is performed using a scanner selected from the group consisting of: a laser scanner; an optical scanner; an ultrasound scanner; and an x-ray scanner. 7. A method of robotic assembly according to claim 6, wherein the scanner is mounted on an overhead support structure above the upper conveyor track of the robot cell. 8. A method of robotic assembly according to claim 1, wherein the plastic component comprises an automotive subassembly selected from the group consisting of: a plastic fuel tank; a plastic fender module; a plastic dash board module; a plastic door panel module; a plastic roof panel module; and a plastic windshield module. 9. A method of robotic assembly according to claim 8, wherein the plastic component comprises a plastic fuel tank and wherein the plastic parts assembled thereto are selected from the group consisting of: a sender ring; a fuel valve; a filter tube fitting; a handle; and a mounting clip. 10. A method of robotic assembly according to claim 8, wherein the plastic component comprises a blow molded plastic fuel tank shell. 11. A method of robotic assembly according to claim 10, wherein the blow molded shell includes locating recesses and wherein the pallet fixture includes mounts adapted to engage said recesses. 12. A method of robotic assembly according to claim 11, wherein the fixture includes clamps adapted to engage the recesses. 13. A method of robotic assembly according to claim 1, wherein the integrated system includes programmable logic controls (PLC) in communication with the conveyor, the loading station, the unloading station and each robot work cell. 14. A method of robotic assembly according to claim 1, wherein the part supply device is selected from the group consisting of: an external tray magazine; a bowl feeder; and a dial feeder. 15. A method of robotic assembly according to claim 1, wherein the integrated system includes a perimeter detection device adapted to abort robot cell operation. 