Improvements to chemical vapor deposition processes are taught for depositing tungsten nitride in semiconductor manufacturing processes. In one irmproved process NF.sub.3 is used as a source of nitrogen, and a plasma is introduced under controlled conditions to control particle formation and lower the temperature at which acceptable films may be produced. In another set of processes substantially pure tungsten is produced by rapid thermal annealing of substantially amorphous tungsten nitride at temperatures lower than achieved in the art, by using hydrogen in the ambient atmosphere. In yet another set of new processes particle formation and step coverage enhancement when using NH.sub.3 as a nitrogen source is controlled by limiting the pressure at which source gases mix, by unique wall coating technique, and by controlling chamber wall temperature. In still another set of unique processes a graded film on oxide, starting with tungsten silicide quickly grading to tungsten nitride is produced by introducing silane in the NH.sub.3 chemistry under controlled conditions.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A process for controlling particle formation in a chemical vapor deposition (CVD) chamber using WF.sub.6 and NH.sub.3 gases as precursors, comprising steps of: (a) pre-coating walls of the CVD chamber with a hard-anodized aluminum film substantially crack-free; (b) injecting the WF.sub.6 and NH.sub.3 gases separately into the chamber; and (c) controlling the pressure at which the WF.sub.6 and NH.sub.3 gases meet and mix to less than 1000 mtorr. 2. The process of claim 1 comprising a further step for heating walls of the CVD chamber to a temperature between 70 and 90 degrees centigrade inclusive. 3. The process of claim 1 comprising two further steps, one for heating walls of the CVD chamber to a temperature between 70 and 90 degrees centigrade inclusive, and the other for pre-coating walls of the CVD chamber with a hard-anodized aluminum film also substantially crack-free. 4. A process for controlling particle formation in a chemical vapor deposition (CVD) chamber using WF.sub.6 and NH.sub.3 gases as precursors, comprising steps of: (a) injecting the WF.sub.6 and NH.sub.3 gases into the CVD chamber; and (b) heating walls of the CVD chamber to a temperature between 70 and 90 degrees centigrade inclusive during CVD processing. 5. The process of claim 4 comprising a further step for injecting the gases separately and controlling the pressure at the point of mixing to less than 1000 mtorr. 6. A process for controlling particle formation in a chemical vapor deposition (CVD) chamber using WF.sub.6 and NH.sub.3 gases as precursors, comprising steps of: (a) injecting the WF.sub.6 and NH.sub.3 gases into the CVD chamber; and (b) pre-coating walls of the CVD chamber with a hard-anodized aluminum film substantially crack-free. 7. The process of claim 6 comprising a further step for injecting the gases separately and controlling the pressure at the point of mixing to less than 1000 mtorr. 8. The process of claim 6 comprising a further step for heating walls of the CVD chamber to a temperature between 70 and 90 degrees centigrade inclusive during CVD processing. 9. The process of claim 6 comprising two further steps, one for injecting the gases separately and controlling the pressure at the point of mixing to less than 1000 mtorr, and the other for heating walls of the CVD chamber to a temperature between 70 and 90 degrees centigrade inclusive during CVD processing. 10. A process for depositing Tungsten Nitride (WNx) using NH.sub.3 as a source of nitrogen, comprising steps of: (a) exposing a substrate surface to be coated in a CVD chamber, maintaining temperature of the substrate in a range of 300 to 450 degrees centigrade, inclusive; (b) flowing WF.sub.6, NH.sub.3, and H.sub.2 into the CVD chamber; (c) striking a plasma in the CVD chamber; and (d) heating the walls to between 70-90 degrees centigrade to promote enhanced step coverage. 11. The process of claim 10 wherein the substrate temperature is maintained in a range of from 300 to 450 degrees centigrade, the WF.sub.6 is flowed to the chamber at from 3-12 sccm inclusive, the NH.sub.3 is flowed to the chamber in a range of from 1.5 to 24 sccm, the H.sub.2 is flowed to the chamber at from 200 to 500 sccm, and the chamber is pumped to maintain the total pressure below 1000 torr. 