An apparatus comprising an electrolyte cell, an anode, and a porous rigid diffuser. The electrolyte cell is configured to receive a substrate to have a metal film deposited thereon. An anode is contained within the electrolyte cell. A porous rigid diffuser is connected to the electrolyte cell and extends across the electrolyte cell. The diffuser is positioned between a location that the substrate is to be positioned when the metal film is deposited thereon and the anode.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus comprising: an electrolyte cell having an opening configured to receive a substrate to have a metal film deposited thereon; an anode contained within the electrolyte cell; and a porous, rigid diffuser extending across the electrolyte cell and positioned between the opening and the anode, wherein the diffuser is made from a ceramic and has a generally uniform thickness. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a fluid supply that is fluidly connected to the electrolyte cell that is configured to supply fluid under pressure to the electrolyte cell at a location proximate the anode. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the porous rigid diffuser is positioned to maintain said pressure in a portion of the electrolyte cell below the porous rigid diffuser. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the rigidity of the porous rigid diffuser is sufficient to limit substantial deformation of the porous rigid diffuser under said pressure. 5. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the pressure is sufficient to remove gas bubbles that are contained in the porous rigid diffuser. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the porous, rigid diffuser is made from a plurality of substantially rigid ceramic particles coupled together to form spaces between the particles. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the spaces between the particles are from about 0.1 .mu.m to about 500 .mu.m. 8. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the particles occupy about 40% to about 80% of the volume of the diffuser. 9. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the spaces between the particles occupy about 20% to about 60% of the volume of the diffuser. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the diffuser is supported by a structural stiffener connected to the electrolyte cell. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the structural stiffener comprises a ring with one of a spoke configuration and a grid configuration. 12. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a porous membrane disposed between the anode and the diffuser. 13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the porous membrane is configured to filter out anode sludge flowing from the anode to the diffuser. 14. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the diffuser is configured to remain substantially flat as an electrolyte solution flows through the diffuser. 15. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the diffuser is configured to generate an electric flux between the diffuser and the substrate. 16. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the diffuser is configured to provide uniform electric current density across the substrate as an electrolyte solution flows through the diffuser. 17. An apparatus comprising: an electrolyte cell configured to receive a substrate to have a metal film deposited thereon; an anode contained within the electrolyte cell; and a porous, rigid diffuser that is connected to the electrolyte cell and extends across the electrolyte cell, wherein the diffuser is positioned between a location that the substrate is to be positioned when the metal film is deposited thereon and the anode, wherein the porous rigid diffuser is made from a ceramic. 18. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the porous, rigid diffuser includes a high purity alumina. 19. An apparatus comprising: an electrolyte cell configured to receive a substrate to have a metal film deposited thereon; an anode contained within the electrolyte cell; and a porous, rigid diffuser that is connected to the electrolyte cell and extends across the electrolyte cell, wherein the diffuser is positioned between a location that the substrate is to be positioned when the metal film is deposited thereon and the anode, wherein the porous, rigid diffuser is hydrophilic. 20. An apparatus comprising: an electrolyte cell configured to receive a substrate to have a metal film deposited thereon; an anode contained within the electrolyte cell; and a porous, rigid diffuser that is connected to the electrolyte cell and extends across the electrolyte cell, wherein the diffuser is positioned between a location that the substrate is to be positioned when the metal film is deposited thereon, and the anode, wherein the porous, rigid diffuser has pore sizes from about 45 .mu.m to about 90 .mu.m. 21. An apparatus comprising: an electrolyte cell configured to receive a substrate to have a metal film deposited thereon; an anode contained within the electrolyte cell; a porous rigid diffuser that is connected to the electrolyte cell and extends across the electrolyte cell, wherein the diffuser is positioned between a location that the substrate is to be positioned when the metal film is deposited thereon and the anode; and a membrane extending across the electrolyte cell between the anode and the porous rigid diffuser. 22. The apparatus of claim 21, further comprising a fluid pressure source that fluidly supplies electrolyte solution to the electrolyte cell that is configured to apply electrolyte solution under pressure to the anode. 23. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein the pressure is applied between the diffuser and the anode. 24. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein the membrane is a hydrophilic membrane. 25. An apparatus comprising: an electrolyte cell configured to receive a substrate to have a metal film deposited thereon; an anode contained within the electrolyte cell; a porous rigid diffuser that is connected to the electrolyte cell and extends across the electrolyte cell, wherein the diffuser is positioned between a location that the substrate is to be positioned when the metal film is deposited thereon and the anode; and a bowl to encase the anode, wherein a plurality of electric feed throughs are substantially equally spaced radially about the bowl. 26. An apparatus comprising: an electrolyte cell configured to receive a substrate to have a metal film deposited thereon; an anode contained within the electrolyte cell; a porous rigid diffuser that is connected to the electrolyte cell and extends across the electrolyte cell, wherein the diffuser is positioned between a location that the substrate is to be positioned when the metal film is deposited thereon and the anode; and a bowl to encase the anode, wherein a plurality of bypass outlets are substantially equally spaced radially about the bowl. 27. A method of electrochemical plating on a seed layer of a substrate located in an electrolyte cell containing electrolyte solution, comprising: extending a porous ceramic diffuser across the electrolyte cell; applying fluid pressure to the electrolyte solution contained in the electrolyte cell below the ceramic diffuser; and inserting a substrate to undergo electro-chemical plating in the electrolyte cell above the ceramic diffuser. 28. The method claim 27, wherein the applying pressure enhances removal of gas bubbles from the porous ceramic diffuser. 29. The method of claim 27, further comprising positioning an anode in the electrolyte solution below the ceramic diffuser. 30. The method of claim 27, wherein the pressure enhances the uniformity of generation of metal ions generated by the chemical reaction between the electrolyte solution and the anode. 31. The method of claim 27, wherein the pressure in the electrolyte solution enhances the fluid contact between the electrolyte solution and the anode. 32. The method of claim 27, wherein the porous ceramic diffuser is sufficiently rigid to resist its bowing under said pressure. 33. The method of claim 32, wherein the rigidity of the ceramic diffuser enhances the substantially uniform fluid flow across the width of the electrolyte cell. 34. An apparatus for use in an electrolyte cell, the apparatus comprising: a porous ceramic diffuser that is connected to and extends across the electrolyte cell, the porous ceramic diffuser is positioned between the top opening and an anode positioned in the electrolyte cell, wherein the ceramic diffuser is formed from sintered particles of ceramic having pores extending between the sintered particles. 35. The apparatus of claim 34, further comprising a diffuser structural stiffener mounted to the electrolyte cell and attached to and supporting the porous ceramic diffuser. 36. An apparatus comprising: an electrolyte cell including a bowl; an anode mounted within the bowl, wherein a plurality of electric feed throughs are substantially equally spaced radially about the bowl; a porous ceramic diffuser that is connected to and extends across the electrolyte cell, the porous ceramic diffuser is positioned between the top opening and an anode positioned in the electrolyte cell, wherein the ceramic diffuser is formed from sintered particles of ceramic having pores extending between the sintered particles; and a diffuser structural stiffener mounted to the electrolyte cell and attached to and supporting the porous ceramic diffuser. 37. The apparatus of claim 36, further comprising a plurality of bypass outlets that are substantially equally spaced radially about the bowl. 38. The apparatus of claim 36, further comprising a plurality of bypass inlets that are substantially equally spaced radially about the bowl. 