A robotic exoskeleton and a control system for driving the robotic exoskeleton, including a method for making and using the robotic exoskeleton and its control system. The robotic exoskeleton has sensors embedded in it which provide feedback to the control system. Feedback is used from the motion of the legs themselves, as they deviate from a normal gait, to provide corrective pressure and guidance. The position versus time is sensed and compared to a normal gait profile. Various normal profiles are obtained based on studies of the population for age, weight, height and other variables.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for assisting and easing the rehabilitation of spinal cord, stroke and traumatic brain injured people (as well as others with injury affecting locomotion) to regain walking capabilities comprising (a) an individually adjustable automated body weight suspension training system; (b) multiple sensors wherein said sensors provide feedback to adjust the automated body weight suspension training system. 2. The system of claim 1 further comprising: (a) two pairs of motor-driven mechanical linkage units; (b) each of said units with two mechanical degrees-of-freedom; (c) said units connected with their drive elements to a fixed base of a treadmill; (d) said linkages' free ends wherein said free ends are attachable to the patient's legs at two locations at each leg; wherein one linkage pair serves one leg in the sagittal plane of bipedal locomotion; and wherein the other linkage pair serves the other leg in the sagittal plane of bipedal locomotion. 3. The system of claim 1 further comprising: (a) an exoskeleton linkage system with its passive compliant elements wherein said exoskeleton linkage system with its passive compliant elements are adjustable to an individual patient's geometry and dynamics. 4. The system of claim 3 further comprising: said linkage system arrangement wherein said linkage system arrangement is capable of reproducing the profile of bipedal locomotion and standing in the sagittal plane, from a fixed base. 5. The system of claim 1 further comprising: (a) a control system for a programmable stepping device; (b) said computer based control system of a linkage system of the programmable stepping device; (c) said control system referenced to individual stepping models, treadmill speed, and force, torque, electromyogram (EMG) and acceleration data; (d) said data sensed at the linkages' exoskeleton contact area with each of the patient's legs. 6. The system of claim 1 further comprising: (a) control algorithms of the exoskeleton linkages' computer control system (b) said control algorithms being "intelligent" control for biped locomotion wherein said algorithms distinguish between the amount and direction of the force/torque generated by the patient, by the feet's contact with the treadmill, and by the action of the programmable stepping device; (c) said control system monitoring and controlling each leg independently. 7. The system of claim 1 further comprising: said control system operating by way of feedback through sensors for force, torque, acceleration, and pressure located at various points on or in the exoskeleton system; wherein no wires are required to go to the human body. 8. The system of claim 1 further comprising: a keyboard attached to the treadmill wherein the user, one or more, selected from the group consisting of patient, therapist, physician and assistant can input selected kinematic and dynamic stepping parameters to said computer-based control system. 9. The system of claim 1 further comprising: an externally located digital monitor system wherein the patient's stepping performance is selectively displayed in real time. 10. The system of claim 1 further comprising: a data recording system wherein the storage of all training related and time based and time coordinated data, including electromyogram (EMG) signals, for off-line diagnostic analysis is enabled. 11. The system of claim 1 further comprising: (a) a minimized external mechanical load acting on the patient; (b) a maximized work performed by the patient in generating effective stepping and standing during treadmill training. 12. The system of claim 1 further comprising: (a) a stimulator for applying stimulation to selected flexor muscles and associated tendons; (b) a stimulator for applying stimulation to selected extensor muscles and associated tendons. 13. The system of claim 12 wherein said stimulators for applying stimulation to selected flexor and extensor muscles and associated tendons are vibrating stimulators. 14. The system of claim 1 further comprising: an active system for positioning the hips. 15. The system of claim 14 further comprising: said active system wherein controlled dual T-bars position the hips. 16. The system of claim 14 further comprising: said active system wherein motorized semi-elastic belts position the hips. 17. An apparatus for rehabilitation of spinal cord, stroke and traumatic brain injured people (as well as others with injury affecting locomotion) to regain walking capabilities comprising: (a) an individually adjustable automated body weight suspension training apparatus; (b) multiple sensors wherein said sensors provide feedback to adjust the automated body weight suspension training apparatus; (c) two pairs of motor-driven mechanical linkage units; (d) each of said units with two mechanical degrees-of-freedom; (e) said units connected with their drive elements to a fixed base of a treadmill; (f) said linkages' free ends wherein said free ends are attachable to the patient's legs at two locations at each leg; wherein one linkage pair serves one leg in the sagittal plane of bipedal locomotion; and wherein the other linkage pair serves the other leg in the sagittal plane of bipedal locomotion. 18. The apparatus of claim 17 further comprising: (a) an exoskeleton linkage system with its passive compliant elements wherein said exoskeleton linkage system with its passive compliant elements are adjustable to an individual patient's geometry and dynamics; (b) said linkage system arrangement wherein said linkage system arrangement is capable of reproducing the profile of bipedal locomotion and standing in the sagittal plane, from a fixed base. 19. The apparatus of claim 17 further comprising: (a) a control system for a programmable stepping device; (b) said computer based control system of a linkage system of the programmable stepping device; (c) said control system referenced to individual stepping models, treadmill speed, and force, torque, electromyogram (EMG) and acceleration data; (d) said data sensed at the linkages' exoskeleton contact area with each of the patient's legs. 20. The apparatus of claim 17 further comprising: (a) control algorithms of the exoskeleton linkages' computer control system (b) said control algorithms being "intelligent" control for biped locomotion wherein said algorithms distinguish between the amount and direction of the force/torque generated by the patient, by the feet's contact with the treadmill, and by the action of the programmable stepping device; (c) said control system monitoring and controlling each leg independently; (d) said control system operating by way of feedback through sensors for force, torque, electromyogram (EMG), acceleration, and pressure located at various points on or in the exoskeleton system; wherein no wires are required to go to the human body. 21. The apparatus of claim 17 further comprising: (a) a keyboard attached to the treadmill wherein the user, one or more, selected from the group consisting of patient, therapist, physician and assistant, can input selected kinematic and dynamic stepping parameters to said computer-based control system; (b) an externally located digital monitor system wherein the patient's stepping performance is selectively displayed in real time; (c) a data recording system wherein the storage of all training related and time based and time coordinated data, including electromyogram (EMG) signals, for off-line diagnostic analysis is enabled. 22. The apparatus of claim 17 further comprising: (a) a minimized external mechanical load acting on the patient; (b) a maximized work performed by the patient in generating effective stepping and standing during treadmill training. 23. The system of claim 17 further comprising: (a) a stimulator for applying stimulation to selected flexor and associated tendons; (b) a stimulator for applying stimulation to selected extensor muscles and associated tendons. 24. The system of claim 23 wherein said stimulators for applying stimulation to selected flexor and extensor muscles are vibrating stimulators. 25. The apparatus of claim 17 further comprising: an active system for positioning the hips. 26. The apparatus of claim 25 further comprising: said active system wherein controlled dual T-bars position the hips. 27. The apparatus of claim 25 further comprising: said active system wherein motorized semi-elastic belts position the hips. 