Methods of identifying predicted or actual structures of members of a chemical or physical library are provided. The methods provide for the direct identification of compound structure following combinatorial synthesis using molecular mass measurements of individual compounds, thereby eliminating the necessity of encoding synthetic steps. The analysis of mass spectrometric data for sets of related compounds reveals compounds that are missing in a group of related compounds and identifies compounds that do not belong to a group of related compounds due to unexpected chemical, physical, or biological transformations. The methods may be applied to any group of compounds originating from chemical reactions where one reactant is common to the synthetic transformation. One particular application of these methods is in the analysis of the products of combinatorial synthesis. Systems, computer programs products, and kits are additionally provided.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of identifying predicted or actual structures of two or more members of a chemical or physical library, comprising: (a) providing a logical matrix comprising virtual masses of members of a library produced by chemical or physical transformations of an initial set of chemical or physical members, wherein at least one group of the virtual masses comprises masses that correspond to library members having a shared chemical history and wherein two or more of the virtual masses are identical to one another; (b) correlating molecular mass measurements of two or more chemical or physical library members having a shared chemical history with two or more virtual masses in the logical matrix to identify one or more groups of virtual masses that most likely describe chemical or physical transformations undergone by the two or more chemical or physical library members; and, (c) identifying the predicted or actual structures of the two or more chemical or physical library members within the one or more identified groups based on the molecular mass measurements. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the method is completely or partially computer implemented. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the library comprises a combinatorial chemical library. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein individual masses of the initial set of chemical or physical members are known. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein individual masses of the initial set of chemical or physical members are unknown. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the chemical or physical transformations comprise multiple chemical or physical transformations to the initial set of chemical or physical members. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the chemical or physical transformations comprise additions of one or more common scaffolds to each of the initial set of chemical or physical members. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein a mass of each member of the initial set of chemical or physical members is determined using a mass spectrometer. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the molecular mass measurements comprises mass spectrometric measurements. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the two or more chemical or physical library members are members of a synthesized set of compounds. 11. The method of claim 1, further comprising synthesizing the two or more chemical or physical library members, which library members correspond to all or a portion of the virtual masses represented in the logical matrix. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein multiple groups of the virtual masses comprise masses that correspond to library members having shared chemical histories. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more groups of virtual masses describe the chemical or physical transformations undergone by the two or more chemical or physical library members in (b). 14. The method of claim 1, wherein correlations in (b) account for one or more mass defects of reaction. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein (b) comprises: (i) determining the molecular mass measurements for each of x members of a set of chemical or physical library members, wherein x is at least two, and wherein each of the x members is derived from a member of the initial set of chemical or physical members and comprises a shared chemical history with all other x members; (ii) subtracting a cumulative total mass of all members of the initial set of chemical or physical members from a cumulative total mass of all x members of the set of chemical or physical library members to determine a cumulative total mass change for the set of chemical or physical library members; (iii) dividing the cumulative total mass change by x to thereby determine a mass change for each of the x members of the set of chemical or physical library members; and, (iv) subtracting the mass change of (iii) from each of the molecular mass measurements of (i) to thereby identify each member in the initial set of chemical or physical members corresponding to each individual x member of the set of chemical or physical library members. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein (a) comprises solving a simultaneous system of equations to provide one or more values in the logical matrix. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein solving the simultaneous system of equations comprises solving for one or more masses of one or more members of the initial set of chemical or physical members. 18. The method of claim 16, wherein solving the simultaneous system of equations comprises solving for one or more of: at least one mass of at least one member of the set of chemical or physical library members, at least one mass of at least one of the initial set of chemical or physical members, or at least one member of a set of expected mass changes. 19. The method of claim 1, wherein (a) comprises calculating individual masses for each member of the logical matrix by separately summing masses for each member of the initial set of chemical or physical members with each mass in a set of expected mass changes, wherein each calculated individual mass is assigned to one of m groups, m corresponding to a total number of individual mass changes in the set of expected mass changes, and wherein each of the m groups comprises ii members, n corresponding to a total number of members in the initial set of chemical or physical members. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein the set of expected mass changes comprises a set of virtual mass changes calculated by separately subtracting masses for each member of the initial set of chemical or physical members from each mass in the set of chemical or physical library members. 21. The method of claim 19, wherein (b) comprises: (i) matching a selected mass from the set of chemical or physical library members with all identical calculated masses and excluding any of the m groups lacking a member n comprising a mass identical to the selected mass from further consideration to reduce a number of m groups available for subsequent consideration; (ii) repeating (i) at least once, wherein each repeated (i) comprises matching a different selected mass from the set of chemical or physical library members with all the identical calculated masses that remain in the reduced number of m groups from an immediately preceding (i) and excluding any of the reduced number of m groups lacking an n member with a mass identical to the different selected mass from further consideration to further reduce the number of in groups available for subsequent consideration, thereby: (1) identifying a single m group which indicates that matched masses from the set of chemical or physical library members have a shared chemical history; (2) identifying more than one m group for further consideration which indicates that insufficient data exists for an unambiguous determination of whether masses selected from the set of chemical or physical library members have a shared chemical history; or, (3) identifying no m group for further consideration which indicates that masses selected from the set of chemical or physical library members originate from materials lacking a shared chemical history. 22. The method of claim 19, further comprising assigning each of the m groups a P variable, wherein each P variable is initially zero. 23. The method of claim 22, wherein (b) comprises: (i) matching a selected mass from the set of chemical or physical library members with identical masses in each of the m groups, wherein the P variable for an m group is increased by one when the selected mass matches at least one value therein; (ii) repeating (i) for each remaining value in the set of chemical or physical library members; and, (iii) determining which one or more m groups have highest P variables, thereby identifying one or more mass changes from the set of expected mass changes best fitting the set of chemical or physical library members, and all paired values in the initial set of chemical or physical members and the set of chemical or physical library members originating from materials with a shared chemical history. 24. A method of determining predicted or actual structures of two or more members of a chemical or physical library, comprising: (a) providing a logical matrix comprising virtual masses of members of a library produced by chemical or physical transformations of an initial set of chemical or physical members, wherein one or more groups of the virtual masses comprise masses that correspond to library members having a shared chemical history and wherein two or more of the virtual masses are identical to one another; (b) providing at least one set of chemical or physical library members corresponding to two or more members of the library, wherein the at least one set of chemical or physical library members comprises unknown structures or is non-arrayed; and, (c) correlating mass measurements of two or more of the chemical or physical library members to two or more virtual masses in one of the one or more groups, thereby determining the predicted or actual structures of the two or more chemical or physical library members. 25. A system for identifying predicted or actual structures for two or more members of a chemical or physical library, comprising: (a) at least one computer comprising a database having a logical matrix comprising virtual masses of members of a library produced by chemical or physical transformations of an initial set of chemical or physical members, wherein at least one group of the virtual masses comprises masses that correspond to library members having a shared chemical history and wherein two or more of the virtual masses are identical to one another; and, (b) system software comprising one or more logic instructions for: (i) correlating molecular mass measurements of two or more chemical or physical library members having a shared chemical history wit two or more virtual masses in the logical matrix to identify one or more groups of virtual masses that most likely describe chemical or physical transformations undergone by the two or more chemical or physical library members; and, (ii) identifying the predicted or actual structures of the two or more chemical or physical library members within the one or more identified groups based on the molecular mass measurements. 26. The system of claim 25, wherein the one or more groups of virtual masses describe the chemical or physical transformations undergone by the two or more chemical or physical library members in (b). 27. The system of claim 25, wherein correlations in (i) account for one or more mass defects of reaction. 28. The system of claim 25, further comprising a mass spectrometer operably connected to the at least one computer which provides the molecular mass measurements to be correlated. 29. The system of claim 25, wherein the system software is stored on one or more of: a CD-ROM, a floppy disk, a tape, a flash memory device or component, a system memory device or component, a hard drive, or a data signal embodied in a carrier wave. 30. The system of claim 25, further comprising a handling system operably connected to the at least one computer, which handling system directs translocation and synthesis of the chemical or physical library members. 31. The system of claim 30, wherein the handling system comprises at least one robotic armature. 32. The system of claim 30, wherein the handling system comprises a solid support handler. 33. The system of claim 32, wherein the solid support handler comprises a bead handler or a bead container handler. 34. A computer program product comprising a computer readable medium having one or more logic instructions for (a) correlating molecular mass measurements of two or more chemical or physical library members having a shared chemical history with two or more virtual masses in a logical matrix to identity one or more groups of virtual masses that most likely describe chemical or physical transformations undergone by the two or more chemical or physical library members, wherein two or more of the virtual masses are identical to one another; and, (b) identifying predicted or actual structures of the two or more chemical or physical library members within the one or more identified groups based on the molecular mass measurements. 35. The computer program product of claim 34, wherein correlations account for one or more mass defects of reaction. 36. The computer program product of claim 34, wherein the computer readable medium Comprises one or more of: a CD-ROM, a floppy disk, a tape, a flash memory device or component, a system memory device or component, a hard drive, or a data signal embodied in a carrier wave. 37. A method of identifying a predicted or actual structure of a chemical or physical library member, comprising: (a) providing a logical matrix comprising virtual masses of members of a library produced by chemical or physical transformations of an initial set of chemical or physical members, wherein at least one group of the virtual masses comprises masses that correspond to library members having a shared chemical history; (b) correlating a molecular mass measurement of the chemical or physical library member with two or more virtual masses in the logical matrix to identify one or more groups of virtual masses that most likely describe a chemical or physical transformation undergone by the chemical or physical library member; and, (c) identifying the predicted or actual structure of the chemical or physical library member within the one or more identified groups based on the molecular mass measurement. 38. The method of claim 37, wherein the method is completely or partially computer implemented. 39. The method of claim 37, wherein the library comprises a combinatorial chemical library. 40. The method of claim 37, wherein individual masses of the initial set of chemical or physical members are known. 41. The method of claim 37, wherein individual masses of the initial set of chemical or physical members are unknown. 42. The method of claim 37, wherein a mass of each member of the initial set of chemical or physical members is determined using a mass spectrometer. 43. The method of claim 37, wherein (a) comprises solving a simultaneous system of equations to provide one or more values in the logical matrix. 44. The method of claim 43, wherein solving the simultaneous system of equations comprises solving for one or more masses of one or more members of the initial set of chemical or physical members. 45. The method of claim 43, wherein solving the simultaneous system of equations comprises solving for one or more of: at least one mass of at least one member of the set of chemical or physical library members, at least one mass of at least one of the initial set of chemical or physical members, or at least one member of a set of expected mass changes. 46. The method of claim 37, wherein (b) further comprises correlating molecular mass measurements of one or more additional chemical or physical library members with one or more of the virtual masses in the logical matrix to further identify the one or more groups of virtual masses that most likely describe chemical or physical transformations undergone by the chemical or physical library member and the additional chemical or physical library members. 47. The method of claim 46, wherein the chemical or physical library member and the additional chemical or physical library members have a shared chemical history. 48. The method of claim 46, wherein (c) further comprises identifying the predicted or actual structures of the additional chemical or physical library members within the one or more identified groups based on the molecular mass measurements. 49. The method of claim 46, wherein the chemical or physical transformations comprise multiple chemical or physical transformations to the initial set of chemical or physical members. 50. The method of claim 46, wherein the molecular mass measurements comprise mass spectrometric measurements. 51. The method of claim 46, wherein the chemical or physical transformations comprise additions of one or more common scaffolds to each of the initial set of chemical or physical members. 52. The method of claim 46, wherein the chemical or physical library member and the additional chemical or physical library members are members of a synthesized set of compounds. 53. The method of claim 46, further comprising synthesizing the chemical or physical library member and the additional chemical or physical library members, which library members correspond to all or a portion of the virtual masses represented in the logical matrix. 54. The method of claim 46, wherein multiple groups of the virtual masses comprise masses that correspond to library members having shared chemical histories. 55. The method of claim 46, wherein the one or more groups of virtual masses describe the chemical or physical transformations undergone by the chemical or physical library member and the additional chemical or physical library members in (b). 56. The method of claim 46, wherein correlations in (b) account for one or more mass defects of reaction. 57. The method of claim 46, wherein (b) comprises: (i) determining the molecular mass measurements for each of x members of a set of chemical or physical library members, wherein x is at least two, and wherein each of the x members is derived from a member of the initial set of chemical or physical members and comprises a shared chemical history with all other x members; (ii) subtracting a cumulative total mass of all members of the initial set of chemical or physical members from a cumulative total mass of all x members of the set of chemical or physical library members to determine a cumulative total mass change for the set of chemical or physical library members; (iii) dividing the cumulative total mass change by x to thereby determine a mass change for each of the x members of the set of chemical or physical library members; and, (iv) subtracting the mass change of (iii) from each of the molecular mass measurements of (i) to thereby identify each member in the initial set of chemical or physical members corresponding to each individual x member of the set of chemical or physical library members. 58. The method of claim 46, wherein (a) comprises calculating individual masses for each member of the logical matrix by separately summing masses for each member of the initial set of chemical or physical members with each mass in a set of expected mass changes, wherein each calculated individual mass is assigned to one of m groups, m corresponding to a total number of individual mass changes in the set of expected mass changes, and wherein each of the m groups comprises n members, n corresponding to a total number of members in the initial set of chemical or physical members. 59. The method of claim 58, wherein the set of expected mass changes comprises a set of virtual mass changes calculated by separately subtracting masses for each member of the initial set of chemical or physical members from each mass in the set of chemical or physical library members. 60. The method of claim 58, wherein (b) comprises: (i) matching a selected mass from the set of chemical or physical library members with all identical calculated masses and excluding any of the m groups lacking a member n comprising a mass identical to the selected mass from further consideration to reduce a number of m groups available for subsequent consideration; (ii) repeating (i) at least once, wherein each repeated (i) comprises matching a different selected mass from the set of chemical or physical library members with all the identical calculated masses that remain in the reduced number of m groups from an immediately preceding (i) and excluding any of the reduced number of m groups lacking an n member with a mass identical to the different selected mass from further consideration to further reduce the number of in groups available for subsequent consideration, thereby: (1) identifying a single m group which indicates that matched masses from the set of chemical or physical library members have a shared chemical history; (2) identifying more than one m group for further consideration which indicates that insufficient data exists for an unambiguous determination of whether masses selected from the set of chemical or physical library members have a shared chemical history; or, (3) identifying no m group for further consideration which indicates that masses selected from the set of chemical or physical library members originate from materials lacking a shared chemical history. 61. The method of claim 58, further comprising assigning each of the m groups a P variable, wherein each P variable is initially zero. 62. The method of claim 61, wherein (b) comprises: (i) matching a selected mass from the set of chemical or physical library members with identical masses in each of the m groups, wherein the P variable for an m group is increased by one when the selected mass matches at least one value therein; (ii) repeating (i) for each remaining value in the set of chemical or physical library members; and, (iii) determining which one or more m groups have highest P variables, thereby identifying one or more mass changes from the set of expected mass changes best fitting the set of chemical or physical library members, and all paired values in the initial set of chemical or physical members and the set of chemical or physical library members originating from materials with a shared chemical history. 63. A method of determining predicted or actual structures of two or more members of a chemical or physical library, comprising: (a) providing a logical matrix comprising virtual masses of members of a library produced by chemical or physical transformations of an initial set of chemical or physical members, wherein one or more groups of the virtual masses comprise masses that correspond to library members having a shared chemical history; (b) providing at least one set of chemical or physical library members corresponding to two or more members of the library, wherein the at least one set of chemical or physical library members comprises unknown structures or is non-arrayed; and, (c) correlating mass measurements of two or more of the chemical or physical library members to three or more virtual masses in one of the one or more groups, wherein at least one of the mass measurements correlates to two or more of the virtual masses in the logical matrix, thereby determining the predicted or actual structures of the two or more chemical or physical library members. 64. A system for identifying a predicted or actual structure of a chemical or physical library member, comprising: (a) at least one computer comprising a database having a logical matrix comprising virtual masses of members of a library produced by chemical or physical transformations of an initial set of chemical or physical members, wherein at least one group of the virtual masses comprises masses that correspond to library members having a shared chemical history; and, (b) system software comprising one or more logic instructions for: (i) correlating a molecular mass measurement of the chemical or physical library member with two or more virtual masses in the logical matrix to identify one or more groups of virtual masses that most likely describe a chemical or physical transformation undergone by the chemical or physical library member; and, (ii) identifying the predicted or actual structure of the chemical or physical library member within the one or more identified groups based on the molecular mass measurement. 65. The system of claim 64, wherein (i) further correlates molecular mass measurements of one or more additional chemical or physical library members with one or more of the virtual masses in the logical matrix to further identify the one or more groups of virtual masses that mast likely describe chemical or physical transformations undergone by the chemical or physical library member and the additional chemical or physical library members. 66. The system of claim 65, wherein the chemical or physical library member and the additional chemical or physical library members have a shared chemical history. 67. The system of claim 65, wherein (ii) further identifies the predicted or actual structures of the additional chemical or physical library members within the one or more identified groups based on the molecular mass measurements. 68. The system of claim 65, wherein the one or more groups of virtual masses describe the chemical or physical transformations undergone by the chemical or physical library member and the additional chemical or physical library members in (i). 69. The system of claim 65, wherein correlations in (i) account for one or more mass defects of reaction. 70. The system of claim 65, further comprising a mass spectrometer operably connected to the at least one computer which provides the molecular mass measurements to be correlated. 71. The system of claim 65, wherein the system software is stored on one or more of: a CD-ROM, a floppy disk, a tape, a flash memory device or component, a system memory device or component, a hard drive, or a data signal embodied in a carrier wave. 72. The system of claim 65, further comprising a handling system operably connected to the at least one computer, which handling system directs translocation and synthesis of the chemical or physical library members. 73. The system of claim 72, wherein the handling system comprises at least one robotic armature. 74. The system of claim 72, wherein the handling system comprises a solid support handler. 75. The system of claim 74, wherein the solid support handler comprises a bead handler or a bead container handler. 76. A computer program product comprising a computer readable medium having one or more logic instructions for (a) correlating a molecular mass measurement of a chemical or physical library member with two or more virtual masses in a logical matrix to identify one or more groups of virtual masses that most likely describe a chemical or physical transformation undergone by the chemical or physical library member; and, (b) identifying the predicted or actual structure of the chemical or physical library member within the one or more identified groups based on the molecular mass measurement. 77. The computer program product of claim 76, wherein (a) further correlates molecular mass measurements of one or more additional chemical or physical library members with one or more of the virtual masses in the logical matrix to further identify the one or more groups of virtual masses tat most likely describe chemical or physical transformations undergone by the chemical or physical library member and the additional chemical or physical library members. 78. The computer program product of claim 77, wherein the chemical or physical library member and the additional chemical or physical library members have a shared chemical history. 79. The computer program product of claim 77, wherein (b) further identifies the predicted or actual structures of the additional chemical or physical library members within the one or more identified groups based on the molecular mass measurements. 80. The computer program product of claim 77, wherein correlations account for one or more mass defects of reaction. 81. The computer program product of claim 77, wherein the computer readable medium comprises one or more of: a CD-ROM, a floppy disk, a tape, a flash memory device or component, a system memory device or component, a hard drive, or a data signal embodied in a carrier wave. 