A collimator positioning system for positioning a collimator on a base member. The positioning system includes a first support rod and a second support rod. The first support rod has a general elongated length with at least two cam surfaces spaced from each other along the length. The second support rod is movable relative to the first support rod to form a variable collimator support area therebetween. The support rods are adapted to be moved relative to each other for varying an angle of inclination or a height of the collimator on the base member.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A collimator positioning system for positioning a collimator on a base member, the positioning system comprising: a first support rod having a general elongated length with at least two cam surfaces spaced from each other along the length; and a second support rod movable relative to the first support rod to form a variable collimator support area therebetween, wherein the support rods are adapted to be moved relative to each other for varying an angle of inclination or a position of the collimator on the base member. 2. A collimator positioning system as in claim 1 wherein the two cam surfaces comprise general ball shapes. 3. A collimator positioning system as in claim 2 wherein the general ball shapes are connected by a generally straight rod section. 4. A collimator positioning system as in claim 3 wherein the generally straight rod section extends from the ball shapes in respective opposite directions. 5. A collimator positioning system as in claim 1 wherein the first support rod comprises two cam sections forming the two cam surfaces, the two cam sections comprising generally circular profiles. 6. A collimator positioning system as in claim 5 wherein the first support rod comprises a substantially straight section coaxially aligned with the two cam sections and extending through and out of opposite sides of both of the two cam sections. 7. A collimator positioning system as in claim 1 wherein the length of the first support rod is about twice a longitudinal length of the collimator, and wherein the two cam surfaces are spaced from each other at a length less than the longitudinal length of the collimator. 8. A collimator positioning system as in claim 1 wherein the second support rod is substantially identical to the first support rod. 9. A collimator positioning system as in claim 1 wherein the second support rod has a general elongated length with at least two cam surfaces spaced from each other along the length. 10. A collimator assembly comprising: a base member; two spaced support sections movable relative to each other on the base member; and a collimator located on the support sections in an area between the support sections, wherein the support sections are adapted to be angularly and translationally moved relative to each other to adjust angular positioning and height positioning of the collimator relative to the base member. 11. A collimator assembly as in claim 10 wherein the two spaced support sections comprise a first adjuster rod and a separate second adjuster rod. 12. A collimator assembly as in claim 11 wherein the first and second adjuster rods each comprise two spaced cam sections connected by a connecting rod section, the connecting rod section extending from two opposite sides of both of the cam sections. 13. A collimator assembly as in claim 11 wherein the second adjuster rod is substantially identical to the first adjuster rod. 14. A collimator assembly as in claim 10 wherein a longitudinal length of the first support section is about twice a longitudinal length of the collimator, and wherein each support section comprises two spaced cam surfaces which are spaced from each other at a length less than the longitudinal length of the collimator. 15. A collimator assembly as in claim 10 further comprising at least one bonding which stationarily connects the base member with the support sections and the collimator. 16. A collimator assembly as in claim 15 wherein the bonding comprises an adhesive. 17. A collimator assembly as in claim 15 wherein the bonding comprises welding or soldering of the support sections to the base member or the collimator. 18. A collimator assembly as in claim 10 wherein the base member, the support sections, and an outer housing of the collimator are comprised of metal. 19. A method of positioning a collimator on a base member, the method comprising steps of: locating the collimator on two spaced support members which are located on the base member, the collimator being supported on the support members in a gap between the support members; and moving the two support members relative to each other to vary an angle between the support members or distance between the support members, and thereby moving at least a portion of the collimator relative to the base member. 20. A method as in claim 19 further comprising permanently fixing the collimator to the support members and the base member. 