Methods of sampling specimens for microanalysis, particularly microanalysis by atom probe microscopy, include steps of forming a study specimen in a first study object (as by use of focused ion beam milling); removing the study specimen from the study object; situating the study specimen on a second study object; and microanalyzing the study specimen. Where the first study object is of particular interest for study, the study specimen may be taken from a functional portion of the first study object so that microanalysis will provide information regarding this functional portion. Where the second study object is of particular interest for study, the second study object may be subjected to manufacturing processes (e.g., deposition of layers of materials) after the study specimen is situated thereon so that the study specimen will provide information regarding the results of the manufacturing process. The study specimen may have study regions formed thereon which are particularly suitable for study by atom probes, e.g., regions bearing raised protrusions, at virtually any point during the process, thereby greatly enhancing the speed and efficiency of specimen preparation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of preparing a specimen for microanalysis comprising: a. forming a study specimen in a larger study object; b. removing the study specimen from the study object; c. situating the study specimen on a second study object; and d. forming regions on the study specimen suitable for microanalysis by an atom probe. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of situating the study specimen on the second study object further comprises inserting the study specimen below a top surface of the second study object. 3. The method of claim 2 further comprising the step of rendering a top surface of the study specimen at least substantially coplanar with the top surface of the second study object. 4. The method of claim 3 further comprising the step of affixing the study specimen to the second study object after situating the study specimen thereon. 5. The method of claim 2 wherein the study specimen is inserted within a recess formed below the top surface of the second study object. 6. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of rendering the study specimen at least substantially coplanar to the second study object. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein the second study object has multiple study specimens situated thereon. 8. The method of claim 7 further comprising the step of depositing material on the study specimen and the second study object after situating the study specimen on the second study object. 9. The method of claim 7 wherein the multiple study specimens are also recessed within a top surface of the second study object. 10. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of affixing the study specimen to the second study object after situating the study specimen thereon. 11. The method of claim 10 further comprising the step of rendering the study specimen at least substantially coplanar to the second study object. 12. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of situating the study specimen on a second study object further comprises the step of applying a voltage to the second study object, thereby attracting the study specimen to the second study object. 13. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of forming regions on the study specimen suitable for microanalysis by an atom probe is performed prior to the step of removing the study specimen from the study object. 14. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of forming regions on the study specimen suitable for microanalysis by an atom probe is performed after the step of situating the study specimen on the second study object. 15. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of depositing material on the study specimen and the second study object after situating the study specimen on the second study object. 16. The method of claim 15 further comprising the steps of: a. removing the study specimen from the second study object after material has been deposited thereon; and b. microanalyzing the study specimen after its removal from the second study object. 17. The method of claim 1 wherein the study object from which the study specimen is formed contains an integrated circuit. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein the study specimen is defined by a portion of the study object wherein at least a part of the integrated circuit is located. 19. The method of claim 1 wherein the second study object contains an integrated circuit. 20. The method of claim 19 wherein the study specimen is situated on a portion of the second study object which is situated adjacent to the integrated circuit. 21. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of microanalyzing the study specimen with an atom probe. 22. A method of preparing a specimen for microanalysis comprising: a. forming a study specimen in a first study object; b. removing the study specimen from the first study object; c. situating the study specimen on a second study object; d. depositing material on the study specimen and the second study object; e. removing the study specimen from the second study object; and f. microanalyzing the study specimen. 23. The method of claim 22 wherein the study specimen is also recessed below a top surface of the second study object. 24. A method of preparing a specimen for microanalysis comprising: a. forming a study specimen in a first study object; b. removing the study specimen from the first study object; c. situating the study specimen within a surface of a second study object; and d. microanalyzing the study specimen. 