A field effect emission device (100) for a visual display has a ceramic substrate (1). On an emission side (2) of the substrate, it has an emission layer (3) including a lattice of conductive emitter and gates line stripes (4, 5). For electrical connection to the emitter and gate stripes, the substrate has apertures (16), into which the strip material--or other conductive material--extends as vias (17). The device substrate is made up of several substrate layers 1.sub.1, 1.sub.2, 1.sub.3, 1.sub.4 bonded together. Each layer piece has connection strips (19) set into its opposite surfaces and intereonnecting vias (20), of the same material as the strips. The connection strips of adjacent layers about or at least vias of one layer abut with the connection strips of the next layer, providing electrical contact. The connection strips and the vias are arranged to spread or fan out the connections from the stripe pitch, typically 0.0125", to that of driver chip contacts, typically 0.050", to be connected to the contact pads (18).
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A field effect emission device for a visual display comprising: a multilayer substrate having a front substrate layer and at least one additional substrate layer and an emission layer on one face of the substrate, the emission layer having: a multiplicity of emitters and gates, arranged as an array of emission pixels and conductive connections in the emission layer to the emitters and the gates; the substrate having: conductive vias provided through the front layer thereof to at least some of the said conductive connections in the emission layer for electrical connection to their emitters and gates, the front layer vias being in the body of the emitters and the gates, conductive vias provided through the or each additional substrate, electrical interconnection tracks provided at the interface(s) between the or each adjacent pair of substrate layers for electrical interconnection of the vias of the pair(s) of adjacent layers, the arrangement of the vias and the interconnection tracks being such that the position of a via in the front substrate layer is off-set from that of a via in a back one of the additional substrate layer(s) to which it is electrically connected, electrical connections being provided on an outer face of a back one of the additional substrate layer(s) opposite from the front substrate layer, wherein the gate line and the emitter line vias are arranged in at least the substrate layer having the emission layer in an array of aligned series of vias in two alternate orientations, both orientations being offset with respect to the emitter and gate line directions within the array, all the series are parallel to one or other of the orientations. 2. A field effect emission device according to claim 1, wherein the array of aligned series of vias is a zig zag array with gaps between the zigs and the zags. 3. A field effect emission device according to claim 1, wherein one of the alternate orientations is equal to the orientation of the aligned series, and alternate series of vias are not only parallel but themselves aligned. 4. A visual display comprising a field effect emission device for a visual display, the field effect emission devise including: a multilayer substrate having a front substrate layer and at least one additional substrate layer and an emission layer on one face of the substrate, the emission layer having: a multiplicity of emitters and gates, arranged as an array of emission pixels and conductive connections in the emission layer to the emitters and the gates; the substrate having: conductive vias provided through the front layer thereof to at least some of the said conductive connections in the emission layer for electrical connection to their emitters and gates, the front layer vias being in the body of the emitters and the gates, conductive vias provided through the or each additional substrate, electrical interconnection tracks provided at the interface(s) between the or each adjacent pair of substrate layers for electrical interconnection of the vias of the pair(s) of adjacent layers, the arrangement of the vias and the interconnection tracks being such that the position of a via in the front substrate layer is off-set from that of a via in a back one of the additional substrate layer(s) to which it is electrically connected, electrical connections being provided on an outer face of a back one of the additional substrate layer(s) opposite from the front substrate layer, the visual display further including: a glass face plate incorporating phosphor material selectively excitable by the emission device pixels; and fused sealing material peripherally sealing the face plate to the emission device, whereby the face plate is parallelly spaced from the emission layer of the emission device and the space therebetween is evacuated, wherein the visual display furthermore includes a carrier attached to the face of the emission device opposite from its emission layer. 5. A visual display according to claim 4, wherein the fused sealing material is provided on a peripheral wall which is sealed to the carrier and extends from it to the face plate or which forms one limb of the carrier which is of L-shaped cross-section and extends towards the face plate, the face plate being sealed to the wall by the fused sealing material and the emission device being sealingly attached to the carrier at the face of the emission device opposite from its emission layer. 6. A visual display according to claim 5, wherein the emission device is secured to the carrier by means of adhesive. 7. A visual display according to claim 5, wherein the emission device is secured to the carrier by means of solder. 8. A visual display device according to claim 7, wherein the solder is a high temperature solder, mating portions of the device and the carrier being provided with complementary metallic tracks, to one of which the solder was preliminarily applied. 9. A visual display device according to claim 8, wherein the back layer of the ceramic substrate and the carrier include metallic tracks also connected by high temperature solder for electric power and drive signal connection to the device. 10. A visual display device according to claim 4, wherein the carrier is of the same material as the ceramic substrate. 11. A visual display device according to claim 6, wherein the carrier is of high temperature plastics material. 12. A visual display comprising a field effect emission device for a visual display, the field effect emission devise including: a multilayer substrate having a front substrate layer and at least one additional substrate layer and an emission layer on one face of the substrate, the emission layer having: a multiplicity of emitters and gates, arranged as an array of emission pixels and conductive connections in the emission layer to the emitters and the gates; the substrate having: conductive vias provided through the front layer thereof to at least some of the said conductive connections in the emission layer for electrical connection to their emitters and gates, the front layer vias being in the body of the emitters and the gates, conductive vias provided through the or each additional substrate, electrical interconnection tracks provided at the interface(s) between the or each adjacent pair of substrate layers for electrical interconnection of the vias of the pair(s) of adjacent layers, the arrangement of the vias and the interconnection tracks being such that the position of a via in the front substrate layer is off-set from that of a via in a back one of the additional substrate layer(s) to which it is electrically connected, electrical connections being provided on an outer face of a back one of the additional substrate layer(s) opposite from the front substrate layer, the visual display further including: a glass face plate incorporating phosphor material selectively excitable by the emission device pixels; and fused sealing material peripherally sealing the face plate to the emission device, whereby the face plate is parallelly spaced from the emission layer of the emission device and the space therebetween is evacuated, wherein the visual display furthermore includes an array of spacers between the face plate and the emission device, wherein one or more of the spacers within the area of the phosphor material and the emission layer, i.e. the inner spacers, carries an electrical track for repelling emitted electrons. 13. A visual display device according to claim 12, wherein the inner spacers are set in grooves in the ceramic substrate. 14. A visual display device according to claim 12, wherein the inner spacers are short laterally of the emission device in lengths and/or crosses and are preferably thin in comparison with the pixel line spacing and taper towards the face plate, whereby they do not interfere with any of the pixels and preferably have a tapered cross-section. 15. A visual display device according to claim 5, wherein the emission device and the peripheral, carrier wall are complementarily shaped, for locating the emission device on the carrier. 16. A visual display according to claim 15, wherein the peripheral, carrier wall defines a space into which the emission device fits with negligible gap between the emission device and the wall. 17. A visual display according to claim 15, wherein the peripheral, carrier wall defines a space which is larger than the emission device, one of the wall and the emission device having projections for engaging with the other, for location of the emission device, a gap being present between the wall and the emission device between the projections. 18. A visual display device according to claim 5, wherein the device includes a plurality of emission devices and wherein the carrier has additional members bridging the side members of the carrier, the emission devices being in pixel alignment and supported and sealed at abutting edges by the bridging members. 19. A visual display according to claim 18, wherein the emission devices are dimensioned at abutting edges for pixel alignment and at peripheral edges for abutment with the peripheral carrier wall. 20. A visual display device according to claim 18, wherein: the emission device is secured to the carrier by means of solder and bridging members and the emission devices are provided with complementary solder contacts for providing electrical contact between the circuitry of the adjacent emission devices. 