A flexure mechanism for an interface device that interfaces a user with a computer system. An interface device includes a manipulandum physically contacted by the user. A five-bar closed-loop mechanism is coupled to the manipulandum to provide two rotary degrees of freedom to the manipulandum. The mechanism includes members coupled to each other by flexible couplings allowing rotation of the members. In preferred embodiments, four or five of the members are coupled together by flexible couplings that allow bending, thereby forming a unitary piece, where the couplings are oriented along axes of rotation of the mechanism. A sensor senses a position of the manipulandum outputs a sensor signal, and in some embodiments actuators are coupled to the mechanism to output a force to the manipulandum in particular degrees of freedom. The manipulandum can be a joystick handle or portion of a sphere, where the device in one embodiment can be a handheld gamepad or similar controller.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An interface device manipulated by a user and providing input signals to a host computer, the interface device comprising: a manipulandum physically contacted by said user and moveable in at least two rotary degrees of freedom; a five-bar closed-loop mechanism coupled to said manipulandum, said mechanism providing said at least two rotary degrees of freedom with respect to a ground, wherein said mechanism includes four members forming a unitary piece coupled to said ground, wherein said members are coupled to each other by flexible couplings providing flex that allows rotation of said members; and a sensor coupled to said mechanism that senses a position of said manipulandum in at least one of said degrees of freedom and outputs a sensor signal, wherein a representation of said sensor signal is provided to said host computer. 2. An interface device as recited in claim 1, wherein each of said flexible couplings may bend about only one rotational axis and may not twist. 3. An interface device as recited in claim 1 wherein said mechanism includes a first extension member, a first central member flexibly coupled to said first extension member, a second central member coupled to said first central member, and a second extension member flexibly coupled to said second central member, wherein said manipulandum is coupled to one of said central members. 4. An interface device as recited in claim 1 further comprising an actuator coupled to said mechanism, said actuator outputting a force that is applied to said manipulandum in one of said two degrees of freedom. 5. An interface device as recited in claim 3 wherein said two degrees of freedom are provided about two base axes of rotation, and wherein said central members rotate about two floating axes of rotation, and wherein said flexible couplings between said extension members and said central members are substantially aligned with said floating axes of rotation. 6. An interface device as recited in claim 5 wherein said unitary piece includes a ground member coupled to said ground, wherein said first and second extension members are flexibly coupled to said ground member by flexible couplings. 7. An interface device as recited in claim 6 wherein said flexible couplings between said ground member and said extension member are substantially aligned with said base axes of rotation. 8. An interface device as recited in claim 5 wherein said flexible coupling between said central members is substantially aligned with a normal axis extending approximately perpendicularly from a plane formed by said base axes when said central members are in an origin position. 9. An interface device as recited in claim 8 wherein said normal axis, said base axes, and said floating axes intersect approximately at a single point. 10. An interface device as recited in claim 1 wherein at least two of said flexible couplings are oriented such that when force is applied to said central members by said user contacting said manipulandum, a pulling tension is applied to said at least two flexible couplings. 11. An interface device manipulated by a user and providing input signals to a host computer, the interface device comprising: a manipulandum physically contacted by said user and moveable in at least two rotary degrees of freedom; a mechanism coupled to said manipulandum, said mechanism providing said at least two rotary degrees of freedom, wherein said mechanism includes five members forming a unitary piece, each of said members flexibly coupled to two other members by a flexure coupling such that flex provided by said flexure coupling allows said manipulandum to move in said rotary degrees of freedom; and a sensor coupled to said mechanism that senses a position of said manipulandum in at least one of said degrees of freedom and outputs a sensor signal, wherein a representation of said sensor signal is provided to said host computer. 12. An interface device as recited in claim 11 further comprising an actuator coupled to said mechanism, said actuator outputting a force that is applied to said manipulandum in one of said two degrees of freedom. 13. An interface device as recited in claim 11 wherein said mechanism includes a ground member that is grounded and flexibly coupled to a first extension member, a first central member flexibly coupled to said first extension member, a second central member flexibly coupled to said first central member, and a second extension member flexibly coupled to said second central member and flexibly coupled to said ground member. 14. An interface device as recited in claim 13 wherein said grounded member includes first and second sides arranged substantially perpendicular to each other in a single plane, wherein a first end of each of said extension members is coupled to said ground member by said flexible couplings, each of said flexible couplings extending along one of said sides of said ground member, and wherein a second end of each of said extension members is substantially aligned with said other side of said ground member on an axis of rotation of said manipulandum. 15. An interface device as recited in claim 14 wherein said central members each extend out of a plane formed by said axes of rotation of said manipulandum, wherein said flexible coupling joining said central members extends approximately perpendicularly to said plane formed by said axes of rotation. 16. An interface device as recited in claim 11 wherein said sensor is a rotary optical encoder. 17. An interface device as recited in claim 11 wherein said sensor is an analog potentiometer. 18. An interface device as recited in claim 11 wherein said sensor includes a planar detector and an emitter, wherein said planar detector is grounded and said emitter is coupled to one of said central members or to said manipulandum. 19. An interface device as recited in claim 11 wherein said members are flexibly coupled to each other by flexible couplings relatively thinner in the dimension allowing flex than in the dimensions in which said coupled members are to be rigid with respect to each other, wherein said flexible couplings allow bending and no twisting. 20. An interface device as recited in claim 19 wherein said flexible couplings are oriented so as to be in tension by said coupled members pulling said flexible couplings when weight is placed on said manipulandum. 21. An interface device as recited in claim 12 wherein said actuator is a first actuator, and further comprising a second actuator coupled to said gimbal mechanism, said actuators providing forces in said two degrees of freedom, wherein said actuators are rotary actuators having a limited rotational range. 22. An interface device as recited in claim 12 wherein said manipulandum includes one of a joystick handle and at least a portion of a sphere. 23. An interface device as recited in claim 22 wherein said interface device is in the form of a handheld gamepad and said computer is a home video console system or personal computer. 24. An interface device manipulated by a user and providing input signals to a host computer, the interface device comprising: a manipulandum physically contacted by said user and moveable in at least two rotary degrees of freedom; a mechanism coupled to said manipulandum, said mechanism providing said at least two rotary degrees of freedom about two axes of rotation, wherein said mechanism is a closed loop five-bar linkage including five members, one of said five members being a ground, wherein at least two flexure couplings are provided to couple at least some of said five members to each other to provide flex between said flexibly coupled members to allow said flexibly coupled members to bend with respect to each other, and wherein said flexibly coupled members form a unitary member; a sensor coupled to said mechanism that senses a position of said manipulandum in at least one of said degrees of freedom and outputs a sensor signal, wherein a representation of said sensor signal is provided to said host computer; and two actuators coupled to said mechanism and providing an output force on said manipulandum in said at least two rotary degrees of freedom. 25. An interface device as recited in claim 24 wherein said five members include said ground, a first extension member coupled to said ground, a first central member coupled to said first extension member, a second central member coupled to said first central member, and a second extension member coupled between said second central member and said ground. 26. An interface device as recited in claim 25 wherein one of said flexure couplings are provided between said first extension member and said first central member, and wherein another of said flexure couplings is provided between said second extension member and said second central member. 27. An interface device as recited in claim 26 wherein an additional flexure coupling is provided between said first and second central members. 28. An interface device as recited in claim 27 wherein an additional flexure coupling is provided between said ground and said first extension member, and another flexure coupling is provided between said ground and said second extension member. 29. An interface device as recited in claim 26 wherein said flexure couplings are substantially aligned with said axes of rotation and bend about said axes of rotation. 30. An interface device as recited in claim 24 wherein each of said flexure couplings bends about only one axis and does not allow twist. 31. An interface device as recited in claim 24 wherein each of said five members is flexibly coupled to two others of said five members such that said five members form a unitary member. 32. An interface device as recited in claim 24 wherein said flexure couplings are flexible joints that couple said at least some of said five members, said five members being rigid members. 33. A mechanism for providing two degrees of freedom to a manipulandum manipulated by a user, said mechanism included in a force feedback interface device in communication with a host computer, said force feedback interface device providing input signals to said host computer based on said manipulation and outputting forces on said manipulandum, the mechanism comprising: a ground member coupled to a ground; a first extension member flexibly coupled to said ground member by a first flexible coupling at a first end of said first extension member, said first extension member rotatable about a first axis of rotation extending through said first flexible coupling; a second extension member flexibly coupled to said ground member by a second flexible coupling at a first end of said second extension member, said second extension member rotatable about a second axis of rotation extending through said second flexible coupling; a first central member flexibly coupled to a second end of said first extension member by a third flexible coupling at a first end of said first central member; and a second central member flexibly coupled to a second end of said second extension member by a fourth flexible coupling at a first end of said second central member, wherein a second end of said second central member is rotationally coupled to a second end of said first central member. 34. A mechanism as recited in claim 33 wherein said rotational coupling between said central members is a fifth flexible coupling. 35. A mechanism as recited in claim 34 wherein said third flexible coupling is aligned with a floating rotational axis that is aligned with said first axis of rotation, and wherein said fourth flexible coupling is aligned with a floating rotational axis aligned with said second axis of rotation. 36. A mechanism as recited in claim 33 wherein said rotational coupling between said central members is a rotary bearing. 37. A mechanism as recited in claim 33 wherein said ground member, first extension member, second extension member, first central member, and second central member form a unitary member formed from a single mold. 