A method and system for researching and developing and/or optimizing new catalysts and products in a combinatorial manner is disclosed. The method begins with starting components or a ligand library and provides methods of creating catalyst or product libraries, which are then tested in a reaction of interest. The system uses methods of robotic handling for moving libraries from station to station. The method and apparatus are especially useful for synthesizing, screening, and characterizing combinatorial catalyst libraries, but also offer significant advantages over conventional experimental methods as well.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of researching for polymers, comprising: providing a ligand library comprising a plurality of chemically diverse member ligands in a spatially addressable format; creating a metal-ligand complex library by combining an aliquot of one or more of the member ligands of the ligand library with one or more metal precursors on ar common substrate, (i) wherein said library comprises at least two metal-ligand complexes in separate, spatially addressable regions of the common substrate that are the same, and (ii) wherein the member ligand(s) and the metal precursor(s) are selected to provide said same metal-ligand complexes from different member ligand and metal precursor combinations; mixing two or more starting components, wherein at least one of said starting components is a metal-ligand complex selected from said metal-ligand complex library; subjecting each of said mixtures of starting components to a polymerization reaction in parallel under polymerization conditions to create a polymer library having a plurality of members; forming a daughter library having a plurality of members from said polymer library; and, screening members of the polymer library and daughter library for a property of interest, at least a portion of the members of either the polymer or daughter library being screened for molecular weight. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein polymerization conditions are varied between two or more of said mixtures of starting components. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein the polymerization conditions that are varied are selected from the group consisting of amounts of starting components, time for reaction, reaction temperature, reaction pressure, rate and/or method of starting component addition to the reaction of interest, residence time, reaction stir rate and/or method, reaction kill rate and/or method and reaction atmosphere. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein the polymerization condition that is varied is the amount of starting components and said amount is selected from the group consisting of volume, moles and mass. 5. The method of claim 4, comprising forming two or more daughter libraries from said polymer library, the members of said two or more daughter libraries being screened for a property of interest. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein a different screening test is performed on the members of each of said two or more daughter libraries. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein at least a portion of the members of either the polymer or daughter library are screened using optical techniques selected from Infrared thermography and Fourier Transform Infrared spectroscopy. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein at least a portion of the members of either the polymer or daughter library are screened using thin layer chromatography. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein at least a portion of the members of either the polymer or daughter library are screened using mass spetrometry, gas chromatography or nuclear magnetic resonance. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein at least a portion of the members of either the polymer or daughter library are screened for particle size. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein each of said mixtures of starting components is present in a spatially addressable format in wells of a common substrate. 12. The method of claim 11 wherein, after said parallel polymerization, the polymer library members are present in a spatially addressable format in wells of a common substrate. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the members of the daughter library are arranged in a spatially addressable format in the wells of a common substrate other than the polymer library substrate by withdrawing one or more aliquots from the wells of polymer library members and dispensing the withdrawn one or more aliquots to the daughter library substrate wells. 14. The method of claim 12 wherein at least a portion of the polymer library members are screened while in the spatially addressable format of the common polymer library substrate. 15. The method of claim 1 wherein at least one of the starting components is an olefin monomer, which may be the same or different for each of the starting component mixtures. 16. The method of claim 15 wherein polymerization conditions are varied between two or more of said starting component mixtures. 17. The method of claim 15 or 16 wherein at least one of the metal-ligand complexes is activated prior to parallel polymerization. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein at least one of the starting components is an activator. 19. The method of claim 16 wherein the polymerization conditions that are varied are selected from the group consisting of amounts of starting components, time for reaction, reaction temperature, reaction pressure, rate and/or method of starting component addition to the reaction of interest, residence time, reaction stir rate and/or method, reaction kill rate and/or method and reaction atmosphere. 20. The method of claim 19 wherein the time for reaction is varied between two or more of said starting component mixtures. 21. The method of claim 19 wherein the reaction temperature is varied between two or more of said starting component mixtures. 22. The method of claim 19 wherein the reaction pressure is varied between two or more of said starting component mixtures. 23. The method of claim 1 or 15 wherein all of the members of either the polymer library or daughter library are screened for molecular weight. 24. The method of claim 1 or 15 wherein at least a portion of the members of either the polymer library or daughter library are screened for melt flow. 