In a preferred embodiment, an apparatus for automated magnetic separation of materials in laboratory trays, including: a frame upon an upper surface of which a multiwell laboratory tray may be placed; a base plate on which is mounted a plurality of upstanding magnets disposed below the upper surface; and apparatus to raise the base plate such as to insert the upstanding magnets into interwell spaces in the laboratory tray.
Claims The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows: 1. An apparatus for automated magnetic separation of materials in laboratory trays, comprising: (a) a frame upon an upper surface of which a multiwell laboratory tray may be placed; (b) a base plate n which is mounted a plurality of upstanding magnets disposed below said upper surface; and (c) a flexible bladder to raise said base plate such as to insert said upstanding magnets into interwell spaces in said laboratory tray. 2. An apparatus, as defined in claim 1, wherein: said flexible bladder is supplied with compressed air to provide a motive force. 3. An apparatus, as defined in claim 1, wherein: said flexible bladder is pneumatically operated. 4. An apparatus, as defined in claim 2, wherein: said compressed air is automatically controlled. 5. An apparatus for automated magnetic separation of materials in laboratory trays, comprising: (a) a frame upon an upper surface of which a multiwell laboratory tray may be placed; (b) a base plate on which is mounted a plurality of upstanding magnets disposed below said upper surface and moveable upwardly and downwardly in said frame, upward movement of said base plate causing insertion of said plurality of upstanding magnets into interwell spaces in said laboratory tray and downward movement of said base plate causing withdrawal of said plurality of upstanding magnets from said interwell spaces; and (c) a flexible bladder to impart said upward movement to said base plate wherein application of compressed air causes said flexible bladder to expand. 6. An apparatus, as defined in claim 5, further comprising: compression springs to assist said downward movement of said base plate when said compressed air is removed from said pneumatically expandable device. 7. An apparatus, as defined in claim 5, wherein: said compressed air is automatically controlled. 