The processing status of a plurality of semiconductor wafers undergoing processing is positively identified by the use of indicator flags associated with cassettes containing the wafers. The flags are moved between at least two processing state indicating positions during processing of the wafers by a robotic arm that also transfers the wafers between the cassettes and a wafer processing station.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for positively identifying the processing status of a plurality of semiconductor wafers associated with a storage cassette used in a processing system comprising a controllable robot arm for transferring wafers between a cassette located on a cassette holding station and a wafer processing station, the apparatus comprising: at least one indicator flag movable between at least two processing state indicating positions; and an actuator member connected to the at least one indicator flag and actuated by movement of the robot arm to move the indicator flag. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the actuator member is joined to the indicator flag so that a linear movement of the robot arm in a radial direction relative to the cassette moves the indicator flag between the at least two processing state indicating positions. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the actuator member is joined to the indicator flag so that a relatively vertical movement of the robot arm relative to the cassette moves the indicator between the at least two processing state indicating positions. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein the indicator flag is movable relatively vertically and the actuator member is a post that projects from the indicator flag in a relatively horizontal direction. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a frame mountable on the cassette holding station in which the indicator flag is slidably mounted. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein the indicator flag includes a base portion that slidingly engages at least one slot formed in the frame. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein the indicator flag base portion and the slot define a cooperating recessed track and a projecting rail for guiding the sliding movement of the indicator flag. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a display operatively associated with the indicator flag that provides visually observable descriptions of the processing state associated with each of the at least two processing state indicating positions. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein the indicator flag is movable between three processing state indicating positions that are disposed vertically relative to each other, and that indicate, respectively, a new cassette, processing started and processing finished processing states. 10. The apparatus of claim 9 comprising a sensor that automatically senses the position of the indicator flag and produces an output signal indicative of the sensed position. 11. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein the post is disposed such that the robot arm does not engage the post while the robot arm transfers a wafer between the cassette and the wafer processing station, and the actuator member is only actuated responsive to separate actuating movements of the robot arm. 12. Apparatus for positively identifying the processing status of a plurality of semiconductor wafers during processing in a processing system for processing of semiconductor wafers wherein a plurality of wafers are stored in a storage cassette, a plurality of cassettes are located on a cassette holding station that moves the cassettes successively into a transfer position relative to a controllable robot arm that successively transfers individual wafers between a cassette located at the transfer position and a wafer processing station, the process status identifying apparatus comprising: an indicator flag that is associated with each position on the cassette holding station where cassettes can be located, and that is movable between at least two processing state indicating positions; and an actuator member connected to each indicator flag and actuated by movement of the robot arm to move the indicator flag. 13. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein the cassette holding station includes at least one rotatable support carousel on which a plurality of cassettes are disposed in a circular arrangement, and the indicator flags are arranged around the outer periphery of the carousel in relative alignment with the respective locations at which cassettes are disposed. 14. A method for positively identifying the processing status of a plurality of semiconductor wafers during processing in a processing system for processing of semiconductor wafers wherein a plurality of wafers are stored in a storage cassette, a plurality of cassettes are located on a cassette holding station that moves the cassettes successively into a transfer position relative to a controllable robot arm that is controllable to operate in a wafer transfer cycle of operation so as to successively transfer individual wafers between a cassette located at the transfer position and a wafer processing station, the method comprising: providing an indicator flag that is associated with each position on the cassette holding station where cassettes can be located, and that is movable between at least two processing state indicating positions; and providing an actuator member connected to each indicator flag and actuated by movement of the robot arm to move the indicator flag. 15. The method of claim 14 further comprising: prior to initiating the wafer transfer cycle, sensing the position of the indicator flag associated with the cassette located at the transfer position of the cassette holding station; if the indicator flag is sensed to be at a first position indicative of a new cassette that has not been processed: controlling the robot arm to move the indicator flag to a second position indicative that the cassette wafers are being processed, initiating the wafer transfer cycle to successively transfer the wafers in the cassette between the cassette and the wafer processing station, and at the completion of the wafer transfer cycle, controlling the robot arm to move the indicator flag to a third position indicative that processing of the cassette wafers has been completed. 16. The method of claim 15 further comprising: if the indicator flag is sensed to be at the second position, suspending operation of the processing system and alerting a system operator to intervene; and if the indicator flag is sensed to be at the third position: alerting the system operator of the condition, operating the cassette holding station to move the next cassette to the transfer position, and repeating the sensing step. 17. In a method of making micro-circuit devices by processing semiconductor wafers in a processing system wherein during at least part of the processing a plurality of wafers are stored in a storage cassette, a plurality of cassettes are located on a cassette holding station that moves the cassettes successively into a transfer position relative to a controllable robot arm that is controllable to operate in a wafer transfer cycle of operation so as to successively transfer individual wafers between a cassette located at the transfer position and a wafer processing station, the steps of: providing an indicator flag that is associated with each position on the cassette holding station where cassettes can be located, and that is movable between at least two processing state indicating positions; and providing an actuator member connected to each indicator flag and actuated by movement of the robot arm to move the indicator flag. 18. A micro-circuit device made by the method of claim 17. 