An apparatus for traversing obstacles having an elongated, round, flexible body that includes a plurality of articulating propulsion members. This plurality of propulsion members cooperate in a worm-like or alternating tripod gait to provide forward propulsion wherever a propulsion member is in contact with any feature of the environment, regardless of how many or which ones of the plurality of propulsion members make contact with such environmental feature.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus comprising: a plurality of segments; a plurality of articulating joints individually interconnecting at least a portion of said segments; a plurality of leg mechanisms operably coupled to each of said plurality of segments, said plurality of leg mechanisms generally disposed about a periphery of each of said plurality of segments to provide traction at any position about said periphery; each of said plurality of leg mechanisms comprises: an input shaft operably coupled to said power transmission system; a drive gear fixed for rotation with said input shaft, said drive gear having a pivot pin; a driven gear enmeshingly engaging said drive gear, said driven gear having a cam pin; a leg member having an aperture and a cam slot, said pivot pin of said drive gear being pivotally disposed within said aperture and said cam pin of said driven gear being slidably disposed within said cam slot; and a foot member coupled to said leg member; a power source; and a power transmission system interconnecting said power source and at least a portion of said leg mechanisms to drive said at least a portion of said leg mechanisms. 2. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said foot member is generally arcuate in shape and defines a first radius of curvature. 3. The apparatus according to claim 2 wherein said first radius of curvature is less than a radius of curvature swept about a maximum outside diameter of the apparatus. 4. An apparatus comprising: a plurality of segments; a plurality of articulating joints individually interconnecting at least a portion of said segments; a plurality of leg mechanisms operably coupled to each of said plurality of segments, said plurality of leg mechanisms generally disposed about a periphery of each of said plurality of segments to provide traction at any position about said periphery; a power source; and a power transmission system interconnecting said power source and at least a portion of said leg mechanisms to drive said at least a portion of said leg mechanisms, said power transmission system drives said at least a portion of said leg mechanisms in an alternating tripod gait. 5. The apparatus according to claim 4 wherein each of said plurality of segments is identical and interchangeable. 6. The apparatus according to claim 4, further comprising: a head segment coupled to one of said plurality of segments; and a controller mounted in said head segment, said controller driving said plurality of leg mechanisms. 7. The apparatus according to claim 4 wherein said power transmission system comprises: a plurality of drive members individually extending through each of said plurality of segments, each of said plurality of drive members driving at least a corresponding one of said plurality of leg mechanisms; and a plurality of universal joints pivotally interconnecting said plurality of drive members in series, thereby defining a continuous drive train driven by said power source. 8. The apparatus according to claim 4 wherein each of said plurality of articulating joints includes at least two degrees of freedom, each of said degrees of freedom being actuated by a separate actuator. 9. An apparatus comprising: a plurality of segments; a plurality of articulating joints individually interconnecting at least a portion of said segments; a plurality of leg mechanisms operably coupled to each of said plurality of segments, said plurality of leg mechanisms generally disposed about a periphery of each of said plurality of segments to provide traction at any position about said periphery; a power source; a power transmission system interconnecting said power source and at least a portion of said leg mechanisms to drive said at least a portion of said leg mechanisms; a head segment coupled to one of said plurality of segments; a controller mounted in said head segment, said controller driving said plurality of leg mechanisms; and a sensor system for gathering data, said sensor system being in communication with said controller. 10. The apparatus according to claim 9 wherein said power transmission system drives said at least a portion of said leg mechanisms in a worm-like gait. 11. A robotic comprising: a plurality of segments pivotally interconnected to form an elongated member; a plurality of leg mechanisms operably coupled to each of said plurality of segments, said plurality of leg mechanisms generally disposed generally continuously about a periphery of each of said plurality of segments to provide traction at any position about said periphery, each of said plurality of leg mechanisms comprises: an input shaft; a gearset operably coupled to said articulating drive shaft, said gearset rotatably driving said input shaft; a drive gear fixed for rotation with said input shaft, said drive gear having a pivot pin; a driven gear enmeshingly engaging said drive gear, said driven gear having a cam pin; a leg member having an aperture and a cam slot, said pivot pin of said drive gear being pivotally disposed within said aperture and said cam pin of said driven gear being slidably disposed within said cam slot; and a foot member coupled to an end of said leg member; a power source; an articulating drive shaft rotatably driven by said power source; and a power transmission system interconnecting said articulating drive shaft and at least a portion of said leg mechanisms to drive said plurality of leg mechanisms. 12. The robotic device according to claim 11 wherein said foot member is generally arcuate in shape and defines a first radius of curvature, said first radius of curvature being less than a radius of curvature swept about a maximum outside diameter of the robotic device. 13. The robotic device according to claim 11 wherein said power transmission system drives said plurality of leg mechanisms in a worm-like gait. 14. A robotic device comprising: a plurality of segments pivotally interconnected to form an elongated member; a plurality of leg mechanisms operably coupled to each of said plurality of segments, said plurality of leg mechanisms generally disposed generally continuously about a periphery of each of said plurality of segments to provide traction at any position about said periphery; a power source; an articulating drive shaft rotatably driven by said power source; and a power transmission system interconnecting said articulating drive shaft and at least a portion of said leg mechanisms to drive said plurality of leg mechanisms, said power transmission system drives said plurality of leg mechanisms in an alternating tripod gait. 15. The robotic device according to claim 14 wherein each of said plurality of segments is identical and interchangeable. 16. The robotic device according to claim 14, further comprising: a head segment coupled to one of said plurality of segments; an controller mounted in said head segment, said on-board computer driving said plurality of leg mechanisms; and a sensor system mounted in said head segment, said sensor system being in communication with said on board computer. 17. The robotic device according to claim 14 wherein said articulating drive shaft comprises: a plurality of drive members individually extending through each of said plurality of segments, each of said plurality of drive members driving at least a corresponding one of said plurality of leg mechanisms; and a plurality of universal joints pivotally interconnecting said plurality of drive members in series, thereby defining a continuous drive train driven by said power source. 18. A robotic device for traversing obstacles, said robotic device comprising: a plurality of segments pivotally interconnected to form an elongated member; a plurality of leg mechanisms operably coupled to each of said plurality of segments, said plurality of leg mechanisms generally disposed generally continuously about a periphery of each of said plurality of segments to provide traction at any position about said periphery; a power source; an articulating drive shaft rotatably driven by said power source; a power transmission system interconnecting said articulating drive shaft and at least a portion of said leg mechanisms to drive said plurality of leg mechanisms, said power transmission system drives said plurality of leg mechanisms in an alternating tripod gait; a head segment coupled to one of said plurality of segments; a controller mounted in said head segment, said controller driving said plurality of leg mechanisms; and a sensor system mounted in said head segment, said sensor system being in communication with said controller. 19. The robotic device according to claim 18 wherein each of said plurality of leg mechanisms comprises: an input shaft; a gearset operably coupled to said articulating drive shaft, said gearset rotatably driving said input shaft; a drive gear fixed for rotation with said input shaft, said drive gear having a pivot pin; a driven gear enmeshingly engaging said drive gear, said driven gear having a cam pin; a leg member having an aperture and a cam slot, said pivot pin of said drive gear being pivotally disposed within said aperture and said cam pin of said driven gear being slidably disposed within said cam slot; and a foot member coupled to an end of said leg member. 20. The robotic device according to claim 19 wherein said foot member is generally arcuate in shape and defines a first radius of curvature, said first radius of curvature being less than a radius of curvature swept about a maximum outside diameter of the robotic device. 21. The robotic device according to claim 18 wherein each of said plurality of segments is identical and interchangeable. 22. The robotic device according to claim 18 wherein said articulating drive shaft comprises: a plurality of drive members individually extending through each of said plurality of segments, each of said plurality of drive members driving at least a corresponding one of said plurality of leg mechanisms; and a plurality of universal joints pivotally interconnecting said plurality of drive members in series, thereby defining a continuous drive train driven by said power source. 23. An apparatus comprising: a plurality of segments; an articulating joint interconnecting at least a pair of said segments; a plurality of leg mechanisms operably coupled to each of said plurality of segments, said plurality of leg mechanisms generally disposed about a periphery of each of said plurality of segments to provide traction at any position about said periphery; and a transmission system operably coupled to said plurality of leg mechanisms to drive said plurality of leg mechanisms in an alternating tripod gait. 24. The apparatus according to claim 23 wherein each of said plurality of leg mechanisms comprises: an input shaft operably coupled to said power transmission system; a drive gear fixed for rotation with said input shaft, said drive gear having a pivot pin; a driven gear enmeshingly engaging said drive gear, said driven gear having a cam pin; a leg member having an aperture and a cam slot, said pivot pin of said drive gear being pivotally disposed within said aperture and said cam pin of said driven gear being slidably disposed within said cam slot; and a foot member coupled to said leg member. 25. The apparatus according to claim 24 wherein said foot member is generally arcuate in shape and defines a first radius of curvature. 26. The apparatus according to claim 25 wherein said first radius of curvature is less than a radius of curvature swept about a maximum outside diameter of the apparatus. 27. The apparatus according to claim 23 wherein each of said plurality of segments is identical and interchangeable. 28. The apparatus according to claim 23, further comprising: a head segment coupled to one of said plurality of segments; and a controller mounted in said head segment, said controller driving said plurality of leg mechanisms. 29. The apparatus according to claim 28, further comprising: a sensor system for gathering data, said sensor system being in communication with said controller. 30. The apparatus according to claim 23 wherein said power transmission system comprises: a plurality of drive members individually extending through each of said plurality of segments, each of said plurality of drive members driving at least a corresponding one of said plurality of leg mechanisms; and a plurality of universal joints pivotally interconnecting said plurality of drive members in series, thereby defining a continuous drive train driven by a power source. 31. The apparatus according to claim 23 wherein each of said plurality of articulating joints includes at least two degrees of freedom, each of said degrees of freedom being actuated by a separate actuator. 