A simplified lost-core molding system that combines otherwise redundant features such as platens and hydraulic cylinders ordinarily found in separate core molding stations and product molding stations. The preferred system locates the core mold and the product mold between the platens of an injection molding machine and applies a common clamping force to the core mold and to the product mold.
Claims I claim: 1. A method of producing a hollow plastic product comprising the steps of: providing molten metal; providing molten plastic; providing an injection molding machine with first and second platens; locating a core mold between the first and second platens; locating a product mold between the first and second platens; loading a previously formed core into the product mold; closing the core mold and the product mold by bringing together the first and second platens; clamping the core mold and product mold between the first and second platens with a common clamping force; injecting molten metal into the core mold to form a new core; injecting molten plastic into the product mold and around the previously formed core to form an overmolded assembly comprising a hollow plastic product that covers the previously formed core; removing the common clamping force; opening the core mold and the product mold by separating the first and second platens; removing the new core from the core mold; removing the overmolded assembly from the product mold; and loading the new core into the product mold. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising the steps of melting the core out of the overmolded assembly to leave behind the hollow plastic product. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the core mold and the product mold are arranged in a common plane between the first and second platens. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein the core mold and the product mold are arranged vertically relative to one another within the common plane. 5. The method of claim 3 wherein the core mold is below the product mold within the common plane. 6. The method of claim 3 wherein the core mold and the product mold are arranged horizontally relative to one another within the common plane. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein the core mold and the product mold are arranged in a stacked arrangement between the first and second platens. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein the core mold and the product mold are located on either side of an intermediate platen located between the first and second platens. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein the intermediate platen is slidably supported on and between a pair of support brackets that extend inwardly from one of the first and second platens. 