A robot arm which allows the two hands to be brought together in front of the chest. In a robot arm comprising a shoulder joint attached to a body so as to be rotatable around a laterally extending axial line, an upper arm attached to the shoulder joint so as to be rotatable around an axial line perpendicular to the laterally extending axial line, a forearm attached to the upper arm via an elbow joint, and a hand attached to a free end of the forearm, the elbow joint is attached to the upper arm so as to be rotatable around a longitudinal axial line of the upper arm.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot arm attached to a side of a robot body, comprising: an upper arm having a base end attached to a side of the robot body via a shoulder joint so as to be rotatable around a laterally extending first axial line and a second axial line perpendicular to said first axial line; a forearm having a base end attached to a free end of said upper arm via an elbow joint having bifurcated ends, said forearm base end being interposed between said bifurcated ends so as to be rotatable around a third axial line extending along the length of the upper arm and a fourth axial line perpendicular to said third axial line; and a hand attached to a free end of said forearm. 2. A robot arm according to claim 1, wherein said hand is attached to the free end of said forearm so as to be rotatable around a fifth axial line extending along the length of the forearm. 3. A robot arm according to claim 2, wherein said robot body consists of a humanoid robot having said arm on each side thereof. 4. A robot arm according to claim 1, wherein said shoulder joint comprises a shoulder joint member attached to the side of said robot body so as to be rotatable around the laterally extending first axial line, and said base end of said upper arm is attached to said shoulder joint member so as to be rotatable around said second axial line perpendicular to said first axial line. 5. A robot arm according to claim 1, wherein said elbow joint comprises an elbow joint member attached to the free end of said upper arm so as to be rotatable around said third axial line extending along the length of said upper arm, and the base end of said forearm is attached to said elbow joint member so as to be rotatable around said fourth axial line perpendicular to said third axial line. 