A biologically inspired, multi-segmented robot is provided, wherein the biologically inspired, multi-segmented robot employs a logic-based technique to control mobility, rather than a mobility control technique that relies on complex mathematical models. The robot is biologically-inspired in that it employs certain artificial, anatomical and neuro-physiological features that are similar to features found in actual biological systems, including a host of artificial joints and muscle-like actuators. These anatomical and neuro-physiological features exhibit certain built-in, mechanical constraints, which provide mechanical feedback that is similar to the type of feedback that is inherent in genuine biological systems. In addition, the robot employs one or more sensors which are capable of measuring the status (e.g., the position) of the robot. A controller then uses the sensor data to activate functional groupings of the muscle-like activators to control mobility.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot comprising: a first anatomical segment; a second anatomical segment; a joint attached to said first anatomical segment, wherein said first anatomical segment moves relative to said second anatomical segment as a function of an amount of rotation associated with said joint; and a muscle-like actuator having a first end fixed to a position along said first anatomical segment and a second end fixed to a position along said second anatomical segment, and said muscle-like actuator having a predefined control operating range, such that when said muscle-like actuator is activated it undergoes a predefined change in length, and said joint rotates by a corresponding, predefined amount that is a function of the predefined change in length and the positions along said first and second anatomical segments to which the first and second ends of said muscle-like actuator are fixed; wherein said muscle-like actuator comprises a contractile portion adapted to be activated by inflating the contractible portion with pressurized air, by exposing the contractile portion to electric current or by applying a chemical reactant to the contractile portion. 2. The robot of claim 1, wherein said muscle-like actuator is a monoarticular muscle-like actuator. 3. The robot of claim 2, wherein said joint is attached to said second anatomical segment. 4. The robot of claim 2, wherein the predefined amount of rotation associated with the joint is a function of a moment arm, the moment arm representing a perpendicular distance from said muscle-like actuator to a joint axis associated with said joint. 5. The robot of claim 2 further comprising: a second muscle-like actuator having a first end fixed to a position along said first anatomical segment and a second end fixed to a position along said second anatomical segment, wherein said second muscle-like actuator has a predefined control operating range, such that when said second muscle-like actuator is activated said joint rotates by a corresponding, predefined amount that differs from the amount said joint would rotate if said first muscle-like actuator is activated and said second muscle-like actuator is deactivated. 6. The robot of claim 1, wherein said muscle-like actuator is a biarticular muscle-like actuator. 7. The robot of claim 6 further comprising: a third anatomical segment; and a second joint, wherein said third anatomical segment is attached to said first joint and said second joint, and wherein said second anatomical segment is attached to said second joint. 8. The robot of claim 7 further comprising: a second biarticular muscle-like actuator having a first end fixed to a position along said first anatomical segment and a second end fixed to a position along said second anatomical segment, wherein said second biarticular muscle-like actuator has a predefined control operating range, such that when said second. biarticular muscle-like actuator is activated said joints., traversed by said first and second biarticular muscle-like actuators, rotate by an amount that differs from the amount said joints would rotate if said first biarticular muscle-like actuator is activated and said second biarticular muscle-like actuator is deactivated. 9. The robot of claim 6, wherein said second joint rotates by a second corresponding, predefined amount that is a function of the predefined change in length of said muscle-like actuator and the positions along said first and second anatomical segments to which the first and second ends of said muscle-like actuator are fixed. 10. The robot of claim 9, wherein the predefined amount of rotation associated with said joint is a function of a first moment arm, wherein the first moment arm represents a perpendicular distance from said muscle-like actuator to a joint axis associated with said joint. 11. The robot of claim 9, wherein the predefined amount of rotation associated with said second joint is a function of a second moment arm, wherein the second moment arm represents a perpendicular distance from said muscle-like actuator to a joint axis associated with said second joint. 12. The robot of claim 1, wherein said muscle like actuator further comprises: a non-contractile portion, said non-contractile portion having a first end and a second end, wherein the first end of the non-contractile portion is attached to a first end of the contractile portion and the second end of the non-contractile portion is attached to the position along said first anatomical segment. 13. The robot of claim 12, wherein said muscle-like actuator further comprises: a second non-contractile portion, said second non-contractile portion having a first end and a second end, wherein the first end of the second non-contractile portion is attached to a second end of the contractile portion and the second end of the second non-contractile portion is attached to the position along said second anatomical segment. 14. The robot of claim 1, wherein said muscle-like actuator is activated by inflating the contractile portion with pressurized air. 15. The robot of claim 1, wherein said muscle-like actuator is activated by exposing the contractile portion to electric current. 16. The robot of claim 1, wherein said muscle-like actuator is activated by applying a chemical reactant to the contractile portion. 17. A multi-segmented robot comprising: a plurality of anatomical segments; a plurality of joints, wherein each of said plurality of joints couples two adjacent anatomical segments such that the two adjacent anatomical segments move relative to each other as a function of an amount of rotation associated with the joint; a plurality of muscle-like actuators, each comprising a first end fixed to a position along one of said plurality of anatomical segments and a second end fixed to a position along a second one of said plurality of anatomical segments, wherein activation of a muscle-like actuator causes torque to be applied to at least one of said plurality of joints thereby causing two or more of said anatomical segments to move relative to each other; and a controller, coupled to each of said plurality of muscle-like actuators, comprising means for defining each of a plurality of states, wherein each of the plurality of states corresponds with a different functional grouping of muscle-like actuators, and wherein for a given state, the muscle-like actuators associated with the corresponding functional grouping are defined as being activated and the muscle-like actuators that are not associated with the functional grouping are defined as being deactived. 18. The multi-segmented robot of claim 17, wherein the functional grouping of muscle-like actuators associated with a given state corresponds with a desired mobility event. 19. The multi-segmented robot of claim 18, wherein the desired mobility event corresponds with a desired positioning of said plurality of anatomical segments. 20. The multi-segmented robot of claim 18, wherein said FMG comprises a combination of muscle-like actuators capable of providing the control needed to accomplish the mobility event. 21. The multi-segmented robot of claim 20, wherein the combination of muscle-like actuators minimizes energy losses during the mobility event. 22. The multi-segmented robot of claim 21, wherein the combination of muscle-like actuators includes only monoarticular muscle-like actuators. 23. The multi-segmented robot of claim 21, wherein the combination of muscle-like actuators includes only biarticular muscle-like actuators. 24. The multi-segmented robot of claim 21, wherein the combination of muscle-like actuators includes monoarticular and biarticular antagonist muscle-like actuators. 25. The multi-segmented robot of claim 17, wherein each muscle-like actuator associated with a functional muscle grouping is further associated with a level of activation selected from a set of levels that includes at least one intermediated level, and wherein the level of activation associated with each muscle-like actuator belonging to the functional muscle grouping defines a desired mobility event, wherein the desired mobility event corresponds with a desired positioning of said plurality of anatomical segments. 26. The multi-segmented robot of claim 17, wherein said plurality of muscle-like actuators and joints are configured such that they provide mechanical feedback which opposes undesired movements of said plurality of anatomical segments. 27. The multi-segmented robot of claim 17, further comprising: one or more sensors, wherein each of said one or more sensors provides a respective sensor feedback signal to said controller which indicates a position of one or more of said plurality of anatomical sensors. 28. The multi-segmented robot of claim 17, wherein a change in the signal associated with the one or more sensors causes the controller to transition from a present state to a next state. 29. The multi-segmented robot of claim 17, wherein mobility is achieved through a sequence of controller states, each associated with activating a corresponding functional muscle grouping. 30. A biologically-inspired, multi-segmented robot comprising: a plurality of anatomical segments; a plurality of joints, wherein each of said plurality of joints couples two adjacent anatomical segments; a plurality of muscle-like actuators, wherein each of said muscle-like actuators includes a first and a second end, wherein the first end of each muscle-like actuator is attached to one of said plurality of anatomical segments, wherein the second end of each muscle-like actuator is attached to a second one of said plurality of anatomical segments, and wherein said plurality of muscle-like actuators and joints are configured so as to provide mechanical feedback for said muscle-like actuators; a controller for activating one or more functional groupings of said muscle-like actuators to achieve a desired mobility event; and one or more sensors coupled to said controller and said anatomical segments, said sensors providing feedback data to said controller, wherein feedback data defines a position associated with one or more of said anatomical segments. 31. The biologically-inspired, multi-segmented robot of claim 30, wherein each of said muscle-like actuators comprises: a contractile portion. 32. The biologically-inspired, multi-segmented robot of claim 32, wherein said plurality of muscle-like actuators include at least one monoarticular muscle-like actuator. 33. The biologically-inspired, multi-segmented robot of claim 32, wherein said plurality of muscle-like actuators include at least one biarticular muscle-like actuator. 34. The biologically-inspired, multi-segmented robot of claim 30, wherein the mechanical feedback provides means for opposing undesirable movements associated with said plurality of anatomical segments. 35. The biologically-inspired, multi-segmented robot of claim 30, wherein said controller comprises: a logic-based mobility control algorithm. 36. The biologically-inspired, multi-segmented robot of claim 35, wherein the logic-based mobility control algorithm employs discrete "if-then" rule-based logic. 37. The biologically-inspired, multi-segmented robot of claim 36, wherein the logic-based mobility control algorithm comprises: means for receiving feedback data from said one or more sensors; means for activating one functional grouping of muscle-like actuators at a given instant of time to achieve a desired mobility event based on the feedback data. 38. The biologically-inspired, multi-segmented robot of claim 35, wherein the logic-based mobility control algorithm employs "fuzzy if-then" rule-based logic. 39. The biologically-inspired, multi-segmented robot of claim 38, wherein logic-based mobility control algorithm comprises: means for receiving feedback data from said one or more sensors; means for activating a functional grouping of said muscle-like actuators, to achieve a desired mobility event, in accordance with a level of activation selected from a set of levels that includes at least one intermediate level of activation. 40. The biologically-inspired, multi-segmented robot of claim 39, wherein the logic-based mobility control algorithm further comprises: means for activating a second functional grouping of muscle-like actuators during said given instant of time, to achieve the desired mobility event based on the feedback data, wherein the activation of the second functional grouping of muscle-like actuators is accomplished in accordance with a level of activation selected from a set of levels that includes at least one intermediate level of activation. 41. A method for controlling mobility in a biologically-inspired, multi-joint, multi-segmented robot comprising the steps of: activating a first functional grouping of muscle-like actuators, which causes a repositioning of one or more of the multiple segments associated with said robot, so as to achieve a first mobility event; measuring a status of said robot; @determining whether the first mobility event has been achieved based on the results of said step of measuring the status of said robot; and if it is determined that said first mobility event has been achieved based on the results of said step of measuring the status of said robot, activating a second functional muscle grouping of muscle-like actuators, which cause a further repositioning of one or more of the multiple segments associated with said robot, so as to achieve a second mobility event. 42. The method of claim 41, wherein said step of activating the first functional grouping of muscle-like actuators comprises the step of: generating one or more control signals which activate each of the muscle-like actuators associated with the first functional grouping of muscle-like actuators. 43. The method of claim 42, wherein the generation of said control signals causes each of the muscle-like actuators associated with the first functional grouping of muscle-like actuators to fully contract. 44. The method of claim 41, wherein said step of measuring the status of said robot comprises the step of: quantifying a position associated with one or more of the multiple segments. 45. The method of claim 41, wherein said step of measuring the status of said robot comprises the step of: quantifying a force acting upon one or more of the multiple segments. 46. The method of claim 41, wherein said step of measuring the status of said robot comprises the step of: quantifying a position associated with said robot relative to a foreign object. 47. The method of claim 41, wherein said step of determining whether the first mobility event has been achieved comprises the step of: determining whether a predefined condition indicating the completion of the mobility event is satisfied. 48. The method of claim 41, wherein an activation period associated with the first functional grouping of muscle-like actuators and an activation period associated with the second functional grouping of muscle-like actuators are mutually exclusive. 49. A method for controlling mobility in a biologically-inspired, multi-joint, multi-segmented robot comprising the steps of: quantifying a state of said robot; activating a first functional grouping of muscle-like actuators, to achieve activating a first functional grouping of muscle-like actuators, to achieve a first desired mobility event, in accordance with a level of activation selected from a set of activation levels which includes at least one intermediate activation level, said first functional grouping of muscle-like actuators comprising a subset of all muscle-like actuators associated with said robot; and @actuating one or more segments associated with said robot as a function of said step of activating the first functional grouping of muscle-like actuators. 50. The method of claim 49 further comprising the step of: activating a second functional grouping of muscle-like actuators, to achieve the first desired mobility event, in accordance with a level of activation selected from a set of activation levels which includes at least one intermediate activation level, said second functional grouping of muscle-like actuators comprising a second subset of all the muscle-like actuators associated with said robot. 51. The method of claim 50, wherein said step of activating the first functional grouping of muscle-like actuators and the step of activating the second functional grouping of muscle-like actuators each comprise the step of: generating one or more control signals which activate the muscle-like actuators associated with the first functional grouping of muscle-like actuators and the muscle-like actuators associated with second functional grouping of muscle-like actuators. 52. The method of claim 49, wherein said step of quantifying the state of said robot comprises the step of: quantifying a position associated with one or more of the multiple segments. 53. The method of claim 49, wherein said step of quantifying the state of said robot comprises the step of: quantifying a force acting upon one or more of the multiple segments. 54. The method of claim 49, wherein said step of quantifying the state of said robot comprises the step of: quantifying a position associated with said robot relative to a foreign object. 