The transformable vehicle comprises a central chassis assembly having first and second distal ends with an axis passing therebetween, a first wheel assembly mounted to the first distal end, and a second wheel assembly mounted to second distal end. A multifunction transformable vehicle comprising at least two configurational states: a stowed state and a transformed state. In the stowed state, the transformable vehicle comprises a compact structure suitable for storage, transport or deployment. During transition from the stowed state to the transformed state, the first and second wheel assemblies move longitudinally outward along the axis to reveal the central chassis assembly.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A transformable vehicle comprising, a central chassis assembly having first and second distal ends with an axis passing therebetween, a first wheel assembly mounted to said first distal end of said central chassis assembly and adapted to move along said axis from a stowed state to a transformed state, and a second wheel assembly mounted to said second distal end of said central chassis assembly and adapted to move along said axis from a stowed state to a transformed state, wherein said vehicle is substantially parallelpipedal in said stowed state. 2. A transformable vehicle comprising, a central chassis assembly having first and second distal ends with an axis passing therebetween, a first wheel assembly mounted to said first distal end of said central chassis assembly and adapted to move along said axis from a stowed state to a transformed state, a second wheel assembly mounted to said second distal end of said central chassis assembly and adapted to move along said axis from a stowed state to a transformed state, wherein said first wheel assembly comprises a first outer shell assembly adapted to overlap a first portion of said central chassis assembly, and said second wheel assembly comprises a second outer shell assembly adapted to overlap a second portion of said central chassis assembly. 3. A transformable vehicle according to claim 2, wherein said first outer shell assembly includes a first substantially hemispherical outer shell, and said second outer shell assembly includes a second substantially hemispherical outer shell. 4. A transformable vehicle comprising, a central chassis assembly having first and second distal ends with an axis passing therebetween, a first wheel assembly mounted to said first distal end of said central chassis assembly and adapted to move along said axis from a stowed state to a transformed state, second wheel assembly mounted to said second distal end of said central chassis assembly and adapted to move along said axis from a stowed state to a transformed state, and a drive motor assembly adapted to develop a differential torque between said first wheel assembly and said second wheel assembly. 5. A transformable vehicle according to claim 4, wherein said drive motor assembly is adapted to develop a first differential torque between said central chassis assembly and said first and second wheel assemblies. 6. A transformable vehicle according to claim 4 wherein said drive motor assembly further comprises, a first drive motor assembly adapted to develop a differential torque between said central chassis assembly and said first wheel assembly, and a second drive motor assembly adapted to develop a differential torque between said central chassis assembly and said second wheel assembly. 7. A transformable vehicle according to claim 5, further comprising a tail assembly attached to said central chassis assembly and adapted to provide a reaction torque to said first differential torque. 8. A transformable vehicle according to claim 7, wherein said tail assembly includes a distal end adapted for attachment to a grappling hook. 9. A transformable vehicle according to claim 7, wherein said tail assembly is further adapted to mate with a mating portion on an additional transformable vehicle, comparable to said transformable vehicle, to form a single larger vehicle. 10. A transformable vehicle according to claim 9, wherein said transformable vehicle is further adapted to locomote in concert with at least one said additional transformable vehicle. 11. A transformable vehicle comprising, a central chassis assembly having first and second distal ends with an axis passing therebetween, a first wheel assembly mounted to said first distal end of said central chassis assembly and adapted to move along said axis from a stowed state to a transformed state, a second wheel assembly mounted to said second distal end of said central chassis assembly and adapted to move along said axis from a stowed state to a transformed state, a first plurality of spines each having first and second distal ends and being mounted to said first wheel assembly at said first distal end, and a second plurality of spines each having first and second distal ends and being mounted to said second wheel assembly at said first distal end. 12. A transformable vehicle according to claim 11, wherein said first plurality of spines is further adapted to be movably mounted to said first wheel assembly, and said second plurality of spines is further adapted to be movably mounted to said second wheel assembly. 13. A transformable vehicle according to claim 11, wherein said first and said second plurality of spines are substantially inflexible. 14. A transformable vehicle according to claim 11, wherein said first wheel assembly includes a first circumferential edge adapted for said mounting of said first plurality of spines, and said second wheel assembly includes a second circumferential edge adapted for said mounting of said second plurality of spines. 15. A transformable vehicle according to claim 11, wherein said first plurality of spines is further adapted to be positioned proximate to said first wheel assembly in said stowed state, and said second plurality of spines is further adapted to be positioned proximate to said second wheel assembly in said stowed state. 16. A transformable vehicle according to claim 11, wherein said first plurality of spines is further adapted to be positioned at least partially radially extending from said first wheel assembly in said transformed state, and said second plurality of spines is further adapted to be positioned at least partially radially extending from said second wheel assembly in said transformed state. 17. A transformable vehicle according to claim 11, wherein said first wheel assembly has a first outer surface and said first plurality of spines is contoured to be positioned adjacent to said first outer surface in said stowed state, and said second wheel assembly has a second outer surface and said second plurality of spines is contoured to be positioned adjacent to said second outer surface in said stowed state. 18. A transformable vehicle according to claim 11, further adapted to be configured in a transformed state, and further comprising, a first mounting mechanism adapted to mount said first plurality of spines to said first wheel assembly and including a spring bias adapted to bias said first plurality of spines in a radially extended position in said transformed state, and a second mounting mechanism adapted to mount said second plurality of spines to said second wheel assembly and including a spring bias adapted to bias said second plurality of spines in a radially extended position in said transformed state. 19. A transformable vehicle according to claim 11, wherein at least one of said first and said second plurality of spines is further adapted to radially extend and retract. 20. A transformable vehicle according to claim 11, further comprising a spine control motor assembly, adapted to radially extend and retract at least one of said first plurality of spines and said second plurality of spines. 21. A transformable vehicle according to claim 11, wherein said first plurality of spines and said second plurality of spines are further adapted to articulate to enable said transformable vehicle to locomote. 22. A transformable vehicle according to claim 11, wherein said first plurality of spines is further adapted to articulate in a first succession and said second plurality of spines is further adapted to articulate in a second succession to develop a rotational torque between said first plurality of spines and said second plurality of spines. 23. A transformable vehicle according to claim 11, further adapted to uniformly articulate at least one of said first and said second plurality of spines. 24. A transformable vehicle according to claim 11, wherein at least one of said first plurality of spines and said second plurality of spines is further adapted to articulate to conform to a terrain profile over which said transformable vehicle is travelling. 25. A transformable vehicle according to claim 11, wherein at least one of said first plurality of spines and said second plurality of spines are further adapted to flex to conform to a terrain profile over which the said transformable vehicle is travelling. 26. A transformable vehicle according to claim 20, wherein said spine control motor assembly is further adapted to radially extend and retract at least one of said first plurality of spines and said second plurality of spines to conform to said terrain. 27. A transformable vehicle comprising, a central chassis assembly having first and second distal ends with an axis passing therebetween, a first wheel assembly mounted to said first distal end of said central chassis assembly and adapted to move along said axis from a stowed state to a transformed state, a second wheel assembly mounted to said second distal end of said central chassis assembly and adapted to move along said axis from a stowed state to a transformed state, and said central chassis further comprises at least of one of a wireless transmitter and a wireless receiver, sensor and camera. 28. A transformable vehicle according to claim 27, wherein said camera comprises at least of one of a CCD camera, video camera, motion camera, infrared camera, and digital camera. 29. A transformable vehicle comprising, a central chassis assembly having first and second distal ends with an axis passing therebetween, a first wheel assembly mounted to said first distal end of said central chassis assembly and adapted to move along said axis from a stowed state to a transformed state, and a second wheel assembly mounted to said second distal end of said central chassis assembly and adapted to move along said axis from a stowed state to a transformed state, wherein said transformable vehicle is adapted to mate with at least one additional transformable vehicle, comparable to said transformable vehicle, to form a single larger vehicle. 30. A transformable vehicle comprising, a central chassis assembly having first and second distal ends with an axis passing therebetween, a first wheel assembly mounted to said first distal end of said central chassis assembly and adapted to move along said axis from a stowed state to a transformed state, and a second wheel assembly mounted to said second distal end of said central chassis assembly and adapted to move along said axis from a stowed state to a transformed state, wherein said transformable vehicle is adapted for wireless communication with at least one additional transformable vehicle located at a first location and a base station located at a second location, to enable said base station to communicate wirelessly with said additional transformable vehicle through said transformable vehicle. 31. A transformable vehicle comprising, a central chassis assembly having first and second distal ends with an axis passing therebetween, a first wheel assembly mounted to said first distal end of said central chassis assembly and adapted to move along said axis from a stowed state to a transformed state, a second wheel assembly mounted to said second distal end of said central chassis assembly and adapted to move along said axis from a stowed state to a transformed state, and a tail assembly having a first distal end attached to said central chassis assembly and a second distal end adapted for attachment to a tail weight. 32. A transformable vehicle comprising, a central chassis assembly having first and second distal ends with an axis passing therebetween, a first wheel assembly mounted to said first distal end of said central chassis assembly and adapted to move along said axis from a stowed state to a transformed state, a second wheel assembly mounted to said second distal end of said central chassis assembly and adapted to move along said axis from a stowed state to a transformed state, a first spring assembly adapted to engage said first wheel assembly and to bias said first wheel assembly along said axis from said stowed state into said transformed state, and a second spring assembly adapted to engage said second wheel assembly and to bias said second wheel assembly along said axis from said stowed state into said transformed state. 33. A transformable vehicle comprising, a central chassis assembly having first and second distal ends with an axis passing therebetween, a first wheel assembly mounted to said first distal end of said central chassis assembly and adapted to move along said axis from a stowed state to a transformed state, a second wheel assembly mounted to said second distal end of said central chassis assembly and adapted to move along said axis from a stowed state to a transformed state, and control electronics adapted to substantially autonomously control operation of said transformable vehicle. 34. A transformable vehicle comprising, a central chassis assembly having a sensor and having first and second distal ends with an axis passing therebetween, a first wheel assembly mounted to said first distal end of said central chassis assembly and adapted to move along said axis from a stowed state to a transformed state, a second wheel assembly mounted to said second distal end of said central chassis assembly and adapted to move along said axis from a stowed state to a transformed state, wherein said first wheel assembly is rotatably mounted to said first distal end of said central chassis assembly, and said second wheel assembly is rotatably mounted to said second distal end of said central chassis assembly, and wherein said central chassis assembly is adapted for rotation about said axis to change an orientation of said sensor. 35. A transformable vehicle comprising, a central chassis assembly having first and second distal ends with an axis passing therebetween, a first wheel assembly mounted to said first distal end of said central chassis assembly and adapted to move along said axis from a stowed state to a transformed state, and second wheel assembly mounted to said second distal end of said central chassis assembly and adapted to move along said axis from a stowed state to a transformed state, wherein said central chassis is radially symmetric about said axis in a stowed state. 36. A transformable vehicle according to claim 35, wherein said vehicle is substantially cylindrical in said stowed state. 37. A transformable vehicle according to claim 35, wherein said vehicle is substantially spherical in said stowed state. 38. A transformable vehicle according to claim 35, wherein said vehicle is substantially oblate spherical in said stowed state. 39. A transformable vehicle comprising, a central chassis assembly having first and second distal ends with an axis passing therebetween, a first wheel assembly mounted to said first distal end of said central chassis assembly and adapted to move along said axis from a stowed state to a transformed state, a second wheel assembly mounted to said second distal end of said central chassis assembly and adapted to move along said axis from a stowed state to a transformed state, and a payload bay disposed in said central chassis. 40. A transformable vehicle according to claim 39, wherein said payload bay is adapted to house at least one of sensors, cameras, wireless communication devices, medical supplies, munitions, and ordinances. 41. A transformable vehicle according to claim 39, wherein said payload bay is adapted to house a grappling hook and a motorized winch assembly wherein said motorized winch assembly is adapted to perform at least extending and retracting said grappling hook. 