A modular coating apparatus is disclosed which is adapted to couple to a host system, such as a cluster or in-line type coating system, as well as to operate in stand-alone fashion. The coating apparatus uses extrusion to initially deposit a film having a desired thickness. The substrate upon which the film is deposited may be spun to further distribute the film. Various embodiments of the coating apparatus are disclosed including embodiments utilizing a shim to mask the substrate and embodiments utilizing a rotatable chuck to facilitate cleaning of the substrate and/or the chuck. Preferably the various embodiments are sub-modules which may be interchanged in the main module as desired.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for providing a coating having desired characteristics on a substrate, said system comprising: a movable extrusion head mounting apparatus providing sufficient movement to allow extrusion coating of a substrate, wherein said extrusion head mounting apparatus provides cantilevered support of said extrusion head; a chuck adapted to retain said substrate, wherein said chuck provides said substrate a predetermined distance from said cantilevered extrusion head in order to allow a film of coating material having a predetermined thickness to be extruded onto said substrate, wherein said chuck is a recessed chuck having a recessed area adapted to incarcerate said substrate, and wherein said recessed chuck provides a surface substantially co-planar with a surface of said substrate to be coated; a shim assembly operating in cooperation with said chuck, wherein said shim assembly includes a masking shim adapted to mask at least a portion of said substrate when said film of coating material is extruded, a supply reel holding a first portion of said masking shim and a take-up reel holding a second portion of said masking shim; and said shim assembly further including a lifting mechanism adapted to provide a gap between said masking shim and a surface of said substrate to be coated such that said masking shim does not engage said substrate during movement of a portion of said masking shim from said supply reel to said take-up reel. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein said gap is sufficient to allow loading of said substrate without passing through said masking shim. 3. A system for providing a coating having desired characteristics on a substrate, said system comprising: a movable extrusion head mounting apparatus providing sufficient movement to allow extrusion coating of a substrate, wherein said extrusion head mounting apparatus provides cantilevered support of said extrusion head; a chuck adapted to retain said substrate, wherein said chuck provides said substrate a predetermined distance from said cantilevered extrusion head in order to allow a film of coating material having a predetermined thickness to be extruded onto said substrate, wherein said chuck is a recessed chuck having a recessed area adapted to incarcerate said substrate, and wherein said recessed chuck provides a surface substantially co-planar with a surface of said substrate to be coated; and a shim assembly operating in cooperation with said chuck, wherein said shim assembly includes a masking shim adapted to mask at least a portion of said substrate when said film of coating material is extruded, wherein said shim comprises; a plurality of holes disposed therein, wherein a first type of hole of said plurality of holes is a masking hole sized and shaped to correspond to a coating desired to be deposited on said substrate, and wherein a second type of hole of said plurality of holes is a pass-through hole sized and shaped to allow said substrate to pass through said shim when loading and unloading from said chuck. 4. The system of claim 3, wherein a hole of said second type of hole is disposed between two holes of said first type of hole. 5. The system of claim 3, wherein said shim assembly comprises: a tank assembly adapted to initially clean a portion of said masking shim when said masking shim is positioned to allow said substrate to be loaded and unloaded through said pass-through hole, and wherein said tank assembly is adapted to further clean said portion of said masking shim when said masking shim is positioned to mask said substrate. 6. The system claim 5, wherein said tank assembly comprises: an upper tank portion having cleaning nozzles disposed therein; a lower tank portion; and a shutter assembly adapted to isolate said upper tank portion from said lower tank portion. 7. The system of claim 6, wherein said tank assembly further comprises: a heater coupled to said lower tank portion to provide heating to cleaning solvent pooled in said lower tank portion. 8. The system of claim 6, wherein said tank assembly further comprises: an ultrasonic transducer coupled to said lower tank portion to provide assistance in cleaning said masking shim when disposed in said lower tank portion. 9. A modular apparatus for extruding a coating having desired characteristics on a substrate, wherein said modular system is adapted to be interfaced as a coating station in a host substrate processing system, said apparatus comprising: a modular chassis having a configuration adapted to couple to said host system; a movable extrusion head mounting apparatus coupled to said chassis providing support for an extrusion head; a substrate handling assembly having a substrate retainer disposed therein, wherein said substrate handling assembly includes a masking shim adapted to mask at least a portion of said substrate when said substrate is retained by said substrate retainer so as to provide a coating having desired characteristics on said substrate as said extrusion head extrudes said coating onto said substrate; and wherein said substrate retainer provides vacuum to draw said masking shim to said substrate when said masking shim is engaged to mask said at least a portion of said substrate. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein said substrate handling assembly comprises: a supply reel holding a first portion of said masking shim; and a take-up reel holding a second portion of said masking shim. 11. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein said substrate handling assembly further comprises: a lifting mechanism adapt ed to provide a gap between said masking shim and a surface of said substrate to be coated such that said masking shim does not engage said substrate during movement of a portion of said masking shim from said supply reel to said take-up reel. 12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein said gap is sufficient to allow loading of said substrate without passing through said masking shim. 13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein said masking shim comprises: at least a first via sized and shaped to correspond to a coating desired to be deposited on said substrate; at least a second via sized and shaped to allow said substrate to pass through said masking shim when loading and unloading from said chuck; and at least a third via sized and shaped to correspond to said coating desired to be deposited on said substrate. 14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein said shim assembly comprises: a tank adapted to clean a portion of said masking shim including said first via when said masking shim is positioned to allow said substrate to be loaded and unloaded through said second via, said tank also adapted to clean a portion of said masking shim including said third via when said masking shim is positioned to allow said substrate to be loaded and unloaded through said second via. 15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein said tank is adapted to further clean said portion of said masking shim including said first via when said masking shim is positioned to mask said substrate with said third via. 16. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein said tank comprises: an upper tank portion having cleaning nozzles disposed therein; a lower tank portion; and a shutter assembly adapted to isolate said upper tank portion from said lower tank portion. 17. A method for providing a film having a desired thickness on a surface of a substrate, said method comprising the steps of: providing a chassis having attributes compatible with a host system into which said chassis is to be integrated, said chassis also having a movable extrusion head apparatus disposed thereon; selecting a particular substrate handling assembly of a plurality of substrate handling assemblies, wherein ones of said substrate handling assemblies provide different substrate coating attributes; coupling said selected substrate handling assembly to said chassis within the travel of said extrusion head; raising a masking shim above a substrate retainer; passing said substrate through a via provided in said masking shim and aligned with said substrate retainer; and operating said movable extrusion head apparatus in combination with said selected substrate handling assembly to provide said film on said surface of said substrate. 18. A method for providing a film having a desired thickness on a surface of a substrate, said method comprising the steps of: providing a chassis having attributes compatible with a host system into which said chassis is to be integrated, said chassis also having a movable extrusion head apparatus disposed thereon; selecting a particular substrate handling assembly of a plurality of substrate handling assemblies, wherein ones of said substrate handling assemblies provide different substrate coating attributes; coupling said selected substrate handling assembly to said chassis within the travel of said extrusion head; loading said substrate onto said selected substrate handling assembly; engaging a masking shim over said substrate; passing said extrusion head over said substrate to provide a film having a desired thinkness on said substrate; disengaging said masking shim from said substrate; and cleaning said masking shim during unloading of said substrate from said selected substrate handling assembly. 19. A method for providing a film having a desired thickness on a surface of a substrate, said method comprising the steps of: providing a chassis having attributes compatible with a host system into which said chassis is to be integrated, said chassis also having a movable extrusion head apparatus disposed thereon; selecting a particular substrate handling assembly of a plurality of substrate handling assemblies, wherein ones of said substrate handling assemblies provide different substrate coating attributes; coupling said selected substrate handling assembly to said chassis within the travel of said extrusion head; loading said substrate onto said selected substrate handling assembly; engaging a masking shim over said substrate; passing said extrusion bead over said substrate to provide a film having a desired thinkness on said substrate; disengaging said masking shim from said substrate; and advancing said masking shim such that a portion of said masking shim previously engaged over said substrate is collected by said selected substrate handling assembly. 20. A system for providing a coating having desired characteristics on a substrate, said system comprising: a movable extrusion head mounting apparatus providing sufficient movement to allow extrusion coating of a substrate, wherein said extrusion head mounting apparatus provides cantilevered support of said extrusion head; a chuck adapted to retain said substrate, wherein said chuck provides said substrate a predetermined distance from said cantilevered extrusion head in order to allow a film of coating material having a predetermined thickness to be extruded onto said substrate; and a shim assembly operating in cooperation with said chuck, wherein said shim assembly includes a masking shim adapted to mask at least a portion of said substrate when said film of coating material is extruded, wherein said shim comprises: a plurality of holes disposed therein, wherein a first type of hole of said plurality of-holes is a masking hole sized and shaped to correspond to a coating desired to be deposited on said substrate, and wherein a second type of hole of said plurality of holes is a pass-through hole sized and shaped to allow said substrate to pass through said shim when loading and unloading from said chuck. 21. The system of claim 20, wherein said shim assembly comprises: a supply reel holding a first portion of said masking shim; and a take-up reel holding a second portion of said masking shim. 22. The system of claim 21, wherein said shim assembly further comprises: a lifting mechanism adapted to provide a gap between said masking shim and a surface of said substrate to be coated such that said masking shim does not engage said substrate during movement of a portion of said masking shim from said supply reel to said take-up reel. 23. The system of claim 20, wherein said shim assembly further comprises: a lifting mechanism adapted to provide a gap between said masking shim and a surface of said substrate to be coated such that said masking shim does not engage said substrate during movement of a portion of said masking shim. 24. The system of claim 23, wherein said shim assembly comprises: a tank assembly adapted to initially clean a portion of said masking shim when said masking shim is positioned to allow said substrate to be loaded and unloaded through said pass-through hole, and wherein said tank assembly is adapted to further clean said portion of said masking shim when said masking shim is positioned to mask said substrate. 25. The system of claim 20, wherein said shim assembly comprises: a tank assembly-adapted to initially clean a portion of said masking shim when said masking shim is positioned to allow said substrate to be loaded and unloaded through said pass-through hole, and wherein said tank assembly is adapted to further clean said portion of said masking shim when said masking shim is positioned to mask said substrate. 26. The system of claim 25, wherein said tank assembly comprises: an upper tank portion having cleaning nozzles disposed therein; a lower tank portion; and a shutter assembly adapted to isolate said upper tank portion from said lower tank portion. 27. The system of claim 25, wherein said tank assembly comprises: an upper tank portion having cleaning nozzles disposed therein; a lower tank portion; and a shutter assembly adapted to isolate said upper tank portion from said lower tank portion. 