A pressure vessel for use in production processes requiring elevating and ranging of temperatures and pressures during the process cycle, readily adaptable to production line operation, suitable for wafer processing in the semiconductor industry and for other industries and processes. The pressure vessel is configured within an open support frame with a stationary, preferably inverted, orientation. The cover or closing plate is vertically movable towards the mouth of the pressure vessel and functions as the platform by which the object under process is transferred into the vessel. The moving and locking mechanism for the cover is isolated and shielded from the process environment.
Claims We claim: 1. A pressure vessel system for conducting industrial processes comprising an open support frame, an inverted pressure vessel affixed to said open support frame, a vertically movable underside cover, means for moving said cover between an upper closed position against said inverted pressure vessel and a lower open position below said pressure vessel, the interior of said pressure vessel and the space between said cover when in said lower open position and said inverted pressure vessel comprising a process environment, a mechanical locking system operable between a locked position and an unlocked position when said cover is in said upper closed position, the position of said cover being mechanically constrained to said upper closed position when said locking system is in said locked position, a shield isolating said process environment from said means for moving said cover and said locking system, and means for applying heat to said pressure vessel. 2. The pressure vessel system of claim 1, further comprising means for applying and relieving pressure in said pressure vessel when sealed. 3. The pressure vessel system of claim 2, further comprising means for inserting and removing process ingredients from said pressure vessel when sealed. 4. The pressure vessel system of claim 3, further comprising a robotic object handling system for delivering objects to said system for processing in said pressure vessel. 5. The pressure vessel system of claim 3, further comprising a conveyor system for delivering objects to said system for processing in said pressure vessel. 6. The pressure vessel system of claim 1, said locking system comprising opposing horizontal sliding blocks and actuators, said sliding blocks being slidable between a said locked position and a said unlocked position. 7. The pressure vessel system of claim 1, said locking system comprising a locking rod extending vertically below said cover, a non-rotable locking rod clamp plate attached to the lower end of said locking rod, said clamp plate having externally directed holding lugs uniformly spaced about its perimeter, a horizontally oriented and rotable locking plate rotatingly attached to said open support frame below said cover, said locking plate having a center opening and centrally directly locking lugs uniformly spaced about said center opening, said clamp plate passing up through said locking plate when said cover is moved to said closed position, said locking plate having actuators for causing partial rotation of said locking plate between a said locked position wherein said locking lugs are aligned beneath said holding lugs and a said unlocked position wherein said locking lugs are misaligned with said holding lugs. 8. A pressure vessel system for processing of semiconductor wafers in a supercritical fluid environment, comprising, an open support frame, an inverted pressure vessel affixed to said open support frame, a vertically movable underside cover, means for moving said cover between an upper closed position against said inverted pressure vessel and a lower open position below said pressure vessel, the interior of said pressure vessel and the space between said cover when in said lower open position and said inverted pressure vessel comprising a process environment, a mechanical locking system operable between a locked position and an unlocked position when said cover is in said upper closed position, the position of said cover being mechanically constrained to said upper closed position when said locking system is in said locked position, a shield isolating said process environment from said means for moving said cover and said locking system, means for applying heat to said pressure vessel, means for inserting and removing process ingredients under pressure into and from said pressure vessel when sealed. 9. The pressure vessel system of claim 8, further comprising a robotic object handling system for delivering objects lo said system for processing in said pressure vessel. 10. The pressure vessel system of claim 8, further comprising a conveyor system for delivering objects to said system for processing in said pressure vessel. 11. The pressure vessel system of claim 8, said locking system comprising opposing horizontal sliding blocks and actuators, said sliding blocks being slidable between a said locked position and a said unlocked position. 12. The pressure vessel system of claim 8, said locking system comprising a locking rod extending vertically below said cover, a non-rotable locking rod clamp plate attached to the lower end of said locking rod, said clamp plate having externally directed holding lugs uniformly spaced about its perimeter, a horizontally oriented and rotable locking plate rotatingly attached to said open support frame below said cover, said locking plate having a center opening and centrally directly locking lugs uniformly spaced about said center opening, said clamp plate passing up through said locking plate when said cover is moved to said closed position, said locking plate having actuators for causing partial rotation of locking plate between a said locked position wherein said locking lugs are aligned beneath said holding lugs and a said unlocked position wherein said locking lugs are misaligned with said holding lugs. 13. The pressure vessel system of claim 8, said means for applying heat comprising heaters within said pressure vessel connectable to an external power source. 