A cassette stocker includes a plurality of cassette storage shelves positioned adjacent a cleanroom wall and vertically disposed relative to a plurality of cassette docking stations, and a cassette mover to carry a cassette between the shelves and the docking stations. An interstation transfer apparatus includes a support beam and a transfer arm adapted to carry a cassette between processing stations.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for storing cassettes, comprising: two or more vertically disposed docking stations, each docking station including structure adapted to support a cassette; a first plurality of cassette storage shelves arranged in a vertical column positioned vertically relative to the docking stations; a second plurality of cassette storage shelves arranged in a vertical column and separated by a vertical channel from the first plurality of cassette storage shelves, the vertical channel being sized to permit movement of a cassette therethrough in a vertical direction; structure adapted to support the first and second pluralities of cassette storage shelves; a loading platform positioned vertically below the vertical channel; a cassette mover having a support member positioned adjacent the shelves and movable in a path generally parallel to the shelves to carry a cassette between the shelves and the two or more docking stations, the cassette mover including a mechanism adapted to impart movement to the cassette mover; and an end effector movably connected to the support member and configured to engage a cassette by moving in at least one of a horizontal direction and a vertical direction. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the shelves are configured to be positioned adjacent a cleanroom wall. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein one or more of the shelves are positioned above the two or more docking stations. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a frame supporting the cassette storage shelves and the support member. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the frame substantially fits below the two or more docking stations. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a frame positioned substantially below the two or more docking stations wherein a lower end of the support member is slidably connected to the frame. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, further comprising a vertical guide joined to the support member and a first slider which slidably engages the vertical guide, wherein the end effector is joined to the first slider. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, further comprising a horizontal guide joined to the frame and a second slider which slidably engages the horizontal guide, wherein the support member is joined to the second slider. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, further comprising a first lead screw engaging the first slider and a first drive motor adapted to rotate the first lead screw so as to drive the first slider along the first guide to move the end effector vertically. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, further comprising a second lead screw engaging the second slider and a second drive motor adapted to rotate the second lead screw and drive the second slider along the second guide to move the support member and the end effector horizontally. 11. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the end effector includes a hook-shaped finger adapted to engage a bottom surface of a flange on a top of a cassette. 12. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein each shelf includes a plurality of pins that project vertically from the shelf to engage corresponding indentations in the underside of a cassette positioned on the shelf. 13. An apparatus for storing cassettes, comprising: a first plurality of cassette storage shelves positioned adjacent a wall and arranged in a vertical column positioned vertically above a plurality of vertically disposed cassette docking stations, each docking station including structure adapted to support a cassette; a second plurality of cassette storage shelves arranged in a vertical column and separated by a vertical channel from the first plurality of cassette storage shelves, the vertical channel being sized to permit movement of a cassette therethrough in a vertical direction; structure adapted to support the first and second pluralities of cassette storage shelves; a loading platform positioned vertically below the vertical channel; and a cassette mover adapted to carry a cassette between the shelves and the docking stations, the cassette mover including a support member positioned adjacent the shelves and movable in a plane parallel to the wall, a mechanism adapted to impart movement to the cassette mover, and an end effector configured to engage a cassette by moving in at least one of a horizontal direction and a vertical direction, the end effector slidably connected to the support member. 14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the cassette mover is configured to transport a cassette to a selected support shelf by moving the cassette vertically through the channel to position the cassette substantially adjacent and at a higher elevation than the selected support shelf, and then horizontally to position the cassette over the selected support shelf. 15. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein an upper one of the vertically disposed docking stations comprises a door adapted to open upwardly, and a lower one of the vertically disposed docking stations comprises a door adapted to open downwardly. 16. An apparatus for storing cassettes, comprising: a first plurality of vertically disposed docking stations, the docking stations of the first plurality each including structure adapted to support a cassette; a second plurality of vertically disposed docking stations, the docking stations of the second plurality each including structure adapted to support a cassette; a first plurality of cassette storage shelves arranged in a vertical column positioned vertically relative to the first plurality of docking stations; a second plurality of cassette storage shelves arranged in a vertical column positioned vertically relative to the second plurality of docking stations; structure adapted to support the first and second pluralities of cassette storage shelves; a cassette mover to carry a cassette between the shelves and the docking stations, the cassette mover having a support member disposed adjacent the shelves and movable in a path generally parallel to the shelves, the cassette mover including a mechanism adapted to impart movement to the cassette mover; and an end effector movably connected to the support member and configured to engage a cassette by moving in at least one of a horizontal direction and a vertical direction. 17. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the first and second pluralities of docking stations are separated by a vertical channel that is sized to permit movement of a cassette therethrough in a vertical direction. 18. The apparatus of claim 17, further comprising a loading platform positioned vertically below the vertical channel. 19. An apparatus for storing cassettes, comprising: a plurality of vertically disposed cassette docking stations, each docking station including structure adapted to support a cassette; a plurality of cassette storage shelves positioned adjacent a wall and arranged in a vertical column positioned vertically above the docking stations; structure adapted to support the plurality of cassette storage shelves; and a cassette mover adapted to carry a cassette between the shelves and the docking stations, the cassette mover including a support member positioned adjacent the shelves and movable in a plane parallel to the wall, a mechanism adapted to impart movement to the cassette mover, and an end effector configured to engage a cassette by moving in at least one of a horizontal direction and a vertical direction, the end effector slidably connected to the support member; wherein an upper one of the vertically disposed docking stations comprises a door adapted to open upwardly, and a lower one of the vertically disposed docking stations comprises a door adapted to open downwardly. 20. An apparatus for storing cassettes, comprising: a first plurality of vertically disposed docking stations, the docking stations of the first plurality each including structure adapted to support a cassette; a second plurality of vertically disposed docking stations, the docking stations of the second plurality each including structure adapted to support a cassette; a first cassette storage shelf positioned vertically above the first plurality of docking stations; a second cassette storage shelf positioned vertically above the second plurality of docking stations; structure adapted to support the first and second pluralities of cassette storage shelves; a cassette mover to carry a cassette between the shelves and the docking stations, the cassette mover having a support member disposed adjacent the shelves and movable in a path generally parallel to the shelves, the cassette mover including a mechanism adapted to impart movement to the cassette mover; and an end effector movably connected to the support member and configured to engage a cassette by moving in at least one of a horizontal direction and a vertical direction. 