Methods and apparatus are disclosed which are useful for detecting the presence of various pesticides, including aryl pyrazoles such as fipronil. Pesticide residues are extracted from a variety of samples, including soil and/or water samples using techniques well known to those of skill in the art. The samples are then concentrated, and transferred to an solid phase extraction cartridge. The SPE cartridge includes activated charcoal, silica gel, magnesium-silica gel and an amino-functional silica sorbent, or suitable equivalents thereof. After cleanup, the eluate containing the analyte of interest can be concentrated to a standard sample size and the amount of pesticide residues quantitated. In a preferred embodiment, the column chromatography materials are assembled in a solid phase extraction cartridge with frits between the chromatography materials. This facilitates the use of the cartridge in standard automated analytical equipment, for example, robotic equipment.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for solid phase chromatography comprising a column having a first opening for receiving a sample and a second opening for discharging an eluate, which column comprises: a. a first separation zone containing an amino-functional silica; b. a second separation zone containing activated carbon; c. a third separation zone containing magnesium-silica gel or silica gel; and d. a fourth separation zone containing magnesium-silica gel or silica gel, whichever was not used in the third separation zone. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the column has a volume of approximately 20 cc. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a fifth separation zone before the first separation zone which contains a drying agent. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the drying agent is selected from the group consisting of sodium sulfate, magnesium sulfate, molecular sieves, and diatomaceous earth. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the activated carbon is pretreated by shaking the activated carbon with an about 3N HCl solution, at a ratio of about 50 grams activated carbon to about 100 mL HCl solution, for about 25 minutes, filtering the activated carbon under vacuum, rinsing with about 500 mL of water until the pH adjusts to about 4-5, drying the activated carbon, rinsing the activated carbon with organic solvent, and then drying at about 130.degree. C. for about 48 hours. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the activated carbon is 20-40 mesh, in granular form. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the amino-functional silica is pretreated with organic solvent. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the amino-functional silica has a particle size of about 35 to about 75 microns. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the magnesium-silica is 60/100, PR Grade. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the silica gel has a particle size of between 70-230 mesh. 11. A method for removing aryl pyrazoles from a sample comprising: a. extracting the aryl pyrazole residues from a sample in a solvent; b. concentrating the extract to form a concentrated extract; and c. subjecting the concentrated extract to solid phase chromatography on a column comprising a first separation zone containing amino-functional silica, a second separation zone containing activated carbon, a third separation zone containing magnesium-silica gel or silica gel and a fourth separation zone containing magnesium-silica gel or silica gel, whichever was not used in the third separation zone. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the column further comprises a fifth separation zone before the first separation zone which contains a drying agent. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the drying agent is selected from the group consisting of sodium sulfate, magnesium sulfate, molecular sieves, and diatomaceous earth. 14. The method of claim 11, wherein the activated carbon is pretreated by shaking the activated carbon with an about 3N HCl solution, at a ratio of about 50 grams activated carbon to about 100 mL HCl solution, for about 25 minutes, filtering the activated carbon under vacuum, rinsing with about 500 mL of water until the pH adjusts to about 4-5, drying the activated carbon, rinsing the activated carbon with organic solvent, and then drying at about 130.degree. C. for about 48 hours. 15. The method of claim 11, wherein the activated carbon is 20-40 mesh, in granular form. 16. The method of claim 11, wherein the amino-functional silica is pretreated with organic solvent. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the amino-functional silica has a particle size of about 35 to about 75 microns. 18. The method of claim 11, wherein the magnesium-silica is 60/100, PR Grade. 19. The method of claim 11, wherein the silica gel has a particle size of between 70-230 mesh. 20. The method of claim 11, wherein the column has a volume of approximately 20 cc. 21. A method for determining the amount of pesticide residue in a sample comprising: a. extracting the pesticide residues from a sample in a solvent; b. concentrating the extract to form a concentrated extract; c. transferring the concentrated extract to a column comprising a first separation zone containing amino-functional silica, a second separation zone containing activated carbon, a third separation zone containing magnesium-silica gel or silica gel and a fourth separation zone containing magnesium-silica gel or silica gel, whichever was not used in the third separation zone; d. subjecting the concentrated extract to solid phase extraction by passing at least one organic solvent through the column to obtain an eluate solution; e. removing the eluate solution from the column; and f. analyzing the eluate solution to determine the amount of pesticide residue. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein the method is automated. 23. The method of claim 21, wherein eluate is analyzed using gas chromatography and mass spectrometry. 24. The method of claim 21, wherein the activated carbon is pretreated by shaking the activated carbon with an about 3N HCl solution, at a ratio of about 50 grams activated carbon to about 100 mL HCl solution, for about 25 minutes, filtering the activated carbon under vacuum, rinsing with about 500 mL of water until the pH adjusts to about 4-5, drying the activated carbon, rinsing the activated carbon with organic solvent, and then drying at about 130.degree. C. for about 48 hours. 25. The method of claim 21, wherein the activated carbon is 20-40 mesh, in granular form. 26. The method of claim 21, wherein the amino-functional silica is pretreated with organic solvent. 27. The method of claim 26, wherein the amino-functional silica has a particle size of about 35 to about 75 microns. 28. A column for use in solid phase chromatography with a top and a bottom and having a first opening for receiving a sample and a second opening for discharging an eluate which comprises, in order from the top to the bottom of the column, a first layer containing amino-functional silica, a second layer containing activated carbon, a third layer containing silica gel or magnesium-silica gel and a fourth layer containing silica gel or magnesium-silica gel, whichever was not used in the third layer. 29. The column of claim 28 wherein a physical barrier is located between the layers and on the top and bottom of the layers. 30. The column of claim 29 wherein the physical barrier is a frit. 