A method and apparatus for analyzing schedules for multi-cluster tools that are used in semiconductor wafer processing and similar manufacturing applications. The method and apparatus comprise a schedule analyzer and a pass-through chamber manager. The apparatus allows the user to analyze N! possible scheduling routines (algorithms) for a given multi-cluster tool configuration and a given N-step process sequence. The invention derives a plurality of possible scheduling algorithms for a given set of input parameters and then compares the algorithms by allowing either the user or an automated process to assign each processing step within the proposed schedule a rank ordered priority. Other process or wafer movement parameters may also be given ranges such that the invention can automatically derive optimal schedules with respect to various parameter values. By comparing the results achieved with each scheduling algorithm, the method identifies the "best" schedule algorithm for a specific tool and tool parameters.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for managing scheduling routines for a multi-cluster tool comprising the steps of: (a) selecting a robot type; (b) selecting a scheduling algorithm to define wafer movement through a multi-cluster tool; (c) executing said selected scheduling algorithm to position wafers within the multi-cluster tool; (d) executing a multi-cluster tool simulation; (e) producing a performance value for said simulation operating with said selected scheduling algorithm; (f) changing at least one parameter of said selected scheduling algorithm; (g) repeating steps c), d), e) and f) to produce a plurality of performance values; (h) comparing said performance values to determine a scheduling algorithm and parameters for said scheduling algorithm that achieve a predefined criteria. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein steps a) and b) are performed using a graphical user interface. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein step c) is performed upon the occurrence of an event or chamber trigger. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein step b) further comprises the steps of: selecting a priority-based scheduling algorithm; and assigning a priority index to each processing stage in said multi-cluster tool in accordance with said selected schedule, where the multi-cluster tool comprises a plurality of transfer spaces and adjacent transfer spaces are coupled to one another by at least one pass-through chamber. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein step c) further comprises the step of: executing said priority-based scheduling algorithm and pass-through chamber management routine. 6. The method of claim 4 wherein said processing stage comprises at least one chamber. 7. The method of claim 5 wherein said priority-based scheduling algorithm comprises the steps of: (c1) using the priority indices, identifying a stage having the highest priority index; (c2) retrieving a wafer from a chamber in a stage immediately preceeding the stage having the highest priority index; (c3) placing said retrieved wafer in said chamber within said stage having the highest priority; and (c4) repeating steps (c1), (c2), and (c3) using the next highest priority index until a predefined number of wafers have been moved in accordance with the schedule. 8. The method of claim 7 further comprises the step of re-evaluating the priorities of the stages upon the occurrence of a chamber trigger that identifies a chamber has begun a cleaning procedure or a chamber that is about to complete a cleaning procedure. 9. The method of claim 7 wherein step (c3) further comprises the steps of: identifying a time required for a chamber in the highest priority stage to complete processing; if a lower priority stage can be serviced approximately within said time, servicing said lower priority stage. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein wafer movements are performed by a robot having at least one blade. 11. The method of claim 4 further comprising the steps of: identifying the chambers that have requested a cleaning process and preempting the priority index assigned to the chambers that request cleaning with a busy status; for those chambers requesting a cleaning process, identifying the chambers that require a paste wafer; moving a paste wafer to an identified chambers that requires a paste wafer. 12. The method of claim 4 wherein said pass-through manager comprises the steps of: estimating a time until a wafer will be available to be moved from said at least one pass-through chamber; and changing the status of the pass-through chamber to identify the wafer in the pass-through chamber as ready. 13. The method of claim 12 further comprising the step of: once the pass-through chamber is empty, updating the status of the pass-through chamber to identify the pass through chamber as available. 14. The method of claim 4 wherein the at least one parameter that is changed in step (f) is the priority index. 15. A method for managing scheduling routines for a multi-cluster tool comprising the steps of: (a) assigning a priority index to each processing stage in said multi-cluster tool in accordance with a pre-defined schedule, where the multi-cluster tool comprises a plurality of transfer spaces and adjacent transfer spaces are coupled to one another by at least one pass-through chamber; (b) using the initial priority indices to identify a stage having the highest priority index; (c) retrieving a wafer from a chamber in a stage preceding the stage having the highest priority index; (d) positioning the retrieved wafer into a chamber within the stage having the highest priority; (e) determining a status of a pass-through chamber and re-evaluating the priority indices in view of said status; (f) repeating steps (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) for each stage having a next highest priority until a predefined number of wafers have been moved in accordance with the schedule. 16. The method of claim 15 wherein said status of said pass-through chamber is identified by a chamber trigger. 17. The method of claim 15 further comprising the steps of: performing a simulation of said multi-cluster tool after said wafers have been moved; counting a number of wafers per unit time that are moved through the multi-cluster tool. 18. The method of claim 17 further comprising the steps of: changing the priority indices and repeating the method to determine a number of wafers per unit time that are moved through the multi-cluster tool; comparing the numbers determined for each set of priority indices; and identifying a set of priority indices that provides the highest number. 19. The method of claim 15 wherein said processing stage comprises at least one chamber. 20. The method of claim 15 further comprises the step of determining a status of any chambers that are being cleaned and re-evaluating the priority indices in view of said cleaning status. 21. The method of claim 15 further comprises the steps of: identifying a time required for a chamber in the highest priority stage to complete processing; if a lower priority stage can be serviced approximately within said time, servicing said lower priority stage. 22. The method of claim 15 wherein wafer movements are performed by a robot having at least one blade. 23. The method of claim 15 further comprising the steps of: identifying the chambers that have requested a cleaning process and preempting the priority index assigned to the chambers that request cleaning with a busy status; for those chambers requesting a cleaning process, identifying the chambers that require a paste wafer; moving a paste wafer to an identified chambers that requires a paste wafer. 24. The method of claim 15 further comprising the steps of: estimating a time until a wafer will be available to be moved from said at least one pass-through chamber; changing the status of the pass-through chamber to identify the wafer in the pass-through chamber as ready. 25. The method of claim 24 further comprising the step of: once the pass-through chamber is empty, updating the status of the pass-through chamber to identify the pass through chamber as available. 26. The method of claim 25 further comprising the step of: producing a chamber trigger to identify a time before said pass-through chamber is ready. 27. A computer readable medium for storing computer software that when executed by a general purpose computer system causes the system to perform a method for managing scheduling routines for a multi-cluster tool, the method comprises the steps of: assigning an initial priority index to each processing stage in said multi-cluster tool in accordance with a pre-defined schedule, where the multi-cluster tool comprises a plurality of transfer spaces and adjacent transfer spaces are coupled to one another by at least one pass-through chamber; executing a priority-based scheduling algorithm and a pass-through chamber management routine; and producing at least one scheduling performance value. 28. The method of claim 27 wherein said processing stage comprises at least one chamber. 29. The method of claim 27 wherein said priority-based scheduling algorithm comprises the steps of: (a) using the initial priority indices, identifying a stage having the highest priority index; (b) retrieving a wafer from a chamber in the stage prior to the stage having the highest priority index; (c) positioning the retrieved wafer into a chamber in the stage having the highest priority; (d) determining a status of a pass-through chamber and re-evaluating the priority indices of said stages in view of said status; (e) repeating steps (a), (b), (c), and (d) for each stage having a next highest priority index until a predefined number of wafers have been moved in accordance with the scheduling algorithm. 30. The method of claim 29 further comprising the steps of: changing the priority indices and repeating steps (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e); comparing the performance values produced for each set of priority indices; and identifying a set of priority indices that produce an optimal performance value. 31. The method of claim 29 further comprising the step of determining a status of any chambers that are being cleaned and reassigning priority indices to said stages in view of said cleaning status. 32. The method of claim 29 wherein step (b) further comprises the steps of: identifying a time required for a chamber in the highest priority stage to complete processing; and if a lower priority stage can be serviced approximately within said time, servicing said lower priority stage. 33. The method of claim 29 wherein wafer movements are performed by a robot having at least one blade. 34. The method of claim 29 further comprising steps before step (a): identifying the chambers that have requested a cleaning process and preempting the priority index assigned to the chambers that request cleaning with a busy status; for those chambers requesting a cleaning process, identifying the chambers that require a paste wafer; moving a paste wafer to an identified chamber that requires a paste wafer. 35. The method of claim 29 wherein said pass-through chamber management routine comprises the steps of: estimating a time until a wafer will be available to be moved from said at least one pass-through chamber; and changing the status of the pass-through chamber to identify the wafer in the pass-through chamber as ready. 36. The method of claim 35 further comprising the step of: once the pass-through chamber is empty, updating the status of the pass-through chamber to identify the pass through chamber as available. 37. Apparatus for managing schedules of a multi-cluster tool comprising: a schedule processor for analyzing priority-based schedules; a pass-through chamber manager coupled to said schedule processor; and a performance value generator coupled to said pass-through chamber manager. 38. The apparatus of claim 37 wherein said pass-through chamber manager responds to chamber triggers. 39. The apparatus of claim 37 wherein said schedule processor accommodates clean and paste processes. 40. The apparatus of claim 39 wherein said performance value generator is a wafer throughput computer. 