A method and system for researching and developing and/or optimizing new catalysts and products in a combinatorial manner is disclosed. The method begins with starting components or a ligand library and provides methods of creating catalyst or product libraries, which are then tested in a reaction of interest. The system uses methods of robotic handling for moving libraries from station to station. The method and apparatus are especially useful for synthesizing, screening, and characterizing combinatorial catalyst libraries, but also offer significant advantages over conventional experimental methods as well.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for researching for novel catalyst libraries, comprising: a ligand library storage plate containing a plurality of ligand library member ligands, wherein said member ligands have a common scaffold but vary in structural diversity; a daughtering station wherein a plurality of daughter libraries are formed by taking one or more aliquots from one or more member ligands of said ligand library; a plurality of daughter plates for storing said daughter libraries; a combining station wherein metal precursors are added to at least a portion of said daughter libraries to create a plurality of catalyst libraries; and a reaction station wherein at least a portion of said catalyst libraries are subjected to a reaction of interest. 2. The system of claim 1 further comprising a filtering station between said combining station and reaction station. 3. The system of claim 1 further comprising a screening station that receives the libraries from said reaction station and screens the contents thereof for a compound or property of interest. 4. The system of claim 3 wherein a control system collects data from said screening station and stores such data in a database. 5. The system of claim 3 wherein said screening station is equipped to screen the contents of the libraries for molecular weight. 6. The system of claim 3 wherein said screening station is equipped to screen the contents of the libraries for particle size. 7. The system of claim 3 wherein said screening station is equipped to screen the contents of the libraries using Infrared thermography, Fourier Transform Infrared spectroscopy, thin layer chromatography, mass spectroscopy, gas chromatography or nuclear magnetic resonance. 8. The system of claim 1, further comprising an automated robotic system for forming said catalyst libraries and transferring said storage plates and daughter plates between said stations in said system. 