A Cartesian robot comprises a base member disposed along an x-axis, a transverse member moveably mounted to the base member, and disposed along a y-axis transverse to the x-axis. The robot has a y-carriage for a measurement probe moveably mounted to the transverse member along the y-axis. The x, y, and z axes define a Cartesian coordinate system. The robot includes an innovative structure that achieves high precision with respect to the z-axis by providing a planarized and stable reference surface along the y-axis (vertical axis). The position of the y-carriage with respect to a z-axis is a predictable function of the measured position of the y-carriage on the reference surface, and rigid-body tilt of the reference surface. High accuracy and precision are achieved by utilizing a granite slab for providing the planarized reference surface disposed along the y-axis for the transverse member. The granite slab is supported by a structural frame, and a measurement probe may be mounted to a y-carriage which is moveably mounted to the reference surface of the granite slab. The Cartesian robot is especially suitable for near-field antenna-measuring scanners that require high precision, such as scanners for high-frequency antenna.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A Cartesian robot, comprising: a base member having a planar y-reference surface extending in a plane along a length of said base member; a transverse member moveably mounted to said y-reference surface to move along an x-axis parallel to the plane thereof, said transverse member comprising a reference slab supported by at least one support member, wherein said reference slab has a length transverse to the x-axis; a planar z-reference surface extending in a plane along the length of said reference slab; and a y-carriage moveably mounted to said z-reference surface to move along an axis parallel to the plane of said z-reference surface and inclined at a constant angle with respect to a y-axis; wherein a z-position of said y-carriage along a z-axis is determined by a corresponding position of said y-carriage along said z-reference surface and a rigid body tilt of said reference slab, and wherein the x, y, and z-axes define a Cartesian coordinate system. 2. The Cartesian robot of claim 1, wherein said y-reference surface is integral with said base member. 3. The Cartesian robot of claim 1, wherein said z-reference surface is integral with said transverse member. 4. The Cartesian robot of claim 1, wherein the z-position of said y-carriage may be determined to a precision at least 5.times.10.sup.-6 meters rms over a 2.4 square meter scan area. 5. The Cartesian robot of claim 1, wherein said transverse member comprises a granite slab. 6. The Cartesian robot of claim 5, wherein said granite slab is supported by a structural frame. 7. The Cartesian robot of claim 6, further comprising an x-carriage movably mounted to said base member, wherein said structural frame is mounted to said x-carriage, and said granite slab is pivotally mounted to said structural frame. 8. The Cartesian robot of claim 7, further comprising a pivoting bearing mounted in said granite slab adjacent to a midpoint of the length of said granite slab, whereby said granite slab is mounted to said structural frame. 9. The Cartesian robot of claim 1, wherein said base member comprises a pair of parallel granite bases. 10. The Cartesian robot of claim 9, wherein said pair of parallel granite bases comprises a primary rail comprised of a second z-reference surface underneath said transverse member, and an outrigger rail, wherein said transverse member is flexibly mounted to said outrigger rail. 11. The Cartesian robot of claim 1, further comprising means for determining a z-position of said y-carriage along a z-axis based upon a corresponding position of said y-carriage along said z-reference surface and a measured value of a rigid body tilt of said reference slab. 12. The Cartesian robot of claim 1, wherein said y-carriage further comprises a driving frame coupled to a probe mounting plate by a point support bearing. 13. The Cartesian robot of claim 12, wherein said point support bearing further comprises two crossed rollers. 14. A Cartesian robot, comprising: a base member having a planar y-reference surface extending in a plane along a length of said base member; an x-carriage moveably mounted to said y-reference surface to move along an x-axis parallel to the plane thereof; a granite slab mounted to said x-carriage having a length transverse to the x-axis; a planar z-reference surface extending in a plane along the length of said granite slab and integral therewith; and a y-carriage moveably mounted to said z-reference surface to move along an axis parallel to the plane of said z-reference surface and inclined at a constant angle with respect to a y-axis. 15. The Cartesian robot of claim 14, wherein a z-position of said y-carriage along a z-axis is determined by a corresponding position of said y-carriage along said z-reference surface and a rigid body tilt of said granite slab with respect to the x-axis, and wherein the x, y, and z-axes define a Cartesian coordinate system. 16. The Cartesian robot of claim 14, wherein said granite slab is supported by a structural frame mounted to said x-carriage, and wherein said granite slab is pivotally mounted to said structural frame. 17. The Cartesian robot of claim 16, further comprising a pivoting bearing mounted in said granite slab adjacent to a midpoint of the length of said granite slab, whereby said granite slab is mounted to said structural frame. 18. The Cartesian robot of claim 14, wherein said base member comprises a air of parallel granite bases. 19. The Cartesian robot of claim 14, wherein said pair of parallel granite bases comprises a primary base comprised of a second z-reference surface underneath said transverse member, and an outrigger base, wherein said x-carriage is flexibly mounted to said outrigger base. 20. The Cartesian robot of claim 14, wherein said y-carriage further comprises a driving frame coupled to a probe mounting plate by a point support bearing. 21. The Cartesian robot of claim 20, wherein said point support bearing further comprises two crossed rollers. 22. In a Cartesian robot comprising a base member disposed along an x-axis, a transverse member moveably mounted to the base member, the transverse member disposed along an axis transverse to the x-axis and inclined at a constant angle to a y-axis, and a y-carriage moveably mounted to the transverse member along a z-reference surface within a plane defined with respect to a z-axis, wherein the x, y, and z axes define a Cartesian coordinate system; a method for determining the position of the y-carriage relative to the z-axis, said method comprising the steps of: measuring a position of the y-carriage along the transverse member; measuring a tilt of the transverse member relative to the x-axis; and determining a z-position of the measurement probe from the position of the y-carriage along the transverse member and the tilt. 23. The method of claim 22, wherein said second measuring step comprises measuring the tilt of the transverse member using a tiltmeter or electronic level. 24. The method of claim 22, further wherein said first measuring step comprises measuring the position of the y-carriage along the transverse member by counting increments of an open-loop stepper motor drive system. 