A preferred embodiment of a fluid powered apparatus has a housing, a piston and an off-axis member to deter piston rod rotation relative to the housing. In a further aspect of the present invention, an off-center pin actuates one or more sensors while also deterring rotation of a piston rod relative to a housing. An additional aspect of the present invention provides for complete retention and sealing of a sensor within a housing.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A fluid apparatus comprising: a housing having an internal chamber; a piston movably located in the chamber; a piston rod attached to the piston, the piston rod and piston currently being movable along a longitudinal centerline; a finger extending substantially parallel to and transversely offset from the longitudinal centerline, the finger interconnecting the piston rod and the piston, the finger operably deterring rotation of the piston relative to the housing; and a workpiece interfacing member coupled to the piston rod. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a pin mounted to the piston, the pin being transversely offset from the finger and the longitudinal centerline, the pin being elongated in a direction substantially parallel to that of the longitudinal centerline of the piston rod, the pin being receivable within a hole in the housing substantially parallel to and offset from the longitudinal centerline. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the piston has opposing faces, and the off-center pin projects from both opposing faces. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the finger is integrally created as a single piece with the piston rod. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a threaded fastener attaching the piston rod to the piston, the fastener being coaxially located on the longitudinal centerline, the finger having a smooth and cylindrical external shape. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the workpiece interfacing member is a tapered locator pin. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising pneumatic fluid operably advancing and retracting the piston in the chamber, and the finger deterring rotation of the piston rod relative to the piston. 8. A fluid powered apparatus comprising: a housing having a chamber, a first hole and a second hole; a piston movable inside the chamber, the piston having a first face and an opposite second face, fluid operably pushing against the first face to cause the piston to advance in a first direction, fluid operably pushing against the second face to cause the piston to retract in a second direction substantially opposite the first direction; and a pin attached to the piston, the pin being offset from the center of the piston, the axis of the pin being substantially parallel to the first direction and protruding from the first and second faces of the piston; the first hole of the housing being operable to selectively receive the pin when the piston is in an advanced position, and the second hole of the housing being operable to selectively receive the pin when the piston is in a retracted position. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 further comprising: a first sensor mounted to the housing adjacent to the first hole; and a second sensor mounted to the housing adjacent to the second hole; the sensors operably sending a signal in response to the sensed location of the pin. 10. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein the sensors are entirely located inside the housing. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the sensors are proximity switches. 12. The apparatus of claim 8 further comprising: a piston rod attached to the piston; and a workpiece interfacing member coupled to the piston rod. 13. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein the workpiece interfacing member is a workpiece locator pin having a substantially tapered end. 14. The apparatus of claim 8 further comprising inlet and outlet pneumatic ports located in the housing to allow passage of air fluid into the chamber, and the holes which are operable to receive the pin always being sealed to prevent air from flowing therethrough and outside of the housing when the piston operates. 15. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein the piston has a substantially oval peripheral shape. 16. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein the pin has a pair of substantially cylindrical sections joined by a central threaded section, and the threaded section is affixed to the piston. 17. A fluid powered apparatus comprising: a housing having a chamber, the housing further having a sensor pocket and a hole connecting the sensor pocket to the chamber; a piston operably advancing and retracting in the chamber in response to fluid pressure; a piston rod mounted to the piston; a member projecting from the piston being operably received inside the hole when the piston is in at least one of an advanced position and a retracted position; and a sensor entirely located in a sealed manner inside the sensor pocket of the housing, the sensor pocket being entirely depressed internal to an adjacent nominal exterior surface of the housing. 18. The apparatus of claim 17 further comprising an elastomeric seal surrounding a portion of the sensor in the pocket. 19. The apparatus of claim 17 further comprising: a channel located in the external surface of the housing, the channel extending from the sensor pocket; at least one electric wire connected to the sensor and being positioned in the channel; and a closeout plate attached to the nominal external surface of the housing, the plate substantially covering the sensor and the wire. 20. The apparatus of claim 17 wherein the sensor is a proximity switch operable to determine the presence of the member, the member is an elongated metallic pin projecting from both opposing faces of the piston. 21. The apparatus of claim 17 further comprising a workpiece locating pin attached to the piston rod which is operably advanced and retracted in coordination with fluid powered movement of the piston. 22. The apparatus of claim 17 wherein the sensor has a substantially polygonal external shape. 23. A pin part locator comprising: a housing having a chamber and a bore connected to the chamber, the housing further having a switch pocket and a hole connecting the switch pocket to the chamber; a piston operably advancing and retracting in the chamber in response to pneumatic pressure; a piston rod mounted to the piston, a portion of the piston rod being located in the bore, the piston rod being substantially prevented from rotating relative to the housing; a member projecting from the piston being removably received inside the hole when the piston is in a first position; and a majority of a switch located inside the switch pocket of the housing, a majority of the switch pocket being internal to an adjacent nominal exterior surface of the housing; a pneumatic pressure source; a first port located in the housing being operable to allow pneumatic pressure to flow from the pneumatic pressure source to one end of the chamber; and a second port located in the housing being operable to allow pneumatic pressure to flow from the pneumatic pressure source to an opposite end of the chamber. 24. The locator of claim 23 wherein the member is an elongated pin attached to the piston. 25. The locator claim 24 wherein the pin includes a threaded section and a cylindrical section. 26. The locator of claim 24 wherein the pin projects beyond opposing faces of the piston. 27. The locator of claim 23 wherein the switch is a proximity switch which is sealed inside the switch pocket. 