A methodology of sleeving at least one lead of a stator is provided. The methodology includes the steps of robotically selecting at least one of the stator leads, and robotically positioning an insulating sleeve over the stator lead.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of sleeving at least one lead of a stator, comprising: providing the stator having a base portion and a plurality of leads extending therefrom; robotically selecting the at least one lead from the plurality of leads; and robotically positioning an insulating sleeve over at least a portion of the selected at least one lead using a first robotic device, the first robotic device having a plurality of finger clamps that hold the lead during the positioning of the sleeve. 2. The method of claim 1, including a second robotic device employed to position the insulating sleeve over the selected at least one lead. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the first robotic device has at least two of the plurality of finger clamps secure the lead during the selection of the at least one lead. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein one of the at least two of the plurality of finger clamps of the first robotic device releases the lead during the positioning of the sleeve over the selected at least one lead. 5. The method of claim 4, further comprising: re-securing the lead by the one of the at least two of the plurality of finger clamps of the first robotic device during the positioning of the sleeve; and releasing the lead by another of the at least two of the plurality of finger clamps of the first robotic device during positioning of the sleeve. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one lead has a distal end to the base of the stator and a length extending between the end of the stator, the positioning further comprising using the first robotic device to urge the sleeve over the distal end of the selected at least one lead to a position spaced from the distal end, such that the sleeve is oriented substantially coaxially with a portion of the length of the selected at least one lead. 7. A method of sleeving at least one lead of a stator, comprising: providing the stator having a base portion and a plurality of leads extending therefrom; robotically selecting the at least one lead from the plurality of leads; positioning an insulating sleeve over at least a portion of the selected at least one lead; and using a pallet having a rotating assembly to rotatably support the stator relative to the pallet and to rotatably position the at least one lead to a predetermined position prior to performing the robotic selection of the at least one lead, the rotating assembly having an inner ring that supports the stator and an outer ring having a plurality of clips, prior to the positioning of the sleeve, the method further comprising releasably securing one or more of the plurality of leads in at least one of the plurality of clips. 8. The method of claim 7, further comprising repositioning at least one of the plurality of leads from one of the plurality of clips to another of the plurality of clips by way of a third robotic device. 9. The method of claim 8, further comprising: introducing at least one of the leads to a crimping tool by way of a fourth robotic device; introducing a stranded lead extension to the crimping tool by way of a fifth robotic device; and splicing the at least one of the leads to the stranded lead by way of the crimping tool. 10. The method of claim 9, further comprising: providing a second insulating sleeve over a spliced junction between the selected at least one of the leads and the stranded lead by way of the fifth robotic device. 