Specific embodiments of the present invention provide a chemical-mechanical planarization apparatus for planarizing an object comprising a shaft having a shaft axis and being connected with a polishing head which is coupled to a polishing pad. The polishing pad has a smaller diameter than the object to be planarized. The shaft is rotatable to spin the polishing head and polishing pad around the shaft axis. A channel extends along the shaft axis through the shaft and the polishing head. A supply tube is configured to deliver a polishing chemical through the channel to the polishing pad. In some embodiments, the polishing pad is an annular pad having an opening for flowing the polishing chemical therethrough to a region between the polishing pad and the object. A sensor is provided for monitoring a level of the polishing chemical in the channel of the shaft. A pump is provided for pumping the polishing chemical through the supply tube to the channel of the shaft. The pump is controlled to vary a flow rate of the polishing chemical to the channel of the shaft in response to the monitored level of the polishing chemical in the channel.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A chemical-mechanical planarization apparatus for planarizing an object, the apparatus comprising: a shaft having a shaft axis and being connected with a polishing head which is coupled to a polishing pad, the polishing pad having a smaller diameter than the object to be planarized, the shaft being rotatable to spin the polishing head and polishing pad around the shaft axis, a channel extending along the shaft axis through the shaft and the polishing head; a supply tube configured to deliver a polishing chemical through the channel to the polishing pad; and a sensor for monitoring a level of the polishing chemical in the channel of the shaft. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the polishing pad is an annular pad having an opening for flowing the polishing chemical therethrough to a region between the polishing pad a nd the object. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the supply tube is configured to deliver the polishing chemical to an upper end of the shaft for the polishing chemical to flow down the channel by gravity. 4. A chemical-mechanical planarization apparatus for planarizing an object, the apparatus comprising: a shaft having a shaft axis and being connected with a polishing head which is coupled to a polishing pad, the polishing pad including an annular polishing surface which has a smaller size than the object to be planarized, the shaft being rotatable to spin the polishing head and polishing pad around the shaft axis to planarize the object with the annular polishing surface, a channel extending along the shaft axis through the shaft and the polishing head; a supply tube configured to deliver a polishing chemical through the channel to the polishing pad; and a sensor for monitoring a level of the polishing chemical in the channel of the shaft. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a pump for pumping the polishing chemical through the supply tube to the channel of the shaft. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein the pump is controlled to vary a flow rate of the polishing chemical to the channel of the shaft in response to the monitored level of the polishing chemical in the channel. 7. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein the polishing pad is an annular pad having an opening for flowing the polishing chemical therethrough to a region between the polishing pad and the object. 8. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein the supply tube is configured to deliver the polishing chemical to an upper end of the shaft for the polishing chemical to flow down the channel by gravity. 9. A chemical-mechanical planarization apparatus for planarizing an object, the apparatus comprising: a shaft having a shaft axis and being connected with a polishing head which is coupled to a polishing pad, the polishing pad including a planar polishing surface which has a smaller size than the object to be planarized, the shaft being rotatable to spin the polishing head and polishing pad around the shaft axis to planarize the object with the planar polishing surface which is perpendicular to the shaft axis, a channel extending along the shaft axis through the shaft and the polishing head; and a supply tube configured to deliver a polishing chemical through the channel to the polishing pad. 10. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein the polishing pad is an annular pad having an opening through the planar polishing surface for flowing the polishing chemical therethrough to a region between the planar polishing surface of the polishing pad and the object. 11. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein the supply tube is configured to deliver the polishing chemical to an upper end of the shaft for the polishing chemical to flow down the channel by gravity. 12. The apparatus of claim 4 further comprising a pump for pumping the polishing chemical through the supply tube to the channel of the shaft. 13. The apparatus of claim 9 further comprising a pump for pumping the polishing chemical through the supply tube to the channel of the shaft. 14. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein the pump is controlled to vary a flow rate of the polishing chemical to the channel of the shaft in response to the monitored level of the polishing chemical in the channel. 15. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein the pump is controlled to vary a flow rate of the polishing chemical to the channel of the shaft in response to the monitored level of the polishing chemical in the channel. 16. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein the annular polishing surface is a planar polishing surface having an opening therethrough for flowing the polishing chemical therethrough to a region between the annular, planar polishing surface of the polishing pad and the object. 17. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein the supply tube is configured to deliver the polishing chemical to an upper end of the shaft for the polishing chemical to flow down the channel by gravity. 