A multicell holder e.g., a honeycomb or plate, or a collection of individual support particles, is treated with solutions/suspensions of catalyst ingredients to produce cells, spots or pellets holding each of a variety of combinations of the ingredients, is dried, calcined or treated as necessary to stabilize the ingredients in the cells, spots or pellets, then is contacted with a potentially reactive feed stream or batch e.g., biochemical, gas oil, hydrogen plus oxygen, propylene plus oxygen, CCl2F2 and hydrogen, etc. The reaction occurring in each cell can be measured, e.g. by infrared thermography, spectroscopic detection of products or residual reactants, or by sampling, e.g. by multistreaming through low volume tubing, from the vicinity of each combination, followed by analysis e.g. spectral analysis, chromatography etc, or by observing temperature change in the vicinity of the catalyst e.g. by thermographic techniques, to determine the relative efficacy of the catalysts in each combination. Robotic techniques can be employed in producing the cells, spots, pellets, etc.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for evaluating a library of candidate catalysts, the method comprising depositing a plurality of candidate catalyst precursors on a common support, treating each of the plurality of catalyst precursors in place on the support to form the plurality of candidate catalysts on the support, contacting each of the plurality of candidate catalysts in place on the support with one or more reactants under reaction conditions to catalyze at least one reaction, and determining the relative efficacy of the plurality of candidate catalysts by (i) detecting radiation emitted or absorbed during the course of the reaction, or (ii) detecting reaction products or unreacted reactants. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the plurality of catalyst precursors are deposited on the common support using a robotic automated liquid handling system. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein the plurality of catalyst precursors are simultaneously treated in place on the support. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein the plurality of candidate catalysts are simultaneously contacted in place on the support with one or more reactants. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the plurality of catalyst precursors are simultaneously treated in place on the support. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein the plurality of candidate catalysts are simultaneously contacted in place on the support with one or more reactants. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein the plurality of candidate catalyst s are simultaneously contacted in place on the support with one or more reactants. 8. The method of claims 4 wherein the relative efficacy of the plurality of candidate catalysts is simultaneously determined. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein the plurality of candidate catalysts are chemical conversion catalysts. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein the plurality of catalyst candidates are hydrocarbon conversion catalysts. 11. The method of claim 1 wherein the plurality of catalyst candidates are inorganic catalysts. 12. The method of claim 1 wherein the plurality of catalyst candidates are metals or metal oxides. 13. The method of claim 1 wherein the plurality of catalyst candidates are transition metals or transition metal oxides. 14. The method of claim 1 wherein the plurality of catalyst candidates are zeolites. 15. The method of claim 1 wherein the plurality of catalyst candidates are metallocenes. 16. The method of claim 1 wherein the plurality of catalyst candidates are supported catalysts. 17. The method of claim 1 wherein the plurality of candidate catalyst precursors are deposited at defined positions of a porous surface of the common support. 18. The method of claim 1 wherein the plurality of candidate catalyst precursors are deposited onto a plurality of surfaces defining separate channels or conduits of the common support. 19. The method of claim 1 wherein the plurality of candidate catalyst precursors are deposited into a plurality of separate channels or conduits of the common support. 20. The method of claim 1 wherein the reaction conditions include a temperature greater than 100.degree. C., and additionally, or alternatively, a pressure of greater than 1 bar. 21. The method of claim 1 wherein each of the plurality of candidate catalyst precursors are treated by a method selected from the group consisting of drying, calcining, steaming, melting or precipitating. 22. A method for evaluating a library of candidate catalysts, the method comprising depositing a plurality of candidate catalyst precursors on a common support, simultaneously treating each of the plurality of catalyst precursors in place on the support to form the plurality of candidate catalysts on the support, simultaneously contacting each of the plurality of candidate catalysts in place on the support with one or more reactants under reaction conditions to catalyze at least one reaction, the reaction conditions including a temperature greater than 100.degree. C., and additionally, or alternatively, a pressure of greater than 1 bar, and determining the relative efficacy of the plurality of candidate catalysts by (i) detecting radiation emitted or absorbed during the course of the reaction, or (ii) detecting reaction products or unreacted reactants. 23. A method for evaluating a library of candidate catalysts, the method comprising depositing a plurality of inorganic candidate catalyst precursor solutions on a common support, simultaneously drying each of the plurality of catalyst precursor solutions in place on the support to form a plurality of dried catalyst precursors on the support simultaneously calcining each of the plurality of dried catalyst precursors in place on the support to form a plurality inorganic catalysts on the support, simultaneously contacting each of the plurality of inorganic catalysts in place on the support with one or more reactants under reaction conditions to catalyze at least one reaction, the reaction conditions including a temperature greater than 100.degree. C., and additionally, or alternatively, a pressure of greater than 1 bar, and determining the relative efficacy of the plurality of candidate catalysts by detecting reaction products or unreacted reactants by spectroscopy or chromatography. 24. The method of claims 1, 22 or 23 further comprising statistically designing experiments that include the depositing, treating, contacting and determining steps. 