The specimen plate lid is generally a block, with a cover portion and a side portion. An alignment protrusion extends from the side portion and cooperates with an alignment member of the specimen plate to assist in manually or roboticly guiding the lid onto the specimen plate. An underside surface of the cover has a sealing perimeter for receiving a seal constructed from a compliant material, and shaped to cooperate with a complimentary sealing surface on the specimen plate. The lid is weighted so that when the lid is aligned and positioned on the specimen plate, the weight of the lid provides a gravitational force to sufficiently compress the seal against the sealing surface on the specimen plate. Accordingly, the lid is sufficiently sealed to the specimen plate to avoid contamination and impermissible drying.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A lid for a specimen plate, the lid comprising: a cover having a top surface, a bottom surface, and a side; an alignment protrusion extending from the side of the cover, the alignment protrusion positioned to cooperate with an alignment member of a specimen plate, wherein the alignment protrusion is a plurality of alignment tabs, wherein the alignment protrusion does not mechanically mate with the specimen plate or frictionally mate with sidewalls of the specimen plate when the lid is placed on the specimen plate; and a sealing perimeter positioned on the bottom surface of the cover; wherein the alignment protrusion facilitates aligning the lid to a specimen plate so that a seal is compressibly received between the sealing perimeter and a sealing surface of a specimen plate when the lid is placed on the specimen plate. 2. The lid according to claim 1 wherein the alignment member of the specimen plate includes at least one sidewall of the specimen plate. 3. The lid according to claim 1 wherein the seal is a perimeter seal attached to the sealing perimeter. 4. The lid according to claim 1 wherein the lid is constructed from a single block. 5. The lid according to claim 1 wherein the lid is constructed of a heavy material to facilitate compressing the seal. 6. The lid according to claim 1 wherein the lid is constructed from stainless steel. 7. The lid according to claim 1 wherein the cover has separate weight members attached to the cover. 8. The lid according to claim 1 wherein the cover has a weight in the range of about 100 grams to about 500 grams to facilitate compressing the seal. 9. The lid according to claim 1 wherein the cover has a weight of about 400 grams to facilitate compressing the seal. 10. The lid according to claim 1 wherein the alignment protrusion is constructed within a tolerance of about 0.100 mm to about 0.2 mm. 11. The lid according to claim 1 wherein the seal is a contiguous perimeter seal between the lid and specimen plate. 12. The lid according to claim 1 wherein the cover is substantially rectangular, with a longer edge and a shorter edge, and the alignment member are sidewalls of the specimen plate. 13. The lid according to claim 12 wherein at least one alignment tab is positioned along each, shorter edge and at least one alignment tab is positioned along each longer edge. 14. The lid according to claim 13 wherein two alignment tabs are positioned near the ends of each shorter edge and a single alignment tab is positioned near the center of each longer edge. 15. The lid according to claim 1 wherein the seal extends around a corner of the cover by using two connected forty-five degree angles. 16. The lid according to claim 1 wherein the alignment tabs are constructed in the form of at least two corner tabs. 17. The lid according to claim 1 wherein the seal fits into a groove. 18. The lid according to claim 1 wherein the seal is a perimeter seal constructed of a compliant material. 19. The lid according to claim 18 wherein the perimeter seal is constructed of a silicone rubber. 20. The lid according to claim 1 wherein the cover has a plurality of through-holes for diffusing gas, the through-holes positioned within an area bounded by the sealing perimeter. 21. The lid according to claim 20 wherein each through-hole is about 1 mm in diameter. 22. The lid according to claim 1 wherein the lid further includes a recessed area for increasing a volume of gas retained between the cover and a top surface of the specimen plate. 23. The lid according to claim 22 wherein the lid further includes through-holes positioned in an area bounded by the sealing perimeter, the through-holes constructed to keep the volume of retained gas at an approximately 5 percent CO.sub.2 concentration. 24. The lid according to claim 1 wherein the lid further includes an opening having a gas permeable membrane for diffusing. 25. The lid according to claim 1 wherein the lid further includes a gripper structure for coupling with a robotic gripper. 26. The lid according to claim 25 wherein the gripper structure includes a gripper lip positioned at an edge of the cover. 27. The lid according to claim 1 wherein the alignment protrusion has a chamfer at a lower portion cooperating with the sidewall. 28. The lid according to claim 1, wherein the lid comprises a bar code. 29. The lid according to claim 28, wherein the bar code is positioned at one end of the lid. 30. The lid according to claim 28, wherein the lid comprises two or more bar codes. 31. The lid according to claim 30, wherein one bar code is positioned at each end of the lid. 32. The lid according to claim 1, wherein the lid comprises a robotic gripper that can lift the lid from a specimen plate and position the lid on a specimen plate. 33. The lid according to claim 1, wherein the lid lacks a mechanical or adhesive sealing mechanism. 34. A lid for a specimen plate, the lid comprising: a cover having a top surface, a bottom surface, and a side; an alignment protrusion extending from the side of the cover, the alignment protrusion positioned to precisely cooperate with a sidewall of a specimen plate, wherein the alignment protrusion does not mechanically mate with the specimen plate or frictionally mate with sidewalls of the specimen plate when the lid is placed on the specimen plate; and a sealing perimeter on the bottom surface of the cover; wherein the alignment protrusion facilitates aligning the sealing perimeter to a sealing area on the plate, the cover being precisely positioned so that the sealing perimeter does not touch any sample well on a specimen plate when the lid is placed on the specimen plate. 