A method is disclosed for effecting the concentration of a polar analyte in an alternating electric field. In the method, a relative translation of the polar analyte and an alternating electric field along a translation path is effected. A portion of the polar analyte is then trapped and concentrated in a concentration zone formed by the intersection of the translation path and the alternating electric field. Also disclosed are various devices for carrying out the forgoing method.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for the location and concentration of a polar analyte comprising the steps of: effecting the relative translation of the polar analyte and an alternating electric field along a translation path such that a portion of the polar analyte is trapped and concentrated in a concentration zone formed by the intersection of the translation path and the alternating electric field; wherein the relative translation is effected by the electrokinetic translation of the polar analyte. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the polar analyte is charged. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein the polar analyte comprises a nucleic acid. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein a time-vs.-field strength profile of the alternating electric field is rectangular. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the time-averaged integrated field strength of the alternating electric field taken over one complete cycle is zero. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the frequency of the alternating electric field is between about 10 Hz and 100 MHz. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein the frequency of alternating electric field is between about 1 KHz and 100 KHz. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein the maximum field strength of the alternating electric field is between 100 V/cm and 100,000 V/cm. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein the maximum field strength of the alternating electric is between 1,000 V/cm and 20,000 V/cm. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein the polar analyte is a nucleic acid and further comprising the step of performing a nucleic acid hybridization reaction between the polar analyte and a complementary nucleic acid during or subsequent to the concentration of the polar analyte. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein the complementary nucleic acid is bound to a solid support. 12. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of detecting the polar analyte during or subsequent to concentration. 13. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of performing a chemical reaction between the polar analyte and a reactant in the concentration zone during or subsequent to the concentration of the polar analyte. 14. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of releasing the polar analyte from the concentration zone. 15. A method for the location and concentration of a polar analyte comprising the steps of: effectng the relative translation of the polar analyte and an alternating electric field along a translation path such that a portion of the polar analyte is trapped and concentrated in a concentration zone formed by the intersection of the translation path and the alternating electric field; wherein the relative translation is effected by movement of the alternating electric field. 16. A method for the location and concentration of a polar analyte comprising the steps of: effecting the relative translation of the polar analyte and an alternating electric field along a translation path such that a portion of the polar analyte is trapped and concentrated in a concentration zone formed by the intersection of the translation path and the alternating electric field; releasing the polar analyte from the concentration zone; and performing an analytical separation process subsequent to the step of releasing the polar analyte from the concentration zone. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein the analytical separation process is an electrokinetic separation process. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein the electrokinetic separation process is electrophoresis. 19. A device for the location and concentration of a polar analyte comprising: a translation path; one or more electrodes located to provide an alternating electric field intersecting the translation path and sufficient to trap and concentrate a portion of a polar analyte located in a concentration zone formed by the intersection of the translation path and the alternating electric field; a means for effecting the relative translation of the polar analyte with respect to the alternating electric field along the translation path; and an array of support-bound binding complements located in the concentration zone. 20. The device of claim 19 further including a detector positioned to detect material located in the concentration zone. 21. The device of claim 19 wherein the polar analyte is nucleic acid and the support-bound binding complement is a complementary nucleic acid. 22. The device of claim 19 further including a separation channel in fluid communication with the concentration zone. 23. A device for the location and concentration of a polar analyte comprising: a translation path; one or more electrodes located to provide an alternating electric field intersecting the translation path and sufficient to trap and concentrate a portion of a polar analyte located in a concentration zone formed by the intersection of the translation path and the alternating electric field; a means for effecting the relative translation of the polar analyte with respect to the alternating electric field along the translation path; and a frit located in the concentration zone wherein the frit is made of an insulating matrix. 24. The device of claim 23 wherein the AC electrical conductivity of the insulating matrix is less than the AC electrical conductivity of a fluid medium located in pores of the frit. 25. The device of claim 24 wherein the AC electrical conductivity of the insulating matrix is at least 3 times less than that of the fluid medium. 26. The device of claim 24 wherein the AC electrical conductivity of the insulating matrix is between about 10 and 1000 times less than that of the fluid medium. 27. The device of claim 23 further including electrically-conductive particles suspended in the insulating matrix such that there exists a plurality of electrically isolated regions each containing one or more conductive particles. 28. A device for the location and concentration of a polar analyte comprising: a translation path; one or more electrodes located to provide an alternating electric field intersecting the translation path and sufficient to trap and concentrate a portion of a polar analyte located in a concentration zone formed by the intersection of the translation path and the alternating electric field; a means for effecting the relative translation of the polar analyte with respect to the alternating electric field along the translation path; and a temperature control system in thermal communication with the concentration zone. 