An air bag calibrator that is used to calibrate a plurality of seat sensors within a seat simultaneously. The calibrator uses controlled pressure contained within an air bladder and an air press cylinder to apply a controlled force across an entire seat surface that actuates all of the seat sensors in a consistent and repeatable manner, a major improvement over existing seat calibration methods. This is accomplished by loading a seat onto the calibrator, recording a baseline seat sensor value for each of the seat sensors, extending the air press cylinder to an extended position and applying a controlled force across the entire seat surface. The air pressure in the air bladder is then increased or decreased to a target pressure for a predetermined time, at which time an actuated seat sensor values for each of the seat sensors is recorded. A PODS controller in contained within the seat that is used for controlling the deployment of air bags in a crash situation is then calibrated as a function of the recorded baseline seat sensor values and the actuated seat sensor values.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An air bag calibrator used for calibrating a plurality of sensors contained within a seat having a predetermined length and width, the air bag calibrator comprising: an air bladder press plate; an air bladder press cylinder; an air bladder having a first length and a first width defining a first size; a pressure sensor pneumatically coupled to said air bladder; a PODS controller contained within the seat for reading a plurality of values from each of said plurality of sensors, said PODS controller capable of deploying an air bag in crash situations as a function of said plurality of values; and a computer electrically coupled to said PODS controller, said computer capable of calibrating each of said plurality of values within said PODS controller prior to deploying said air bag. 2. The air bag calibrator of claim 1, wherein said first size is a function of the predetermined length and width of the seat. 3. The air bag calibrator of claim 1, wherein said first length is substantially similar to the length of the seat and said first width is substantially similar to the width of the seat. 4. The air bag calibrator of claim 1 further comprising a back edge bladder support closely coupled to said air bladder and coupled to the seat. 5. The air bag calibrator of claim 1, wherein said air bladder is a urethane-nylon laminate air bladder. 6. The air bag calibrator of claim 4, wherein said first length is greater than the length of the seat and said first width is greater than the width of the seat. 7. A method for calibrating each of at least one seat sensors contained within a seat using an air bag calibrator, the method comprising the steps of: loading the seat having the at least one sensor onto the air bag calibrator; recording a sensor reading from each of said at least one sensor prior to actuation; extending an air press cylinder to a first position; directing an air bladder to a target pressure; recording an actuated sensor reading from each of the at least one sensors; calibrating a PODS controller as a function of each of said sensor readings and each of said actuated sensor readings; and retracting said air press cylinder and removing the seat. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the step of directing an air bladder to a target pressure comprises the step of inflating an air bladder to a target pressure. 9. The method of claim 7, wherein the step of directing an air bladder to a target pressure comprises the step of deflating an air bladder to a target pressure. 10. The method of claim 7, wherein the steps of directing an air bladder to a target pressure and recording an actuated sensor reading from each of said at least one sensor comprises the steps of: inflating an air bladder to approach a target pressure; maintaining said target pressure for a predetermined amount of time; and recording an actuated sensor reading from each of said at least one sensor. 11. The method of claim 7, wherein the steps of directing an air bladder to a target pressure and recording an actuated sensor reading from each of said at least one sensor comprises the steps of: deflating an air bladder to approach a target pressure; maintaining said target pressure for a predetermined amount of time; and recording actuated sensor readings from each of said at least one sensor. 12. The method of claim 7, wherein the steps of directing an air bladder to a target pressure and recording an actuated sensor reading from each of said at least one sensor comprises the steps of: inflating an air bladder to approach a target pressure; and recording an actuated sensor readings from each of the at least one sensors. 13. The method of claim 7, wherein the steps of directing an air bladder to a target pressure and recording an actuated sensor reading from each of said at least one sensor comprises the steps of: deflating an air bladder to approach a target pressure; and recording an actuated sensor reading from each of said at least one sensor. 14. The method of claim 7, wherein the step of extending an air press cylinder to a first position comprises the step of extending an air press cylinder to a first position and exerting and maintaining a first force on the seat in said extended state. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the step of extending an air press cylinder to a first position and exerting and maintaining a first force on the seat in said extended state comprises the step of extending an air press cylinder to the end of its travel and exerting and maintaining approximately a 400 pound force on the seat in said extended state. 16. The method of claim 14, wherein the step of extending an air press cylinder to a first position and exerting and maintaining a first force on the seat in said extended state comprises the step of extending an air press cylinder to the end of its travel and exerting and maintaining approximately a 675 pound force at 50 psi on the seat in said extended state. 17. The method of claim 7, wherein the step of loading the seat having the at least one sensor onto the big bag calibrator comprises the steps of: loading the seat having the at least one sensor and a seat harness onto a fixture located underneath said air press cylinder such that the seat extends into an electrical contact block; and connecting a cable to said seat harness. 18. A method of applying uniform pressure to all points on a seat surface to calibrate a PODS controller located within the seat surface, the PODS controller used to measure a plurality of seat sensors located within the seat surface to control the deployment of an air bag in crash situations, the method comprising the steps of: securing a seat to an air bag calibrator such that the seat surface is coupled with an air bladder coupled to an air press cylinder, said air bladder having a first air pressure, wherein the length and width of said air bladder are each larger than the length and width of the seat surface; recording a seat sensor value for each of the plurality of seat sensors prior to actuation; extending said air press cylinder to a first position; applying a first load pressure on said air press cylinder; adjusting the air pressure within said air bladder to reach a predetermined target pressure; maintaining said predetermined target pressure for a predetermined time interval; recording an actuated seat sensor value for each of the plurality of seat sensors at said predetermined target pressure; and calibrating the PODS controller as a function of each of said seat sensor values and each of said actuated seat sensor values. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein said first air pressure is less than said predetermined target air pressure. 20. The method of claim 18, wherein said first air pressure is greater than said predetermined target air pressure. 21. The method of claim 18, wherein said predetermined time interval is at least 30 seconds. 22. The method of claim 18, wherein said predetermined time interval is 0 seconds. 