An illuminance meter is provided to simplify measuring tasks and labor associated with the process of determining the energy level of a radiation used in an exposure apparatus. A wafer-type illuminance meter has an optical sensor fabricated integrally within a dummy wafer, which is made of a thin disk so that it may be handled in a manner similar to a substrate wafer to be imprinted. The illuminance meter is retained on a wafer stage in a manner similar to the substrate wafer so as to be loaded on and unloaded off a number of exposure apparatuses to determine a level of illuminance in the vicinity of the image plane of each exposure apparatus that uses a type of radiation assigned to each exposure apparatus.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An illuminance meter which measures an energy level of a radiation illuminating a substrate being held on a substrate holder attached on a substrate stage, comprising: an instrument plate to be attached on a substrate holder attaching section of the substrate stage from which the substrate holder has been detached; and an optical sensor provided on said instrument plate for responding to said radiation. 2. An illuminance meter according to claim 1, wherein said illuminance meter is able to be interchanged with a substrate holder by a holder exchanger which is provided for the purpose of replacing a used substrate holder with another substrate holder. 3. An illuminance meter according to claim 2, wherein said illuminance meter is provided with a clamping section which couples with a holder clamping unit of said holder exchanger. 4. An illuminance meter according to claim 1, wherein said instrument plate is provided with a holding section which retains the instrument plate on the substrate stage by means of vacuum suction. 5. An illuminance meter according to claim 1, wherein said instrument plate is provided with a wireless transmitting device which externally transmits energy information related to said radiation obtained by an optical sensor. 6. An illuminance meter according to claim 1, wherein said illuminance meter is provided with a memory section which stores energy information on said radiation determined by an optical sensor. 7. An illuminance meter according to claim 1, wherein said optical sensor is capable of detecting a plurality of types of radiation having different wavelengths, and said illuminance meter is provided with a plurality of memory sections which store energy information related to said plurality of types of radiation. 8. An illuminance meter according to claim 1, wherein said illuminance meter is provided with a battery and a photo-electric converter which charges the battery. 9. An illuminance meter according to claim 1, wherein said illuminance meter is used to determine individual energy levels of exposure light emitted from a plurality of exposure apparatuses so that said individual energy levels are interchangeable among the plurality of exposure apparatuses. 10. A method for measuring an energy level of a radiation illuminating a substrate being held on a substrate holder attached on a substrate stage, comprising the steps of: detaching said substrate holder from said substrate stage and attaching an illuminance meter on a substrate holder attaching section of said substrate stage; and detecting said radiation by said illuminance meter to obtain energy information related to said radiation. 11. A method according to claim 10, wherein positioning of said illuminance meter is carried out by using a holder exchanger which is provided for the purpose of replacing a used substrate holder with another substrate holder. 12. A method according to claim 10, wherein said method further includes a step of vacuum chucking of the illuminance meter on a substrate stage. 13. A method according to claim 10, wherein said method further includes a step of wireless transmission of energy information determined. 14. A method according to claim 10, wherein said illuminance meter is capable of detecting a plurality of types of radiation having different wavelengths, and adjusts computational parameters for obtaining energy information depending on said types of radiation being measured. 15. A method according to claim 10, wherein said illuminance meter is used to determine individual energy levels of exposure light emitted from a plurality of exposure apparatuses so that said individual energy levels are interchangeable among the plurality of exposure apparatuses. 16. A method according to claim 10, wherein said method further includes a step of determining positional information with respect to a direction of emission of radiation; and a step of adjusting a position of the illuminance meter according to results of said positional information. 17. An apparatus which exposures a substrate with a radiation to project an image of a masking pattern of a mask on the substrate, comprising: a substrate stage; a substrate holder attached on said substrate stage so as to hold said substrate; and a holder exchanger which detaches said substrate holder from said substrate, and attaches an illuminance meter on a substrate holder attaching section of said substrate stage to detect said radiation. 18. A method for exposing a substrate being held on a substrate holder attached on a substrate stage with a radiation to project an image of a pattern of a mask on said substrate, comprising the steps of: detaching the substrate holder and attaching an illuminance meter which has an optical sensor responsive to said radiation on the substrate stage to measure an energy level of said radiation; obtaining energy information on said radiation by detecting said radiation with said illuminance meter: detaching said illuminance meter and replacing with said substrate being held on the substrate holder so as to attach said substrate holder on the substrate stage and to position said substrate on the substrate holder; and calibrating a sensor for measuring said radiation in accordance with the detected energy information. 19. A method for making semiconductor devices by exposing a substrate using the method of exposure according to claim 18, and producing semiconductor devices from the exposed substrate. 20. An illuminance meter which determines an energy level of a radiation radiating on a substrate held on a substrate stage, comprising: an instrument plate to be held on the substrate stage by vacuum suction; an optical sensor disposed on the instrument plate and detecting said radiation; wherein said substrate is vacuum chucked together with a substrate holder on a substrate edge; and the instrument plate is attached on said substrate holder so as to be interchangeable with said substrate. 21. An illuminance meter which determines an energy level of a radiation radiating on a substrate held on a substrate stage, comprising: an instrument plate to be held on the substrate stage by vacuum suction; an optical sensor disposed on the instrument plate and detecting said radiation; wherein said substrate is vacuum chucked together with a substrate holder on a substrate stage; and the instrument plate is attached on said substrate stage so as to be interchangeable with said substrate holder. 22. A method for determining an energy level of a radiation radiating on a substrate attached on a substrate stage, comprising the steps of: retaining an illuminance meter on the substrate stage by vacuum suction to determine an energy level of said radiation; and determining the energy level of said radiation with said illuminance meter to obtain energy information on said radiation; wherein said substrate is vacuum chucked together with a substrate holder on said substrate stage; and an instrument plate is held on said substrate holder so as to be interchangeable with said substrate. 23. A method for determining an energy level of a radiation radiating on a substrate attached on a substrate stage, comprising the steps of retaining an illuminance meter on the substrate stage by vacuum suction to determine an energy level of said radiation; and determining the energy level of said radiation with said illuminance meter to obtain energy information on said radiation; wherein said substrate is vacuum chucked together with a substrate holder on said substrate stage; and an instrument plate is held on said substrate stage so as to be interchangeable with said substrate holder. 