A reticle capturing system includes a reticle that defines a first recess extending into the reticle from a first edge of the reticle and a second recess extending into the reticle from a second edge of the reticle. The reticle capturing system also includes a first finger selectively extending into the first recess and a second finger selectively extending into the second recess. The first and second fingers may be tapered so that the reticle capturing system will be self centering. The reticle capturing system may also include a third recess defined by the reticle and a third finger selectively extending into a recess. A method for capturing a reticle includes providing a reticle that defines a recess at an edge of the reticle and inserting the finger into the recess. The method may further include inserting a second finger into a second recess.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A reticle comprising: a substrate having a first main surface opposite a second main surface, wherein at least one of the first main and second main surfaces is a pattern forming surface and wherein the first main and second main surfaces are separated by a thickness having at least one peripheral edge; and at least one recess defined by the substrate and configured to receive at least one finger, the at least one recess extending into the substrate from the at least one peripheral edge. 2. The reticle of claim 1, wherein the at least one peripheral edge comprises a first edge and an opposing second edge, wherein the at least one recess comprises a first recess defined by the substrate and a second recess defined by the substrate, and wherein the first recess extends from the first edge and the second recess extends from the second edge. 3. The reticle of claim 2, wherein the at least one recess further comprises a third recess that extends from the first edge. 4. The reticle of claim 1, wherein the at least one recess is a tapered groove that extends along the at least one peripheral edge. 5. The reticle of claim 1, wherein the at least one recess is tapered and wherein the at least one recess has a substantially circular cross section. 6. A reticle capturing system comprising: a reticle; a first recess defined by the reticle, the first recess extending into the reticle from a first edge of the reticle; a second recess defined by the reticle, the second recess extending into the reticle from a second edge of the reticle, wherein the second edge opposes the first edge; a first finger selectively extending into the first recess; and a second finger selectively extending into the second recess. 7. The reticle capturing system of claim 6, wherein the first finger is tapered and wherein the second finger is tapered. 8. The reticle capturing system of claim 6 further comprising: a third recess defined by the reticle, the third recess extending into the reticle from the first edge of the reticle; and a third finger selectively extending into the third recess. 9. The reticle capturing system of claim 8, wherein the first recess is a groove having a first groove width, the second recess is a groove having a second groove width, and the third recess is a groove having a third groove width. 10. The reticle capturing system of claim 9, wherein the first finger has a first finger width that is substantially the same as the first groove width, the second finger has a second finger width that is substantially the same as the second groove width, and the third finger has a third finger width that is substantially the same as the third groove width. 11. The reticle capturing system of claim 10, wherein the first finger, the second finger, and the third finger are tapered and wherein the first groove, the second groove, and the third groove are tapered. 12. The reticle capturing system of claim 6, further including a third finger selectively extending into the first recess. 13. The reticle capturing system of claim 6, wherein the first finger is conically tapered and the first recess is conically tapered. 14. The reticle capturing system of claim 9, wherein the first finger is conical, and wherein the first recess is conical. 15. A method for capturing a reticle comprising the steps of: providing a reticle that defines at least one recess extending into the reticle from at least one edge of the reticle wherein the at least one edge comprises a first edge and an opposing second edge, wherein the at least one recess comprises a first recess extending from the first edge, a second recess extending from a second edge, and a third recess extending from the first edge; and inserting at least one finger into the at least one recess, and wherein the step of inserting at least one finger comprises inserting a first finger into the first recess, inserting a second finger into the second recess, and inserting a third finger into the third recess. 16. A method for capturing a reticle comprising the steps of: providing a reticle that defines at least one recess extending into the reticle from at least one edge of the reticle; and inserting at least one finger into the at least one recess wherein the at least one finger is tapered. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the at least one finger is conically tapered and wherein the at least one recess is conically tapered. 18. The method of claim 16, wherein the at least one recess comprises at least one tapered groove having a groove width, and wherein the at least one finger comprises a tapered finger having a finger width that is substantially the same as the groove width. 