Disclosed is a method of inspecting a reticle defining a circuit layer pattern that is used within a corresponding semiconductor process to generate corresponding patterns on a semiconductor wafer. A test image of the reticle is provided, and the test image has a plurality of test characteristic values. A baseline image containing an expected pattern of the test image is also provided. The baseline image has a plurality of baseline characteristic values that correspond to the test characteristic values. The test characteristic values are compared to the baseline characteristic values such that a plurality of difference values are calculated for each pair of test and baseline characteristic values. Statistical information is also collected.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of inspecting a reticle defining a circuit layer pattern that is used within a corresponding semiconductor process to generate corresponding patterns on a semiconductor wafer, the method comprising: providing a test image of the reticle, the test image having a plurality of test features each having one or more measurable test characteristic values; providing a baseline image containing an expected pattern of the test image, the baseline image having a plurality of baseline features each having one or more measurable baseline characteristic values, wherein each measurable baseline characteristic value is expected to match a corresponding one of the measurable test characteristic value; comparing at least a first subset and a second subset of the test characteristic values to their corresponding measurable baseline characteristic values such that a plurality of difference values are calculated for each pair of measurable test and baseline characteristic values; and during the comparison, collecting statistical information that is determined from at least a second subset of the measurable test characteristic values or the difference values resulting from the comparison, wherein the statistical information includes a standard deviation value of the second subset of the measurable test characteristic values and a median or average value of the second subset of the measurable test characteristic values as a function of a predetermined parameter. 2. A method as recited in claim 1, wherein the statistical information further includes the second subset of measurable test characteristic values and the second subset differs from the first subset of measurable test characteristic values which are compared to corresponding measurable test characteristic values. 3. A method as recited in claim 2, wherein the statistical information further includes a parameter selected from the group consisting of a maximum value, a minimum value, and a range value of the second subset of the measurable test characteristic values. 4. A method as recited in claim 2, wherein the first subset of measurable test characteristic values are in the form of edge position values and the second subset of measurable test characteristic values are selected from the group consisting of line width values, corner rounding values, transmission values, gate line width values, contact area values, and misalignment values. 5. A method as recited in claim 2, wherein the statistical information further includes the second subset of measurable test characteristic values as a function of a predetermined parameter. 6. A method as recited in claim 5, wherein the predetermined parameter is a position on the reticle. 7. A method as recited in claim 5, wherein the predetermined parameter is a feature density value of an area on the reticle. 8. A method as recited in claim 5, wherein the predetermined parameter is the reticle's corresponding process, and the standard deviation is determined for a plurality of reticles employed in the process. 9. A method as recited in claim 1, further comprising reporting an error for a selected one of the measurable test characteristic values if the selected measurable test characteristic value and the corresponding baseline characteristic value have an associated difference value that is more than a predetermined threshold. 10. A method as recited in claim 1, wherein the statistical information further includes a parameter selected from the group consisting of a maximum value, a minimum value, and a range value of the second subset of the measurable test characteristic values. 11. A method as recited in claim 10, wherein the average, maximum, minimum, range, median, and standard deviation values are correlated with a particular region of the reticle. 12. A method as recited in claim 11, wherein the average, maximum, minimum, range, median, and standard deviation values are further correlated with a feature density value of the particular region of the reticle. 13. A method as recited in claim 10, wherein the average, maximum, minimum, range, median, and standard deviation values are correlated with a particular process associated with the reticle. 14. A method as recited in claim 1, wherein the statistical information further includes a count of at least the second subset the measurable test characteristic values. 15. A method as recited in claim 10, wherein the measurable test characteristic values are selected from the group consisting of line width values, corner rounding values, transmission values, gate line width values, contact area values, and misalignment values. 16. A method as recited in claim 1, wherein the statistical information further includes the second subset of the measurable test characteristic values as a function of a predetermined parameter. 17. A method as recited in claim 16, wherein the predetermined parameter is a position on the reticle. 18. A method as recited in claim 16, wherein the predetermined parameter is a feature density value of an area on the reticle. 19. A method as recited in claim 16, wherein the predetermined parameter is the reticle's corresponding process, and the statistical information is collected for a plurality of reticles employed in the process. 20. A method as recited in claim 9, wherein the statistical information further includes a parameter selected from the group consisting of a standard deviation value, a maximum value, a minimum value, a range value, and a median or average value of the difference values. 21. A method as recited in claim 9, wherein the statistical information further includes a count of the difference values, a standard deviation value of such difference values and a median or average value of the difference values. 22. A method as recited in claim 20, wherein the measurable test characteristic values are selected from the group consisting of line width values, corner rounding values, transmission values, gate line width values, contact area values, and misalignment values. 23. A method as recited in claim 9, wherein the statistical information further includes the difference values as a function of a predetermined parameter. 24. A method as recited in claim 23, wherein the predetermined parameter is a position on the reticle. 25. A method as recited in claim 23, wherein the predetermined parameter is a feature density value of an area on the reticle. 26. A method as recited in claim 23 wherein the predetermined parameter is the reticle's corresponding semiconductor process, and the statistical information is collected for a plurality of reticles employed in the semiconductor process. 27. A method as recited in claim 1, wherein the measurable test characteristic values are selected from the group consisting of line width values, corner rounding values, transmission values, gate line width values, contact area values, and misalignment values. 28. A method as recited in claim 9, further comprising adjusting the predetermined threshold for portions of the test image based on the collected statistical information. 29. A computer readable medium containing program instructions for inspecting a reticle defining a circuit layer pattern that is used within a corresponding semiconductor process to generate corresponding patterns on a semiconductor wafer, the computer readable medium comprising: computer readable code for providing a test image of the reticle, the test image having a plurality of test features each having one or more measurable test characteristic values; computer readable code for providing a baseline image containing an expected pattern of the test image, the baseline image having a plurality of baseline features each having one or more measurable baseline characteristic values, wherein each measurable baseline characteristic value is expected to match a corresponding one of the measurable test characteristic value; computer readable code for comparing at least a first subset and a second subset of the test characteristic values to their corresponding measurable baseline characteristic values such that a plurality of difference values are calculated for each pair of measurable test and baseline characteristic values; computer readable code for during the comparison, collecting statistical information that is determined from at least a second subset of the measurable test characteristic values or the difference values resulting from the comparison, wherein the statistical information includes a standard deviation value of the second subset of the measurable test characteristic values and a median or average value of the second subset of the measurable test characteristic values as a function of a predetermined parameter; and a computer readable medium for storing the computer readable codes. 