A component for a gas turbine engine having at least one surface, that has been treated by ultrasonic hammer peening so as to provide a region of deep compressive residual stress in the treated region.
Claims We claim: 1. A gas turbine engine component comprising one or more surfaces wherein at least one of said surfaces comprises an ultrasonic hammer peened surface and wherein a region of deep compressive residual stress caused by ultrasonic hammer peening is provided in said treated surface. 2. A gas turbine engine component as claimed in claim 1 wherein said component is a gas turbine engine aerofoil blade or vane comprising a leading edge and a trailing edge. 3. A gas turbine engine component as claimed in claim 2 wherein said leading and trailing edges comprise said hammer peened surface wherein a region of deep compressive residual stress caused by ultrasonic hammer peening is provided in at least one of said leading and trailing edges. 4. A gas turbine engine component as claimed in claim 3 wherein said aerofoil blade or vane comprises a fan blade. 5. A gas turbine engine component as claimed in claim 3 wherein said region of deep compressive residual stress extends up to 20% of the chord width on both the pressure side and suction side of the blade or vane. 6. A method of ultrasonic hammer peening a gas turbine engine component comprising the step of ultrasonic hammer peening at least one surface of said component so as to provide a region of deep residual compressive stress. 7. A method of ultrasonic hammer peening a gas turbine aerofoil blade or vane comprising the step of ultrasonic hammer peening at least one of the leading and trailing edges of said blade or vane on at least one of the suction and pressure sides thereof. 8. A method of ultrasonic hammer peening a gas turbine aerofoil blade or vane wherein both the pressure side and suction side of the blade is ultrasonic hammer peened simultaneously. 9. A method of ultrasonic hammer peening according to claim 6 wherein said ultrasonic hammer peening apparatus vibrates at a frequency greater than 20 kHz. 10. A method of ultrasonic hammer peening as claimed in claim 6 wherein the ultrasonic hammer peening apparatus operates at a power of up to 5 kW. 