Pre-strained electroactive polymers are described that improve conversion from electrical to mechanical energy. When a voltage is applied to electrodes contacting a pre-strained polymer, the polymer deflects. This deflection may be used to do mechanical work. The pre-strain improves the mechanical response of an electroactive polymer. Also described herein are actuators that include an electroactive polymer and mechanical coupling to convert deflection of the polymer into mechanical work. Further described are compliant electrodes that conform to the shape of a polymer. Methods for fabricating electromechanical devices including one or more electroactive polymers are also described.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of fabricating a transducer comprising a pre-strained polymer and one or more electrodes, the method comprising: pre-straining a first portion of a polymer to form the pre-strained polymer, wherein the polymer has an elastic modulus below 100 MPa; fixing a second portion of the pre-strained polymer to a solid member; and forming the one or more electrodes on the pre-strained polymer. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the pre-strained polymer is elastically pre-strained. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the polymer is one of a commercially available silicone elastomer, polyurethane, PVDF copolymer or adhesive elastomer. 4. The method of claim 1 further comprising spin coating a polymer mixture to produce the polymer. 5. The method of claim 4 further comprising releasing the polymer from a rigid substrate used in the spin coating. 6. The method of claim 1 further comprising texturing a surface of the polymer. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein the texturing comprises attaching a layer of stiff material to the polymer and relaxing the polymer and the stiff material. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein the forming one or more electrodes comprises spraying the one or more electrodes onto the pre-strained polymer using a mask. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein one or more electrodes are patterned photolithographically on the pre-strained polymer. 10. The method of claim 1 further comprising attaching the solid member to a portion of a second pre-strained polymer. 11. The method of claim 1 further comprising assembling the polymer and the one or more electrodes in an actuator. 12. The method of claim 1 wherein pre-straining the polymer comprises attaching a structural elastomer to the pre-strained polymer. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein the structural elastomer is patterned. 14. The method of claim 1 wherein pre-straining the polymer comprises attaching one or more stiffeners. 15. The method of claim 1 wherein the polymer is pre-strained by a factor in the range of about 1.5 times to 50 times the original area. 16. A method of fabricating a transducer comprising multiple pre-strained polymers, the method comprising: (a) pre-straining a first polymer to form a first pre-strained polymer; (b) forming one or more electrodes on the first pre-strained polymer; (c) pre-straining a second polymer to form a second pre-strained polymer; (d) forming one or more electrodes on the second pre-strained polymer; and (e) coupling the first pre-strained polymer to the second pre-strained polymer. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein pre-straining comprises stretching the polymer and fixing it to a solid member. 18. The method of claim 16 further comprising spin coating a polymer mixture to produce the polymer. 19. The method of claim 18 further comprising releasing the polymer from a rigid substrate used in the spin coating. 20. The method of claim 19 wherein releasing the pre-strained polymer from the rigid substrate comprises one of an etchant or peeling the polymer from the rigid frame. 21. The method of claim 16 further comprising repeating (c) to (e). 22. The method of claim 16 wherein coupling the first pre-strained polymer to the second pre-strained polymer comprises attaching the first pre-strained polymer to the second pre-strained polymer. 23. The method of claim 1 wherein the polymer has a maximum actuation pressure in response to electricity provided by the one or more electrodes between about 0.05 MPa and about 10 MPa. 24. The method of claim 1 wherein the polymer has a maximum actuation pressure in response to electricity provided by the one or more electrodes between about 0.3 MPa and about 3 MPa. 