A method for stopping chemical processing of a semiconductor wafer in an emergency included the steps of: 1) placing a chemical having a water concentration of about 92% or less in a tank; 2) processing a semiconductor wafer with the chemical in the process tank; 3) detecting a malfunction in the processing; 4) quick draining the chemical from the process tank; and 5) rinsing the wafer in the process tank with a rinsing material to stop chemical action. Optionally, the method may include recycling the drained chemical from a storage tank to the process tank for use in a subsequent process step. Also, a chemical processing system includes: 1) a process tank adapted to processing semiconductor wafers in a chemical having a water concentration of about 92% or less; 2) a control system adapted to detecting a malfunction in processing; 3) a drain valve adapted to quick draining the chemical in the process tank; 4) a storage tank adapted to storing the quick drained chemical; 5) a spray bar adapted to applying a rinsing material to the wafers in the process tank; and 6) a recycling mechanism adapted to returning the quick drained chemical to the process tank.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of chemical processing to prevent damage to a semiconductor wafer due to over-processing comprising the steps of: placing a chemical having a water concentration of about 92% or less in a tank; processing a semiconductor wafer with the chemical in the tank; detecting a malfunction in an automated chemical processing system; draining the chemical from the tank in response to detecting the malfunction to prevent damage to a semiconductor wafer due to over-processing with the chemical in the tank; and rinsing the wafer in the tank with a rinsing material to stop chemical action. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the water concentration comprises 51% or less. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the water concentration comprises 4% or less. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the water concentration comprises 0%. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the rinsing material comprises water. 6. The method of claim 1, additionally comprising the steps of: draining the rinsing material from the tank; again placing the chemical in the tank; and reprocessing the wafer for which chemical action was previously stopped. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of rinsing does not begin until the step of draining is completed. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein rinsing comprises at least partially filling the tank with the rinsing material. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein: the tank comprises a process tank; the step of processing a semiconductor wafer comprises placing the semiconductor wafer to be processed in the process tank with the chemical; the step of draining comprises quick draining the chemical from the process tank into a storage tank; and the method further comprises the step of recycling the drained chemical from the storage tank wherein the storage tank is adapted to store the drained chemical, to the process tank for use in a subsequent process step. 10. The method of claim 8, wherein rinsing additionally comprises applying the rinsing material to the wafer with a distribution mechanism. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the distribution mechanism comprises a spray bar. 12. The method of claim 1 wherein the malfunction is a malfunction of an automated processing robot. 13. The method of claim 1 wherein the malfunction is a malfunction of automated processing software. 14. The method of claim 1 wherein the malfunction is a malfunction of automated processing hardware. 15. The method of claim 1 wherein the malfunction is a malfunction of a power supply. 16. A method of chemical processing to prevent damage to a semiconductor wafer due to over-processing comprising the steps of: placing a chemical in a process tank; processing a semiconductor wafer with the chemical in the process tank; detecting a malfunction in an automated chemical processing system; draining the chemical from the process tank in response to detecting the malfunction; and rinsing the wafer in the process tank with a rinsing material to stop chemical action. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein draining the chemical from the tank comprises draining the chemicals to a storage tank, the method further comprising recycling the drained chemical from the storage tank to the process tank for use in a subsequent process step. 18. The method of claim 16, wherein the rinsing material comprises water. 19. The method of claim 16, additionally comprising the step of reprocessing the wafer for which chemical action was previously stopped. 20. The method of claim 16, wherein the step of rinsing does not begin until the step of quick draining is completed. 21. The method of claim 16, wherein rinsing comprises at least partially filling the tank with the rinsing material. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein rinsing further comprises applying the rinsing material to the wafer with a distribution mechanism. 23. The method of claim 22, wherein the distribution mechanism comprises a spray bar. 24. The method of claim 16 wherein the malfunction is a malfunction of an automated processing robot. 25. The method of claim 16 wherein the malfunction is a malfunction of automated processing software. 26. The method of claim 16 wherein the malfunction is a malfunction of automated processing hardware. 27. The method of claim 16 wherein the malfunction is a malfunction of a power supply. 28. The method of claim 23 wherein the malfunction is a malfunction of an automated processing robot. 29. The method of claim 23 wherein the malfunction is a malfunction of automated processing software. 30. The method of claim 23 wherein the malfunction is a malfunction of automated processing hardware. 31. The method of claim 23 wherein the malfunction is a malfunction of a power supply. 32. A chemical processing system comprising: a process tank adapted to process semiconductor wafers in a chemical having a water concentration of about 92% or less; a detector associated with the chemical processing system; a drain valve adapted to drain the chemical in the process tank in response to a malfunction detected in the chemical processing system by the detector; and a distribution mechanism adapted to apply a rinsing material to the wafers in the process tank. 33. The system of claim 32, wherein the rinsing material comprises water. 34. The system of claim 32, further comprising: a storage tank adapted to store the quick drained chemical; and a recycling mechanism adapted to returning the quick drained chemical to the process tank. 