A system and method for case-packing articles utilizing an infeed conveyor and spaced apart outfeed conveyors positioned at opposite sides of the infeed conveyor and a robotic operating arm arranged for transverse operation with respect to the longitudinal movement of each of the conveyors.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for conveying and alternatively transferring an object from an infeed conveyor to a selected one of a pair of outfeed conveyors, said system including: an infeed conveyor and a pair of outfeed conveyors; a workstation positioned in operating alignment with said infeed conveyor and arranged to receive objects conveyed thereto; each output conveyor of said pair of outfeed conveyors being located in operating alignment with said workstation and arranged to alternatively receive objects therefrom; a two-axis robot including an operating arm arranged to remove said object from said infeed conveyor at said workstation and to transfer said object to a pre-selected one of said pair of said outfeed conveyors; and control means adapted to control operation of said robot to effect alternative transfer of said object from said infeed conveyor to said pre-selected outfeed conveyor. 2. The system according to claim 1, wherein each of said outfeed conveyors are disposed at opposite sides at said infeed conveyor and in substantial parallel operating relationship with said infeed conveyor. 3. The system according to claim 2, wherein said robot operating arm is positioned to operate in a transverse plane intersecting the parallel longitudinal operating planes of each of said conveyors. 4. The system according to claim 3, wherein said robot operating arm includes an end effector for effecting pick up of the object from said infeed conveyor at said workstation and transferring said object from said workstation to a pre-selected outfeed conveyor. 5. The system of claim 4, wherein the end effector is arranged to operatively support at least one suction cup for effecting pick up and releasable retention of said object. 6. The system according to claim 4, wherein said robot operating arm is adapted to operate continuously and to alternatively locate its end effector from a first operating position effecting pick up of an object to a second operating position for transferring said object to a first of said pre-selected outfeed conveyors, and thereafter to be moved to effect pickup of an object from said infeed conveyor and transferring said object to the second of said pre-selected outfeed conveyors. 7. The system according to claim 1, wherein said control means comprises a programmable logic controller. 8. A method for alternatively transferring objects from a source to a work station, said method comprising the steps of: providing an infeed conveyor and a pair of outfeed conveyors; providing a two-axis robot having a continuously operating arm arranged to pickup an object from said infeed conveyor and transfer said object to one of said outfeed conveyors; controlling said arm to effect pickup of said object at said infeed conveyor; moving said operating arm from said infeed conveyor to said one of said outfeed conveyors; controlling said arm to release and deposit said object on said outfeed conveyor; returning said operating arm to said infeed conveyor; controlling said arm to effect pickup of a second object at said infeed conveyor; moving said continuously operating arm from said infeed conveyor to said other of said outfeed conveyors; controlling said arm to release and deposit said second object on said other of said outfeed conveyors; and returning said operating arm to said infeed conveyor for subsequent pickup and transfer of additional objects to a selected one of said outfeed conveyors. 9. The system according to claim 4, wherein an open-top box is disposed on at least one outfeed conveyor and said robot operating arm is adapted to operate continuously and to alternatively locate its end effector from a first operating position effecting pickup of an object to a second operating position for transferring said object to the open-top box on the first of said pre-selected outfeed conveyors, said robot operating arm continuing to alternatively locate its end effector from said first operating position for pick up of an object to said second operating position for transfer of said object to the open-top box until the entire box is filled. 