The pickup and insert tool is used during the automated assembly of small motors and other products that require tie bolts, screws, and similar fasteners. Different length tie bolts are handled without adjusting the tool. The fastener is picked up from a holder and held between a pair of spring loaded jaws. The motion to insert the tie bolt is provided by a movable rod which also accommodates the different lengths of the bolts.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A tool for picking up and inserting different length bolts, screws, and similar fasteners comprising: a tool housing; a sliding push rod in said housing which has a socket at its lower end to accept the head of the fastener; a pair of spring loaded jaws; and means for mounting said jaws on said housing to open and close and for limited swinging movement so as to pick up and hold the fastener between said jaws and to insert the fastener into an assembly in response to movement of said sliding push rod toward and between said jaws, said mounting means including a parallelogram linkage to which said jaws are pivoted. 2. A tool of claim 1 wherein said housing has a gripper section whereby the tool is adapted to be picked up by an assembly machine gripper, and wherein said sliding rod is adapted to be moved by an actuator on said gripper. 3. A tool for picking up and inserting different length tie bolts comprising: a tool housing having a gripper drum and a pair of depending arms; a sliding push rod/wrench at the center of said gripper drum which extends into said housing and has a socket at its lower end to accept the head of the tie bolt; and a pair of spring loaded jaws pivoted to parallelogram linkages which are in turn pivoted to guide bars attached to said housing arms, said jaws being mounted to open and close and to have limited swinging movement so as to pick up and hold the tie bolt between said jaws and to insert the tie bolt into an assembly in response to movement of said sliding push rod downward between said jaws to push the tie bolt down through said jaws. 4. The tool of claim 3 wherein said jaws have opposing beveled surfaces at both ends and have opposing V-shaped grooves to receive the shank of the tie bolt, and wherein the length of said sliding push rod and the length of said housing depend on the longest of the different length tie bolts to be picked up and inserted. 5. A system for automatically picking up and inserting different length bolts, screws, and similar fasteners comprising the combination of: a pickup and insert tool; a holder for the fasteners; and gripper means having a retractable actuator; said tool having a housing, a sliding push rod in said housing which has a socket at its lower end to receive the head of the fastener, a pair of spring loaded jaws, and means including parallelogram linkages to which said jaws are pivoted for mounting said jaws on said housing to open and close and for limited swinging movement; said tool further having a gripper section by which the tool may be picked up and placed over said holder; said gripper means moving said tool vertically downward to pick up and hold the fastener between said jaws, and said actuator then moving said sliding push rod toward and between said jaws to insert the fastener into an assembly. 6. The system of claim 5 wherein said jaws have beveled surfaces at both ends and have opposing V-shaped grooves to receive the shank of the fastener. 7. The system of claim 6 wherein the length of said housing and sliding push rod govern the longest fastener that can be picked up and inserted. 