A drillhole centerline determining interposer having a central cavity enables a robot to probe the interposer to learn the location and orientation of the desired drillhole. The interposer is a mushroom shaped device with a planar head and a stem dimensioned to fit snugly in the hole to be drilled. The interposer, in addition to the planar head from which the perpendicular can be calculated through multiple probes, has a central pocket concentric to the interposer stem. The method of using the drillhole centerline determining interposer is to place a number of such interposers manually in position in holes in a master part located in the work envelope of the robot. The robot operator prepositions the probe at an initial position facing the cavity of the interposer for a drillhole locating sequence for the related drillhole. In sequence, the robot moves the probe from the initial position sufficient to clear the edge of the cavity and by multiple probes determines the plane of the interposer surface platform. The robot then adjusts the yaw and pitch of the probe to orient the probe orthogonal to the platform plane (a vector parallel to the desired drillhole centerline axis). The robot, with orientation vector stored, now locates the XYZ coordinates of the drillhole by cavity probing actions determining the epicenter of the pocket. With orientation vector (pitch and yaw) known, and with coordinates (XYZ) known, the drillhole is determined.
Claims Having thus described my invention, what I claim as new, and desire to secure by Letters Patent is: 1. A drillhole centerline determining interposer, for use in robot probe locating and orienting of drillhole axes with respect to the coordinates of a master part, comprising: (a) a planarization platform having a continuous platform surface defining a platform plane, with a central physical feature with a characteristic shape having an included point derivable from the characteristic shape; and (b) mounting means to affix said planarization platform to the master part with said planarization platform surface orthogonal to a desired drillhole axis and with the included point lying on the drillhole axis. 2. The drillhole centerline determining interposer according to claim 1, in which the physical feature is a cavity. 3. The drillhole centerline determining interposer according to claim 1 in which said mounting means is a pin affixed normal to said planarization platform, in which the central physical feature is circular in sections parallel to the platform surface with all section centers on the drillhole axis and the axis of the pin on the drillhole axis. 4. The drillhole centerline determining interposer according to claim 3, further comprising compliant means on the contact surface opposite said planarization platform. 5. The drillhole centerline determining interposer to claim 3, in which the central physical feature is a conical cavity. 6. The drillhole centerline determining interposer according to claim 5, in which said conical cavity is larger below the platform surface than at the platform surface. 7. The drillhole centerline determining interposer according to claim 1, further comprising means for sensing proximity of interposer and probe. 8. The drillhole centerline determining interposer according to claim 7, in which said proximity sensing means is contained in the interposer. 9. The drillhole centerline determining interposer according to claim 8, in which said proximity sensing means comprises force sensors in the interposer. 10. The drillhole centerline determining interposer according to claim 1, further comprising means for sensing contact between interposer and probe. 11. The drillhole centerline determining interposer according to claim 10, in which said contact sensing means is electrical contact sensing. 12. The drillhole centerline determining interposer according to claim 10, in which said contact sensing means is contained in the probe. 13. The drillhole centerline determining interposer according to claim 12, in which said contact sensing means comprises force sensors in the probe. 14. The method of teaching a probe-trainable drill robot coordinates corresponding to a part, comprising the following steps: positioning in the work envelope of a drill robot a master part with one or more centerline determining interposers, affixed by mounting means, each interposer having a planarization platform having a planarization surface orthogonal to the related drillhole centerline, and having a central physical feature coaxial with the axis of the drillhole; prepositioning the robot probe in an initial position above the central physical feature of a drillhole centerline determining interposer; determining the plane of the surface of said drillhole centerline determining interposer; positioning the probe to an orientation vector orthogonal to the plane of said drillhole centerline determining interposer, said vector being parallel to the as yet undetermined desired drillhole centerline; moving the probe to a point related to said central physical feature; examining said central physical feature to find the epicenter; calculating drill coordinates for the drillhole centerline parallel to the orientation vector passing through the epicenter. 15. The method of claim 14, further comprising the additional step of moving the probe along the drillhole centerline axis until the point of the probe contacts the central physical feature surface of the drillhole centerline determining interposer and calculating the scribe crosspoint on the surface of the master part, whereby both drillhole centerline and scribe crosspoint on the surface of the master part are determined. 16. The method of teaching a probe-trainable drill robot coordinates corresponding to a part, comprising the following steps: positioning in the work envelope of a drill robot a master part with one or more centerline determining interposers, affixed by mounting means, each interposer having a planarization platform having a planarization surface orthogonal to the related drillhole centerline, and having a central physical feature coaxial with the axis of the drillhole; prepositioning the robot probe in an initial position above the central physical feature of a drillhole centerline determining interposer; determining the plane of the surface of said drillhole centerline determining interposer; positioning the probe to an orientation vector orthogonal to the plane of said drillhole centerline determining interposer, said vector being parallel to the as yet undetermined desired drillhole centerline; moving the probe to a point related to said central physical feature; examining said central physical feature to find the epicenter; calculating drill coordinates for the drillhole centerline parallel to the orientation vector passing through the epicenter; in which the central physical feature is a cavity having a rim, and examining the cavity to find the cavity epicenter comprises probing the rim of the cavity to determine the cavity configuration, and calculating from the cavity configuration its epicenter. 17. The method of teaching a probe-trainable drill robot coordinates corresponding to a part, according to claim 16, comprising multiple iterations of probing actions to increase accuracy. 18. The method of teaching a probe-trainable drill robot coordinates corresponding to a part, according to claim 17, in which the probe is a drill bit. 19. The method of teaching a probe-trainable drill robot coordinates corresponding to a part, according to claim 16, in which the probe is a drill bit. 20. The method of teaching a probe-trainable drill robot coordinates corresponding to a part, comprising the following steps: positioning in the work envelope of a drill robot a master part with one or more centerline determining interposers, affixed by mounting means, each interposer having a planarization platform having a planarization surface orthogonal to the related drillhole centerline, and having a central physical feature coaxial with the axis of the drillhole; prepositioning the robot probe in an initial position above the central physical feature of a drillhole centerline determining interposer; determining the plane of the surface of said drillhole centerline determining interposer; positioning the probe to an orientation vector orthogonal to the plane of said drillhole centerline determining interposer, said vestor being parallel to the as yet undetermined desired drillhole centerline; moving the probe to a point related to said central physical feature; examining said central physical feature to find the epicenter; calculating drill coordinates for the drillhole centerline parallel to the orientation vector passing through the epicenter; in which the central physical feature is a cavity having a rim, and examining the cavity to find the cavity epicenter comprises probing the rim of the cavity to determine the cavity configuration, and calculating from the cavity configuration its epicenter; in which the cavity cross-section is circular and examining the cavity comprises: moving said probe sideways along a chord selected by the computer until the probe contacts the lip of the cavity; returning the probe along the chord until the probe locates the opposite lip of the cavity at the other end of the chord; returning the probe to the midpoint of the chord whose midpoint lies on a diameter of the circle formed by the lip of said cavity, said diameter being orthogonal to the chord; moving the probe along the diameter until the probe contacts one lip of the cavity; returning the probe along the diameter until the probe locates the opposite lip of the cavity; returning the probe to the midpoint of the diameter which is the point where the drillhole centerline axis intersects the plane of the drillhole centerline determining interposer. 21. The method of teaching a probe-trainable drill robot coordinates corresponding to a part, according to claim 20, comprising multiple iterations of probing actions to increase accuracy. 22. The method of teaching a probe-trainable drill robot coordinates corresponding to a part, according to claim 21, in which the probe is a drill bit. 23. The method of teaching a probe-trainable drill robot coordinates corresponding to a part, according to claim 20, in which the probe is a drill bit. 24. The method of calibrating a probe-trainable robot with respect to a part, comprising the following steps: positioning in the work envelope of the robot a part with a plurality of centerline determining interposers, affixed by mounting means, each having a planarization platform with a planarization surface and a central physical feature coaxial to an axis orthogonal to the planarization surface, the interposers having been positioned in known relationship to the part; examining by multiple probing the planarization platforms and the central physical features of said interposers to determine information related to coordinates of location and orientation and calculating coordinates for each of said interposers for said plurality interposers; and calculating the coordinates of the part from said coordinates of location and orientation of said interposers. 