A robot system comprising readily interchangeable hands. Usually the system will be controlled by a computer which will communicate with servo motors in each hand through an analog pulse width generator on the robot. The computer controller will also be able to utilize robot-associated circuitry to obtain information directly from each hand.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. In a robot system comprising a robot arm permanently attached to said system, and (a) computer control means to control said robot arm and wherein (b) said robot arm is powered responsive to said control means and (c) manipulator means attached to said permanent robot arm, the improvement wherein said robot system comprises means for automatically attaching and detaching said manipulator means from said arm under computer controlled action of said robot system wherein said computer means comprises means to send data to said manipulator means through said robot, including data for operation of at least one control motor on said manipulator means, and to receive output data from manipulator means. 2. Robot system as defined in claim 1 wherein said robot system comprises a microprocessor for receiving and sending signals received between said manipulator and said computer control means. 3. A robot system as defined in claim 2 wherein said microprocessor is utilized in conjunction with a programmable counter means for generating analog pulsewidth for transmission to said manipulator means. 4. Robot system as defined in claim 1 wherein said microprocessor and an analog pulse width generator form means to control the motion of said robot arm and means to control a servo motor in said manipulator means. 5. A robot system as defined in claim 1 wherein said robot arm comprises electrical and mechanical connecting means to receive and release a plurality of different manipulator components. 6. A manipulator having means thereon to automatically connect and disconnect to an arm of a robot, said manipulator means bearing at least one control motor and also bearing circuitry forming means to operate said motor and means for achieving at least one of the following functions: (a) identifying said manipulator means; (b) providing a signal from a transducer which signal is convertible into a computer-readable digital signal; (c) identifying a condition of said manipulator through a servo input signal, operable through an on-off switch means which is, in turn, adapted for operation from a control computer. 7. A manipulator as defined in claim 6 wherein at least one central motor is a servo motor and comprising means to provide an analog signal to operate said motor. 