Disclosed is an electro-optical and microcomputer based method and apparatus for automatically guiding tractors and other farm machinery for the purpose of automatic crop planting, tending and harvesting. Also disclosed are means for automatic picking, excavating and other off-road uses in relatively confined areas.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of automatically controlling the operation of tractors, combines and other agricultural machinery in a field comprising the steps of: sensing a characteristic of the field adjacent the machinery with a first electro-optical sensor located on the machinery; determining a desired steering, throttle position, or other control function of the machinery from the sensed characteristic using a microcomputer located on the machinery, the microcomputer being programmed for terrain, field size, crop type, or other appropriate variable of the field; determining the position of the machinery in the field relative to a reference point using a second electro-optical sensor and a target, one of the sensor and target being located at the reference point and the other on the machinery; and automatically actuating the steering, throttle, or other control function to guide the machinery in a desired manner of operation. 2. A method according to claim 1 wherein the second sensor is located at the reference point. 3. A method according to claim 2 and further including the sensing of the field adjacent the machinery by the second sensor. 4. A method according to claim 1 wherein the first sensor senses the gray level or color image of the field in order to differentiate the characteristic of the field. 5. A method according to claim 1 wherein the sensing step further includes the scanning of an image produced by the first sensor on a matrix photo diode array. 6. A method according to claim 1 wherein the sensing step further includes the projecting of a light source onto a portion of the field to be sensed. 7. A method according to claim 6 wherein a strip of light is projected. 8. A method according to claim 1 wherein the portion of the field sensed is obliquely sidewards of the machinery and the characteristic of the field sensed is crop images. 9. A method according to claim 1 wherein a plurality of first sensors is used in sensing a characteristic of the field. 10. A method according to claim 5 and further including the step of amplifying the light received by the first sensor during low-light operations. 11. An apparatus for automatically controlling the operation of tractors, combines, and other agricultural machinery in a field comprising; a first electro-optical sensor means for sensing a characteristic of the field adjacent the machinery, said first sensor means being located on the machinery; a microcomputer means mounted on the machinery for determining a desired steering, throttle position, or other control function of the machinery based on the characteristic of the field sensed by said first sensor means, said microcomputer means being preprogrammed with appropriate field variables; a second electro-optical sensor means for determining the position of the machinery in the field, said second sensor means including an electro-optical sensor, a target, and a reference with one of said sensor and said target located at said reference and the other on the machinery; and an actuating means for automatically actuating the steering, throttle, or other control function to guide the machinery in a desired manner of operation based on the desired control function determined by said microcomputer and the position of the machinery in the field. 12. An apparatus for controlling agricultural machinery as claimed in claim 11 and further including a light source mounted on the machinery for providing an illuminating light on the field adjacent the machinery. 