A tool holder has compliance features that allow a hole to be drilled at high tolerances by a remote controlled control arm. The holes are drilled in a workpiece that has a template secured over it with guide holes for positioning the holes to be drilled. A self-feeding drill of the type that will simultaneously rotate and advance a drill bit is mounted in a support. A sleeve is carried at the forward end of the support for enclosing the drill bit. An index carriage moves the support forwardly into the guide hole after the control arm has substantially aligned the sleeve with the guide hole. Compliance mechanisms in the support allow the entire drill, drill bit and sleeve to move as a unit a limited amount parallel to and angularly with respect to the template and the indexing carriage, to allow advancement of the sleeve into the guide hole even though there may have been initial misalignment. The compliance mechanisms preferably include an inner guide member mounted within an outer guide member. Radially oriented, spring-biased pins retain the outer guide member. Resilient disks mounted in mating cavities retain and allow compliance of the inner guide member.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus for drilling holes in a workpiece using a self-feeding drill of the type that will simultaneously rotate and advance a drill bit from a retracted position to an extended position, the workpiece having a template secured to it that has guide holes, the apparatus comprising in combination: an inner guide member having an axial aperture for rigidly carrying a drill for movement therewith, the inner guide member having an annular outer surface that is convex in cross-section; an outer guide member having an annular inner surface that is concave in cross-section for slidingly receiving the outer surface of the inner guide member, the outer guide member having an annular outer surface, the outer guide member having a plurality of cavities in its inner surface; a plurality of resilient disks secured to the outer surface of the inner guide member and dimensioned for close reception in the cavities; a frame having an aperture for receiving and carrying the outer guide member; a plurality of radially oriented and inwardly biased pins secured to the frame and bearing against the outer surface of the outer guide member; a sleeve rigidly secured to the forward side of the inner guide member and adapted to receive the drill bit; a carriage having connection means for securing to a control arm means for aligning the sleeve with a selected guide hole, the carriage carrying the frame by a linear bearing; and power means for selectively moving the frame forwardly with respect to the carriage to insert the sleeve into one of the guide holes, the disks allowing a limited amount of angular movement of the sleeve with respect to the carriage, and the pins allowing a limited amount of parallel movement of the sleeve with respect to the carriage to allow insertion even though the control arm means may have slidingly misaligned the sleeve. 