Joining of thermoplastic parts (2, 4) of indeterminate thickness to each other is effected by application of heat to selected surface areas thereof (42, 44) by intense focussed infrared heat lines produced by parabolic-elliptical-reflection heat sources (22, 24) displaced by a reciprocating linear actuator (26), removable by a robotic controller (36) after completion of heating to enable immediate pushing together of the parts by further actuators (32, 34) for bonding.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of bonding plastic materials reinforced with a reinforcing agent comprising the steps of: (a) providing selected bonding zones on the surfaces of the materials to be jointed essentially free of the reinforcing agent; (b) briefly and repeatedly applying points of focussed heat energy to surfaces of the materials in said designated bonding zones thereof to thereby effectively apply selected and limited areas of bonding zones with heat energy; (c) continuously displacing the points of focussed heat energy through the bonding areas in an intermittent, repeated motion; (d) terminating the heat energy application and immediately bringing the heated areas into bonding contact before substantial cooling thereof, the said steps being controlled to produce at said heated surfaces temperatures in excess of respective melt fusion temperatures of said plastic materials while areas away from said designated bonding zones remain substantially below such temperatures and effecting the bonding before the surface temperatures at said zones decline to below melt fusion temperatures. 2. A method in accordance with claim 1 wherein said bonding zones are enriched with additional plastic material essentially free of reinforcing agent. 3. A method in accordance with claim 1 wherein said bonding zones are overlaid by resin tape. 4. A method in accordance with claim 3 wherein the resin tape is preheated prior to placement at a bonding zone. 5. A method in accordance with claim 1 wherein said focussed heat energy is produced by sources of focussed radiant heat. 6. A method in accordance with claim 5 wherein said sources of focused radiant heat include parabolic elliptical reflectors which concentrate heat at one or more focal points wherein said focal points may be adjusted to coincide with the surface of the material to be heated. 7. A method in accordance with claim 6 wherein said sources of focused heat energy comprise reciprocally oscillating focussed radiant heat lamps which are oscillated back and forth across the said respective designated bonding zones at preselected velocities with a preselected periodicity. 8. A method in accordance with claim 7 wherein the lateral displacement of the reciprocably operable radiant heat lamps can be individually controlled. 9. A method in accordance with claim 6 wherein the temperature of said radiant heat sources at the respective focal points can be independently controlled. 10. A method in accordance with claim 6 wherein said sources of focussed radiant heat can be reciprocated in directions essentially oblique to each other. 11. A method in accordance with claim 1 in which said moving focussed points of heat energy can be moved along a closed loop continuous path. 12. A method in accordance with claim 1 in which the said path of moving focussed points of heat energy can be controlled to trace out a preselected geometric path. 13. A method in accordance with claim 12 in which the path of said moving focussed points of heat energy can be controlled to trace out a bonding zone on a planar surface. 14. A method in accordance with claim 12 wherein the said bonding zones are on non-planar surfaces. 15. A method in accordance with claim 1 and further comprising the step of, continuously monitoring the temperature of the bonding zones to establish substantial identity of temperatures at the surfaces to be joined, as well as rise thereof above a threshold. 16. Method in accordance with claim 15 and further comprising modification of at least one of the heating and processing steps in response to the temperature monitoring. 17. The method as specified in claim 1 wherein said points of focussed heat energy are a series of points which produce at least one line of focussed heat energy. 18. In the method of bonding parts of plastic, the improvements comprising the steps of: (a) effecting a temperature rise at each of select surface areas of the parts to be joined by cyclic application of intense, focussed, infrared radiant heat to surfaces of the parts in said selected areas to establish a stepped rise of temperature essentially limited to said selected surface areas, with each of several steps comprising a temperature rise portion and a temperature decline portion until melt fusion temperature is achieved; and (b) then terminating the heat application and immediately bringing the parts together to place said surface areas thereof into bonding contact before substantial cooling thereof. 19. A method in accordance with claim 18 wherein said focussed radiant heat is produced by parabolic elliptical reflector heat lamps, each of which concentrates heat at focussed points at the part surfaces. 20. A method for bonding two thermoplastic objects comprising the steps of: moving a focused beam of infrared heat relative to a first thermoplastic object to impinge said beam on said first object repeatedly upon the surface points lying within a first bonding area of said first object to bring the surface of said first bonding area to a melt fusion point; simultaneously with said first mentioned moving, moving a focused beam of infrared heat relative to a second thermoplastic object to impinge said beam on said second object repeatedly upon the surface points lying within a second bonding area of said second object to bring the surface of said second bonding area to a melt fusion point; and subsequent to the bringing of the surfaces of said first and second bonding areas to a melt fusion point, immediately bringing said first and second bonding areas into physical contact to thereby bond said first and second objects together along said first and second bonding areas. 21. The method as specified in claim 20 wherein: said moving of said focused beams relative to said objects is a reciprocal motion. 22. The method as specified in claim 20 wherein: said moving of said focused beams relative to said objects is along an endless path. 