An actuator module for inducing the relative motion of robot members joined in a robot joint includes a Ferguson epicyclic gear train, integral motor and integrated control means. The gear train comprises a plurality of base gears connected to the robot members and a plurality of planet gear carriers, each planet gear carrier having a plurality of planet gears rotatably mounted therein. A motor integrated with certain gear train components induces the rotation of the planet gear carriers about or within the base gears. Because of the Ferguson paradox, this induces the motion of base gears connected to one robot member relative to those connected to the other robot member, which in turn causes the relative motion of the robot members. The actuator module can be configured as dual substantially symmetric systems and may comprise multiple stages of epicyclic gearing.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An actuator module for inducing motion of a first robot member relative to a second robot member, the actuator module comprising a Ferguson epicyclic gear train, an integral motor and integrated control means, the gear train comprising: a first sun gear connected to the first robot member and disposed substantially perpendicular to a central rotational axis; a second sun gear connected to the second robot member and disposed substantially perpendicular to the central rotational axis; a planet gear carrier disposed substantially perpendicular the central rotational axis; a plurality of planet gears rotatably mounted in the planet gear carrier and adapted to rotate outside the sun gears and to mesh with the sun gears; a central shaft about which the planet gear carrier rotates, the central shaft being substantially aligned with the central rotational axis. 2. The actuator module of claim 1, the motor comprising a motor stator connected to the second sun gear and motor rotor connected to the planet gear carrier and disposed adjacent the motor carrier. 3. The actuator module of claim 2, the motor stator comprising a plurality of magnets and the motor rotor comprising an armature. 4. The actuator module of claim 2, the motor rotor comprising a plurality of magnets and the motor stator comprising an armature. 5. An actuator module for inducing linear motion of a first robot member relative to a second robot member along a central rotational axis, the actuator module comprising a Ferguson epicyclic gear train, an integral motor and integrated control means, the gear train comprising: a first base gear connected to the first robot member and disposed substantially perpendicular to the central rotational axis; a second base gear disposed substantially perpendicular to the central rotational axis; a planet gear carrier disposed substantially perpendicular the central rotational axis; a plurality of planet gears rotatably mounted in the planet gear carrier and adapted to mesh with the first and second base gears; a central shaft about which the planet gear carrier rotates, the central shaft being substantially aligned with the central rotational axis. 6. The actuator module of claim 5, the central shaft being connected to one of the base gears and being adapted to mesh with a screw means, the screw means being connected to the second robot member and being adapted to advance the second robot member along the central rotational axis relative to the first robot member as the central shaft rotates about the screw means. 7. An actuator module for inducing motion of a first robot member relative to a second robot member, the actuator module comprising a Ferguson epicyclic gear train, at least two integral motors and control means, the gear train comprising: a first base gear connected to the first robot member and disposed substantially perpendicular to the central rotational axis; a second base gear disposed substantially perpendicular to the central rotational axis; a planet gear carrier disposed substantially perpendicular the central rotational axis; a plurality of planet gears rotatably mounted in the planet gear carrier and adapted to mesh with the first and second base gears; a central shaft about which the planet gear carrier rotates, the central shaft being substantially aligned with the central rotational axis. 8. The actuator module of claim 7, wherein the central shaft is rigidly connected to one of the robot members. 