The disclosure provides a method for use in a robotic system for identifying fasteners used in aircraft and other applications. The fasteners include rivets (with no slots), bolts (with two slots) and screws with one or two slots. The method accepts as input a family of related signals which are known to contain symmetry. By computing the mean variance of the zero-meaned cross-correlation signals, the method automatically selects those signals which contain pertinent information while disregarding those signals which do not. The accepted signals are then used to create a composite reference signal which can be used to determine the particular fastener type.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for identifying an unknown one of a plurality of types of fasteners, the video images of known fasteners of said types having been obtained by means of a robotic scanning system to provide a known family of related symmetric signals, the data resulting from said scanning having been stored in a computer, said method comprising the steps of: scanning said unknown fastener in concentric circles with said robotic imaging system to provide a video image of said unknown fastener, said video image comprising a family of signals representing the intensity profiles from said concentric circles centered on the center of the image of the unknown fastener; storing said family of signals in said computer; computing the cross correlation of each intensity profile of the scanned unknown fastener with stored symmetric signals representing said known family of signals; and for each of said cross-correlations: a. computing the root mean squared power signal of each cross-correlation (the power of said cross-correlations); b. determining the maximum value among said powers; c. selecting all the cross-correlations whose power is equal to or greater than 50% of the maximum power; d. using said selected cross-correlations, computing the average correlation profile indicating the presence of symmetry, and then computing the power of said average correlation profile; e. computing the ratios relating the powers of said average correlation profiles for each of the expected signals; and f. comparing the computed ratios to indicate which of the expected known symmetric signals is present in the data being compared. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said fasteners have 2 slots, no slots or 1 slot, and wherein the average power for each of the three cross-correlations is determined by the presence, absence and the number of said slots. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the video image of said fasteners is obtained and used to derive the intensity profiles of a plurality of concentric circles, said circles intercepting said slots, if present. 