Access time is improved in a automated library system having sequentially stored data on a recording tape medium. A multiplicity of copies of the data is stored on different tape cartridges. The copies and the original are stored in different areas of the library. Each data segment stored on the tape media copy is stored in different areas of the media length from the original. The multiple copies are created and deleted independent of any user control. The usage of the original and any copies determine the number of copies and their residence times. The library manager selects the tape cartridge that can be retrieved in the shortest response time using the location of the original and the copies, the location on each cartridge of the data requested, the drive and library robot picker availability and the respective queues.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. In a library data storage system including a plurality of unit cartridges containing storage media stored in a library unit storage subsystem, a picker means for retrieving the unit cartridges from the storage subsystem, a recorder/reproducer means for at least retrieving data from the storage media of the unit cartridges, and a managing controller for managing the data stored on the media in the unit cartridges in the storage system, the improvement comprising: a multiple virtual cartridge controller (MVCC) for creating, managing and deleting multiple copies of data of each unit cartridge; an administrator under control of said MVCC to select whether one or more copies of the data in one unit cartridge are to be automatically copied at any selected data end, and to select whether one or more duplicated copies or data shifted copies are to be made; a log data accumulator under control of said MVCC for maintaining a use pattern indication criteria of each copy of the data stored on the media in the plurality of unit cartridges; a unit cartridge catalog under control of said MVCC for maintaining a listing of all data and unit cartridges stored in the library storage subsystem; and a logic function under control of said MVCC for receiving a request for data from the managing controller for selecting the unit cartridges from which the data is retrieved in the shortest period of time using the storage location of each unit cartridge, recorder/reproducer means availability, picker means location and availability, and any queues already in place for the data requested. 2. In a library data storage system as defined in claim 1 wherein said administrator selects the amount of data shift on the media copies for data shifted copies and wherein said logic function also uses the position of the data as a result of the amount of data shift on the media copies in order to determine the shortest retrieval time for the requested data. 3. In a library data storage system as defined in claim 1 wherein said administrator selects the residence time for the duplicated copies and deletes the copies at the end of the selected residence time. 4. In a library data storage system as defined in claim 3 wherein said MVCC overrides the deletion of the copies according to the use pattern indication criteria collected by the use log accumulator. 5. A data storage system comprising: a library unit storage subsystem; a plurality of unit cartridges containing storage media stored in said library unit storage subsystem; a picker means for retrieving the unit cartridges from the storage subsystem; a recorder/reproducer means for at least retrieving data from the unit cartridges; a managing controller for managing the data stored in the storage system; a multiple virtual cartridge controller (MVCC) for creating, managing and deleting multiple copies of data of each unit cartridge; an administrator under control of said MVCC to select whether one or more copies of the data in one unit cartridge are to be automatically copied at any selected data end, and to select whether one or more duplicated copies or data shifted copies are to be made; a log data accumulator under control of said MVCC for maintaining a use pattern indication criteria of each copy of the data stored on the media in the plurality of unit cartridges; a unit cartridge catalog under control of said MVCC for maintaining a listing of all data and unit cartridges stored in the library storage subsystem; and a logic function under control of said MVCC for receiving a request for data from the managing controller for selecting the unit cartridges from which the data is retrieved in the shortest period of time using the storage location of each unit cartridge, drive means availability, picker means location and availability, and any queues already in place for the data requested. 6. A data storage system as defined in claim 5 wherein said administrator selects the amount of data shift on the media copies for data shifted copies and wherein said logic function also uses the position of the data as a result of the amount of data shift on the media copies in order to determine the shortest retrieval time for the requested data. 7. A data storage system as defined in claim 5 wherein said administrator selects the residence time for the duplicated copies and deletes the copies at the end of the selected residence time. 8. In a library data storage system as defined in claim 7 wherein said MVCC overrides the deletion of the copies according to the use pattern indication criteria collected by the use log accumulator. 9. A data processing system comprising: at least one host central processor; at least one control unit connected to receive commands from said at least one host processor and to transmit data to at least one of said host processors; a library unit storage subsystem connected to at least one control unit; a plurality of unit cartridges containing media storage stored in said library unit storage subsystem; a picker means for retrieving the unit cartridges from the storage subsystem; a recorder/reproducer means for at least retrieving data from the media in said unit cartridges; a managing controller for managing the data stored on the media in the unit cartridges in the storage system; a multiple virtual cartridge controller (MVCC) for creating, managing and deleting multiple copies of data in each unit cartridge; an administrator under control of said MVCC to select whether one or more copies of the data on the media in one unit cartridge are to be automatically copied at any selected data end, and to select whether one or more duplicated copies or data shifted copies are to be made; a log data accumulator under control of said MVCC for maintaining a use pattern indication criteria of each copy of the data stored on the media in the plurality of unit cartridges; a unit cartridge catalog under control of said MVCC for maintaining a listing of all data and unit cartridges stored in the library storage subsystem; and a logic function under control of said MVCC for receiving a request for data from the managing controller for selecting the unit cartridges from which the data is retrieved in the shortest period of time using the storage location of each unit cartridge, recorder/reproducer means availability, picker means location and availability, and any queues already in place for the data requested; said library controller transmitting the retrieved data for use by said host processor. 10. A data processing system as defined in claim 9 wherein said administrator selects the amount of data shift on the media copies for data shifted copies and wherein said logic function also uses the storage placement of the data to be retrieved on the media in each unit cartridge in order to determine the shortest retrieval time for the requested data. 11. A data processing system as defined in claim 9 wherein said administrator selects the residence time for the duplicated copies and deletes the copies at the end of the selected residence time. 12. A data processing system as defined in claim 11 wherein said MVCC overrides the deletion of the copies according to the use pattern indication criteria collected by the use log accumulator. 13. A library management system for controlling the accessing of data from a plurality of unit cartridges containing the data stored on storage media in the cartridges and stored in a library storage device, said library management system comprising: a multiple virtual cartridge controller (MVCC) means for creating, managing and deleting multiple copies of data of each unit cartridge; an administrator means under control of said MVCC means for selecting whether one or more copies of the data in one unit cartridge are to be automatically copied at any selected data end, for selecting whether one or more duplicated copies or data shifted copies are to be made, for selecting the residence time for the duplicated copies, and for deleting the copies at the end of the selected residence time; a log data accumulator means under control of said MVCC for maintaining a use pattern indication criteria of each copy of the data stored on the media in the plurality of unit cartridges; a unit cartridge catalog means under control of said MVCC means for maintaining a listing of all data and unit cartridges stored in the library storage subsystem; and a logic function means under control of said MVCC means for receiving a request for data from the managing controller for selecting the unit cartridges from which the data may be retrieved in the shortest period of time using the storage location of each unit cartridge, recorder/reproducer means availability in the library devices, picker means location and availability in the library devices, and any queues already in place for the data requested. 14. A library management system as defined in claim 13 wherein said administrator means selects the amount of data shift on the media copies for data shifted copies and wherein said logic function means also uses the position of the data as a result of the amount of data shift on the media copies in order to determine the shortest retrieval time for the requested data. 15. A library management system as defined in claim 13 wherein said administrator selects the residence time for the duplicated copies and deletes the copies at the end of the selected residence time. 16. A library management system as defined in claim 15 wherein said MVCC overrides the deletion of the copies according to the use pattern indication criteria collected by the use log accumulator. 17. A machine implemented method for managing a library storage system containing media storage in a unit cartridge comprising the steps of: maintaining a use pattern indication criteria of each copy of the data stored on the media in the plurality of unit cartridges; determining whether data on the media stored in the unit cartridge is to be automatically copied when full according to the use pattern maintained; creating copies of the data on the media under control of an operator if the data stored on the media is not to be automatically copied; creating copies of the data on the media by the library storage system if the data stored on the media is to be automatically copied; determining whether a duplicated copy or a shifted copy of the data on the media is to be made; selecting the number of copies to be made according to the use pattern criteria maintained of the data on the media; determining the resident time for the number of copies selected; and deleting the copies of the data on the media after the determined resident time has passed. 18. In a machine implemented method as defined in claim 17 further including the step of shifting of the data into different areas of the media on the copies after the step of determining whether a duplicated copy or a shifted copy is to be made and a shifted copy is determined. 19. In a machine implemented method as defined in claim 17 further including the step of overriding the step of deleting the copies if the use pattern criteria maintained of the copies indicates a continued heavy use of the copies of the data. 20. In a machine implemented method as defined in claim 17 wherein the step of maintaining a use pattern indication uses the number of requests of the cartridge containing the data and the date that the multiple copies of the data was made as the pattern criteria. 21. An automated storage library having a machine executed ability for selecting a unit cartridge containing a required data from a plurality of unit cartridges containing the same data, said library comprising: means for selecting the unit cartridges in the library; means for at least retrieving data from the unit cartridge selected by said selecting means; means for creating multiple copies of data of any unit cartridge; means for determining whether one or more copies of the data are to be made and wherein said creating means creates data shifted copies of the data of the unit cartridge selected for copying; and means for receiving a request for the required data and responsive thereto to activate said selecting means to select the unit cartridge from the multiple copies of unit cartridges having the required data that is retrieved in the shortest period of time using the storage location of each copy, the availability of said at least data retrieving means, the location and availability of said selecting means, and any queues already in place for the data requested. 22. An automated storage library as defined in claim 21 further including means for maintaining a use pattern indication criteria of each copy of the required data stored in each unit cartridge. 23. An automated storage library as defined in claim 21 further including catalog means for maintaining a listing of all data and unit cartridges stored in the library. 24. An automated storage library as defined in claim 21 wherein said creating means creates duplicated copies of the data of a unit cartridge. 25. An automated storage library as defined in claim 21 further including means for selecting a residence time for the multiple copies created by said creating means. 26. An automated storage library as defined in claim 21 wherein said receiving means receives the request for the required data and is responsive thereto to activate said selecting means to select the unit cartridge from the multiple copies of unit cartridges having the required data based also on the storage placement of the data in the copies of the unit cartridges. 27. An automated storage library as defined in claim 21 further including means for selecting a residence time for the multiple copies and means for deleting any copies at the end of the residence time. 28. An automated storage library as defined in claim 27 further including means for maintaining a use pattern indication criteria of each copy of the required data stored in each unit cartridge and wherein said deleting means is disabled according to the use pattern indication criteria collected by said maintaining means. 