A multiple hose assembly including a plurality of hose portions which are disposed in a first direction in a substantially parallel and a substantially planar arrangement. In addition, the multiple hose assembly further includes a plurality of support members for securing the hose portions in the substantially parallel and the substantially planar arrangement. The support members used for securing the hose portions are disposed in a second direction which is different from the first direction.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A multiple hose assembly of the type adapted for delivery of a plurality of separated fluids, the assembly comprising: a plurality of flexible hose members disposed in a substantially parallel and a substantially planar arrangement, adjacent hose members being in axial contact with each other at an axial contact point, each of said plurality of flexible hose members having an exterior surface on a first side of a line extending through said axial contact points, and said hose members being disposed in a first direction; and means for securing said plurality of flexible hose members in a substantially parallel and axially adjacent arrangement, said means for securing said plurality of flexible hose members forming a continuous bond across said exterior surface of each of said plurality of flexible hose members, said bond extending substantially adjacent to each of said axial contact points and being further adapted to retain said plurality of flexible hose members in a substantially planar arrangement in close proximity thereto. 2. The multiple hose assembly of claim 1, wherein said means for securing said plurality of hose members comprises a plurality of support members disposed on said upper exterior surfaces of said plurality of hose members. 3. The multiple hose assembly of claim 2, wherein said support members are disposed substantially perpendicular to said first direction. 4. The multiple hose assembly of claim 2, wherein said support members are positioned at substantially uniform intervals along said multiple hose assembly. 5. The multiple hose assembly of claim 2, wherein each of said support members is nylon. 6. A multiple hose assembly of the type adapted for delivery of a plurality of separated fluids, the assembly comprising: a plurality of flexible hose members disposed in a substantially parallel and a substantially planar arrangement, adjacent hose members being in axial contact at an axial contact point along a line passing through each of said plurality of hose members, each of said plurality of flexible hose members having 1an arcuate exterior surface on a first side of said line, each of said plurality of hose members further being disposed in a first direction, said arcuate exterior surfaces collectively defining a first surface of said assembly having a width perpendicular to said first direction; and a plurality of support members, each of said support members forming a continuous bond across said upper surface of said assembly and having a length no greater than said width of said assembly, each of said plurality of support members extending substantially adjacent to each of said axial contact points, thereby rigidifying said assembly and substantially retaining said flexible hose members in a substantially parallel and axially adjacent arrangement, said support members further adapted to retain said plurality of hose members in a substantially planar arrangement in close proximity to each of said support members. 7. The multiple hose assembly of claim 6, wherein each of said plurality of support members is disposed substantially perpendicular with respect to said first direction. 8. The multiple hose assembly of claim 6, wherein said support members are positioned at substantially uniform intervals along said multiple hose assembly. 9. The multiple hose assembly of claim 6, wherein each of said support members is nylon. 