A connectable toy capable of permitting a user to enjoy play full of unexpectedness and novelty. The connectable toy includes a toy body and attachments constructed so as to be detachably connectable to the toy body. The connectable toy further includes a circuit consisting of a circuit portion arranged in the toy body and a circuit portion arranged in each of the attachments. Connection and disconnection of the circuit is carried out through coupling sections of the toy body and the attachments.
Claims I claim: 1. A connectable toy comprising: a toy body; at least one attachment detachably connectable to said toy body through a first coupling means and a second coupling means defined between said toy body and said attachment; and a circuit comprising a first circuit portion arranged in said toy body and a second circuit portion arranged in said attachment; said first and second circuit portions of said circuit being connected to and disconnected from each other at said first and second coupling means, said first coupling means on one of said body and attachment including an electrically conductive means which also providing a magnetic force and a metallic coupling section on the other of said body and attachment for magnetically adhering to the electrically conductive means, the second coupling means including a first contact member on the attachment and a second contact member on the toy body, whereby connection of the attachment to the toy body will interconnect the first and second coupling means to complete the circuit. 2. A connectable toy as defined in claim 1, wherein said coupling means comprises at least one coupling section provided on the side of said toy body and at least one coupling section provided on the side of said attachment. 3. A connectable toy as defined in claim 1, wherein said toy body and attachment each are formed in imitation of an actual thing. 4. A connectable toy as defined in claim 1, wherein said attachment includes a drive means connected to said circuit to drive said attachment. 5. A connectable toy as defined in claim 1, wherein said attachment includes a light-emitter actuated through said circuit. 6. A connectable toy as defined in claim 1, wherein said attachment includes a light source connected to said circuit to illuminate said toy body. 7. A connectable toy as defined in claim 6, wherein said attachment further includes a sound producing unit connected to said circuit. 8. A connectable toy comprising: a toy body; at least one attachment detachably connectable to said body; a circuit comprising a first circuit portion arranged in said toy body and a second circuit portion arranged in said attachment; coupling means for coupling said attachment with said toy body, including a magnet in communication with said first circuit portion, an electrically conductive member attracted by the magnetic force of said magnet so as to join said toy body and said attachment to each other, said coupling means further comprising contact means displaced from said magnet electrically connecting said first and second circuit portions of said circuit to each other; and a working member arranged in said attachment and electrically connected to said second circuit portion; said first and second circuit portions of said circuit being connected to and disconnected from each other at said coupling means, whereby said working member may be activated when said attachment is joined to said toy body through said coupling means so that said circuit portions are connected to each other. 9. A connectable toy as defined in claim 8 wherein the contact means includes a semispherical metallic member insulatively spaced from said contact means which has been formed as an annular contact member. 10. A connectable toy as defined in claim 8, wherein said attachment includes a drive means connected to said circuit to drive said attachment. 11. A connectable toy as defined in claim 8, wherein said attachment includes a light-emitter actuated through said circuit. 12. A connectable toy as defined in claim 8, wherein said attachment includes a light source connected to said circuit to illuminate said toy body. 13. A toy assembly comprising: a toy body; an attachment member for mounting on the toy body; means for attaching the toy body and the attachment member including a magnet, a pair of conductive elements sandwiching the magnet, and a semispherical electrically conductive member, which will be attracted by the magnetic force field to adhere to the conductive elements; a battery having a plus terminal and a minus terminal mounted in one of the toy body and attachment member; one of the semispherical electrically conductive member and at least one of the pair of conductive elements connected to one of the battery terminals; an electrically conductive contact member positioned adjacent to the pair of conductive elements and connected to the other terminal; an electrically driven device mounted in one of the toy body and attachment member and activated by the battery when the attachment member and toy body are electrically connected together; and circuit means for electrically connecting the electrically driven device and the battery. 14. A toy assembly as defined in claim 13, wherein the contact member encircles the semispherical electrically conductive member. 15. A toy assembly as defined in claim 13, wherein said electrically driven device comprises at lest one of a sound-producing unit and a light-emitting unit. 16. A toy assembly as defined in claim 15, wherein said combination further permits said light-emitting unit to emit light. 17. A toy assembly as defined in claim 13, wherein said toy body and attachment member are an imitation of a robotic humanoid. 18. A toy assembly as defined in claim 17, further including a plurality of attachment members, wherein said toy body comprises a simulated humanoid trunk, and said attachment members comprise a simulated head, a pair of simulated arms, and a pair of simulated legs. 19. A robotic toy assembly, comprising: a toy body having removable appendages simulating humanoid appendages at appointed joints of the toy body; each appendage having a semispherical metallic, the toy body member having a magnet and a pair of conductive joint elements sandwiching the magnet at each joint, whereby the semispherical metallic member is magnetically attached to enable a pivotal movement of the appendage member relative to the body at the joint; a removable electrically driven device having a semispherical metallic member and a spaced terminal member which is spaced from said semispherical metallic member, the toy body further having a correspondingly-spaced contact member adjacent one of said joints whereby the electrically driven device is operatively mounted on the toy body; a first circuit means mounted in the toy body; and a second circuit means mounted on the removable electrically driven device, the first and second circuit means being electrically connected through at least two of the conductive joint elements, the semispherical metallic member, the spaced terminal member, and the spaced contact member, whereby the electrically driven device can be activated. 