A communication switch apparatus and a method for use in a geographically extensive serial, parallel or hybrid communication network linking a multi-processor or parallel processing system has a very low software processing overhead in order to accommodate random burst of high density data. Associated with each processor is a communication switch. A data source and a data destination, a sensor suite or robot for example, may also be associated with a switch. The configuration of the switches in the network are coordinated through a master processor node and depends on the operational phase of the multi-processor network: data acquisition, data processing, and data exchange. The master processor node passes information on the state to be assumed by each switch to the processor node associated with the switch. The processor node then operates a series of multi-state switches internal to each communication switch. The communication switch does not parse and interpret communication protocol and message routing information. During a data acquisition phase, the communication switch couples sensors producing data to the processor node associated with the switch, to a downlink destination on the communications network, or to both. It also may couple an uplink data source to its processor node. During the data exchange phase, the switch couples its processor node or an uplink data source to a downlink destination (which may include a processor node or a robot), or couples an uplink source to its processor node and its processor node to a downlink destination.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A communications switch for transmission of bursts of data for use in a communication network supporting a geographically extensive multi-processor system and having a dynamically reconfigurable topology, comprising: a master processor of the multi-processor system operative to generate a plurality of control signals for routing of data within the multi-processor system wherein the generation of said plurality of control signals is not based on the information content of said data: first switch means for coupling a first communication link carrying a first data stream from an uplink source to a host processor of the multi-processor system, the first switch means responsive to a first control signal from the master processor; second switch means for coupling the host processor to a second communication link for carrying a second data stream to a downlink destination, the second switch means responsive to a second control signal from the master processor; and third switch means for coupling the first communication link to the second communication link for carrying a third data stream from an uplink source to a downlink destination, the third switch means responsive to a third control signal from the master processor. 2. The switch of claim 1 further comprising further switch means for coupling a data source associated with the communications switch to a host processor node, the further switch means responsive to a further control signal from the master processor. 3. The switch of claim 1 further comprising further switch means for coupling a host processor to an actuator associated with the communications switch, the further switch means responsive to a further control signal from the master processor. 4. The switch of claim 1 further comprising further switch means for coupling an uplink source to an actuator associated with the communications switch, the further switch means responsive to a further control signal from the master processor. 5. The switch of claim 1 further comprising further switch means for coupling a data source associated with the communications switch to the second communication link for carrying a data stream from the data source to a downlink destination, the further switch means responsive to a further control signal from the master processor. 6. The switch of claim 1 further comprising an amplifier for refreshing said first, second or third data streams coupled by the switch. 7. A switch for transmission of bursts of data in a data communication network supporting a geographically extensive multi-processor system, the system having a plurality of processor nodes, each processor node having an associated switch, the switch comprising: a master processor of the multi-processor system operative to generate first and second command signals during a discrete data acquisition phase of the multi-processor system and further operative to generate third command signals during a data exchange phase of operation of the multi-processor system, wherein the generation of said command signals is not based on the information content of said data; first switch means, coupled to said master processor and responsive to the first command signal for selectively coupling an input data stream from a data source associated with the switch to said associated processor node; second switch means, coupled to said master processor and responsive to the second command signal for selectively disabling data transmissions through the switch; and third switch means, coupled to said master processor and responsive to the third command signal for selectively coupling communications links to neighboring switches for coupling a flow of data from an uplink processor node to a downlink processor node within the multi-processor system. 8. The switch of claim 7 further comprising: said master processor of the multi-processor system operative to generate further command signals during a discrete data acquisition phase of the multi-processor system, wherein the generation of said command signals is not based on the information content of said data; and further switch means, coupled to the master processor and responsive to the further command signal, for selectively coupling communication links to neighboring switches for communicating said input data stream to another processor node. 9. The switch of claim 7 further comprising: said master processor of the multi-processor system operative to generate further command signals during a discrete data acquisition phase of the multi-processor system, wherein the generation of said command signals is not based on the information content of said data; and further switch means, coupled to the master processor and responsive to the further command signal, for selectively coupling a communication link coupled to a neighboring switch to an actuator means coupled to the switch for coupling a flow of data from an uplink processing node to the actuator means. 10. The switch of claim 7 wherein the master processor node creates a control word representative of a state of the first switch means, the second switch means and the third switch means, and causes the control word to be written to a pre-determined memory location; the memory location being coupled to control lines controlling the state of the first, second and third switch means. 11. A switching apparatus coupled to a host processor node for transmission of bursts of data for use in a communication network supporting a geographically extensive multi-processor system having a plurality of processor nodes, said switch apparatus comprising: a first input connector; a second input connector; a third input connector; a first output connector; a second output connector; a first switch means having an open position, a first closed position and a second closed position; a second switch means having an open position, a first closed position and a second closed position; a third switch means having an open position and a closed position; control lines coupled from the host processor node to the first, second and third switch means for controlling the positions of said switch means; and a master processor of the multi-processor system operative to generate a plurality of control signals on said control lines for routing of data within the multi-processor system wherein the generation of said plurality of control signals is not based on the information content of said data; wherein said first input connector is coupled to said first output connector when said first switch means is in a first closed position and said third switch means is in a closed position; said first input connector is coupled to said second output connector when said first switch means is in a first closed position and said second switch means is in a first closed position; said third input connector is coupled to said first output connector when said first switch means is in a second closed position and said third switch means is in a closed position; said third input connector is coupled to said second output connector when said first switch means is in a second closed position and said second switch means is in a first closed position; and said second input connector is coupled with said second output connector when said second switch means is in a second closed position. 12. The switch apparatus of claim 11 wherein the master processor: (a) determines a current phase of operation of the multi-processor system and the need of the host processor node to receive, pass or transmit data; (b) creates a control word; (c) causes the control word to be written to a pre-determined memory location; and (d) effects the functions encoded in the control word via the control lines connected from the memory word bits to the switch means causing the switch means to respond by opening or closing the switch means in the appropriate position. 13. The switch of claim 11 further comprising: a line receiver and a line driver wherein the input of said line receiver is coupled to the first switch means output and the output of said line receiver is coupled to the third switch means and the first position of the second switch means output; and the input of the said line driver is coupled to the second three-state switch and the output of said line driver is coupled to the second output connector. 14. A method of switching of bursts of data for use in a communication network supporting a geographically extensive multi-processor system and having a dynamically reconfigurable topology, the method comprising the steps of: generating a plurality of control signals from a master processor of the multi-processor system for routing of data within the multi-processor system, wherein the generation of said plurality of control signals is not based on the information content of said data; coupling a first communication link carrying a data stream from an uplink source to a host processor node by activating a first state of a communications switch in response to a first control signal from the master processor; coupling the host processor to a second communication link for carrying a data stream to a downlink destination by activating a second state of said communications switch in response to a second control signal from the master processor; and coupling the first communication link to the second communication link for carrying a data stream from an uplink source to a downlink destination by activating a third state of said communications switch in response to a third control signal from the master processor. 15. The method of claim 14 further comprising the step of coupling a data source associated with the communications switch to said host processor node by activating a further state of said communications switch in response to a further control signal from the master processor. 16. The method of claim 14 further comprising the step of coupling said host processor to a remotely controlled device associated with the communications switch by activating a further state of said communications switch in response to a further control signal from the master processor. 17. The method of claim 14 further comprising the step of coupling said uplink source to a remotely controlled device associated with the communications switch by activating a further state of said communications switch in response to a further control signal from the master processor. 18. The method of claim 14 further comprising the step of amplifying a data stream coupled by the communications switch to said downlink destination. 19. A data communications network for transferring bursts of data in a geographically extensive, multi-processor system having a plurality of processor nodes operating in coordination, the data communications network comprising: a master processor of the multi-processor system operative to generate a plurality of control signals for routing of data within the multi-processor system wherein the generation of said plurality of control signals is not based on the information content of said data; first, second and third communications switches; a first data communications link between the first and second switches, and a second data communications link between the second and third switches; three processing nodes, each coupled for data communication to one of the three communication switches; each of the three communication switches adapted to independently assume one of a plurality of routing positions for data flow through the switch in response to said control signals from the master processor; the plurality of routing positions for data flow including a first routing position for a data flow from one of the two communications links to the processor node associated with the communications switch, a second routing position for a data flow from the processor node associated with the switch to another one of the two other communications switches through one of the two communications links, and a third routing position for a data flow from the first communication link to the second communication link. 20. The data communications network of claim 19 further including a data source coupled to one of the three communication switches; and wherein the plurality of routing positions further includes a further routing position for a data flow from the data source to one of the two communications links. 21. The data communications network of claim 19 wherein the plurality of routing positions further includes a further routing position for a data flow from one of the three processor nodes to an actuator associated with the processor node and coupled to the switch. 22. The data communications network of claim 19 further including a data source coupled to one of the three communication switches; and wherein the plurality of routing positions further includes a first routing position for a data flow from the data source to the processor node associated with the switch. 