A self-contained spray painting system includes a spray gun for spraying paint under pressure, and a spherically shaped paint container attached to the spray gun for holding a quantity of paint to be sprayed. A flexible pick-up extends into the container and includes a weighted head that moves along an inner surface of the container and remains at the lowest point thereof as the container is moved through different orientations, whereby the pick-up remains immersed in paint in the container. The weighted head also functions to mix the paint as the container is moved through different orientations during use. An external purge system is connected with the paint inlet of the gun and is selectively operable to supply air under pressure through the paint inlet and nozzle to clean paint residue and other foreign matter from the gun at the conclusion of a painting operation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A self-contained paint spraying system, comprising: a paint spray gun for spraying paint, said spray gun having a spray nozzle, paint inlet means, means for connecting the gun with a source of air under pressure, and control means for controlling flow of air and paint through the gun; a spherically shaped paint cup attached directly to said paint inlet means for holding paint to be supplied to the gun, whereby said paint cup moves in unison with said gun; and a flexible paint pick-up connected to the paint inlet means and extending into the paint cup into proximity with an inner surface of the spherical wall thereof, said paint pick-up having means for maintaining it in contact with the inner surface of the cup and for automatically positioning it at the lowest point in the cup as the gun and attached cup are moved through different orientations, whereby the paint pick-up remains immersed in paint regardless of the position of the gun and cup. 2. A self-contained paint spraying system as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said spray gun has a flow path for flow of air to and through said nozzle to atomize the paint; and a separate purge means is connected with said source of air under pressure and with said paint inlet means and said spray nozzle to cause flow of air under pressure through said inlet means and nozzle to clean paint residue and other foreign material from them when paint is not being sprayed. 3. A self-contained paint spraying system as claimed in claim 2, wherein: said purge means includes a length of tubing external of said spray gun, extending from a source of air under pressure and connected directly to said inlet means; and normally closed valve means in said length of tubing to preclude flow of air through said purge means during a painting operation, said valve means being openable upon conclusion of a painting operation to enable flow of air under pressure through said purge means, inlet means and nozzle. 4. A self-contained paint spraying system as claimed in claim 3, wherein: a safety valve and pressure regulator are in said purge means to regulate the pressure of air supplied to the inlet means when the valve means is opened. 5. A self-contained paint spraying system as claimed in claim 4, wherein: a length of tubing is connected between said paint cup and said pressure regulator to supply regulated air pressure to said paint cup to pressurize the paint therein and force the paint through the inlet means and nozzle. 6. A self-contained paint spraying system as claimed in claim 5, wherein: a space is left above the level of paint in the cup to form an accumulator chamber filled with air under pressure to smooth out fluctuations in air pressure and flow of paint from the cup to the gun. 7. A self-contained paint spraying system as claimed in claim 1, wherein: a source of air under pressure is connected with said paint cup to pressurize the paint therein and force the paint through the inlet means and nozzle of the spray gun. 8. A self-contained paint spraying system as claimed in claim 7, wherein: a pressure regulator is connected between the source of air under pressure and the paint cup to regulate the pressure of air supplied to the cup. 9. A self-contained paint spraying system as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said paint pick-up includes a length of flexible tubing connected at one end with the paint inlet means and at its other end with a pick-up head that normally lies in close proximity with an inner surface of the paint cup, said pick-up head being weighted and adapted to slide along the inner surface of the cup as the orientation of the cup is changed, whereby the pick-up head remains at the lowest point of said cup and remains immersed in paint in the cup regardless of the orientation of the cup. 10. A self-contained paint spraying system as claimed in claim 9, wherein: a source of air under pressure is connected with said paint cup to pressurize the paint therein and force the paint through the inlet means and nozzle of the spray gun. 11. A self-contained paint spraying system as claimed in claim 10, wherein: a pressure regulator is connected between the source of air under pressure and the paint cup to regulate the pressure of air supplied to the cup. 12. A self-contained paint spraying system as claimed in claim 11, wherein: a space is left above the level of paint in the cup to form an accumulator chamber filled with air under pressure to smooth out fluctuations in air pressure and flow of paint from the cup to the gun. 13. A self-contained paint spraying system as claimed in claim 12, wherein: said spray gun has a flow path for flow of air to and through said nozzle to atomize the paint; and a separate purge means is connected with said source of air under pressure and with said paint inlet means and said spray nozzle to cause flow of air under pressure through said inlet means and nozzle to clean paint residue and other foreign material from them when paint is not being sprayed. 14. A self-contained paint spraying system as claimed in claim 13, wherein: said purge means includes a length of tubing external of said spray gun, extending from a source of air under pressure and-connected directly to said inlet means; and normally closed valve means in said length of tubing of said purge means to preclude flow of air through said purge means during a painting operation, said valve means being openable upon conclusion of a painting operation to enable flow of air under pressure through said purge means, inlet means and nozzle. 15. A self-contained paint spraying system as claimed in claim 1, further comprising a robotic system including a robot arm defining an attachment point to which said paint spray gun is secured, said robotic system permitting said paint spray gun to be universally rotated. 