A component pocket tape feeder system employs a registration mechanism to precisely position a component within a pocket tape just prior to retrieval of the component by a robotic assembly device. The registration mechanism precisely aligns the part thus enabling the robot to locate the part. The registration mechanism includes hold down and tamp apparatus for preventing tumbling of the part during alignment and an alignment mechanism which extends through apertures in the component tape to engage portions of the component and move the component, which was theretofore loosely held within the tape. The alignment mechanism is removable to allow other alignment mechanisms to be attached to the system to enable use with various components.
Claims We claim: 1. Apparatus for automated feeding of components wherein the components are supplied in a continuous strip of component pocket tape, wherein said component pocket tape has at least one aperture therein, the apparatus comprising: means for advancing the continuous strip of component pocket tape to position an individual pocket of the component pocket tape in the vicinity of a component pickup area; and registration means adapted to align a component within a pocket to a predetermined position at said component pickup area, where said registration means comprises positioning means operative to pass through the component tape aperture to engage the component for aligning the component at the known position. 2. Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said registration means further comprises means for stabilizing the component against undesired movement during engagement by said positioning means. 3. Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said registration means further comprises tamping means in opposing relation to the positioning means, said tamping means holding the component to ensure proper engagement of the positioning means with the component. 4. Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said positioning means comprises at least one positioning pin operative to pass through the component pocket tape aperture so as to position the component. 5. A method for automated feeding of components wherein the components are supplied in a continuous strip of component pocket tape, wherein said component pocket tape has at least one aperture therein, comprising the steps of: advancing the continuous strip of component pocket tape to position an individual pocket of the component pocket tape in the vicinity of a component pickup area; and aligning the component to a know position at said component pickup area, where said step of aligning comprises passing a positioning means through the component pocket tape aperture so as to engage the component, thereby aligning the component at the known position. 6. The method according to claim 5 wherein said step of aligning further comprises stabilizing the component against undesired movement during engagement by said positioning means. 7. The method according to claim 5 wherein said step of aligning further comprises tamping the component to ensure proper engagement of the positioning means with the component. 8. The method according to claim 5 wherein said step of aligning comprises passing at least one positioning pin through the component pocket tape aperture so as to engage and move the component to a precisely known position. 9. The method according to claim 5 further comprising the step of sensing whether a part is present in said individual pocket. 10. An apparatus for precisely positioning components carried within pockets of pocket component pocket tape during extraction of the components from the pocket component tape comprising: a component tape drive for moving the pocket component tape through a component pickup area; and a registration mechanism adapted to align a component within a pocket to a predetermined position said registration mechanism comprising an alignment device adapted to engage a portion of the component, an actuator carrying tile alignment device for translating the alignment device from a disengaged position to an engaged position, and a tamping device mounted such that the component is disposed between the tamping device and the alignment device, for holding the component to ensure complete engagement between the component and the alignment device. 11. Apparatus according to claim 10 wherein said alignment device comprises at least one pin adapted to engage a portion of a component so as to position said component at a known location. 12. Apparatus according to claim 10 wherein said alignment device is interchangeable with a replacement alignment device, said replacement alignment device being adapted to engage a different component. 13. Apparatus according to claim 10 wherein said component tape drive comprises means for engaging the pocket component tape, and drive means powering said engaging means. 14. Apparatus according to claim 13 wherein said means for engaging comprises a sprocket wheel and wherein said drive means comprises a stepper motor in driving relation with said sprocket wheel. 15. Apparatus for automated feeding of components wherein the components are supplied in a continuous strip of component pocket tape, the apparatus comprising: means for advancing the continuous strip of component pocket tape to position an individual pocket of the component pocket tape in the vicinity of a component pickup area; and registration means adapted to align a component within a pocket to a predetermined position at said component pickup area, wherein said registration means engages the component by passing through a wall of the component pocket tape. 16. A method for automated feeding of components wherein the components are supplied in a continuous strip of component pocket tape, comprising the steps of: advancing the continuous strip of component pocket tape to position an individual pocket of the component pocket tape in the vicinity of a component pickup area; and aligning the component within a pocket to a known position at said component pickup area, wherein said step of aligning the component to a known position comprises engaging the component with a registration means by passing the registration means through a wall of the component pocket tape. 