A robot for performing endoscopic procedures includes a plurality of segments attached to each other through an articulated joint. Actuators can move the segments together and apart and change their angular orientation to allow the robot to move in an inchworm or snake-like fashion through a cavity or lumen within a patient. Inflatable balloons around the segments inflate to brace a temporarily stationary segment against the lumen walls while other segments move. A compressed gas line attached to the back segment provides compressed gas to inflate the balloons and optionally to drive the actuators. The lead segment includes a television camera and biopsy arm or other sensors and surgical instruments.
Claims What we claim is: 1. An endoscopic robot comprising: a plurality of segments, including a lead segment and an end segment; a plurality of pivoting joints each positioned in between and connecting adjacent segments; at least one actuator link extending through substantially through each pivoting joint and connecting to an adjacent segment; means for advancing and retracting the actuator links, to move the links together and apart for locomotion of the robot; an inflatable balloon supported around substantially each segment; and means for selectively inflating and deflating the balloons. 2. The robot of claim 1 further comprising an imaging device in the lead link. 3. The robot of claim 1 further comprising a single or multiple biopsy arm extendible from the lead link. 4. The robot of claim 1 wherein the means for controlling comprises microvalves opening into an air cylinder, and a controller linked to the microvalves by a bus. 5. The root of claim 1 further comprising a tactile sensor mounted on at least one of the inflatable balloons. 6. A substantially self-contained robot for performing endoscopic procedures, comprising: a plurality of segments pivotally attached to each other; a central core extending through the segments and containing gas supply and return lines and a control bus; a plurlaity of inflatable sacs within each segment circumferentially positioned around the core and linked to the gas supply and return lines through sac valves; an inflatable balloon substantially surrounding the inflatable sacs of substantially each segment and linked to the gas supply and return lines through a balloon valve; and means for separately controlling the sac and balloon valves to inflate and deflate the sacs and balloon. 7. The robot of claim 6 further comprising a pressure sensor on the balloon and electrically linked to the bus. 8. The robot of claim 6 wherein the balloon is toroidal. 9. An endoscopy robot comprising: a plurality of segments attached to each other through an articulated joint, including a lead segment and an end segment; an actuator link extending through substantially each articulated joint and linking adjacent segments; a control bus extending through said segments; valves within each segment for individually controlling the actuator links; an inflatable balloon supported around substantially each segment; and means for selectively inflating and deflating the balloons, including at least one balloon inflation valve, located within each segment to be inflated and deflated. 10. The robot of claim 9 further comprising a controller located internal to said plurality of segments and linked through said control bus to said balloon inflation valves and to said valves for controlling said actuator link. 11. The robot of claim 9 further comprising a transceiver located internal to said plurality of segments and linked via said control bus to said controller. 12. The robot of claim 9 further comprising a trailing control cable attached to the end segment. 13. The robot of claim 9 further comprising a rear looking imaging section located in the end segment. 14. The robot of claim 9 further comprising a delivery arm externally attached to said lead segment. 15. The robot of claim 9 further comprising a pair of articulated arms on the lead segment. 16. The robot of claim 9 further comprising a safety cable extending through said segments. 17. The robot of claim 9 further comprising a flexible sleeve covering said segments and including clearance openings for the balloon. 18. The robot of claim 1 further comprising a flexible sleeve around the segments, the flexible sleeve including openings which allow the balloon to project through the sleeve. 