A keyboard for an electronic device includes a first key having a touch surface which, in one mode, is responsive to pressing by a user's finger to indicate a selection associated with the first key, and an array of sensors exposed at the touch surface to detect, in another mode, the location where a finger is positioned on the touch surface as an indication of information to be conveyed by a user. The keyboard also includes a second key having an array of sensors which are exposed at a touch surface of the second key and which are sensitive to manipulations of a finger on the touch surface to provide signals used for switching the first key from the one mode to the other mode.
Claims We claim: 1. A keyboard for a electronic device comprising a first key having a touch surface which, in one mode, is responsive to pressing by a user's finger to indicate a selection associated with the first key, and an array of sensors exposed at the touch surface to detect, in another mode, the location where a finger is positioned on the touch surface as an indication of information to be conveyed by a user, and a second key having an array of sensors which are exposed at a touch surface of the second key and are sensitive to manipulations of a finger on the touch surface to provide signals for switching the first key from the one mode to the other mode. 2. The keyboard of claim 1 wherein said first key comprises a discrete key body bearing said touch surface and mounted to be movable in a direction to render said touch surface responsive, in said one mode, to said pressing by a user's finger. 3. The keyboard of claim 1 wherein each of said sensors of said first key comprises electro-optical elements. 4. The keyboard of claim 3 wherein said electro-optical elements operate in the infra-red spectrum. 5. The keyboard of claim 1 wherein each of said sensors of said first key comprises a phototransistor and a light emitting diode. 6. The keyboard of claim 1 wherein each of said sensors of said first key comprises a beam source and a beam detector oriented so that the beam detector can detect a beam which originates from said beam source and is reflected by the finger. 7. The keyboard of claim 6 wherein said beam detector and said beam source define optical axes which are parallel. 8. The keyboard of claim 7 wherein said touch surface is perpendicular to said optical axes. 9. The keyboard of claim 1 wherein said array of said first key is rectangular. 10. The keyboard of claim 1 wherein said array of said second key is linear. 11. The keyboard of claim 1 wherein said sensors of said first key number twenty-five and are arranged in a square array. 12. The keyboard of claim 1 wherein said array of sensors of said second key are arranged in a row, said sensors of said second key being arranged to produce said provided signals as signal patterns in response to said manipulations of a finer on the touch surface. 13. The keyboard of claim 1 further comprising circuitry for responding to the sensors of said first key and for providing corresponding signals representing the finger position. 14. The keyboard of claim 13 wherein said circuitry includes timing elements for causing said first key to operate in scans, a signal pattern being derived from said sensors for each scan. 15. The keyboard of claim 14 wherein said circuitry includes analysis elements for generating a value representative of the signal pattern for each scan, each signal pattern corresponding to information to be conveyed by the user. 16. The keyboard of claim 15 wherein said value represents a position. 17. The keyboard of claim 15 wherein said value represents a velocity. 18. The keyboard of claim 15 wherein said value represents a point within a possible range of a continuous parameter. 19. The keyboard of claim 18 wherein said continuous parameter comprises a parameter associated with audio or video signals. 20. The keyboard of claim 13 wherein said circuitry comprises a noise suppressor for reducing the effect of background noise on the signals. 21. The keyboard of claim 13 wherein said circuitry comprises a center-of-mass computational element which determines a center of mass of output signals provided by said sensors of said first key using the signal from each sensor as a weight and the horizontal and vertical positions of the sensor within the array serve as coordinates. 22. The keyboard of claim 1 wherein said sensors of said first key comprise light sensitive detectors. 23. The keyboard of claim 1 wherein the array of sensors of said first key can detect m different finger positions on the touch surface of said first key, m an order of magnitude greater than the number of sensors of said first key. 24. The keyboard of claim 1 further comprising beam sources exposed at said touch surface of said first key numbering fewer than the number of sensors of said first key. 25. The keyboard of claim 1 further comprising a beam source exposed at said touch surface of said first key. 26. The keyboard of claim 1 wherein said second key comprises a <SPACE> bar. 