An actuator system provides force feedback to a master support. A first, second and third digit support are connectable by a finger mount to the thumb, index and middle, and ring digits, respectively. First, second, third and fourth actuators comprising pneumatic cylinders extend between the first, second, third and fourth digit supports and an "L" shaped palm support mountable on the palm of the glove. Sensors are mounted to the pneumatic cylinders to provide electrical signals on the positioning of the fingers. The signals are forwarded by a stand alone feature to a host computer. The host computer computes the positioning of the finger and provides feedback through interface to the first, second and third actuators. Azimuthal mounts connect the first, second, third and fourth actuators to the palm support for increased movement of the digits.
Claims We claim: 1. An actuator system for placement in a hand comprising: a first digit support connectable to a first digit of said hand; a palm support spaced from said first digit and positionable on the palm surface of said hand; a first sensor means for generating electrical signals attached to said first digit support and a first actuator means and responsive to movement of said first digit; said first actuator means extending between said first digit support and said palm support for providing force feedback to said first digit support as a result of said electrical signals generated by said first sensor means; a first mount for connecting said first actuator means to said palm support; and a first rotary sensor means attached to said first mount for measuring rotation of said first actuator means wherein said first rotary sensor measures an azimuthal angle .psi. and a declination angle .phi.. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein said first actuator means comprises a first pneumatic cylinder. 3. The system of claim 1 further comprising: a second digit support connectable to a second digit of said hand; a second sensor means for generating electrical signals attached to said second digit support and a second actuator means and responsive to movement of said second digit; said second actuator means extending between said second digit support and said palm support for providing force feedback to said second digit support as a result of said electrical signals generated by said second sensor; and a second mount for connecting said second actuator means to said palm support and a second rotary sensor means attached to said second mount for measuring rotation of said second actuator means wherein said second rotary sensor measures an azimuthal angle .psi. and a declination angle .phi.. 4. The system of claim 3 wherein said second actuator means comprises a pneumatic cylinder. 5. The system of claim 3 further comprising: a third digit support connectable to a third digit of said hand; a third sensor means for generating electrical signals attached to said third digit support and a third actuator means and responsive to movement of said third digit; said third actuator means extending betweens said third digit support and said palm support for providing force feedback to said third digit support as a result of said electrical signals generated by said third sensor; and a third mount connected between said third actuator means and said palm support and a third rotary sensor means attached to said third mount for measuring rotation of said third actuator means wherein said third rotary sensor measures an azimuthal angle .psi. and a declination angle .phi.. 6. The system of claim 5 wherein said third actuator means comprises a pneumatic cylinder. 7. The system of claim 5 further comprising: a fourth digit support connectable to a fourth digit of said hand; a fourth sensor means for generating electrical signals attached to said fourth digit support and a fourth actuator means and responsive to movement of said fourth digit; said fourth actuator means extending between said fourth digit support and said palm support for providing force feedback to said fourth digit support as a result of said electrical signals generated by said fourth sensor; and a fourth mount for connecting said fourth actuator means to said palm support and a fourth rotary sensor means attached to said fourth mount for measuring rotation of said fourth actuator means wherein said fourth rotary sensor measures an azimuthal angle .psi. and a declination angle .phi.. 8. The system of claim 7 wherein said fourth actuator means comprises a pneumatic cylinder. 9. The system of claim 7 further comprising: attachment means for selectively attaching said palm support to said hand. 10. The system of claim 9 wherein said attachment means comprises a first material for selectively mating with a second material, wherein one of said materials comprises a hook-type material and said other type of material comprises a loop-type material for mating with said hook-type material. 11. The system of claim 10 wherein said palm support has a generally "L" like shape having a first and a second leg, wherein one of said mounts is mounted on said first leg and the remaining mounts are mounted on said second leg of said palm support. 12. The system of claim 11 wherein said digits supports comprising: first, second, third and fourth digit mounting means pivotally connecting said first, second, third and fourth actuator means and said first, second, third and fourth digits. 13. The system of claim 12 wherein said first, second, third and fourth mounting means respectively comprise: a flexible band having holes therein; a semicircular frame connected into the holes of said flexible band; and a material connected to said flexible band having a front surface formed of a hook type material and rear surface formed of a loop type material. 14. The system of claim 13 further comprising a touch feedback array attached to the tip of said digits beneath said digit supports. 15. The system of claim 14 wherein said first, second, third and fourth actuators extend beyond said first, second, third and fourth digits, respectively. 16. The system of claim 15 wherein said system further comprises virtual reality environment means for connection to said actuators and said sensor means. 