An aircraft maintenance robot (20) for maintaining aircraft surfaces is described that includes a maintenance tool (228), for example a nozzle (78), conduits and a pump, which supply fluid to the maintenance tool, which sprays the fluid on aircraft surfaces; movable arm with rotatable hinges and wrists such that a manifold to which the maintenance tools are coupled may be positioned in response to control signals; and a processor which, after accounting for the position of the aircraft, the weather conditions, and the physical dimensions of the aircraft, generates the control signals used to position the maintenance tool such that, after positioning the aircraft, the maintenance operation may be performed without human intervention. The preferred embodiment of the present invention discloses the use of the maintenance robot (20) for deicing aircraft. A wide variety of interchangeable end effectors, however, may be used for a wide variety of applications. These may include various cleaning, painting, paint removing, and even firefighting applications.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic aircraft deicer for distributing deicing fluid to surfaces of an aircraft, comprising: nozzles for spraying the deicing fluid on the surfaces of the aircraft; delivering means for delivering the deicing fluid to said nozzles; positioning means for positioning said nozzles to deliver the deicing fluid to the surfaces of the aircraft; and control means coupled to said positioning means and operable to automatically control said positioning means such that the deicing fluid may be delivered to the surfaces of the aircraft without substantial intervention of a human operator, said control means comprising: a first processor; means for entering physical dimensions of the aircraft into said first processor, said first processor operable to generate a plurality of control signals in response to entry of said dimensions into said first processor; means for entering weather information into said first processor, said first processor operable to adjust said control signals to account for said weather information; and means for transmitting said control signals from said first processor to said positioning means. 2. The deicer of claim 1, wherein said delivering means for delivering said deicing fluid comprises: a reservoir operable to store deicing fluid; a heater fluidly connected to said reservoir and operable to heat portions of said deicing fluid; and a pump fluidly connected to said reservoir, said heater and said nozzles and operable to pump said portions of the deicing fluid from said reservoir to said heater and from said heater to said nozzles. 3. The deicer of claim 1, wherein said positioning means comprises: a plurality of arms linked at the ends, said plurality of arms having a first and second free end; manifolds associated with said first free end of said arms and said nozzles coupled to said manifolds; said arms responsive to control signals from said control means; a wrist coupled to said first free end of said arms and coupled to said manifolds and operable to allow pivotal motion of said manifold and responsive to control signals; said manifolds operable to allow telescoping of said manifolds; and a base containing a guide and coupled to said second free end of said plurality of arms such that said second free end of said plurality of arms is movable in said guide. 4. The deicer of claim 3, and further comprising: a reference position; means for accounting for the position of the aircraft about at least two axes in an area for deicing with respect to said reference position; and means for adjusting said control signals from said first processor to account for variations from said position of the aircraft with respect to said reference position. 5. The deicer of claim 4, wherein said means of positioning said aircraft in said reference position comprises: transducers operable to sense location of an aircraft within said deicing area and to produce signals corresponding thereto; and signals from said transducers transmitted to said first processor. 6. The deicer of claim 3, and further comprising means for recording delivery of said deicing fluid. 7. The deicer of claim 6, wherein the said means for recording delivery of said deicing fluid comprises: a video camera coupled to said first free end of said arms; a monitor coupled to said video camera, said monitor and said video camera operable to view surfaces of the aircraft and the application of deicing fluid to said surfaces; a video recorder coupled to said video camera; and a printer coupled to said first processor. 8. The deicer of claim 3, wherein the said control means further comprises: means for overriding said control signals from said first processor; and means for manually generating said control signals. 9. The deicer of claim 3, wherein said means for entering weather information comprises: weather transducers; a third processor electrically coupled to said weather transducers and operable in conjunction with said weather transducers to generate weather information; means for overriding said weather transducer signals; means for accepting weather information from airport weather facility; means for selecting weather information from said third processor or from the airport facility; and means for transmitting said selected weather information to said first processor. 10. The deicer of claim 3, and further comprising means for transporting said deicing unit. 11. The deicer of claim 3, and further comprising the means for producing all necessary power for the deicer. 12. The deicer of claim 1, and further comprising means for recovering and reconditioning a portion of the deicing fluid sprayed on the surfaces of the aircraft. 13. The deicer of claim 12, wherein said means of recovering the deicing fluid comprises: a collector located outwardly adjacent to aircraft and operable to collect a portion of the deicing fluid; reservoirs; filtering means for filtering the deicing fluid operable to filter unwanted solid particles in the recovered deicing fluid; a chemical separator operable to separate the deicing fluid from other liquid substances therein and distribute the separated deicing fluid and recovered substances other than deicing fluid to said reservoirs; new deicing fluid in said reservoirs; a mixing chamber wherein the recovered deicing fluid and new deicing fluid from said reservoirs are mixed; a pump; a conduit fluidly connected to said collector, said filtering means, said separator, mixing chamber, said pump, and said reservoirs; a second processor; a multiplicity of valves coupled to conduit and responsive to said control signals operable to control flow of fluids in the various branches of said conduit; said second processor operable to produce said control signals to said valves and said pump such that recovery and reconditioning occur substantially without human intervention. 