The invention disclosed here is a pin hub that is to be used in conjunction with interchangeable wire reels for taking individual wire segments from a continuous wire feed. In use, an empty reel is first mounted to the pin hub. The pin hub has a plurality of pins which are arranged in a circular pattern, and are retracted relative to the hub at the time the reel is mounted. After mounting, the pins are extended through corresponding side openings in the reel, and thereby define a winding hub or circle within the reel itself. Instead of being wound directly against sidewall or hub structure of the reel itself, the wire is instead wound about the pins, and they take up the physical stresses associated with the winding process. After winding is completed, the pins are retracted, and the filled reel is thereafter removed from the pin hub.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for winding wire segments onto wire reels, comprising the combination of: a plurality of wire reels; each said reel having opposite flanges; said flanges having connected together center portions, axially spaced apart radially outer portions, and a plurality of circumferentially spaced openings extending through said outer portions and one of said flanges including mounting portions; a drive mechanism; and a hub member mounted on said drive mechanism to be rotated thereby about a drive axis; said hub member having a forward portion with engagement portions configured to engage said mounting portions to mount one of said reels to said forward portion, and a plurality of pin members with end portions that are extendible and retractable relative to said forward portion between a retracted position in which said pin members are positioned axially rearwardly of a forward surface of said forward portion to permit mounting of said reel onto said forward portion by engagement of said mounting portions by said engagement portions and removal of said reel with a wire segment wound thereon from said forward portion by disengagement of said mounting portions and said engagement portions, and an extended position in which said end portions project forwardly from said forward portion to extend through said openings in said flanges of said reel and define a winding space between said outer portions of said flanges. 2. The combination of claim 1, wherein said plurality of pin members are arranged in a circular pattern. 3. The combination of claim 2, wherein each one of said plurality of pin members has an outer radial surface portion that is congruent with a circular arc defined by said circular pattern. 4. The combination of claim 3, wherein said end portion of each pin member has a tapered region. 5. The combination of claim 1, wherein said hub member further has a rearward portion to which all of said pin members are fixedly connected; both of said forward portion and said rearward portion of said hub member being simultaneously drivable about said drive axis, said rearward portion being reciprocatably movable relative to said forward portion along said axis for extending and retracting said pin members, said forward portion having a plurality of pin openings extending therethrough, and said end portions of said pin members being received within said pin openings when said pin members are in said retracted position. 6. The combination of claim 5, wherein said plurality of pin members are arranged in a circular pattern. 7. The combination of claim 6, wherein each one of said plurality of pin members has an outer radial surface portion that is congruent with a circular arc defined by said circular pattern. 8. The combination of claim 7, wherein said end portion of each pin member has a tapered region. 